220x prefer
for people, animals, nature and environment

Election Party for the Animals
Parliamentary elections 2006

Amsterdam, October 2006

220x rather for people, animals, nature and environment

2

INDEX

PART A: INTRODUCTION AND SUMMARY
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

Animal rights
Improving animal welfare
Reduction of the use of animals
Sustainable use of the ecosystem
A pleasant society

5
5
7
8
9

PART B: SPECIFIC TOPICS
1. Livestock
Introduction
Improving animal husbandry
Killing animals in livestock
Combat animal diseases
Prohibition on keeping certain animal production
Public support for a more animal husbandry

12

2. Fisheries
Introduction
Catch and killing methods
Fish farms
Overfishing
Grinding of fishing ground and power

17

3. Animal testing and biotechnology
Introduction
Reducing the number of animal experiments
Permits for animal research
Welfare of laboratory animals
Biotechnology

19

4. Companion
Introduction
Animal abuse and neglect
Dierenhandel
Breeding
Control aggressive animals (RAD)
Care of pets
Non-domesticated species
Nutrition

23

5. Activities with animals
Introduction
Angling
Circus

26

220x rather for people, animals, nature and environment

12
13
14
14
15
15

17
17
17
18
18

19
19
20
21
21

23
23
24
24
24
25
25
25

26
26
26

3

Zoos
Kinderboerderijen
Sports with animals
Recreational Horseback Riding
Events and media recordings

26
27
27
27
28

6. wildlife
Introduction
Hunting
Killing wild animals
Chase and kill animals
Significant damage
Population control
Foraging areas for geese and wigeon
Enforcement Flora and Fauna Act
Urban pigeons
Other issues related to wild animals

29

7. Cites endangered species
Introduction
Illegal trade
Bushmeat
Trophy Hunting
Seal hunting
Whaling

33

8. Nature, Environment and Sustainability
Introduction
Nature
Of animal protein to vegetable protein
Energy
Transport
Various items

35

9. A pleasant society
Introduction
Government
Work and Income
Education
Safety
Refugees
Democracy
Healthcare
Straight
Social life
Green space
Culture and media

38

29
29
29
30
30
30
31
31
31
32

33
33
33
34
34
34

35
35
35
36
36
37

38
38
38
39
39
40
40
40
41
42
42
44

FINALLY

220x rather for people, animals, nature and environment

4

Part A. Introduction and summary
Animals are sentient beings and as people awareness and therefore need a
respectful manner to be treated. They are increasingly affected in their welfare
and threatened in their existence by human intervention. This also applies to the
Nature and the Earth as a fragile ecosystem. At many points this ecosystem
affect the activities of man and unbalanced. On the destruction
the environment and the violation of rights of living things decline should
snare. To this end a civilization offensive requires that comparable
with the struggle of the past against the oppression of women, children and slaves. In
the Declaration of Principles of the Party for the Animals is therefore the respectful treatment
with animals, people and nature center. The Party for Animals seeks this goal
to achieve different ways.
1. Rights for animals
The Party for the Animals aims to strengthen the moral and legal status
of animals through the recognition of animals as sentient beings and
feeling. It believes that at national level, the animal rights in the Constitution
are recorded and that the protection of animals in a self-contained
animal protection should be ensured. At the European level should
Dutch government to work for inclusion of a similar item in a
new treaty or European constitution.
The Party for the Animals supports initiatives that improved status of animals
Capturing in the form of a Universal Declaration of the United Nations Convention on the
animal rights.
2. Improving animal welfare
Animals are man held in huge numbers, operated and slain.
The least which these animals are entitled has been adapted to their nature and behavior
way of accommodation and care. Raising the standards for housing
and care of animals, is a dual effect: in the first place, the improvement
the welfare of the animals, in the second place, wiping out the huge
(economic) competitive advantage to be gained in the mistreatment of animals
falls. Alternatives that do not use animals or that the animals better
treated thus are more likely to develop.
Federal, provincial and municipal governments have a duty to animal welfare
to improve. They shall, inter alia, through education, the respect for animals
and to increase the nature. The national government is also under
development within the EU and the structural improvement of the status of animals
to improve. Furthermore, not only have shelters for pets
be supported, but also for exotic animals, birds and other wild
living animals.
Animals to provide effective protection from abuse and neglect
an animal police necessary, with broad powers to animals from their perilous
situations to redeem and to punish the perpetrators effectively.
In the Dutch livestock every year approximately 500 million animals reared and
slain. During the often very short time that was awarded them life, the way it is
these animals are held usually once totally substandard. Alone
the biological (e) (- dynamic) livestock and some animal hobby farms come in

220x rather for people, animals, nature and environment

5

Near an acceptable accommodation and care. The Party for the Animals wants
the animal and environmentally friendly form of farming by the government vigorously
be encouraged, inter alia through the application of the zero rate of VAT and by the
cost of the monitoring organization SKAL for her to take into account, allowing
organic products better able to compete with products from factory farming. The government should therefore not provide any support to companies with
produce under standards which are lower than the environmental standards. Livestock farming
raw materials and vernacular should be and there is an end to factory farming. The standards for the housing and care of animals should be substantially
erected. The EU should inhumane husbandry products from outside the EU do not
to allow and deny access based on ethical grounds, even if appealed
on WTO agreements.
In the commercial marine fisheries are brutal capture and killing methods used.
Worldwide are caught annually around 90 million tonnes of fish, which amounts to some
hundreds of billions of fish. In addition, approximately 45 million tons of farmed fish
under conditions that closely resemble those of the bio-industry.
With fish welfare is taken into account within the fishing industry. Even in
fish caught on 'sustainable' way, do not take into account the welfare of
the fish.
How fish are caught and slain them delivers a lengthy and
painful agony. The Party for the Animals believes that there should be rules that hurt
and stress in the killing of fish to a minimum.
The Party for the Animals wants an end to all animal experiments. As long as animal experiments not yet
are prohibited, among animals as well as farm animals and pets
optimal, according to their nature and behavior, cared for and be housed.
Experimental animals to be used no more after the end of the experiments, should, if
their physical and mental condition allows, at the expense of the vivisectors
through specialized centers for new owners to be placed.
The habitats of wild animals shall not be further affected.
Where possible, they should be repaired so that the animals back into their habitat
may settle. The survival of wild animals should not go in
is endangered. The mass extinction of animals and plants and the massive
exotics trading adopt increasingly severe forms should be with all the power
contested.
Where wild animals and humans live in close proximity, animals shall be
many may be able to live their own lives according to the natural
processes, without human intervention. If animals unacceptable nuisance
cause for humans, all accessibility options are tested for the
To minimize inconvenience to an acceptable level. Nuisance should never be contested
by hobbyists (such as hunters) with its own interests.
While many pets are well cared for and housed there in
related to their well-being so many problems. This has several causes. Much
animal suffering stems from ignorance of pet owners. The government should therefore
to promote education about animal care powerful. Keeping
pet also has a commercial side. The breeding of animals, commercially
animals and the recreational use of animals unfortunately often accompanied by suffering.

220x rather for people, animals, nature and environment

6

The government needs these activities with strict regulations and supervision in line to
hold. The breeding of animals with physical defects in view of certain
breed characteristics should be prohibited.
3. Reduction of the use of animals

Animals are living beings with consciousness and feeling. The use of animals in that
involve animal suffering, must therefore be minimized and eliminated consistently.
This applies to wild animals, and animals kept, which are used for
consumption, animal testing, entertainment and cultural and religious traditions.
When using animals, is always to the purpose of the use critically assessed and
to be weighed against the consequences for the animal. As the degradation of
the well-being larger, the importance of the use is less and the quality of the
alternatives is better, the use of animals is ethically justifiable less. This
means that animals should not be affected in their welfare or slain allowed
are non-essential items such as entertainment and luxury products.
Fur production in our society is a pure luxury affair, accompanied
with animal suffering and should therefore be banned.
Yachting and angling can also be not be considered as the activities
injuring and killing justify ethically.
Other forms of entertainment with animals like the animal acts in particular wild animals
in circuses, animals are very problematic. It is sad given the
housing of these animals, and the training methods and transportation cause many
suffering.
The use of exotic and out of wild-caught animals as pets is
undesirable. These animals are generally unsuitable for this purpose. Trade, capture and transport
causing many victims and contribute to species extinction. Alone
animals which are fit to do so may as pets according to their nature and
behavior can be taken into account. The names of these animals should be included for this purpose
in the smallest possible 'positive list' of animals by private individuals may be
held in accordance with Article 33 of the Animal Health and Welfare.
The use of farm animals and fish as food for humans, the
recent decades enormously. In fifty years the doubled
world population quintupled and the consumption of meat. Meat and fish shapes on
considered himself not a necessary part of the human diet. Human
healthy life can only plant foods. The extremely high level of
consumption of animal products in many countries, even determined not conducive to
the health of human beings. For meat production are also huge
quantities used good agricultural land and grain that could efficiently
are used for the production of vegetable proteins. Vast areas of forest,
rainforests and savannahs are destroyed for the benefit of agricultural land for the
feed production and keeping livestock. From all of the vegetable material that
farm animal food may be only 10 to 20% in the form of meat (protein and fat)
are passed. This biological law makes the meat a
very cumbersome and wasteful way of food for human consumption
produce.
Fish consumption worldwide is beyond the means of the seas and oceans,
allowing more and more areas are being emptied of fish and many species on the brink of
extinction brought.

220x rather for people, animals, nature and environment

7

The Party for the Animals wants therefore that consumption of plant foods powerful
is promoted in the interest of the animals, the health of people and of the
preservation of the environment and nature.
The interests of animals are seriously harmed in the field of animal experimentation.
Animals are not only used for the development of drugs, but also for the
development of detergents, animal feed and other consumer products.
The Party for the Animals calls for a ban on all animal testing. She wants during the road
there, a more critical assessment of the purpose, importance and effectiveness
from experiments on animals. She wants to continue that much more money available for
the development of alternative test methods to replace animal testing.
Government and businesses take this matter so far only minute amounts.
Genetic manipulation of animals is rejected on principle. This forms a
unacceptable violation of the bodily integrity and freedom of the animal and
will in future lead to an increasingly manipulation of animals to
means of production.
4. sustainable use of the ecosystem
The ecosystem of the Earth is in the past century have come under heavy pressure.
The number of people increased from 1.5 billion in 1900 to 6 billion in
2000. In addition, the technological and economic developments humans
been able to develop many more activities that impose a heavy burden on
nature, environment and natural resources, including agricultural land, water and
energy. Moreover, wealth is unevenly distributed and a minority of
world taking up a disproportionate share of the natural
resources. The poor parts of the world do everything understandably
to increase their level of prosperity, putting pressure on the ecosystem enormously
increases. It is certain that the Earth's ecosystem is not capable of all 6 billion
citizens of the world to offer the same level of energy and raw materials as now
in the western world is the case. The global ecosystem is at the present prosperity and
world population already severely disrupted and that will be in 2050, when the population to 9
billion has grown and there are large economies, including China and India,
have appeared, even more the case. The social, economic and political
consequences of this increasing pressure on global ecosystems will be for everyone
disastrous effect.
To reduce the pressure on our ecosystem will have all human activities
be based on the principle of permanence, that is focused on to natural
not to exhaust resources and bring our ecosystem is not out of balance.
In order adequately to this end, to create among the population will be prolonged
information must be given on the principle of sustainability. Education and
Therefore, education must both respect for animals, people and nature as it
sustainability principle to carry out.
Any development that provides opportunity for a more sustainable society should be
seized. Man is the only living being who deliberately and out of self-interest
its own habitat permanently affects reasons of short-term gain. There
will have to radically change. Mankind saw the branch on which all
living beings are on earth, and must be brought to an end will be there to.
Nature can not be compromised on. Transportation, manufacturing

220x rather for people, animals, nature and environment

8

food and consumer goods, and the use of energy must in a sustainable manner
take place. The government should the greening of the tax system and of the entire
to increase society. Policy decisions will in all circumstances
be accompanied by a "no-regret" scenario as long as the consequences of a policy decision
for a sustainable society are not yet clear or where they will negatively
unpacking, we abandon that measure.
5. A pleasant society
The Party for the Animals is based on principles enshrined in the Universal
Declaration of Human Rights (1948) and the Charter of the Earth (1987). The
Universal Declaration of Human Rights establishes the conditions under which the
Man in freedom and without oppression and violence can live and develop.
The Earth Charter sets out the principles for maintaining the
Earth as an ecosystem and the human community.
The PvdD is based on the principle that "all beings are interdependent and that
Every life form, regardless of its importance to man, is precious "(Charter of
Earth Article I, 1) and believes by extension that people "act towards one another in
a spirit of brotherhood [should] behave "(Universal Declaration of
Human Rights, Article 1). This principle is as much as possible on the
different policies, some of which are mentioned here, is used.
The Party for the Animals believes that people in our society, respect for each other
cultures and beliefs should have, to the extent not inconsistent with the laws
of our country and those of the EU. This also means that people 'duties [have] towards
the community in which alone the free and full development of his personality
is not possible "(Universal Declaration of Human Rights, Article 29).
Education shall Rights Universal Declaration in accordance with Article 26 of the
People should focus on the "full development of the human personality and
the strengthening of respect for human rights and fundamental
freedoms. It will promote understanding, tolerance and friendship among all nations,
racial or religious groups promote.
Is by taking economic and ecological measures striven
are that all people have a standard of living adequate for their
health and wellbeing. The labor market should be accessible to the widest possible
people.
The economy and social life should not be governed solely by financial
factors. People have a right to a safe, clean, natural and carefully
designed environment. The social nature of man also needs social
contacts and a human environment. The government should therefore (economic)
promote activities that take into account these factors.
Hereby, the thought of preserving and promoting small-scale
(agricultural) businesses, the quality of life in urban neighborhoods, villages and the countryside
Generally, personal service in companies etc.
Immigration should only be found in a controlled manner. The population may
this does not, in principle, continue to grow. Immigrants are considered herself the language
and necessary social skills to make their own to the Dutch in
society to function. The government sees to it that this happens and it is hereby
helpful. Where high birth rates, unemployment and poverty causes

220x rather for people, animals, nature and environment

9

immigration, the government should combat these causes through international assistance,
education and international treaties.
Foreign policy should be aimed at the rising tensions in the world
to decrease. It is necessary to always maintain the causes of the stress, and
Conflicts investigate and not merely react to the violence by deeper
causes is generated. Thereby come into being vicious circles
violence that bring people to more extreme attitudes and actions. The
breeding ground for violence and international political and military conflicts must
are removed, and the Netherlands must play a role rather than in
participation in military missions.

220x rather for people, animals, nature and environment

10

Part B. Individual issues

220x rather for people, animals, nature and environment

11

1

LIVESTOCK

Introduction
The Dutch livestock sector has evolved over the past 50 years to an industry
where some 500 million animals are slain. The animals are more and more intensively
exploited. They are removed from their natural environment have received less space and
by breeding programs, feed and medicines grow unnaturally fast. Broilers
grow so quickly that after a few weeks of their legs are too weak to bear the body weight.
Cows produce four times as much milk as 100 years ago and hens lay as much as eight times
eggs as before. Prices of animal products are unethical layer (an egg costs the same as
60 years ago), so both animals and farmers in an economic stranglehold
be held which is becoming more pressing. In their crowded stalls, there is nothing for the animals
experience, making them suffer from stress and boredom and exhibit serious abnormal behavior such as
cannibalism. Farmers can barely keep their heads above water in the marginal
bulk production that is elevated to standard. Therefore for animals, farmers and citizens
necessary that agriculture is transformed into a high quality industry with a
fair price for their production.
The Agricultural Economics Research Institute (LEI) has indicated that the average Dutch family
12% of spending their income on food. In 1970 this was still 30%. For food in a whole
organic farming would require that 16% of our income we will spend on food,
converted an additional cost value of two vacation days per year. Then the consumer eats honest,
the animals have a better life and peasant earns a good living.
Factory farming has major adverse effects on developing countries and the environment. The
environment has badly affected the production: the waste streams are huge (ammonia, phosphate),
scarce freshwater resources of the world will be exhausted and the tropical rainforest at
Widely cut down for the construction of (genetically modified) soy plantations benefit
cattle feed. The drag on the world back and forth agricultural and food products
thereby makes heavy demands on finite resources. The transport of live animals across the
world causes animal suffering and should be drastically reduced. Livestock markets and the
transport moreover also bring with it significant risks to humans and animals in the form of
serious epidemics and animal disease crises. The intensive and large-scale livestock farming is the cause of
the large-scale outbreaks of animal diseases. Massive meat consumption and associated bioindustriële methods are becoming more of a threat to public health. By the World
Health Organization (WHO) and United Nations predicted H5N1 pandemic hundreds
Millions of people can cost lives, merely as a consequence of mass production
livestock (poultry) products and related trade.
The livestock must be organized in a natural, ecological and regional manner
where animals can perform their normal behavior again. The Party for the Animals is here considering
from five in 1965 by the British animal welfare committee Brambell defined and generally
accepted (but hardly put into practice) freedom for the animal.
Animals must be free:
from thirst, hunger and malnutrition;
from physical and thermal discomfort;
from pain, injury and disease;
from fear and distress;
to exhibit their natural (species-specific) behavior.

220x rather for people, animals, nature and environment

12

Improving animal husbandry
Farm animals should be housed and cared for according to their nature and behavior
at the level of the minimum standards of the biological (-dynamic) farming. When the
how animals are kept causing problems, the solution must be sought in
improvement of the housing and not in adaptation to the animal via the removal preventive
of body parts. Physical modification of animals can never be justified
problems arising from rearing or market conditions.
Housing and care
1.1

Cage housing of animals is prohibited.

1.2

Farm animals should have the choice to stay indoors or outdoors,
according to species-specific behavior. Thus, the cows have to most of the
year have the choice to be in the field.

1.3

Animals that stay outside should have shelter from wind and rain, sun
and cold according to their natural behavior.

1,4

Calves should remain with their mother after birth and have the right to
milk.

At 1.5

For turkeys and geese welfare legislation should be created.

Interventions
1.6

There should be an end to painful and degrading animal surgeries. These include
think about a ban on (without anesthesia) castration of piglets, docking
tails of sheep, cutting and burning of canines
tails in pigs, dehorning of cattle and the beaks of chickens.

1.7

There should be an end to earmarking cattle. Chip Recognition
For example, constitutes an animal-friendly alternative.

Brake on raising productivity
1.8

The breeding of cattle no longer in a natural way in the world
come (double-muscled) should be terminated.

1.9
1:10

The current level of production of dairy cows should be reduced.
The breeding of broilers reach their slaughter weight in just six weeks
so that their legs are not longer able to carry the body weight, should
should be prohibited.

1:11

Sexing and then destroying newly hatched male chicks from the
laying sector must be eliminated. There must come to the European research
the possibility of early prenatal sexing eggs so the
mass of male chicks can be prevented. Additionally offer
dual purpose breed solution.

1:12

The use of drugs as growth promoters and the preventive administration of
antibiotics in livestock farming must be banned.

1:13

Genetic manipulation of production animals (often for the purpose of breeding or
'Production enhancement') is inadmissible

Trade in and transport of animals
1:14

Farmers should breed their own animals, fattening itself and a solid
deliver slaughterhouse in the region. Separate breeding and fattening must only if there
there is a one-to-one relationship with a company in the region. Takes fattening
breeding animals are of only one off and the transportation of the animals is limited
to a maximum of two times; once for fattening and once to the slaughterhouse.

220x rather for people, animals, nature and environment

13

1:15
1:16

The transport time of live animals should be limited to a maximum of two hours.
Livestock markets should be prohibited in the interests of animal welfare and
spread of animal diseases. As long as cattle markets still exist monitor needs
by an independent body within the Ministry of Agriculture's operating inspection
acquired, expanded and tightened.

Killing animals in livestock
In the Decree killing 'of the Ministry of Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality
states that the slaughter of animals should take place "after prior stunning because
thereby with the greatest degree of security is prevented that the animal is suffering from pain or
stress'. Unfortunately, practice shows in slaughterhouses different.
In many slaughterhouse chickens for prudential reasons with weak current
intoxicated. This is better for the quality of the meat, as this results in less meat
prevent bruising. As a result, millions of animals without stunning
gender.

Furthermore, it constitutes slaughter without stunning for religious reasons a big problem. Based on
Article 6 of the Constitution, freedom of religion, stipulates that animals according to Jewish and
Islamic traditions gender may be: without anesthesia and so with all the pain and stress
then.
Because other countries are less easy to provide with exceptions on their own
legislation is not ritually slaughtered meat produced there. The Dutch slaughterhouses
in this hole jumped into the market and export a part of the slaughtered ritually in Netherlands
animals to these countries. Already, 20% of all Dutch slaughterhouses ritually slaughtered.
Not all that meat ends up as halal or kosher meat in the Dutch or foreign shelves. The
ritually slaughtered meat can not be sold as halal meat, is as 'normal' in the flesh
shops lie. The unsuspecting meat eater who thinks he's on the basis of Dutch legislation
eat meat from stunned animals slaughtered deliberately misled.
Actions
1:17

The government should exercise strict and intensive inspection in slaughterhouses. This
applies in particular to the stunning of animals before slaughter.

1:18

All methods of slaughter where animals are not stunned, must be
prohibited. There may thereby be no exceptions made for
For example, cultural and / or religious traditions and customs.

Combat animal diseases
The Party for the Animals is against mass destruction of healthy animals in outbreak
infectious diseases such as foot and mouth disease or swine fever. The PvdD wants preventive vaccination and no
culls. But the prevention of animal diseases will also implemented drastic changes
must become. By regionalization of livestock, elimination of long
distance transports, and reduce the number of animals is held, the probability of a
animal disease outbreak and reduce the impact of outbreaks will be limited. Animal diseases are
all times, it is the manner in which livestock production is organized that will make
Draconian measures are taken for economic reasons. It means taking many turns
times more deadly than the disease ever could have been.

220x rather for people, animals, nature and environment

14

Actions
1:19

Massive destruction of healthy animals in outbreak of contagious diseases
such as FMD and swine fever is no longer applied.

1:20

Vaccinations in organic livestock farming borne entirely by the
administrations to the extent arising from risks that are consistent with the
bio industry.

1:21

Products from vaccinated animals must simply be put on the market.

1:22

Zoo animals and pets may be vaccinated at any time.

1:23

The compulsory confinement of poultry should be stopped. Government
pay vaccinating all backyard poultry because it is clear that such vaccination
is only a consequence of the presence of intensive farming and
not an end in itself serves.

Prohibition on keeping certain animal production
Actions
1:24

Following banned in England, Northern Ireland, Austria, Länder
Germany and Scotland must come a Dutch ban on breeding
mink and other fur-bearing animals for their fur. The Dutch must
government to push for a European ban.

1:25

There will be a ban on the keeping of rabbits, deer and other animals
because of their very nature, are not suitable to be in large cattle farms,
held. Ostriches and other exotics are unsuitable in Dutch
to keep climate. It makes them literally sick.

1:26

Foie gras (duck or goose liver) is made from the unnatural
enlarged livers of ducks and geese several times a day and for weeks
a force-feeding (via a funnel into the throat) have endured. There
an import and trade should be banned foie gras. Keeping geese and
ducks behalf of foie gras production should be banned at European level
be.

1:27

In the European Union should be allowed to ducks, geese and other
animals alive to reap the benefit of the production of fur.

Public support for a more animal husbandry
The animal-friendly farming is suffering from unfair competition. The social
cost of current production are only partly offset the cost and controls
label requirements weigh heavily on the animal-friendly farming systems. Are therefore
products from conventional farming unethical low priced compared to products from the
biological (-dynamic) sector. As long as this imbalance exists, the government must transition
compensate for animal-friendly farming systems. An overall policy of transformation will
for farmers have not been painless and therefore compensation is necessary. Farmers are
also victims of a policy that the bio-industrial production for years stimulated wrongly
and for that reason they must get a positive financial result of the government to their
improve operations in a qualitative sense. This radical restructuring of factory farming is necessary and took place in a similar way to clean up the
clothing and textile industries, the major shipbuilding and coal mines. The move via
a temporary financial aid to compensate.

220x rather for people, animals, nature and environment

15

Actions
1:28

The Party for the Animals is in favor of cross compliance. This implies that
income support to farmers will be granted only if it meets a
some standards in areas such as animal welfare and the environment. Observe the
These standards should be a grant condition. A large part of the
standards should be established at European level, but individual
Member States should be encouraged to sharpen it to a higher level.
Netherlands could act as a guide in this position.

1:29

There should be a zero rate of VAT be applied to organic products.

Half past one

In support of national standards that go beyond European
regulations, there should be a suitable labeling. In such a system should
clearly recognizable produced a product in which country and under
which (animal welfare) standards. The labeling must be uniform and easily recognizable
are. The consumer is extended by the government and the market and
honestly informed about the contents of the quality systems.

220x rather for people, animals, nature and environment

16

2

FISHERIES

Introduction
The Common Fisheries Policy (CFP) of the EU objective to keep the maintenance of the
fish population and diversity in the seas. However, the policy takes too much account
economic and commercial interests.
The Party for the Animals sees three major problems: the capture and killing methods,
overfishing and the emergence of inhumane intensive farms.
Catch and killing methods
Fish catch is associated with severe injuries, pain and stress for the animals. In the
large nets are many fish crushed or otherwise injured. In the drift, it allows
waiting prolonged agony.
The killing methods of fish are characterized by roughness and langdurigheid. There must
Therefore, rules to be developed for the killing of fish. Contrary to what many people think
a fish does not die quickly when placed on dry land. Herring example
only stitched up after 35 minutes, cod and whiting until after 60 minutes. Many fish are
'stripped': this means that the fish is cut open alive to the organs and blood
remove. The fish a result, however, is not immediately die. Plaice, for example, keep the
a maximum of 50 minutes. In the eel industry is still often use is made of a
killing method where salt is sprinkled on the skin of the eel slime which the animal
becomes. The eel has long violent swimming movements to escape the salt; the
salt bath, on the skin of the eel to compare with an effect that burns is to the
man. In addition, the salt damage to the gills. An extremely painful method. When the eel
finally ceases to move, he was still conscious and far from dead. But he then
be stripped of its organs.
Alternative, proven more humane methods of killing are currently barely
applied. The fishing industry and the Dutch government, unfortunately, show little interest in this
problem. That needs to change.
Actions
1.2

The Dutch government and the EU should actively work towards the development of
alternative killing methods for eels and seafood. Developed alternatives
such as killing by electrocution should be certified.

2.2

Let death creep of eels in a salt bath should be banned.

2.3

The use of driftnets in the Dutch waters should be banned.

2.4

The use of trawl nets in deep seawater should be prohibited.

: 2.5

The size of fishing nets must be reduced drastically.

2,6

Beam trawling must be banned.

: 2.7

To avoid dolphins, whales and seals entangled in fishing nets
hit the EU should prescribe appropriate nets and sonar systems.

Fish farms
In fish farms are treated in an inhumane way of fishing. The fish are in
held high densities, hormones be given in different ways and be
manipulated in order to facilitate reproduction and growth. Committed itself, without requiring much
publicity is given to a new visbio industry developed, which is strongly supported
by European governments. A solution to the overfishing of the seas provides fish farming

220x rather for people, animals, nature and environment

17

not because many farmed fish are exclusively or predominantly with (products) sea fish
fed. The fish hatchery thereby constitute an additional burden on the marine fish stocks.
Actions
: 2.8

Fish in fish farms should be housed according to their nature and behavior
be. To this end ethological investigation should be initiated.

2.9

The expansion of fish farms should be prohibited until basic
research has led to more humane and ecologically sound
forms of aquaculture.

2:10

The financial support from the government should stop put to fish farms.

Overfishing
By spending quota attempting the EU each year the amount of fish caught is
limit. However, the lobby of the fishery is strong and the commercial interests weigh heavily. The quotas
are therefore-despite warnings from independent wetenschappers- set too high,
causing an excessive amount of fish being caught. Moreover, there is a lively trade in
fishing quotas between the EU Member States, which effectively catch reducing greatly frustrates. On
short and long term are threatened fish species to die out completely and get fish eating
birds and marine mammals in trouble. In addition, monitoring the quota is limited
which often catch fish than allowed.
Actions
2:11

Tighter controls on fishing quotas are necessary to protect fish species
from extinction. The European Commission should have access to
own inspectors and satellite technologies to tackle such illegal catches.
This could include a common European Naval and Airforce Service
which can efficiently carry out these checks and gives it priority.

2:12

In international agreements on the management of seas and oceans gets
seasonal and small-scale coastal fisheries priority over industrial fishing.

2:13

It should be ensured that the Dutch fishing vessels do not
resources of other countries scavenging such that the local populations
those two countries severely affected by this.

A responsible 'green' fishing prevent overfishing, minimizes bycatch,
does not affect the marine environment and uses only friendly capture and killing methods. The
Government should encourage such a green fishing. Fishing quotas have drastically
be reduced fish stocks to give the opportunity to recover.
Grinding of fish in pumping stations and power plants
There are millions of fish in Dutch waters by mortars and grinding
water scoops in the 3,000 pumping stations and dozens of power plants.
Actions

2:14

Visweringen are to be built, in which with the aid of sound
and light, in combination with the fish, the fish conduction
possibility to avoid the water blades and augers.

220x rather for people, animals, nature and environment

18

3

ANIMAL TESTING AND BIOTECHNOLOGY

Introduction
Annually in Dutch laboratories are about 630,000 vertebrate animals used for
experiments. The total number of animals which is used for the purpose of animal testing is
much bigger; as invertebrates are not included in the registration of the number
laboratory animals and animals kept for breeding or wear out future experiments
their life in a laboratory, but are not counted as laboratory animals.
The Party for the Animals wants an end to all animal experiments and wants through an
systematic limitation of the animal experiments in combination with a powerful development of
achieving alternative testing methods. However, this will need to be implemented in phases. Because
process to accelerate, it is important to systematic, independent investigation into the
promoting effectiveness of animal experiments and significantly investing in alternatives
animal research. Publicity about animal testing is necessary for the purpose of animal testing
critically assess, and as long as animal experiments are performed welfare needs
animals come first.
The Dutch laws that protect animals is almost thirty years old and far
a thorough revision. The Experiments on Animals Act (WOD) dates from 1977 and proposes a
some rules on animal testing. Evaluations show that the contribution of
this law on the protection of laboratory animals is far from optimal. The Act states that
Animal Experiments Committees (DEC), which permit applications for animal research
assess the intrinsic value of the animal as an independent assessment criterion must
heavily in an ethical test. In practice, however, especially to be tested for the
laboratory animal science organization of research applications and the supposed interest or benefit to the
science and society. The interests of the animal are not central and hardly count
with it.
Information about animal testing is hardly public. The exact goals and structure of the
research applications of the various animal experimental studies are currently not
known. The ethical assessment is done behind closed doors and results
animal studies are not published; the annual report of the Food and
Authority notice only on the total number and kinds of animals used, the purpose
and the number of trials per university. There are no possibilities for -at onrechte-
the submission of objections by citizens or civil society organizations.
Reducing the number of animal experiments
The Party for the Animals believes that there should be securely deployed in a sharp reduction
the number of animal experiments. This can be done by sharing knowledge, and the development and application
of encouraging alternative methods.
Actions
1.3

A substantial budget has been earmarked for the development, validation and
implementation of alternative methods other than animal testing. This
budget should be partially paid for by the government and partly by the
animal institutions themselves. For each test animal which for the purpose of experiments
used or maintained, the respective research institution should be 10 euro

220x rather for people, animals, nature and environment

19

pour in the ontwikkelingskas alternatives. The government needs a
budget of 10 million euros per year should be made available.
2.3

A publicly accessible database should be created within which all
writing data from animal studies, in order
To avoid unnecessary testing and breeding of laboratory animals.

: 3.3

The requirement to animal testing of newly developed foods with
health claims should be repealed.

3.4

Animal testing of new drugs that hardly differ from existing
drugs (so-called "me-too" drugs) should be prohibited.

: 3.5

Netherlands has to make within the EU hard for an import ban
cosmetics from countries that still do animal testing for cosmetics are allowed.

3.6

Veterinary students should no longer be required to carry on
living animals.

: 3.7

The Biomedical Primate Research Centre (BPRC) in Rijswijk should as soon
may be closed. The monkeys residing in the primate animal center
must be accommodated in proper care.

Permits for animal research
The Party for the Animals believes that the licensing of animal studies should be
tightened. About every permit application must be an ethical consideration,
where the interests of the animal must be explicitly weighed against the
(assumed) interests of the trial. Moreover, improved guarantees should be given for
the welfare of the animals. The procedure for the authorization must be public
and are open for participation by citizens and civil society organizations. Furthermore, the intended
maximum transparency be exercised. This means that of the failed tests
results must be published, as this will reduce the number of test animals
can lead.
Actions
: 3.8

Before an animal request qualifies for an ethical needs
fulfillment of a proper laboratory animal science study design and serve
Alternatives have been demonstrably investigated. The burden of proof lies with the above
animal test taker and the assessment is conducted by an ethical
review board that operates from the interests of the animal and not
extension of the vivisectors is.

3.9

The regulatory testing strategies using animals should
(frequently) to be evaluated to determine whether the test can effectively
be done without the use of animals or animal testing
can be and finally how the trials can be refined reduced.

3:10

Interests in view of which animal testing for scientific research
authorized must be framed. Serves the interest of a particular trial
be assessed in a broad social context. Efforts
prevention of (health) problems and clearly defined goals
forms of research in terms of proven social benefit thereby
important assessment.

3:11

Regarding the ethical review committee should new
expertise requirements to be formulated. Independence must also
to ensure their members. The opinions of the various
review committees should be collected centrally and processed, and annually
to be evaluated.

220x rather for people, animals, nature and environment

20

3:12

The procedure surrounding permits for animal research should be public
be, with opportunities for public participation, and appeal for citizens and
civil society.

Welfare of laboratory animals
As long as animal experiments are performed, the welfare of the animals should be paramount. That
means that the animals are housed in one as naturally as possible for them, that there
independent audit on their welfare and that procedures that cause unnecessary suffering,
-this at the discretion of an independent ethics committee should be prohibited. The welfare of
animals can and must be significantly improved.
Actions
3:13

The minimum housing requirements for laboratory animals must meet the
(social) needs of the animals concerned.

3:14

The welfare of animals during the experiment should be daily
audited by an independent veterinarian.

3:15

Transgressions and negligence of the investigators should be penalized by
revocation of a license, fines and possibly imprisonment.

3:16

Cutting off a toe of a (new-born) rodent must not be longer
be permitted as means of identification. Interventions by the Decree must end
ready to be customized and alternative forms of accessibility
identification must be examined and implemented.

3:17

Full records of animals should be provided in the Netherlands, including the
breeding animals and animals that are well kept in laboratories, but not used
in an animal study.

3:18

An inventory should be the invertebrate species used
trials are. Invertebrate species which may be assumed that
they are 'uncomfortable' encounter an animal, serve under the Act
animal tests to be accommodated.

3:19

Experimental animals to be used no more after the end of the experimentation, to serve,
if their physical and mental condition allows, at the expense of the
vivisectors through specialized centers to new owners reinstated
to become.

Biotechnology
The genetic characteristics of animals and plants have evolved into a lengthy process.
As a result, plants and animals have optimally to each other and to the natural conditions
adapted from their surroundings and is a dynamic balance between the various forms of life
arise. The genetic manipulation of plants and animals and their use for
technological purposes (biotechnology) is a drastic break in the natural
ecosystem. They not only compromised the integrity of plants and animals, but also poses major
risks to their survival. Genetically engineered animals and plants can indeed their
natural congeners displace and generally disrupting the ecosystem.
In recent years, operations which make changes at the genetic level in a living
organism (genetically altered animals) developed and applications
animal biotechnology are extensive. Genetic modification of animals so that their organs
may be useful to humans (xenotransplantation) is one example. In
Netherlands every year more than a hundred thousand animals, especially mice and rats used in
biotechnological experiments. Genetic engineering is a technique that takes a lot of animals there

220x rather for people, animals, nature and environment

21

are on average 150 needed to create a single transgenic animal line. Especially have the dams
severely affected by the operations performed at the so-called transgenic animals'
making, but also the offspring that are born with genetic defects, even
before any experiments are performed on them already affected in their physical integrity.
Genetic engineering has led in recent years in addition to an increase in the total
animal testing.
The Party for the Animals believes that the genetic modification of animals is incompatible with the
physical integrity of the animal and therefore rejects this on principle. As long as there is no prohibition on the
conducting these experiments is realized, it is legally established "No, tenzij'principe be strictly enforced.
Actions
3:20

There should be a ban on genetic engineering and cloning of animals and
genetic manipulation of plants.

3:21

It should come on ethical grounds to ban the patenting of life.

3:22

Xenotransplantation is prohibited.

3:23

As long as there is no prohibition on biotechnology was achieved in animals, should
procedure for the authorization to remain public. There must for these
procedure ethical criteria come in which the interests of the animal emphatically
are considered. The importance of the research is still in a broad
To assess social context.

3:24

All data resulting from biotechnology research in animals have
be made public. Results of examination are to be
included in the discussion of the follow-up request for proposals
Building on earlier biotechnological research. If the results do not
provide important information, the subsequent application is rejected in advance
to become.

3:25

A central database should be designed in which all available knowledge
on the impact of genetic engineering in animals is collected. These data
to be used in the decision making process surrounding new
issuing permits.

220x rather for people, animals, nature and environment

22

4

PETS

Introduction
Regarding pets, there are very few legal rules which the welfare of
protect animals. When pets are found wandering, they are on
According to the Civil Code 5, 8 considered a found object by
municipality for 14 days for the owner to be preserved. Then there is the Dog Ones Cat Act (HKB), which regulates the commercial keeping of dogs and cats
shelters, on the trade in these animals, and breeding farms and guesthouses. Have rules
inter alia the competence requirements for breeders and dealers and on the
Standards for accommodation, care, vaccination, identification / registration and litter frequency.
For other pets, there is no regulation. That depends largely on the government that
In recent years wants to eliminate many rules, unfortunately rules to protect defenseless animals.
If the government wants to even it came into force in 2002 Dog and Cat Act again
abolish a sacred trust in the self-regulation of the market. Only the pet trade,
legal and illegal, will benefit.
The application of the law also leaves much to be desired. Shows the judiciary, where
the animal cruelty is concerned, a great unwillingness to impose appropriate penalties.
Companies who mistreat animals / neglect serving alongside prosecution also
otherwise sanctioned to be coercive, penalty, administrative fine
and (permanent or partial) cessation of the business / organization.
Animal abuse and neglect
Actions
1.4

Animal abuse should be punished more severely and more. Public
Ministry must give a higher priority to the more frequent court
bring suspicions of animal abuse. Should the judiciary
more likely to use a higher penalties and more (long-term or permanent) keep impose trade bans.

2.4

Detection of violations and enforcement of animal welfare laws
should be given more priority to investigating authorities. In order to this
must realize a police animal, comprising at least 50 officers,
be entered. The animal police should be given sufficient powers
to seize animals.

3.4

There is a strong association between domestic violence and
cruelty to animals: cruelty to animals often precede
violence towards people. There should be a national registration
be introduced whereby data about potential violent situations from
various bodies are coupled to each other. Veterinarians
can then make notification of suspicious injuries at an animal and
at the same time can include youth care institutions and police notification
suspicions of domestic violence so dysfunctional families can
be located. In this way much suffering in both humans and
animals should be avoided.

220x rather for people, animals, nature and environment

23

Dierenhandel
Actions
4.4

Animals must be at the seller and breeder welfare-friendly way
housed, which fully meets the behavioral needs of the animals. In
this framework should be maintained the Dog and Cat Decree.

: 4.5

All companies engaged in the trade in pet food, serve
be required certified.

4.6

There should be an overall Identification and Registration Duty come for dogs and cats,
including through the placement of chips.

4.7

The certification requirements should reflect the seller's comprehensive, too
must give written information about the care of an animal before
purchase of an animal. It should be specified that the seller of a
animal has the responsibility to ensure that the intended
an animal keeper can keep being friendly.

4.8 Undesirable

The staff that sells should have received training animals
ensures sufficient knowledge about the animals presented.

4.9

Dog Traders must mention in the papers transferring the ownership
the mother dog puppies is traded and where it resides.

4:10

Selling puppies and kittens without a mother in pet shops should be banned
be.

4:11

There should be a ban on the trade in animals under abroad
bad conditions have been bred. The Dutch, certified trader
only animals according to Dutch standards is working abroad
trading companies.

4:12

When a trader is caught in violation of the breeding and / or
import regulations, he is liable for the cost of medical treatment
the animals resulting therefrom. The new owner gets it
above average cost without self reimbursed litigation. In addition, the need
trader to be imposed on a holding and trading ban.

Breeding
Selective breeding can result in animals can not come in the world in a natural way,
have continuously breathing difficulties, have defects in their skeletal or
various causes will die prematurely.
Actions
4:13

There should be a ban on breeding animals by selective
breeding health or are experiencing health problems. This prohibition must be accompanied
accompanied by a ban on exhibiting and trading in such species.
To this end, Article 55 of the Animal Health and Welfare Act (1992) to
be completed.

Control aggressive animals (RAD)
It is prohibited in the Netherlands to keep pitbull species and breed, unless they have a FCIstamboom. By foreign and illegal breeders however still be such
bred dogs, which then seized in the Netherlands and are slain. There is a need
end be made to the ruthlessly killing of such animals.

220x rather for people, animals, nature and environment

24

Actions
4:14

The government must have the ban on the keeping of pit bulls regularly
give information.

4:15

Breeders and buyers of illegal pitbull species should be punished severely.

4:16

Accelerated assessment shall come from the RAD.

Care of pets
Actions
4:17

There should be financial support from the government a national network of
Certified shelters are set up for animals other than dogs and
cats.

4:18

People should have the right to bring their pets
preserved when they are incorporated into an institution. As a result, will
prevent many animals end up in shelters.

4:19

Contingency plans should also be drawn to it to safety
of animals.

Non-domesticated species
Many animals are not suitable to be kept as a pet. They appear to give too many problems
care and a suitable living environment can be provided there. As a result, this end
often animals in shelters.
Actions
4:20

A limited positive list should be established in which all
species are suitable for use as a pet. Animals that are not on the positive list
listed may not be sold or traded. Caught in the wild
animals have been in any case, not suitable as a pet.

Nutrition
High-quality manufactured food is of great significance for the welfare of animals and belong to
their staff of life. On the specific species adapted nutrition is however considered
as a luxury. Pet food to date is therefore placed in the high VAT rate.
This is in contrast to nutrition for production animals.
Actions
4:21

High-quality manufactured (organic) food intended for all animals kept in
attacking the low VAT rate. However, this applies only for animal feed which do not
animals has been tested.

220x rather for people, animals, nature and environment

25

5

ENTERTAINMENT WITH ANIMALS

Introduction
Animals are used in many ways for the entertainment of humans. This can range from hunting and
angling to the use of animals in circuses, folk games, commercials, TV programs
and films. Many of these activities have a long tradition, which is used as an argument
to maintain them as cultural heritage. The Treaty of Amsterdam (1997)
European Union states that account must be taken of animal welfare, 'under
respecting the legislative or administrative provisions and customs of the Member States
relating in particular to religious rites, cultural traditions and regional heritage '.
The Party for the Animals believes that animals as living beings with consciousness and sense of respect
and therefore care must be and has handled objections to animals in
the expense of their freedom and welfare for the amusement of humans to use. That objections
Of course most strongly when animals are slain and wounded, like hunting and fishing
or if the animals fear and stress inflicted. Other forms of entertainment focus
objections mainly on the inadequate housing and the restriction of freedom of movement
of the animals concerned.
Actions
1.5

The passage in the Treaty of Amsterdam on respect for
cultural and religious traditions using animals, such as the
bullfighting and slaughter without stunning should be deleted.

Angling
Actions
2.5

Fishing is discouraged and contained through education, the
abolition of the bag fish, hooks, live nets and fishing competitions. On
term is a desirable ban on fishing.

Circus
Actions
3.5

The use of animals in circuses should be banned. The
them perform tricks with animals do not show respect, while their
life imprisonment in cages is unacceptable. Mainly in wild animals can do
serious welfare problems.

Zoos
It is unacceptable to catch the sake of human amusement animals from the wild and in
to accommodate a zoo or dolphinarium. Their habitat is there drastically reduced
which they can not perform their natural behaviors. The argument that zoos
have an educational value, is unjustified. Zoos let the visitors do not see how the
animals in their natural environment. They also suggest that morale
is justified to rob animals of their freedom to show them to people. Alone
if animals are unable to survive in their original habitat or not it
can be put back, the zoo can be an acceptable, preferably temporary form of
its housing. Her old target is changed to that of shelter for wild
live, whether or not endangered animals and animal species. Housing the animals must in this

220x rather for people, animals, nature and environment

26

cases to be directed to approach the natural living conditions as much as possible. The
breeding of animals in a zoo is generally undesirable, because the new animals their
life will have to spend in a zoo. An exception can be made for
scientifically based and nature conservation breeding programs with the aim of animals
weather in nature refitting.
Actions
4.5

Subsidies from the government to zoos should be suspended insofar
which do not exclusively aim to absorb threatened with extinction animals
or endangered populations in the wild temporarily with new recruits.

Kinderboerderijen
Actions
5.5

Animals kept in petting zoos must at all times in accordance with their own kind
behavior to be housed and cared for. Must be sought by animal species
the optimal housing. Social animals should not be housed alone.

5.6

At petting zoos no animals are bred. To reduce the number of animals up to standard
hold, animals must excess of other children's farms and
animal shelters are adopted. Old animals are not because of their
age slain.

Sports with animals
The problem of sport with animals is that animals often here in their health and well-being
be affected. This applies particularly to fishing (mistakenly referred to as
fishing) that aims to catch fish with a hook. However, other forms of
sport / hobby can harm animals in their well-being by inhumane training methods,
overload and early killing of animals at the decline in their performance
be scrapped. So get lost because of the extreme demands of the sport in
Netherlands hundreds of thousands of pigeons during races and then come in
bird sanctuaries and cities go, where reception and care of these animals and their
offspring involves much cost. The Party for the Animals is more positive about
agility training and games for dogs, with no competitive element of profit
is present, provided that the animals are not affected in their health and wellness.
Actions
5.7

Strict regulation of the welfare of animals in sport and recreation
are used, to ensure.

5.8

Long flights with pigeons, especially young animals should be prohibited.

5.9

No overnight flights for carrier pigeons are organized.

Recreational Horseback Riding
Actions
5:10

Should be drawn up legal rules for the housing of horses,
to meet the needs of the animals behavior.

220x rather for people, animals, nature and environment

27

Events and media recordings
Animals are frequent events and media recordings (commercials, TV programs
and films) are used. It is sometimes sorry state of the housing and care of the animals,
the training methods and the knowledge of the people who have to work with the animals.
Actions
5:11
5:12

The hiring of animals is prohibited.
Welfare demands should be made there to the use of animals for
events. The operations may not be contrary to their nature and
natural life, may not harm their health and wellbeing, and no fear
cause stress. The animals may not administered stimulants
get and are not oriented towards activities which endanger their
health and well-being would or conflict with their self-esteem. By means
of a positive list should be established which animals do and which animals
are not suitable for this purpose.

5:13

A code of conduct should be created for the display of true reality
images which animals are subjected to abuse and humiliation. There
is of such images a bad signal function.

220x rather for people, animals, nature and environment

28

6

WILD ANIMALS

Introduction
Wild animals should be left alone as much as possible so that they their own
life can live. In the past century there have been many animal species extinct and
Scientific projections indicate that this extinction process in the decades ahead,
momentum will hit. Even if the animals concerned are not yet threatened with extinction,
should be taken fully into account their interests. A degree of inconvenience
of wild animals is hereby accepted. Unfortunately, in many cases
from lack of knowledge of the natural processes or purely for the pleasure of living in the wild
animals hunted.
Hunting
In the Netherlands dealings of man with the wild animals regulated by the
Flora and Fauna. It contains animal protection center. This means that animals in
principle should be left alone. This law stipulates that there can only exemptions
be authorized to kill animals when there is serious damage to
crops or livestock, or when public safety or public health actually
is being threatened. It is also a prerequisite that there be no other satisfactory solution
exists and that killing animals does lead to a satisfactory solution. In practice
However, exemptions for killing animals are routinely granted by the provinces.
This is caused by the dominant influence of the Faunabeheer Assembly consisting of
land users and hunters who apply for exemptions for killing animals. The
Fauna Fund assesses the requests for exemption, is also unbalanced in favor of
the land users and hunters assembled, allowing the applications for non critical exemption
be assessed.
Actions
1.6

The wildlife Fund should be with a view to the desired independence
composed of independent experts making a critical assessment
applications place for exemptions. The Flora and Fauna Act should
be refocused to which the legal protection of animals
Act is intended, also resulting effective protection.

Killing wild animals
Killing animals should be limited to those few cases where the relevant
species important agricultural damage is caused or the public health or
safety is compromised. In those cases, under Article 65 or 68 authorization
are provided for intentionally disturb these species or, where that is not a
solution and leads to the killing of animals it can be expected a satisfactory solution,
under Article 68 be waived to kill some animals.
Allowing the killing of animals without reasons mentioned above is contrary to the
principles of the Flora and Fauna Act.

220x rather for people, animals, nature and environment

29

Actions
2.6

Must be defined in the Hunting Regulations that the period in which hunting
pheasants, hares, wood pigeons, rabbits and wild ducks is open is limited
to 0 days. Additionally slope Never be in rest areas and other
not publicly accessible areas.

Chase and kill animals
Killing animals across the country or in parts of the country is for the animals, the nature and
the people very drastic measure. In case of damage, it is therefore undesirable to put it on
under Article 65 to leave to the discretion of each individual land user or
is necessary in order to kill animals for this purpose.
This also applies to the current use of Article 75 according to which a number of species
"outlawed" has been declared and therefore may be slain by anyone who thinks of these animals suffer too
have. To authorize the killing of an animal species the opportunity of needs
Article 68 to be used, which allows much more tailored to the local situation certain
persons may be authorized.
Actions
3.6

Based on article 65 of the Flora and Fauna species will only
be designated to be troubled deliberately. The use of
Article 75 shall be limited to exceptional situations where there is compelling
reasons of overriding public interest such as serious threat
health, at the discretion of an independent institution.

Significant damage
In the Flora and Fauna Act, the term "significant harm" as a condition for
taking measures against animals. The concept is not defined.
Actions
4.6

As a definition for 'significant damage' on the basis of which an exemption under Article 68
the Flora and Fauna Act may be granted should be chosen for ten
percent of the average yield of the crop with a minimum rate € 115 per hectare.

Population control
Based on the Decree management and damage control animals 'within the framework of' necessary
population management 'in the Netherlands, 12 000 deer shot annually. This population control is unnecessary. The
arguments put forward for this population management, are limiting major
damage to agricultural crops and road safety.
The agricultural damage, however, been found in practice to be hardly present. Moreover, there are
sufficient alternatives to effectively prevent any damage. This also applies to the
traffic. There are several possible measures to reduce the risk of potential collisions,
as broad, clear roadsides. Collisions are most common during the night
hours and at high speed. The provinces should investigate where the problems lie
to take targeted measures such as the night there for closing roads
motorized traffic (except residents), where possible, to reduce the
limit or placing wild game fences or electronic crossing warnings
along the respective paths.

220x rather for people, animals, nature and environment

30

Furthermore, even wild boar and deer shot in the context of population management. The
management of such populations is unnecessary since they are regulated by, in particular, the
food supply. When there is significant damage to, or threat of certain
generally recognized interests such as agriculture or health is already possible
to scare animals of those species or killing under Article 68, first paragraph, section
a, b or c. Additional slope capabilities are undesirable and should therefore not be
commandments.
Actions
5.6

In the Management and damage control animals should be "regulating the
populations of animals' be deleted from Article 4.

Foraging areas for geese and wigeon
The Netherlands has an international responsibility as doortrek- and wintering area
for geese and wigeon. These birds have sufficient foraging opportunities
are provided. Grasslands, where the damage will necessarily be limited, as tolerance plots
ideal for this. Any damage will spread and occur nowhere very high
can add up. By not scare the birds on these plots, but to leave it entirely alone
they do not consume unnecessary energy causing additional forage and lack damages.
Actions
6.6

All geese and wigeon serve in the winter period (November 1 to April 1) at
grasslands be tolerated. Any damage to the grassland will after appraisal
distributed by the government, provided that the user of land, complete with birds
has left alone. Damage sensitive land parcels any damage after valuation
also be distributed, provided that the land user with all relevant and scaring
repellents, with the exception of lethal means, is used.

Enforcement Flora and Fauna Act
For an independent audit of the proper implementation of the Flora and Fauna Act in this
moment too few investigators available. Because the exemptions generally
through the private Faunabeheereenhe (i) d (s) are written to the land users,
shoot the legally required direct control by both the provinces and the central government deficit.
Much supervision is in the hands of gamekeepers who are employed by the hunters themselves. That is a
unacceptable situation, especially since hunting practice itself often takes place in remote or
even closed to the public areas which social monitoring and government oversight virtually
is missing. The law requires that counties efficient enough exemptions issued by them
check.
Actions
6.7

The government needs additional independent investigators and Flora
Fauna appoint under the responsibility of the Ministry of
Interior fall.

Urban pigeons
Feral pigeons may cause a certain degree of inconvenience by their excrement, nests and
cooing. Municipalities responding to complaints often subject to inhumane measures like
an abrupt feed ban and trapping and gassing of sometimes thousands of pigeons.
These brutal methods are reprehensible. It is also contrary to the Health and Welfare
for animals to kill animals in nuisance without carrying out the method Friendly

220x rather for people, animals, nature and environment

31

tested. Vangacties miss their target completely over, because the pigeons are very fertile
(practically all year) and will continue planting accelerated to make up for their losses.
Actions
6.8

The animal-friendly alternative is the "lifting method. Here are dovecotes on
buildings with flat roofs or placed in attics, where the pigeons
can eat, rest and nest. Furthermore pigeon towers in parks or
landscaping to be put down. By this method, 80-90% of the
excrement into the lift, which reduces the nuisance beyond proportion.
By offering this nesting can be the most laid eggs
replaced by artificial eggs. Thus one achieves a healthy pigeon population that does not
is too large in size. The Government should encourage this method.

Other issues related to wild animals
Actions
6.9

Exploring how the muskrat populations in a region without
overhunting develops and what the implications are for the dikes.

6:10

Shooting animals in the carrier, moulting or lactation should be prohibited.

6:11

Feral cats should no longer be hunted, but should be
captured, sterilized and re-plated on the place where they
caught.

6:12

There should be a ban on collecting plovers' eggs.

6:13

Building in open areas should be avoided wherever possible. At
construction activities and other forms of degradation and change
natural environment, measures should be taken for the animals
thereby losing their habitat.

6:14

The government makes the care of sick and injured wild animals
possible again by resuming the authorization centers and this
shelters finance.

6:15

The government finances the care for sick and injured wild animals.

6:16

For oil spills in the North Sea beaches, the government guarantees the cost
involved in rescuing the oil victims.

6:17

There is a protection program aimed at restoring the habitat with
Endangered species like hamster (hamster) and stag beetle.

6:18

Expansion of our country extinct animals such as eagles, wolves,
lynxes, otters, grouse, etc., should be limited to the utmost, it
Assuming the habitat determines their presence. Only when
spontaneous return is excluded unnatural barriers, when the cause
Extinction is completely removed and when the habitat enough
space, offers rest and food, eviction is negotiable.

6:19

There will be tougher penalties and more field supervision to the persecution of predators,
especially raptors, combat and prevent.

220x rather for people, animals, nature and environment

32

7

CITES, ENDANGERED SPECIES

Introduction
CITES (Convention on the International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora) is
an international agreement between governments. CITES consists of agreements
164 countries have with each other over the protection of animal and plant species. Herein is
which included, among other animals are threatened with extinction and therefore protection
deserve. The rules in the Convention are clear but its enforcement leaves much to be desired
about. Thus, every year millions of animals are illegally transported across the world. Trading
endangered species after drug trafficking the most lucrative form of crime. Becomes
hardly exerted control. The Dutch government allows this regard conspicuously
fail; Netherlands even the beating heart of the illegal pet trade.
Illegal trade
Each year, an estimated hundreds of thousands of exotic animals the Dutch border.
This ranges from 'ordinary' turtles to extremely rare parrots, both legally and illegally.
With the lifting of a team of specialized investigators late nineties
The situation rapidly deteriorated in the Netherlands. There is hardly any place to control imports
these animals. The signals from the various shelters in our country are alarming and illustrative.
They indicate rarely catch animals that have been confiscated, but remain a
growing body of collecting exotic animals. Animals that have been bought, for example, one of
many major sales fairs and after some time 'dumped' by their owners. In short,
flourishing trade and makes many victims. The only effective way to endangered species
also protect effectively directed and vigorous enforcement and sanctions.
Actions
1.7

There should be a specialized task force of sufficient size and with sufficient
mandate to be set up to effectively address the illicit trade in exotics.

2.7

In violation of the law increased penalties should be imposed on illegal
traders. The investigation and prosecution should be a higher priority
awarded by the Public Prosecutor.

3.7

A central registration should be set up with respect to the
trade in wild animals.

Bushmeat
Trade in meat from protected species like apes is a major threat to this
species. Many of these animals must be slain under the false flag of respect for the
Using the locals. Smoked or stewed gorilla and chimpanzee are
delicacies in Africa. But also in Europe (Brussels and Paris) finds apes on the menu.
The bonobos are also still hunted because people believe they are medicated or
have magical powers. Baby apes are captured and sold on the European market
As Pet. Their mother is thereby almost always slain. For each monkey the first
age gets into captivity, his slain estimated ten to twenty species.
Some apes end up in poaching clamps that are intended for other game and virtually
all have to contend with human diseases, civil wars and hunting by poverty
among the population.
The monkeys are increasingly vulnerable as their habitat decreases. There remains less and less
over forest for the apes by logging and forest fires. The flourishing trade in monkey meat creates

220x rather for people, animals, nature and environment

33

also ensure that the animals in almost all countries are a popular hunting object. Eating
endangered species conflicts with the many agreements that have been made to the extinction of
To prevent animals.
Actions
4.7

Netherlands and the EU should stop forcing countries catching animals
and the export of bushmeat. The importation of bushmeat should be banned in the EU
be and the penalties for offenses should be heavier.

Trophy Hunting
Within CITES exemptions included for hunting endangered species. As a result, will
the hunters (domestic and foreign) made it possible to endangered species like elephants,
tigers and lions shoot. These so-called trophy hunts are made possible as
certain species for any reason whatsoever 'managed' to be. These exemptions are
however, difficult to control and for this reason must therefore be abolished.
Actions
5.7

The trips are organized to endangered and protected species death
shooting should be banned. The PvdD thinks that the judiciary of
EU Member States, European hunting tourists should be able to prosecute these
European residents endangered species hunt outside Europe. It in
Netherlands organizing hunting trips whereby hunting is offered
species that are not hunted in the Netherlands, should be prohibited.

Seal hunting
The Canadian seal hunt is the largest marine mammal hunt in the world. Every
spring, hundreds of thousands of seal pups two weeks old clubbed on the
ice. In the European Union is still a thriving trade in Canada originates
sealskins, but also from other countries, including Russia, Greenland and Norway
import of seal fur.
Actions
Rating 7.6

A national trade and import ban should come on seal fur and
other products derived from seal hunting. Must be within the EU
Netherlands are pushing for a similar European ban.

Rating 7.7

Netherlands has to make a case for an international ban on the
seal hunt.

Whaling
Commercial whaling is prohibited. Nevertheless know countries like Japan, Norway and
Iceland hunt whales to "justify" by labeling of scientific research
stick back. This is contrary to previous international agreements.
Actions
Rating 7.8

Netherlands should protect the whales. The moratorium (ban) on the
commercial whaling should therefore be maintained. Against countries that
come prohibition violate Netherlands is in action. Netherlands would also
should be strong to make to convince other countries of the importance of the
Protection of the whale.

220x rather for people, animals, nature and environment

34

8

NATURE, ENVIRONMENT AND SUSTAINABILITY

Introduction
To bring the ecosystem in the Netherlands and globally in balance changes
many areas necessary, that should be all aimed at stopping the degradation of the
nature, the extinction of species, environmental pollution and the unsustainable use of finite resources. Efforts should be made to encourage all
form of sustainable development.
Nature
Actions
1.8

It serves by humans into use of natural, given the current
level of exploitation and destruction, not to be further expanded.

2.8

The production of timber and palm oil are to be as sustainable as possible,
which timber at least by the standards of the Forest Stewardship Council
(FSC) is used.

Rating 8.3

The development of a European ecological network should vigorously
be promoted. To this end, EU Member States should, within the framework of the
Habitats 'special protection areas' (Special Protection Areas) to
ways. Many Member States delay the completion of these areas consciously
so to give economic interests priority. The designated special
natural areas are poorly protected.

Rating 8.4

There should be a ban on illegally harvested timber. The EU should
to support developing countries in sustainable forest management and combating
illegal logging.

Of animal protein to vegetable protein
A growing proportion of the global grain and soybean production is destined for livestock. Already,
400 million hectares, a quarter of all agricultural land in the world, used for the production
cattle feed. Vast areas of agricultural land and forests are taken into exploitation, often
at the expense of the people and animals that reside there. To stop this process is a more
vegetable diet desirable that places less burden on agricultural land than livestock,
certainly the bio-industry. This relieves the pressure on scarce agricultural land, which again
returned to the nature, or may be for the production of food for humans
can be used. The conclusions from the study 'Pigs or Peas' (April 2006) Profetas,
a research group of 19 scientists from three universities are clear: reducing
meat consumption in favor of vegetable protein sources are desperately needed and delivers a huge
improvement with regard to energy, biodiversity, human health, animal health
and animal welfare. The researchers also conclude that also could lower meat consumption
help the crisis-ridden by disease and meat economy back on track.
Actions
Rating 8.5

The government should engage in a more vegetable-oriented
diet. The switch from the consumption of animal protein to
vegetable protein is stimulated by means of education, a VAT
zero rate in the meat substitutes and a tax exemption for investments
production and development of meat substitutes.

220x rather for people, animals, nature and environment

35

Energy
A key factor in our current culture is the availability of energy generation
in which fossil fuels are increasingly used, such as coal, gas and oil. This
fuels are finite and the combustion leads to serious pollution on a global level. The
use of biomass for electricity generation does not suffice: it explains
seizure (agriculture) land and is also accompanied by the emission of CO2.
Actions
Rating 8.6

A significant reduction in energy use and a switch to
renewable energy sources such as solar, water and wind are necessary. For this,
Appropriate funding opportunities to be developed.

Rating 8.7

The use of energy and water is subject to a progressive rate.

Rating 8.8

Light pollution from buildings, greenhouses and roads is due
energy conservation and welfare of humans and animals to be drastically reduced.

Rating 8.9

All new buildings and homes to be energy efficient
constructed, so that the average energy should be more than half
decline. The building materials should be produced in a sustainable manner.

8:10

There is more tax to be levied on polluting activities
fabrics.

8:11

There will be a tax on aircraft fuel.

8:12

Buildings of which the hull is still good, should not be canceled.

8:13

Utensils should be energy efficient and recycling
(building) materials should be strongly encouraged, inter alia through the
to stimulate repair of goods. In general sparingly behavior should
be promoted.

8:14

Nuclear power generation harbors unacceptably large threats,
causes a huge waste and safety problems and should therefore be
abolished.

Transport
The Dutchman is highly mobile. The distances in our country are relatively small and easy to
bridge. However, mobility is a growing problem in the form of files and
environmental impact. The Party for the Animals argues for the promotion of less commuting
and promoting environmentally friendly transport. Reduction in transport and energy arm
transport should therefore be promoted by the government.
Actions
8:15

Roads for motorized traffic are no longer made and
widened without nature and environmental compensation in the region. Bottlenecks in
road network to be basically solved through compensatory measures
the public transport infrastructure.

8:16

The A6-A9 connection along the Naardermeer, as well as the extension of the A4
Middle Delfland has been canceled. Construction of roads through or along existing
nature will not be performed.

8:17

Public transport should be given high priority in order energy and
to reduce air pollution. Public transport should be a very
customer-friendly industry be transformed. Tariffs should
considerably be reduced and the frequency and availability are to be
increased. Almost free public transport should be used, thereby the

220x rather for people, animals, nature and environment

36

to avoid construction of roads, traffic jams and to dissolve a substantial reduction of
achieving greenhouse gases.
8:18

There will be a fast public transport connection between the north of our country and the Randstad.

8:19

The use of environmentally friendly car engines should be further encouraged
be by means of a reduction of the holder's tax and fiscal
benefit on purchases of cars with these engines.

8:20

Income from fiscal measures that aim at the use of cars back
insist, must benefit directly to the improvement of public
transport.

8:21

Passenger transport should be stimulated by water.

8:22

The transport by bicycle should be encouraged by the creation of more
bike paths. Existing paths need to be better maintained.

8:23

Of the case, the bicycle must be fiscally attractive again.

Various items
Actions
8:24

Green savings and investment schemes should be encouraged and expanded
are all forms of sustainable development.

8:25

The use of environmentally damaging resources, including dangerous
wood primers, should be prohibited.

8:26

A wegwerptax is introduced for environmentally unfriendly packaging.

8:27

There must deposit to come look.

220x rather for people, animals, nature and environment

37

9

A more agreeable SOCIETY

Introduction
The Party for the Animals will be generally assumed that people "act towards one another in a
spirit of brotherhood [should] behave "(Universal Declaration of Human Rights
Man, Article 1).
Government
The government designs and monitors legislation and should set a good example. beside
she is the manager of social services that are essential for good
functioning society.
Actions
1.9

The Ministry of Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality (LNV) is lifted.
Animal welfare is administered by the Ministry of Environment and will therefore
Housing, Animal Welfare, Spatial Planning and the Environment
(VD ROM) be named.

2.9

It should be analogous to the Financial Markets Authority, the Consumer Authority and
OPTA should be established an independent authority that an animal
hotline is for abuses and violations of law. It advises the government
on animal welfare and animal rights.

3.9

Public Transport and energy come back into government hands.
Possible privatization of services of general interest not continue.

4.9

In all government canteens, at least 75% organic food provided.
Animal products must always be of biological origin.

5.9

There will be a government quality mark in the field of corporate social responsibility
entrepreneurship coupled with an incentive.

6.9

The water boards be eliminated as unnecessary and costly administrative body.

Work and Income
In a well-organized society need the talents of all people their due
can come.
Actions
7.9

The establishment of a private company should be encouraged by
exemption from income tax in the first three years for start-ups
that meet the criteria to be established by the authorities, in the field of
Corporate Social Responsibility.

8.9

The move from benefit dependency to paid employment should
be encouraged, for example through wage supplementation and internships

9.9

Volunteering needs to be encouraged, even among workers.

9:10

Child benefit is income dependent.

9:11

Labour market opportunities for the unemployed and the disabled should be increased
by providing more subsidized, market-oriented courses.

9:12

People who are long-term unemployed financial incentives to
to perform social tasks. The feeling for labor
thus maintained and promoted.

220x rather for people, animals, nature and environment

38

9:13

It is made easier for small businesses to dropouts from
working to reintegrate. Small business owners can no longer bear the brunt
are situations of heruitval.

9:14

The state pension must continue to exist in its current form. It is for the current and
distinguished group AOW beneficiaries not fair now to move the changes requested.

Education
Training and education are the economic and intellectual foundation of our society. Both
must be accessible to a large extent.
Actions
9:15

In education should be student-centered and not the budget or
curriculum.

9:16

Schools in secondary education must next choice responsibility too
budget to bear responsibility for textbooks. Rental Systems
Textbooks are preferred to own purchase by students.

9:17

Vocational education is restored. The compulsory wide pathway for all children
is abolished. Training should be based on aptitude, interest and
talents of the child. The child is central to the educational package.

9:18

Tuition Differentiation and selection of the port should not be implemented
be.

9:19

Health, nutrition, nature, animal welfare and the environment should be an essential
be part of science education and biology lessons.

9:20

Sponsorship of education and textbooks by commercial parties
prohibited the independence of teaching and scientific research
guarantees.

9:21

Students can at least serve to have the same budget as
peers on social assistance. This can be in the form of an interest-free
loan, which is repaid in obtaining an income.

Safety
The Party for the Animals attaches great importance to the individual liberty of citizens, but it may
not infringe the freedom and welfare of other living beings.
Actions
9:22

Research should be done to be more effective penalties for violent
behavior toward people and animals, whereby repetition is avoided.

9:23

In the fight against crime, more priority should be given to
things that the welfare of humans and animals most damage. This means that
Priority is given to the detection of perpetrators of abuse, thefts
and fallow above example, parking violation.

9:24

The privacy of citizens should be guaranteed. Tapping and / or store
telephone and internet data is a fundamental attack on
civil liberties and should be kept to a minimum, and under
supervision of an independent regulator to be set, annually
public reports on its findings and recommendations.

9:25

Combating human trafficking and forced prostitution, especially of women and
children should be given higher priority in law enforcement.

9:26

Honor killings and female genital mutilation should be actively combated.

220x rather for people, animals, nature and environment

39

9:27

There should be a stronger control on the trafficking and transit of weapons. There
A public register with regard to the arms trade and the position of
Netherlands as arms supplier and transit country.

Refugees
The Party for the Animals attaches great importance to the equitable treatment of people and the
prevention of human rights violations. Not only domestic area but also
seen internationally, the Dutch government has a responsibility here. It also involves
regardless of their own economic interests and political alliances sanctions
to be imposed on human rights violations by other countries.
Actions
9:28

Victims of gross human rights violations must be given asylum, unless the
refugee is guilty of culpable crimes domestically.

9:29

At European level, the Netherlands has to make a case for improving care for
refugees in their own region. The Netherlands also provides independent assistance
organizing the reception of refugees in their own region.

9:30

Netherlands must apply a humane and fair asylum policy. Find the PvdD
that asylum seekers should receive the application within a reasonable period of their
right of residence in the Netherlands; people waiting for more than four years in a
shelter automatically have to obtain a residence permit.

9:31

Asylum seekers must, similar to Dutch citizens, all necessary
get medical care they need.

9:32

When in doubt about the safety of individuals in deportation to the country of origin
should not be made here.

Democracy
The Party for the Animals believes that democracy is the form of government that the people of a country
Most of justice. Domestically the democratic credentials of the process must be
strengthened, but it should not talk in a form in which the issues of the day and the
primacy of rule the market. The electoral system should be the diversity of the political spectrum
continue to guarantee which new groups get a chance to settle.
Actions
9:33

It should remain an electoral system in which existing and new parties
reasonable chance to win representation in parliament. Subsidies for
Political parties are divided into membership where not represented
(new) parties have the same rights as represented in parliament
parties.

9:34

The advisory referendum must be given a place in major decisions.

9:35

The citizens' initiative should be encouraged and made easier.

9:36

There is an end to the system of political appointments to managerial
positions.

Healthcare
The Party for the Animals believes that within healthcare more responsibility
should be awarded to people in the workplace and less management. This benefits
benefit the efficiency within healthcare and will help better prevent distressing situations. This
Responsibility must also be recognized in the financial sense and applies to many branches of the
social sector. In addition, there is much more concern coming for the elderly in nursing homes and

220x rather for people, animals, nature and environment

40

carers get an important place in our society and the recognition it
deserves.
Actions
9:37
9:38

In healthcare, the patient should take center stage and not the protocol.
Hands to the bed should receive more money in hands; both in the form of
budget responsibility in income.

9:39

They aim at smaller facilities in local- and district level
health care.

9:40

Counselling centers have good access to all parents with young children
and are therefore available at neighborhood or district level.

9:41

The no-claim rebate should be abolished because it is contrary to the
solidarity in health care. For people who spend prolonged high disease
have an allowance to be set.

9:42

Patients who do not show up for appointments without timely logoff serve
Prepaid expenses of the consultations themselves.

9:43

Home Care Services must be such that even people who do not
can rely on informal care to remain independent as long as possible
live.

9:44

Informal care is made fiscally attractive.

9:45

It must be made easier to a conventional farm over to
switch to organic care farm. This type of business provides
quality of life and employment in rural areas and give substance to the quick
increasing needs mainly from urban areas to recreation, nature and
care.

9:46

The government should pursue a very active for the prevention of
obesity. Especially in children, this is a growing health problem.

9:47

Physical education needs to be extended and to be applied to the
individual student. Zwemonderwijs is to be recorded back in the
curriculum.

Straight
Many people consider the impact of the current legal system increasingly as
unjust. Access to the law seems particularly reserved for the wealthy who
can afford expensive lawyers. Justice is not always a determination of who is right
In a lawsuit, but who has the longest breath. Many victims of personal injury
see taking forced to settle for a meager settlement because they do not
possibility of access to a legal showdown with insurance companies.
Whistleblowers see ruined their careers and personal lives, in many cases, because there is no
legal protection for them. For that reason, access to the law should be reformed.
Actions
9:48

There is a better guarantee legal protection for whistleblowers which
societal abuses to denounce.

9:49

Civil society organizations successfully challenge government policies through the
judge, get a fair compensation for the legal fees she previously
make. In the current system is too often governments have a long breath
than social organizations, in human and financial terms, which
against a legal policy can stand, for example in the issuing of environmental permits darted.

220x rather for people, animals, nature and environment

41

9:50

Lawyers may not accept fees from sources with a clear
criminal origin. Top lawyers who declare huge amounts
top criminals know that this money comes from crime. This should be as healing
qualify and that will benefit the legal equality.

9:51

Access to justice should be increased through better legal aid for
people with limited incomes.

Social life
The Party for the Animals assumes that people not only have rights but also duties
towards each other and society. The following applies to the economy and social life not only
may be controlled by financial factors. People have a right to a safe, clean and
carefully designed environment. The government all this requires an active attitude and a
reduction of bureaucracy.
Actions
9:52

Initiatives must aim to promote social cohesion
encouraged and, where possible, to be subsidized.

9:53

Immigrants are deemed themselves the necessary language and social skills
own making to function in Dutch society; government
ensures that this happens, and this is helpful.

9:54

People have the freedom to live according to their own cultural practices for
insofar as they do not conflict with the law and the freedoms of others.

9:55

The Administration should ensure that urban neighborhoods, villages and
countryside in general are kept viable and revitalized.

9:56

The elderly is designed to make people independent as long as possible in our
society to function. The government is helpful to that possible
create and apply this for customizing. More Generation Housing is encouraged
by a generous policy towards the construction of sheltered housing for
young or elderly in their own yard.

9:57

The causes of mass immigration must be tackled. A important
cause of immigration is poverty elsewhere. This poverty is often associated with
wars, high birth rates and few opportunities in their own needs to provide. Development aid should therefore focus more on
birth control, knowledge and prevention of wars.

Green space
In a small country like the Netherlands should be protected green space and need to
area to be addressed by planning allocation problems. Another land policy
can eliminate speculation and imbalances in the distribution of public space. Do it on lock
the spatial region leads to an impoverishment of the countryside, the drying up of the
provisioning, the inability of young people to continue living in the area where
they have grown up and a false protection of green space. Indeed, after a long period of time
unbalanced growth in an environment that is spatially locked, searching problems is a way out,
which often involves large tracts of green space to be sacrificed to the construction of Vinex
locations and other new housing developments in rural areas, which can thereby seriously affected
be.
Changing perspectives in agriculture for example, lead to the release of territories,
which administered carefully and should be designed with an eye for the interests of
people, animals, nature and the environment.

220x rather for people, animals, nature and environment

42

In order to achieve better use of the existing possibilities in the green room
exist there must be an incentive to use vacant buildings
goals that are more consistent with the public interest.
Reallocation of space can lead to more voluntary housing, revitalization of
village communities, growth of natural and improved utilization of infrastructure.
For that reason, there is a spatial planning office that deals with developing and
protecting green space, with speculation by commercially oriented third party
is excluded. The government aims to buy out property owners and rezoning
of the land in all circumstances to make a distribution to one part nature destination,
one part ecologically responsible housing and -bedrijfshuisvesting and one part ecologically
responsible agricultural production with an emphasis on plant production.
By giving more freedom to build in built-up areas of green space
given an enormous boost to the economy, employment and housing allocation, without
that is at the expense of government spending. Closer together in their own yard is attractive
created so that a better and fairer distribution of available green space possible
becomes.
Actions
9:58

There will be a an arrangement for people who are willing to settle in on private property.
Lots larger than 600m2 should be earmarked for the construction of an additional
residence, provided that annexes be rehabilitated even surface. There
is a tax on zoning which included construction of an additional house possible
is indexed from € 200 per m2. The increased construction possibilities
country without government contribution will lead to the construction of tens of thousands
additional homes, a billion boost to the economy and employment and a
relief of the demand for housing in the cities, because the migration of rural to
city ​​a halt.

9:59

Hazardous agricultural buildings may be used in principle for
housing of equal size, with content per property / apartment not
exceeding 500m3. Larger agricultural complexes may use
for the formation of apartment complexes in the country.

9.60

The estate settlement which may build agricultural landowners on a
land of at least 5 hectares, is stimulated, provided that at least
75% of the land is designed for nature, to be assessed
Provincial landscapes. When building houses in addition to
single-family use, also allowed the formation of apartment complexes.

9.61

The government is to avoid speculation, the possibility of release
land first to buy at independently determined market value.

9.62

The construction of "visibility locations' in the form of ribbon development for industrial estates
along roads in rural areas should be limited.

9.63

Splitting of homes into smaller units is encouraged by a
subsidy so more independent living is available on the
housing market.

9.64

The conversion of agricultural land of at least five hectares to the
zoning defined organic agriculture applications or nature is
honored with planning permission for one house, which form
small-scale organic farms is strongly encouraged.

9.65

Vacant office buildings, which are suitable for this purpose must be
converted into housing space, making the housing crisis and building in the
current natural and agricultural areas can be reduced.

220x rather for people, animals, nature and environment

43

Culture and media
Cultural and media landscape in the Netherlands has been severely impoverished. Because knowledge of their own
culture is one of the foundations of respect for other cultures and because culture and
Media can play an important role Netherlands again for a more pleasant society
making, the Party for the Animals believes that much more money and attention must go
with such themes, including the spatial design in our country. The flattening of the
TV and radio offerings can be stopped by improving the position of the Public Broadcasting.
Actions
9.66

There will be a substantial budget for the Dutch culture. Among others
spatial design, the National Film Fund, for making TV
documentaries, educational TV programs, support to executive
visual artists and orchestras, theater, ballet and opera.

9.67

There will be a training for artists to carry out their work commercially.

9.68

The public broadcasting system is strengthened and reformed. There will be a system of promotion
and degradation where the assigned transmission time and program resources except with
membership have a direct relationship with the performance in relation to the
remit of the public broadcaster. Programme makers gain more influence,
directors less.

9.69

New entry is promoted within the public service broadcaster,
broadcaster status for existing broadcasters is no longer a matter of course.

9.70

There will be a complete ban on all advertising channels for alcoholic beverages.

220x rather for people, animals, nature and environment

44

FINALLY
The Party for the Animals is aware of its position and role as possible. She sees herself with
emphasis not as a one-issue party.
Where even one-issue parties such as the Peasant Party and the elderly parties in the past
managed to do find their themes entrance to the political establishment, our mission is and
mission statement further.
We see great analogy with the race of marathon runner Noah Bor in the Athens marathon
started as' hare in the marathon "to the other runners to slow, but finished first.
The Party for the Animals wants in the first instance be such a hare in the marathon, which incumbent parties
recalls their responsibility for an animal-friendly policy. Our breathing is the
tailwind humane fraction specialists enough support in their own party
Priority find for standing up for animals.
Numerous political parties, we received messages of support, even from sitting parliamentarians,
We strive to provide animals for serious consideration on the political agenda.
For that reason, we have every confidence that even the capture of a few
House seats decisive impact will be on the proposed policy change
animals will finally have to give the rights they deserve.
Other parties appear in their party programs and in their policies time and again easily
animals 'forgotten' because there are so many important people on the agenda
allowing animals never get their turn.
That will change with the national breakthrough of the Party for the Animals, which also
international will be able to be of great significance.
In addition, it will appear that we as a party for a different way of thinking that traditional
left / right dichotomy transcends. A civilization offensive that will not only ensure better
living conditions for animals, but also for a more pleasant and sustainable society.
Our commitment is a moral revival in which actual figures (over) life of humans, animals and
environmental concern, focal point and will become part of the daily lives of more and more
citizens.
Our program is called 220x rather for people, animals, nature and the environment. Not for love, but out
need to achieve a society that cherishes the true values ​​of life and
renounces momentary self-interest.
We will be with whatever lies ahead in our ability to deploy as much of our 220
improvement proposals for the existing policies get implemented.
In the current political landscape, where a stalemate threatened between the traditional left and
right camps, the Party for the Animals can carry the rocker function to animals, nature and environment
accelerated to allow repair of the attacks that have committed three Balkenende cabinets. We
are ready and willing to enter into coalitions with anyone who has a better, more sustainable
world will help realize. From whatever their background!

220x rather for people, animals, nature and environment

45
