Swedish Social Democratic Left Party
Election Manifesto 1921
Sweden's working people!
Manifestos from the Left Socialist of Sweden.
The Swedish people go to the polls for the first time after the general suffrage was introduced in a particularly awkward economic conditions. The war generated by the depression in economic life, complicated and aggravated by the crisis years of speculation in the non-existent values, leave deep traces. The effects of the crisis stare towards us from the thousands of unemployed camps, from the thousands factories empty premises, fr. economic walks of life. Tens of thousands of workers go without jobs, others tens of thousands have indeed work but under conditions which are not able to assure them the essentials. With the decreased purchasing power of the working class be difficulties even for agriculture, handicrafts and trade. Necessity is permanent guest in countless homes.
The current government is the political expression of capital's power. The state works because the economic powers in his hands. During the last parliamentary period the bourgeois majority in the legislature declined, wages in cases where the state has been an employer, reduced the eight-hour law and embarked on cutting of the right to strike. In addition, some other decisions, aiming at the subjugation of the working class, such as raising of certain tariffs etc.
Such is the situation. Work is missing, the need is growing day by day. Factories, workshops, sawmills, which would give bread to industry workers, stand still. Shipping is crippled, trade as well. Everything is chaos, because despite its aggression against the working people have those in power not managed to overcome the economic crisis. Capitalist society and the bourgeois parties know no way out of the misery. The only positive in their policies in order to overcome depression is the enforcement of lower wages for industrial workers and the earth wage slaves. But one was knowing that this resort only creates suffering and hardship among those wage depression hit without simultaneously inducing bringing order and economic life than smaller increase production, which is vital for the world's reconstruction.
The truth, as the bourgeois parties do not wish to see, is that the present economic system gone bankrupt. Individual initiative and frikonkurrensen that economic life forces heard in our days in the ejection of workers into unemployment and destitution, middle class proletarianization and concentration of capital in fewer and fewer hands. The large unsold inventories in industry and commerce at a time when the shortage of goods in almost all the rest of the world, the closed industrial plants at a time when increased production is the watchword, see where the contradictions created in the capitalist domination .
In this situation, muscled questions about the industry's socialization and community social services. organization increasingly to the fore. Soc.-them. Left takes as its principal task by any means, directs situation, contribute to resolving the same. Without förfalls to parliamentary overconfidence - For not by decree from above, but by persevering in the depths created opportunities for a new economic order - believes the party, to the working classes are bound to likewise put his efforts into achieving a strong position possible in the parliament. The struggle for socialism must be fought on several fronts, and it would be shortsighted not to pay attention also to the socialist parliamentary work. The elected Parliamentary Representatives task is to keep your back free for the masses in their extra-parliamentary struggle and to seek avvinna bourgeois society the most to the working people the benefit and advantage. The holding of the political power of the working masses through their representatives, who shall be the people's servants, not their masters, means not only that the power of capital loses the ability to serve the government for the satisfaction of his interests. the majority of the people's expense, but also that the government is put in service of the people against its oppressors and exploiters. Consistent with this view urges the reconstructed Soc.-them. Left to lively participation in the forthcoming elections.
Soc.-them, vänste party wants the parliament which otherwise represent a reality accentuated clear socialist policies. Party recalls its parliamentary representatives of significant contributions to the working classes pious on the basis of the party's principles and program, to which we refer as being the guiding principles also for the future left Socialist Parliamentary Representatives work. This may merely pointed at attSocialdemokratiska Left Party is the only party which the military question stands on disarmament basis. As the party with all the force fighting the military system is not only for that system jeopardizes peace between nations, but also to the current military system is a means of struggle in the ruling classes hand against the masses.
The party will consistently be in accordance with its program muster all its forces to prevent implementation of the new tariff rates and to promote free trade. To contribute to utjämnandet of the unjustly distributed tax burden will likewise be a task for the soc.-them left.
It Soc.-them. Left draws attention to the temperance question during the upcoming parliamentary period will be up to date. The party's position; to this question is given. It will totally stand on their side, which require a permanent rusdrycksförbund.
The SOC them. The Left Party seeks a coalition of industry and earth-working people. Only cooperation between small farmers, crofters and tenant farmers and industrial workers who all lie under the rule of capital, the land question could have, a satisfactory solution, which means the farming people's emancipation from capitalist exploitation and oppression.
Workers and small farmers!
Do you want increased economic exploitation, you want higher taxes and customs duties, increased funding for militarism, further reaction, you want that the government continues to be the people's lord its servants? Vote then with the bourgeoisie! Do you want the opposite, to vote when the Soc.-them. Left, the Labor Party, which, without lapsing into arid revolutionary phrase-mongering works to strict socialist lines.
Workers' and småbondekvinna!
Looking through tariffs over-priced necessities of life, you want to raise your sons and brothers longer military service, you want to rusdryckerna also henceforth shall smite the home and human happiness, vote then with the bourgeois parties which in the longest undanhöllo your civic right. Do you want contrast, economic justice, abolition of wars and statutory rusdrycksförbud, vote then with
SOCIALIST LEFT ',
