Rebuilding
British
Democracy
British National Party
General Election 2005

Manifesto

Contents
Introduction: Freedom; Security; Identity; Democracy
1.

Leaving the European Union – The sine qua non

2.

Democracy – Resolving the crisis of our highest value

3.

Immigration – A crisis without parallel

4.

Abolishing multiculturalism, preserving Britain

5.

Culture, traditions and the civil society

6.

Tough on the causes of crime – Criminals

7.

Social inclusion – One healthy nation

8.

Education for a British future

9.

Britain-first economics – The antidote to globalism

10. Extending ownership and responsibility
11. Abolition of income tax
12. Public service, not corporate profit
13. Transport – Life’s too short to spend in a traffic jam
14. Food production – A radical shift
15. The environment – Our ‘blessed plot’
16. Britain and the world – Good fences, good neighbours
Conclusion: Popular nationalism – The idea whose time will come

British National Party

Introduction
"Rebuilding British Democracy" is the title of our general election manifesto for a very
good reason. As British voters , we are repeatedly told that we live in an elective
democracy; whereas in truth what exists is a sham and an illusion. Genuine
democracy, where the population's will is given expression by the elected
representatives, is starkly absent from Britain.
Decisions are made by institutions over which the electorate has little or no control.
National parliaments and assemblies in Westminster, Edinburgh, Cardiff and Belfast
are little more than rubber-stamping closed shops for rule by diktat from Brussels and
Strasbourg. In addition, decisions are rarely made by those representatives with the
interests of the majority of British voters in mind. Vociferous lobbyists and pressure
groups blackmail and cajole to get their way; the corporate industrial and commercial
giants have the money to buy and influence individual representatives and entire
political parties.
A whole raft of repressive legislation has been enacted in the past thirty years to stop
the social experiment of multi-culturalism from falling apart. Even more repressive
legislation is planned as the reality that multi-culturalism cannot work, sinks in to even
the most ideologically blinkered politician.
It is the "average" man and woman who suffers from the failings of our politicians to
grasp the issue and restore genuine democracy. It is the taxpayer who funds the vast
State instruments of repression and the wasteful paperwork that keeps unproductive
bureaucrats in their positions.
It is the pensioner who suffers by living isolated, behind bolted doors, fearful of being
a victim of crime. It is the schoolchildren who suffer from obesity and ailments
associated with a poor diet. It is the hourly paid worker who suffers when he or she is
sacked as their job is exported to a call-centre in India.

Freedom
The British National Party exists to put an end to this injustice. We will return power to
the men and women of Britain, the taxpayers, pensioners, mums and dads and
workers, and remove it from the unelected commissioners in Europe. We will provide
a safe environment for all, where there is freedom from fear of crime, freedom from
repression of the State, freedom of association and freedom of speech.

Security
The British National Party believes that security means the well being of life, limb and
property. This means safe neighbourhoods with vibrant communities, working
towards a common goal; it means security and safety while using our transport
systems. It means security of long term employment after a decent education without
the fear that factories, offices and shops will be closed and jobs exported to the third
world.

Identity
The British National Party believes in genuine ethnic and cultural diversity and the
right of ALL peoples to self-determination and that must include the indigenous
peoples of these islands. The British peoples are embroiled in a long term cultural war
being waged by a ruling regime which has abandoned the concept of " Britain " in
pursuit of globalisation. We are determined to win that cultural war, and to that end,
we must take control of our national borders. We must also stop further attempts to

General Election Manifesto 2005

Page 3

British National Party

enforce multi-culturalism on an increasingly sceptical and unwilling populace. The
future of our culture is not up for debate - it is part of our individual and collective
existence on this planet and we are under an obligation to pass on to generations yet
unborn, the collected knowledge, wisdom and lore, which we ourselves have
inherited.

Democracy
The wishes of the British electorate cannot be made manifest until we have the
powers restored to our national parliaments and assemblies and put an end to the
blackmail and underhanded tactics to buy influence. Honesty, integrity and
transparency will be restored to civic and public institutions.

Summary
This is the largest and most comprehensive election manifesto the British National
Party has compiled. It clearly illustrates that we are neither a single issue party, nor an
ephemeral protest group. The BNP is serious about winning our nation back and this
manifesto sets out our plan to achieve this goal.

General Election Manifesto 2005

Page 4

British National Party

Leaving the European Union – The sine qua non
The European Union is an aspiring super state which would deprive the British people
of their right to democratic self-government; subject us to alien rule in the interest of a
bureaucracy which has no loyalty to the United Kingdom and bring about the
eventual liquidation of Britain as a nation and a people.
The federal European project is incompatible with many of the most deep-rooted of
our traditional national and personal freedoms, and our hard-won democracy: The
fundamental basis of a democratic national state that its people elect their own
representatives, whose job it is to rule in the national interest; the principle that no
Westminster parliament may bind its successors; trial by one’s peers; the
presumption of innocence, habeas corpus; our currency and the ability to reward or
replace our political masters for their handling of the economy – these are just a few
of the most important rights we will lose forever unless we withdraw from the EU.
Even today, our elected national parliament is little more than a rubber-stamp for rule
by diktat from Brussels. This is why we have placed this section first in this manifesto:
The freedom of action of the governing party at Westminster is so restricted by
European rules and regulations that there is effectively no point any party putting
forward any proposals in any important area of policy. Whether these concern
ambitious schemes for the economy, or Tory promises to ‘get a grip’ on the asylum
shambles, all are essentially empty soundbites because our own elected government
no longer has the power to act on our democratically expressed wishes.
Withdrawal from the European Union would therefore be the most important single
foundation stone of our rebuilt British democracy. Without it, virtually nothing can be
achieved.
Fortunately, the present price of withdrawal would not be anything like as high as the
Europhile scare-mongers claim – although it will become higher the longer and the
deeper Britain is immersed in the EU. The present regime claims that membership is
necessary to our prosperity is a myth. European nations such as Switzerland and
Norway sustain higher standards of prosperity than Britain without belonging to the
European Union. In fact, the EU is a liability to our economy because of its tendency
to strangle business with unnecessary regulations whose sole purpose is to increase
the power of the Brussels superstate that wishes, for the purpose of aggrandising its
own power, to rule Britain. This is wholly unacceptable.
It is also untrue that leaving the EU would cut Britain off from the commercial markets
in which our industries sell their goods. Not only does the EU have free-trade
arrangements with several non-member states, but its average tariff on non-EU trade
is approximately 1.5%, an insignificant barrier. Furthermore, the EU would not be
permitted, under World Trade Organisation rules to which it is signatory, to
discriminate against British products in retaliation for Britain leaving the EU.
It is estimated that complying with the vast thicket of EU regulations costs Britain
approximately £40 billion per year. This is 2% of GDP, roughly half what we spend on
the NHS, and could fund numerous improvements in public services if it were
recaptured. The Common Agricultural Policy alone is estimated to impose a 26% tax
on food. (source: Labour Euro-Safeguards Campaign Bulletin , Sept. 2004).

Unaccountable
The EU is spectacularly corrupt, as is only natural in an unaccountable institution.
According to Marta Adreasen, former Chief Accounting Officer of the EU, 95% of EU
funds are not properly accounted for and there has not been a proper audit in 14
years. (Source: Ashley Mote press release , 21 October 2004).

General Election Manifesto 2005

Page 5

British National Party

Britain’s net contribution to the EU is now widely estimated to run at around
£1.2 million every hour of every day of the year. In simplistic terms, this endless
haemorrhage of wealth goes a very long way to explaining how the transport systems
of France and Spain are so much better than ours, or why British pensioners are
among the worst provided for in Europe. How could the situation be any different,
when our Masters have spent decades giving our money away in pursuit of an
unworkable imperial fantasy?
Finally, the greatest single threat posed by the European Union comes from the plans
(supported by the Conservative Party) to expand further into Bulgaria and Romania in
2007, and subsequently into Turkey. The former expansion would give eight million
Sinta gypsies the right to move into Western Europe, the latter would at a stroke
increase the EU’s Muslim population by more than 75 million. This would mark the
end of Europe ‘s ancient and historic close identification with Christendom, and the
beginning of the end of secular democratic government in the West.
From Edward Heath onwards, our political and liberal media ‘elite’ have lied and
conned us into “ever greater union” with a federal European superstate. That deceit
will end on the day the British National Party win a British general election and
ceremoniously tear up the Treaty of Rome on the following morning.

General Election Manifesto 2005

Page 6

British National Party

Democracy – Resolving the crisis of our highest value
This country is the birthplace of modern democracy. This is no surprise; it is clear
from what is known of the way in which free men and women among Celtic, AngloSaxon and Norse ancestors had a significant say in the running of their societies that
personal freedom has deep and strong roots among the native peoples of our
islands.
Even when those freedoms were suppressed, as under the time of feudal darkness
that followed the Norman Conquest, and again during the pauperisation of the
yeomanry and creation of an urban proletariat during the Enclosures and Industrial
Revolution, our people have always fought and even died to secure them again. From
Magna Carta to the Peasants’ Revolt, through the Levellers, the Chartists, the early
Labour movement and the suffragettes, we have defied the executioner, the rack, and
the prison door to wrest liberty of conscience, speech, action and political association
from monarchs, barons and bosses, and from popes, priests and censors.
Now our dearly-bought birthright of freedom is under mortal threat once more. The
political elite are nearing the end of a process which will outlaw any expression of
opinions deemed to be politically incorrect. This despite the fact that it is central to
the very idea of democracy that all views be allowed to be espoused and that they
stand or fall only in the marketplace of ideas.
In addition to this savage attack on free speech, recent decades have seen an
unprecedented increase in the power and ‘reach’ of the State. The surveillance
technology which theoretically protects us from the nihilistic tyranny of terror in fact
threatens to subject us to the perpetual tyranny of Big Brother.
Fortunately, a variety of the policies proposed later in this document – particularly
British neutrality vis-ê-vis the Middle East and the US-led ‘Clash of Civilisations’, our
rejection of mass immigration, and the reintroduction of the death penalty for terrorists
– will so reduce the threat of terrorism that it will no longer be plausible for us to be
asked to submit to this monstrous growth in State power in order to avoid becoming
terrorist targets.
Our forefathers fought two World Wars partly so as to ensure that, except for the
duration of those wars, they and their families would not have to prove who they were
to any agent of the State who decided on a whim to ask for such information. This is
an enormous difference between the traditional British system whereby the police and
similar officials are the servants of the people, rather than the hired hands of the
central State with power over the law-abiding, which is the underlying norm which
helped make possible all the excesses and horrors of totalitarianism on mainland
Europe throughout the 20th century.
Just as the terrorist threat which their actions have largely created is used by the
political elite as an excuse for taking away our freedoms, so they use the lack of faith
in politicians for which they are responsible as an excuse to subvert our democracy.
The widespread use of electoral fraud by Labour activists - recently described by a
senior judge as behaviour suitable to a corrupt banana republic - was made possible
by a massive expansion in the availability of postal voting which was ‘justified’ in part
as a means of increasing the proportion of electors voting.
The reality is that falling turn-outs can only be reversed by efforts by politicians to
show that they can make a difference, and that between them they provide a real
range of genuine alternatives. The prevailing choice of “More of the same or none of
the above” is the reason for voter apathy, and the problem that must be addressed if
the low turnout trend is to be reversed.

General Election Manifesto 2005

Page 7

British National Party

The ‘justification’ offered by Labour peers as they struggled in 2004 to persuade even
the crony-packed House of Lords to introduce all-postal voting across the whole of
the north of England was even worse: In this case it was openly admitted that the
main reason for the change was that the higher turnout would help to “stop the BNP.”
Making artificial changes to electoral boundaries or procedures carried out in order to
disadvantage one particular party is known as ‘gerrymandering’. Resentment over the
practice when carried out against the Catholic minority in Northern Ireland in the
1960s is widely regarded as having been a key factor fuelling the growth of the IRA
and thirty years of terrorism there.
It is utterly unacceptable that law-abiding majority communities on the mainland are
now being subjected to the same denial of their democratic rights. And while the
British National Party has no intention of being provoked or driven into any kind of
illegality, the fact remains that by showing such contempt for democracy in England –
while simultaneously giving way at every turn to terrorists in Ulster - New Labour are
inviting angry young men in multi-cultural cities to conclude that violence pays.

Dismantling the repressive State
Add to this the growing and relentless persecution of the BNP, both collectively and
as individuals, in ways ranging from denial of banking facilities to dismissal from jobs
and unions, and it is clear that Britain is already a long way down the slippery slope
to being a fully blown totalitarian state. Even if we inherit the mechanism of such a
repressive State on our election to national power, we pledge to dismantle it by the
following means:
1.

All laws against traditional free speech rights will be repealed, starting with the
vague, politicised, and hypocritically-enforced laws pertaining to race and
religion, which are virtually never enforced against foreigners attacking the racial
and religious groups indigenous to Britain.

2.

Guarantee the right of organisations and individuals who espouse unpopular
opinions but have not broken any laws (other than illegitimate laws against free
speech) to organise and campaign free from interference from or discrimination
by, the police, other state institutions, and bodies such as trades unions,
employers’ organisations or commercial entities.

3.

Guarantee the rights of individuals to join, and organise according to their
political beliefs in, trades unions and professional bodies.

4.

All political parties should be protected by a new law which makes the
employment of violence or intimidation for political purposes a serious offence
carrying a minimum of two years in prison, or a doubling of the usual sentence
for the offence, whichever is the greater.

5.

We will disband all government-sponsored attempts to exploit ethnic minority
voters by means of such programmes as Operation Black Vote.

6.

A ban on postal voting for all except the seriously sick and elderly. No use of
electronic or other non-polling booth voting systems, as none will yet command
the confidence of the electorate in the way which the traditional ballot box does.

7.

Instruct the Electoral Commission to deal as a matter of urgency with the way in
which organisations which do not themselves contest elections are at present
permitted to denigrate individual candidates or parties, thereby allowing their
rivals to circumvent the proper spending limits on election material.

8.

Ban the conducting or publishing of opinion polls in the last three weeks of an
election campaign, as these can be used to ‘stampede’ voters and manipulate

General Election Manifesto 2005

Page 8

British National Party

the democratic process.
9.

In order to ensure that vested interests cannot ‘buy’ political parties, we will
legislate to ensure that political parties must organize and function only with such
funds as they are able to raise from their own members and supporters. State
funding, corporate donations by businesses or pressure groups, and political
dues from trades unions will all be outlawed.

10. The rejection of ID cards – the core technique and expression of the repressive
Surveillance State.

Democracy and the media
A separate danger to genuine democracy comes from the concentration of
ownership and control of the mass media in too few hands, particularly when the
hands concerned are those of foreigners whose primary loyalty is not to Britain, or
media barons who have so much wealth that they can seek to turn it into political
influence and power.
The great problem with the power of the media, the ‘Fourth Estate’, is that it is at
present not subject to any democratic check or control. We will address this danger
as part of our campaign to strengthen and extend genuine democracy.
The BNP stands for the revolutionary principle that the printing presses and
broadcast channels of the media must tell the truth in their reports. We will enact laws
that will ensure that the dictatorship of the media over free debate in our society is
dismantled and a truly democratic system is created that allows all sections of our
society free and unfettered access to the media.
The era where the big media barons and news corporations could control public
opinion through printing lies has to end. The abuse of the free press by the media
corporations to propel political parties to power through promoting them in their
papers subverts democracy itself. We are very reluctant to deal with this problem
through expropriation, since such interference with legitimately acquired property
rights – however justified on one level – would create an immensely dangerous
precedent on another level.
On the assumption of power we would therefore hold meetings with the proprietors in
question in an effort to thrash out ways in which they would agree to ending any
possibility of abuse of their power, in exchange for being left to enjoy the purely
financial benefits of their ownership, albeit probably at more realistic levels of taxation
than they are allowed to get away with at present.
The BNP has been the victim of media lies and smears and has been denied justice
by the Press Complaints Commission. We will replace the PCC – an organisation
dominated by those upon whom it is supposed to sit in judgement – with a truly
independent body with the power to grant the victims of media falsehood the Right of
Reply with equal prominence, plus financial compensation.
For particularly bad cases, we will create a new criminal offence of “The deliberate
dissemination of falsehoods about an individual or organisation for financial or political
gain” by any media outlet.

Bringing power closer to the people
In addition to defending democracy against creeping totalitarianism, we also intend to
introduce sweeping reforms to strengthen and extend it. Once again, we reiterate that
it is essential to withdraw from the European Union, but unlike most other Eurorealist
groups we are not content with repatriating power back from Brussels just to hand it

General Election Manifesto 2005

Page 9

British National Party

back to a group of inherently distant politicians in Westminster – not even if we are
the dominant party within that body.
A key factor is that we no longer have the luxury of just returning without much
thought to straight-forward London-based government. From the moment it took
office in 1997, the Blair regime set about demolishing the traditional British
constitutional settlement. The combination of this giant act of vandalism with pressure
from the European Union intended to break the United Kingdom up into bite-sized
pieces, has left the old UK as broken as Humpty Dumpty.
For all the resentment against the soaring costs of their Parliament and Assembly
buildings, the Scots and Welsh now have devolved administrations wielding very
significant powers (albeit within a tight EU straight-jacket) as, whenever Sinn Fein/IRA
aren’t robbing too many banks, does Northern Ireland. Such devolution of power is,
to an extent, in keeping with the democratic nationalist principle of subsidiarity.
Furthermore, even if that were not the case, any attempt by a central BNP
government – which will almost certainly be elected primarily by voters in England –
to abolish these local parliaments would probably spark a powerful reaction in their
favour. Returning to rule from one British parliament in Westminster is not an option.
Neither, however, is muddling along with the wholly unsatisfactory situation which
pertains at present, whereby the elected representatives of English voters quite rightly
have no say over many decisions affecting the people of Scotland, Wales and Ulster,
whereas MPs from those places are able to vote on issues which affect the English.
There is also the problem that much of the power wielded by these local parliaments
has not been devolved down from Wesminster, but concentrated upwards by robbing
it from our traditional counties. Thus this is not an exercise in bringing power closer to
the people, but in putting it in the hands of a faceless and relatively remote
bureaucracy and a class of minor but pompous and overpaid professional politicians.
Such a typically New Labour shambles is a recipe for friction and for future division
among the British Family of Nations, particularly if Labour’s plan to carve up England
into artificial areas of regional government goes ahead, thereby arousing English
nationalist anger at the fact that “everyone else gets recognition and self-government,
but not us.” Knowing the terrible damage caused by such division on the island of
Ireland , we must at all costs deal with this problem to everyone’s mutual satisfaction.
Meanwhile, of course, there still remains the Irish Question itself, waiting to explode
into bloody life once again on account of a bogus ‘Peace Process’ that rewarded
terrorists and institutionalized sectarianism at the very heart of government.
Starting, as all true democracies must, from the grass-roots up, our solution to this
interlocking group of problems is as follows:
1.

Devolve all the powers properly capable of being exercised at local level to
revived County Council government, returning to the traditional pre-1974
boundaries. These powers to include control of Planning applications;

2.

Add a specifically English parliament, sitting in Westminster , to the family of
devolved parliaments already in being, including Stormont. Each of these should
deal with such functions of the present devolved administrations as cannot
sensibly be given to the county Councils, plus as many of the powers repatriated
from Brussels as can be dealt with at this level. We envisage a particularly strong
brief in terms of cultural development for this level of government;

3.

Create a pan-British parliament to deal with overall economic policy and provide
the authority and accountability required for the Ministry of Finance, and matters
such as foreign policy on which it is clearly essential for the British nations to
speak with one voice. This body would have its formal base on the Isle of Man,
though it would sit in rotation in each of the national parliaments.

General Election Manifesto 2005

Page 10

British National Party

The role of a House of Lords stripped of its Blair cronies as a revising chamber is still
in need of assessment. At this stage, however, we can state that we see an
opportunity to bring in not a simple elected duplicate of the Lower House, but a body
which gives more weight to experience in certain fields, involvement in charities and
community groups and such like. This offers the opportunity to bring to bear on
government the objectivity of non-party political experts and individuals chosen on the
grounds of talent and service. Clearly further work is needed on this concept in order
to make the most of this opportunity for better government at the expense of the
present bastard offspring of ancient and modern patronage and cronyism.
There would be a permanent standing invitation for Eire to join the pan-British
parliament as an equal partner. It would be a matter for the citizens of each of the
British nations to decide for themselves if they wished for the reigning head of the
House of Windsor to be their Head of State, but he or she would not be head of the
pan-British parliament, thereby making it realistic to hope that the Irish would find it
possible to rejoin the British Family of Nations, taking their rightful place side-by-side
with the representatives of England, Scotland, Wales and Ulster, and ending for ever
the Brothers’ War which has been our Achilles Heel, tragedy and shame since our
Masters set us at each others’ throats generations ago.

Citizens’ Initiative referenda
We believe that such constitutional changes would lead to significantly better
government. That said, history warns the prudent, and those who love freedom, to
beware of all governments and all ruling elites – not least those that strive towards
perfection.
Accordingly, we propose as a vital check and balance on the political class the
introduction of Citizens’ Initiative Referenda on the Swiss model. Under this, individual
citizens only have to collect the requisite number of electors’ signatures on any given
petition – the wording of which they decide themselves – in order to compel either
the local or national government to hold a referendum on the subject.
If passed by between 50% - 66% of those voting, such a referendum result would in
turn trigger a full-scale council/parliamentary debate on the subject, with heavy moral
pressure on the politicians to follow the wishes of the majority. If passed by more than
66% of those voting, however, the result of such a referendum would automatically
be binding on the authorities, who would have no choice but to accept the will of the
people and enact their wishes as law.
This is the vital factor which turns the Citizens’ Initiative referendum into a sword for
genuine democracy, as opposed to the government-created plebiscite beloved of
dictators from Hitler to John Prescott.

The Armed People – the ultimate protection against
invasion or tyranny
The exploitation of the 1996 Dunblane Massacre of sixteen school-children and a
teacher by a homosexual paedophile to provide an excuse to disarm many
thousands of law-abiding citizens was one of the most breath-takingly cynical acts of
the Blair regime. Put simply, guns do not kill people, criminals kill people – especially
when innocent people do not have guns with which to defend themselves.
We would restore to the legitimate and law-abiding sportsmen the right to possess
and shoot all the varieties of weapon they were entitled to before New Labour’s 1997
totalitarian gun-grab.
That, however, is only the start. In a world where modern technology automatically
and almost irresistibly gives the State powers of surveillance, analysis and potential

General Election Manifesto 2005

Page 11

British National Party

repression that past dictatorships could not even have managed, it is more important
than ever that the citizens of a modern Britain have at their disposal the means, in
extremis, to resist any totalitarian government that has managed to get control of
those powers.
This would be all the more necessary once we have re-established the once takenfor-granted fact of significant government direction (albeit through a non-party political
Ministry of Finance) of the commanding heights and overall direction of the economy.
Such an increase in the power of the State is clearly necessary if we are to compete
against Far Eastern economies whose use of similar organisational techniques gives
them a long-term edge over old-fashioned Western capitalism. But if we are not to
drift towards an over-mighty State which could all too easily lose sight of its own
limitations and role as facilitator rather than master, then such an increase must be
balanced by a corresponding decrease in the authority of the State elsewhere.
It is primarily for this reason – although defence against violent criminals and some at
present unforeseen potential foreign aggression are also important considerations –
that we advocate the adoption of the modern Swiss model for a responsibly armed
citizenry. Under this all law-abiding adults who have successfully completed their
period of military service are required to keep in a safe locker in their homes a
standard-issue military assault rifle and ammunition.
It is clear that this system contributes to Switzerland ‘s very low rate of burglary and
violent crime, as well as having helped make that tiny country extremely unappetising
to foreign aggressors throughout the last century. The people of Switzerland have not
had occasion to use their arms to bring to heel any home-grown tyrants either, and
the fact that the State does not possess a monopoly on the potential use of force in a
struggle between slavery and freedom means that they are unlikely to have to do so.
This state of affairs has a great deal to commend it.

A Bill of Rights
The rights of British citizens as they are confirmed emerge from the details above
must be set down in a formal Bill of Rights, the starting point for which should be
those parts of Magna Carta and the Bill of Rights of 1689 which are still relevant to
modern times.
We propose this not because we believe that a written document necessarily
prevents future governments from seeking to undermine or distort the guarantees.
The point is that, by setting everything down in readily accessible print in a document
of universally-known importance, it provides a tripwire to alert a future generation to
the fact that, as is the way of the world, a ruling class has arisen that has once again
come to think of itself as more important than those in whose name it governs.

General Election Manifesto 2005

Page 12

British National Party

Immigration – A crisis without parallel
Britain’s very existence today is threatened by immigration. As a nation we must
rebuild trust in the immigration system amongst the British electorate whilst
simultaneously ensuring that National Security is maintained in this era of global
terrorism.
We are proud of the fact that at a time when several other political parties and many
sections of the media are finally awakening to this issue we alone of all the political
parties have a decades-long record of pointing it out. If even Tony Blair can say that it
is "neither racist nor extremist" to raise "genuine concerns" about the flood of asylum
seekers, then it is no longer feasible to pretend that this crisis does not exist. All
those persons and organisations who have endured years of abuse for telling the
truth are owed a serious apology by their critics.
To take just one example, it is a hard fact that, according to official figures, 15% of
the UK’s male prison population is black, despite black people accounting for only
2% of the total population. Victim-reported figures concerning the race of criminals
give the lie to the leftist argument that this is due to discriminatory prosecution. It is
an inescapable statistical fact that immigration into Britain increases the crime rate.
Figures for unemployment, welfare dependency, educational failure, and other social
pathologies tell a similar story for most other foreign ethnic groups. There is simply no
escaping the fact that choosing to admit such persons into the country in significant
numbers means choosing to become a poorer, more violent, more dependent and
worse-educated society.

Our programme:
1.

In any society claiming to be based on the rule of law, it must be beyond serious
controversy that all illegal immigrants must be deported as soon as they are
discovered. We will increase the funding and political will behind such operations
by the police and the courts.
The present regime propagates the myth that such deportation could only be
accomplished by authoritarian police tactics, alien to British values. This is
obviously false, as even under the present unacceptably lax deportation policies,
tens of thousands of people are deported from the UK annually without incident.

2.

Every nation, no matter how open or closed its immigration policy may be, has
the right and duty to maintain sovereign physical control of its borders. We will
begin by increasing the funding of existing border controls by 500% and shall
continue to increase budget and personnel until our borders are secure against
significant intrusion. In particular, the first company of British troops to be
withdrawn from Iraq on the day a BNP government assumes office would be
redeployed to secure the Channel Tunnel and Kent ports against illegal
immigration.
The regime propagates the myth that Britain cannot, in the face of modern
international travel and trade, secure its borders at reasonable cost and
convenience. This is also obviously untrue, as the border control example of
other advanced nations (the most relevant being that other great island state,
Japan) proves.

3.

Under present circumstances we would abide by our obligations under the 1951
United Nations Convention on Refugees. We recognise the existence of
legitimate international refugees from persecution and war, but point to the fact
that international law provides that such persons must be given – and must seek

General Election Manifesto 2005

Page 13

British National Party

– refuge in the nearest safe country. So, unless a flood of refugees from a civil
war in France or Denmark shows up on our shores, these refugees are simply
not Britain’s responsibility and have no right to refuge here.
This is not a position of callousness: it is a principled stand that all the problems
of the world are neither Britain’s fault nor our responsibility – or even in our
capacity - to solve. In order to further the proper handling of refugees in the
appropriate place (not in the advanced Western societies to which they gravitate
out of economic self-interest) we will be prepared to contribute funds to refugee
relief programmes which respect these principles.
4.

We will reform the laws and law enforcement of the UK so that, with respect to
refugees and illegal immigrants, there are no blind eyes turned to violations, no
amnesties to reward law-breaking, and no extensive appeals against legal
decisions. We will place the burden of proof upon the claimant to prove his or
her legitimate presence in this country. We will require persons whose cases are
pending to be held in refugee centres, not at large in the community.

5.

We will impose a permanent lifetime ban on re-entry into Britain for any reason
on any person found guilty of having violated British entry or immigration laws,
enforced by instant deportation.

Our Agenda for Change
On current demographic trends we, the native British people, will be an ethnic
minority in our own country within sixty years. By 2020, an extra 5-7 million
immigrants will have entered Britain, whilst immigrant communities already resident
here are having more children than the indigenous British people. The estimates for
the numbers of illegal immigrants resident in the country vary from 250,000 to over a
million.
To ensure that we do not become a minority in our own homeland, and that the
native British peoples of our islands retain their culture and identity, we call for an
immediate halt to all further immigration, the immediate deportation of all bogus
asylum seekers, all criminal entrants and illegal immigrants, and the introduction of a
system of voluntary resettlement whereby those immigrants and their descendants
who are legally here are afforded the opportunity to return to their lands of ethnic
origin assisted by a generous financial incentives both for individuals and for the
countries in question.
We will abolish the ‘positive discrimination’ schemes that have made white Britons
second-class citizens. We will also clamp down on the flood of ‘asylum seekers’, the
vast majority of whom are either bogus or can find refuge much nearer their home
countries. Britain is full up and the government of Britain has as its first responsibility
the welfare, security and long-term preservation of the native people of Britain.
One of the most important rights that any nation possesses is the right to decide who
shall enjoy citizenship and residence within its national borders. In a time of global
terrorism, asymmetric warfare and open trade borders, the issue of illegal immigration
must be considered as an aspect of National Security and not just an issue of social
policy.
The liberal consensus on immigration must be balanced by the interests of National
Security. Recent arrests of cells of Islamic terrorists living in the country plotting mass
murder in Britain illustrate the link between illegal immigration and terrorism. The link
between illegal immigration and crime in our communities – including the ruthless
exploitation of the immigrants themselves - is also well documented.

General Election Manifesto 2005

Page 14

British National Party

We are the only political party that is pledged to take action on illegal immigration. We
do not dodge the issue by using vacuous sound bites and shallow headlines, as the
old parties do with their ‘promises to do something’ but intentions of doing next to
nothing. We will do what it is required and we have firm plans as regards our policy
on ending illegal immigration immediately, and reversing the tide of immigration in the
longer term:
1.

Our first step will be to shut the door. A BNP government would accept no
further immigration from any of the parts of the world which present the prospect
of an almost limitless flow of immigration: Africa, Asia, China, Eastern and South
Eastern Europe, the Middle East and South America would all be placed on an
immediate ‘stop’ list. This would later be subject to review in the case of genuine
students accepted for training as part of our long-term policy of helping to build
up Third World economies in order to facilitate the voluntary return of their
nationals or their descendants under our long-tern resettlement programme.

2.

Inform the general public of a BNP government’s immigration policy. This Primary
Information Phase will consist of a full year of information and education publicity
campaigns to explain to all sections of the British public exactly what the policy is
going to be, and why it is needed. These high-profile information campaigns will
be community-based and will use the languages of all the ethnic communities
resident in the country, as well as English. This will also create the time to
prepare the necessary state structures and resources that will be used to actively
enact the policy once it is in operation.

The intention of the BNP Immigration Policy is to remove all illegal immigrants present
within the United Kingdom in an orderly, lawful and humane manner through a
planned Two Phase procedure. The First Phase will be dealt with by the Civil Courts
and regarded as a civil matter, whilst the Second Phase will be dealt with by the
Criminal Courts and regarded as a matter of National Security.

The First Phase: Voluntary Registration
Those illegal immigrants who truthfully declare their illegal status to the authorities
during the registration period will be able to claim, in the case of skilled and key
workers, extended leave to remain in the United Kingdom as long as they are
benefiting the UK economy and stay as residents until such time as we have had time
to train British personnel to replace them.
During this period we would also strive to provide these regularized illegal key
workers with extra training intended to increase their value to their home countries on
their return.
All other illegal immigrants, including visa over-stayers, casual workers and exstudents will have one year to register their presence and assets they wish to
liquidate and take with them. Upon registration they will become entitled to free flights
home, and time before they leave to put their affairs here in order, including selling
property and other legally acquired assets so as to be able to take the full value of
their property (less any unpaid taxes and medical bills) with them when they and their
families return home. This voluntary registration policy will last for a year. There will be
no extensions.
Voluntary Registration cases will be dealt with by the Home Office through the Civil
Courts in the event of any disputes arising over asset liquidation.

The Second Phase: Assisted Registration
Those illegal immigrants resident in the UK who fail to register with the authorities and

General Election Manifesto 2005

Page 15

British National Party

declare their illegal status when the First Phase of the policy ends, will be dealt with
solely by the Ministry for National Border Security and the Criminal Courts.
Registration will be an issue of National Security as regards those who, for whatever
reason, do not declare their illegal entrant status to the authorities before the First
Phase deadline expires. Those assisting illegal immigrants to stay in the UK will also
be dealt with under the criminal law. Those who have failed to declare their illegal
status will be immediately arrested and held in police custody until they are deported.
Those illegal immigrants arrested with children born in the UK will be able to apply to
be tagged in their own homes until a hearing in court as to the citizenship status of
the children. No appeals on decisions of the Courts on matters of national security
will be allowed.
The lack of registration status also involves the withdrawal of access to all civil legal
remedies and procedures available to those with Registered Status and also
withdrawal of the right to use State welfare provisions and institutions. All persons
resident in UK territory from the expiry date of the First Phase who cannot provide a
legitimate and verified National Insurance number on demand and provide full
citizenship status or registered status documentation will be liable for immediate
arrest and to be held in custody until proof of citizenship is proved.
Those who have been arrested will not be allowed to remove any assets from the
country when they are deported.

General Election Manifesto 2005

Page 16

British National Party

Abolishing multiculturalism, preserving Britain
The present regime is engaged in a profound cultural war against the British people,
motivated by the desire to create a new ethnic power base to replace the working
class which they have abandoned in pursuit of their enthusiasm for globalisation,
justified by a quasi-Marxist ideology of the equality of all cultures. We intend to rebuild
the basis of democracy in Britain , which is the right of all free-born Britons to debate
in public the facts as they see them by restoring true freedom of speech to Britain.
Furthermore, when we speak of ‘British democracy’ we do so in an ethnic as well as
a civic sense. We do not accept the absurd superstition – propagated for different
though sometimes overlapping reasons by capitalists, liberals, Marxists and
theologians - of human equality. Whether the now totally discredited feminist
argument that men and women are innately the same, to the partly refuted egalitarian
claim that everyone within a given population is born as a blank slate with the same
innate potential, or to the still dominant Politically Correct denial of the existence of
differences on average between members of different races – we reject all these
irrational myths.
This must not be taken to mean or imply that we believe that any particular ethnic
group or race is ‘superior’ or ‘inferior’; we simply recognise that – as any biologist
would be able to predict, and the new medical science of pharmacogenetics is now
confirming – human populations which have undergone micro-evolutionary changes
while being separated for many thousands of years have developed differences in
many fields of endeavour, susceptibility to health problems, behavioural tendencies
and such like.
To deny such differences on the grounds of egalitarian dogma has always been
wrong, but to continue to do so in the light of the latest medical evidence is to
condemn people to unnecessary suffering on account of racially specific health
problems. We therefore believe that the myth that “we are all the same under the
skin” will soon be as discredited as its feminist equivalent, and that all political parties
will have to drastically amend their thinking to reflect the new reality in the not too
distant future.
Taking these facts into account, we believe that it is far more likely than not that the
historically established tendency (and we do not claim that it is any more than that) of
the peoples of Western Europe in general - and of these islands in particular - to
create and sustain social and political structures in which individual freedom, equality
before the law, private property and popular participation in decision-making, is to
some extent at least genetically pre-determined. Such tendencies would, naturally,
both shape our culture around such institutions, and in turn tend to be reinforced by
that culture.
If this is the case, then the idea that it is possible to allow large numbers of people
from very different ethnic groups and cultures to settle here, on the assumption that it
is just something about our bracing sea air that tends to make us natural born
democrats, is fatally flawed. Just as is the idea that we can export our enthusiasm for
representative government to other peoples, either by example or by carpet-bombing
their countries into giving up their penchant for strong government or theocracy.
Hence, in order to guarantee the continued existence of our British democracy, we
also intend to take long-term steps to guarantee the continued existence, as the
clearly dominant ethnic, cultural and political group, of the native peoples of these
islands – the English, Scots, Irish and Welsh – together with the limited numbers of
peoples of European descent, who arrived as refugees or economic immigrants
centuries or decades ago, and who have fully integrated into our society.

General Election Manifesto 2005

Page 17

British National Party

Multi-racialism – a recipe for disaster
We are further encouraged to see this as essential by two other factors. The first is
the truly gruesome record of multi-ethnic societies breaking down into hatred and
mass murder. From Bosnia to Rwanda, Indonesia to Northern Ireland, one only has to
scratch most of the conflicts in the world – ranging from low-level loathing to outright
genocide – to find that at the root of the problem is the juxtaposition by past
migration or strategic decision by a ruling class of two or more different peoples in the
same piece of territory.
Again, this is no surprise. Scientists studying various primates have now discovered
that murderous ‘wars’ against different groups of the same species are as frequent
among our non-human relatives as they are among us. The tendency to conceive of
our relationships with other human populations in terms of ‘in-groups’ and ‘outgroups’, is older than humanity itself. ‘Racism’, in other words, is not a consequence
of ‘false consciousness’, economics, imperialism or the work of evil agitators, it is part
of human nature.
The last idealistic egalitarian attempt to ignore and override human nature, Marxist
economic determinism, led to disaster and human misery on an almost unimaginable
scale. The lessons of history, and the growing tensions in the multi-ethnic society that
the left-liberal elite have imposed on us in recent decades, all point to the likelihood
that the closely-related egalitarian ‘multi-racial experiment’ will end in the same way.
Our determination to avoid such a human tragedy is what drives us to risk
imprisonment and persecution, and it is what allows us to say with confidence and
sincerity that we are not ‘racists’, but realists.

Multi-culturalism – the enemy of human diversity
Even if, against most prior historical experience, it proved to be possible to assimilate
and integrate huge numbers of immigrants from other ethnic and cultural groups into
Western societies without mayhem and bloodshed, we would still oppose it. This is
because we believe that the principle that bio-diversity is an innate good – accepted
by liberals for every form of life on this planet except Man – also applies to human
cultures and populations.
There is clearly a deeply ingrained human need to ‘belong’ and to identify with people
with whom one shares special things in common; we all have a need to feel ‘at
home’. While this is generally met at one level by membership of a family, this is
clearly not enough. But the idea that this need can be fulfilled by identification with
the entire human race is an intellectual fantasy.
The human need to belong is best met at a ‘tribal’ level, and the best way to avoid
such tribalism leading in turn to clashes with other tribes is to encourage its
realization at the level of a genuine nation-state, particularly one whose dominant
political elite regard their primary duty as being to mind their own nation’s business
and looking after their own people. This half-way house between the expansionist
Empire and the nihilistic football gang is the best hope for peace.
This is not something we desire only for ourselves, we recognise the right of all
people to belong to a specific culture and to preserve the local particularisms which
make us truly and fully human.
For most of human history, the existence of such ethnic and cultural diversity among
humanity was so obvious and apparently unchallengeably natural that the political
theorists and philosophers of past generations simply took it for granted. Only in the
last few decades has this been changed forever by the advent of mass passenger
travel, the insatiable desire of the globalised capitalist economy for cheap labour, and
the worldwide reach of US consumerist culture through film and television.

General Election Manifesto 2005

Page 18

British National Party

As a result the entire world – or at least every nation of predominantly European
descent – is now in the grip of a set of assumptions and prejudices about race,
culture and integration that, however well-meaning in theory, are increasingly antihuman and even genocidal in practice.
While the often subtle differences between similar cultures make it hard for an
outsider to tell where one ends and another starts, it is generally easier to distinguish
between languages. Hence these are a very good indicator for the health or
otherwise of human cultural and biological diversity.
So it should be deeply worrying to anyone who values traditional cultures and the rich
patchwork of human variety to read what Prof. Bill Sutherland, Population Biologist at
the University of East Anglia, has discovered about the status of the 6,800 languages
of the world: Over the last five hundred years, they have been disappearing faster
than species - 4.5% of total number have been lost over the last 500 years,
compared with 1.3% of bird species and 1.9% of mammals.
None of which sounds too drastic. The real problem, however, is from here onwards.
According to Prof. Sutherland at least half of mankind’s 6,800 living languages will be
dead by 2050, and 90% of them will be extinct by 2100. Every one of those
extinctions will mean another group of people who are cut off from their roots and
their ancestors by an unbridgeable chasm. Every single one diminishes the variety
which makes our world such an interesting and wonderful place.
Among those at gravest risk are Welsh, Scots Gaelic and Irish Gaelic. And although
English is one of the 10% of ‘safe’ languages, the fact remains that all the vanishing
tongues should alert us, like so many miners’ canaries, to the existence of an invisible
but deadly poison which threatens every culture and distinct ethnic group in the
world.
That poison is in large measure the blind economic force of global capitalism, with its
insistence on the unrestricted flow of goods, capital and labour to wherever in the
world they will make the maximum short-term profit. This, rather than a misty-eyed
post-Christian fantasy about ‘equality’, post-Marxist fixation on turning refugees and
immigrants into a surrogate proletariat, or post-Holocaust suspicion of European
consciousness, is the real driving force behind multi-culturalism. It is not about ‘love’
and ‘tolerance’, it is about profit.
There is no conspiracy of wicked plutocrats or sinister Elders of Zion at work here,
the unique cultural and ethnic groups that are being destroyed are not so much
specifically targeted for elimination, they are just in the way of a conscience-free
global money-making machine.
If this juggernaut is to be resisted, and the diversity which does so much to make us
fully human preserved, then politicians of all hues have to rethink their attitudes to
culture and identity. The natural resistance of all native peoples to the arrival of huge
numbers of outsiders in their territory – whether loggers in the Amazon jungle or Third
World settlers in Europe – must cease to be demonized as ‘racism’ and understood
as a natural and laudable survival mechanism.
We must learn to avoid the temptation to allow arguments about short-term
economic expediency to prevail over the rights of indigenous cultures and peoples to
preserve their territorial and cultural integrity.
These considerations, rather than intolerance and bigotry are what informs the British
National Party’s determination not simply to stop any further mass immigration into
the British Isles , but also to reverse the tide which has transformed vast areas of our
country out of all recognition over the last fifty years. We, as the sole political
representatives of the Silent Majority of the English, Scots, Irish and Welsh who

General Election Manifesto 2005

Page 19

British National Party

formed and were formed by our island home, have one overriding demand: We want
our country back!
The proposals outlined below represent the only practical way to move towards that
long-term goal. We recognise that a reversal of the tide of immigration can only be
secured by negotiation and consent, and that it is probably now too late to anticipate
a return to the status quo ante 1948.
On account of that, and also in the understanding that genocide through integration
is a threat to all peoples across the world, we also intend to develop a model of
‘multi-culturalism’ which combines peaceful co-existence with the maintenance of
cultural and biological separation. In parts of the world where mass immigration is
irreversible, the only thing that can prevent human diversity vanishing into an antheap
of rootless coffee-coloured consumerism is the celebration of difference.
Simply put, relationships between different ethnic and cultural groups sharing the
same places need to settle down on lines closer to those practiced for centuries in
Persia or India, than to those preached in Hollywood and on MTV. Different groups
can live side-by-side and at peace for generations. They can even enjoy each other’s
cultures, but they must stick to their own, or ‘diversity’ will be but a short-lived
stepping stone to nothingness.

Our proposals:
1.

We would repeal the Race Relations Acts and all other restrictions on free
speech in Britain.

2.

We would abolish all targets and quotas for ethnic representation in all areas of
employment, public and private.

3.

We would abolish all politically-correct indoctrination of the police, teachers, and
other public employees.

4.

We would abolish all government-sponsored ethnicity-specific professional
bodies, housing associations, and other organisations.

5.

We would abolish all departments, agencies, or other units of government whose
sole and specific purpose is to deal with ethnic issues, grievances, or crimes.
Such organisations deliberately seek out the maximum quantity of "racism" in
order to justify their own existence and expand their power and budgets. The law
is the law and must be enforced equally upon all without being politicised over
ethnic differences.

6.

We would abolish all laws against racial discrimination in employment and the
government bodies associated with enforcing them.

7.

Except for purposes of teaching foreign languages to native speakers of English,
the only languages permitted in official documents, government business, and
schools will be English, Scots, and Welsh. The use of other languages by ethnic
minorities in their own homes, school and institutions will also be encouraged.

8.

A Clause 28-style proscription against the promotion of racial integration in
schools and the media would be introduced.

9.

In order to make it clear that the “celebration of diversity” is something in which
the native peoples of our islands can share, each of our traditional Saints Days
would be made Public Holidays in the nations in question, with Trafalgar Day
being an additional Public Holiday throughout the entire UK.

10. A massively-funded and permanent programme, using and doubling Britain ‘s
current foreign aid budget, will aim to reduce, by voluntary resettlement to their
lands of ethnic origin, the proportion of ethnic minorities living in Britain , for as

General Election Manifesto 2005

Page 20

British National Party

long as the majority of the electorate are willing to fund such expenditure. Since
the chief impact of such a programme would be the assistance it would render
to Developing Countries in the Third World, this is described further in Section 16
– Britain and the World.
11. While accepting the right of law-abiding minorities, in our country because they
or their ancestors came here legally, to remain here and to enjoy the full
protection of the law against any form of harassment or hostility, we will also
seek to emphasise the importance of the prior status of the aboriginal people.
This would be a national extension of the ‘Sons and Daughters’ policy in priority
on housing and school places lists which BNP councils seek to implement at
local level.
We will publish a list of these British nationals preference proposals before the next
major election.

General Election Manifesto 2005

Page 21

British National Party

Culture, traditions and the civil society
We believe that the character of daily life in Britain is being corroded by the gradual
but inexorable loss of many of the things that make Britain civilized. We believe that
these things cannot be reduced, as the fake-conservative Thatcherite ideology fatally
supposes, simply to economics. Nor can these things be provided, as Labour and
the left imagine, by the expensive meddling of a socialist nanny-state. Tradition,
heritage, and civility must be understood as goods in themselves, to be defended for
their own sake.
This entails the following:
1.

We demand the right to be proud of Britain again, and for the English, Scots,
Welsh, Irish and Ulster peoples to be allowed to celebrate their identity and
heritage with as much right as is accorded to other native peoples. We are
entitled to a government that does not show, with everything it says and does,
that it despises our country and urgently wishes to reshape it into something
else.

2.

We demand the right to preserve our culture, heritage, and identity. Our national
character and native institutions are a precious inheritance, for which our
ancestors have paid a high price over the centuries. They are not to be casually
thrown away in the name of a "modernisation" that is often no more than a
thinly-veiled cover for a quasi-Marxist cultural war against all things white,
European and male.

3.

We reject the idea that culture is just something to be bought and sold by
corporations. Such a view, while pretending to evince the mere operation of free
public choice in a free market, in fact imposes upon us whatever culture frequently of low quality and alien provenance - multinational media corporations
wish to impose, whether we like it or not.

4.

We support a return to traditional standards of civility and politeness in British life.
Standards of politeness must be taught in school, demanded of government
employees in their interactions with the public and exemplified on the BBC. Soap
operas, for instance, should seek to portray slightly ‘higher’ than real-life
behaviour as the norm, rather than setting out to show ordinary people – in
particular the white working class - in the most negative and unattractive light
possible.

5.

We support the restoration of our town centres and a return to traditional
architecture. Broadly speaking, we are in agreement with the views expressed by
His Royal Highness the Prince of Wales in his book A Vision of Britain. We will
aim at the gradual elimination of tower blocks and the development of wasteland
in our urban centres, according to traditional British urban forms. We will not
allow the proliferation of out-of-town shopping centres to destroy traditional high
street shopping areas. We will impose a special tax on the supermarkets, the
proceeds of which will be used to help small businesses resist their efforts to
monopolise the retail trade, and to keep our town centres alive.

6.

We will ensure that appropriate areas of public life, including school assemblies,
are based on a commitment to the values of traditional Westernised Christianity.
Levels of religiosity have always fluctuated in Britain, and while our great
inheritance of cathedrals, churches and liturgies has less resonance with the
broad mass of the population at present, the wheel of faith will one day turn
again and they will be fully valued once more.

General Election Manifesto 2005

Page 22

British National Party

Art and Culture
Schools in England will be encouraged to celebrate May Day and other ancient
festivals, whilst the other folk nations of the British Isles will be encouraged to
resurrect their ancestral folk traditions.
We will introduce the requirement that all children will be taught English as their first
language in Britain , but also learn about their local ancestral language as well. This
will apply to Welsh, Cornish, Manx, Scots Gallic, Doric or Lallans in Great Britain , and
Ulster Lallans and Gaelic in Northern Ireland. English children will also be given an
appreciation of the language of the Anglo-Saxon folk and to appreciate the beauty of
Anglo-Saxon culture, such as its poetry, art and the meaning of citizenship.
Those from foreign ethnic backgrounds resident in Britain will be given the choice of
either having their children educated in Faith or Folk schools that will teach them the
traditions and heritage of their ancestral cultures, or of attending classes in schools
that educate them about their ancestral heritage. We believe that all children suffer
when deprived of their right to an ancestral identity and contact with their cultural
roots.
We will encourage black and ethnic minority schools and religious schools run by
parents and staff that educate those children as to their ancestral heritage and instil
pride in their culture and ethnicity.
The handing out of National Lottery funds to so-called ‘modern art’ projects that
insult and degrade (as of course they are intended to) the very name of art, has
become a minor national scandal, almost as bad as the way in which money from the
same fund is repeatedly handed to politically correct rather than popular causes. The
boards which decide on lottery grant applications should be picked by ballot from
lists of individuals who have raised significant sums of money for local charities, not
appointed by the government or other members of the out-of-touch liberal elite.
Music, including training to play a musical instrument, should be compulsory in
schools between the ages of five and fourteen. From fourteen upwards, every effort
should be made to encourage those children who have shown musical talent to play
for their own and their peers’ entertainment.

General Election Manifesto 2005

Page 23

British National Party

Tough on the causes of crime – Criminals
Despite the unprecedented sums being spent on the police, Britain today faces
record crime rates. Traditional and effective bobby-on-the-beat policing has been
abandoned in favour of expensive and intrusive technological toys, such as CCTV
cameras and over-reliance on patrol cars. Police management has lost its focus on
preventing crime and has become a variety of politically-correct social work more
concerned with the rights of criminals than with those of their victims.
We intend to rebuild the social contract where the criminal was afraid of the police
and decent citizens were protected by the law. The liberal consensus which sees the
criminal as the victim and the victim as the criminal will be abolished, and Politically
Correct senior police officers, who clearly prefer helping the Exchequer squeeze extra
stealth taxes out of Middle Britain to catching burglars, will be replaced.
1.

We will ensure that the main priority of the police be returned to that of the
prevention and punishment of crime, and we will abolish all politically-correct
distractions from this mission.

2.

We will return, so far as conditions permit, to traditional foot and bicycle patrol
policing and reduce reliance on police cars.

3.

We will end the legal system’s harassment of fathers by means of the Child
Support Agency and change the outdated presumption in favour of maternal
custody in divorce cases to one of joint custody.

4.

We support the re-introduction of corporal punishment for petty criminals and
vandals, and the restoration of capital punishment for paedophiles, terrorists and
murderers as an option for judges in cases where their guilt is proven beyond
dispute, as by DNA evidence or being caught red-handed.

5.

We believe in ‘Restorative Justice’ - all fines imposed by the Courts will be given
to the victims not the government. Criminals will be forced to repair any damage
they have done in the community.

6.

We will abolish the Police and Criminal Evidence Act (PACE) rules, whereby the
last Conservative government placed the handcuffs of bureaucracy on the police.
We pay police officers to deter crime and catch criminals, not to fill in forms or
act as uniformed social workers.

7.

We believe that there is a strong argument for making entire families financially
responsible for the cost of crimes committed by one of their members. This was
the ancient Anglo-Saxon system, and would apply a huge amount of pressure on
young tearaways in particular to mend their ways. Would it be unfair?
Sometimes, perhaps, but not as unfair as the present shambles where millions
live in fear of crime, most of which is committed by a relatively small number of
serial offenders who have very little fear of the present weak criminal justice
system.

8.

We will return to traditional police uniforms, as opposed to the militarised and
pseudo-hi-tech costumes that have undermined this powerful symbol of
traditional unarmed civil authority. It must be remembered that the police are the
servants of the people, not of the State.

9.

Directly linked to point 8, we will reverse the trend of recent decades whereby
the State has sought to grant to the police a total monopoly on the enforcement
of the law and acceptable standards of behaviour. This will entail changes in the
law and the ‘culture’ of law enforcement.

General Election Manifesto 2005

Page 24

British National Party

Such changes will range from accepting that adults in a community may, on rare
occasions, clip badly behaved kids around the ear (subject, of course, as they
always were, to commonsense interpretations of Common Law restrictions and
obligations) through to the introduction of a ‘Tony Martin’ law permitting
householders to use any force they deem necessary to deal with a burglar in
their own homes.
10. Criminals should be made to serve their full sentences, with time added for bad
behaviour. The only way out of prison ‘early’ should be a maximum 20%
reduction in return for a clear demonstration of the acquisition of genuinely useful
skills, or full rehabilitation in the case of drug addicts, whereupon Parole Boards
should have the power to release such model prisoners, tagged and under tight
restrictions doing restorative work within the community.
11. Given the role of drugs and addiction involved in so much crime, the present
pitiful provision of a mere 2,500 drug rehabilitation places nationwide is a false
economy, as well as a national shame. We would oversee a one hundred-fold
increase in this figure, to be in place within six months of coming to office. The
staff and money for this vital social service and anti-crime measure will be
provided from cuts made in various of the parasitic and useless public sector
jobs identified later in this Manifesto.
12. While every effort will be made to help addicts to recover, individuals convicted of
the importation and large-scale dealing of hard drugs will face the death penalty.

General Election Manifesto 2005

Page 25

British National Party

Social inclusion – One healthy nation
As nationalists we are committed to caring for and nurturing all sections of our
national community. We also oppose the tendency of the other, non-nationalist,
parties to set different sections of the community against each other over problems
for which they themselves as politicians are largely responsible. The creation and
maintenance of an undercurrent of national solidarity is one of the cornerstones of a
true national democracy.

The NHS
We are wholly committed to a free, fully funded National Health Service for all British
citizens. Contrary to popular political and ‘right-wing’ myth, the British NHS is actually
very good value for money – the problem is that we do not put enough money into
‘front-end’ staff. The key reason that our health service is in many ways inferior to
those of other leading industrial nations is that we spend less on it that they do.
In 2001, for example, we spent 7.6% of GDP on health. The figure in France was
9.5%, in Germany 10.7% and in the ‘privatised’ USA a mind-boggling 13.9%.
(www.gao.gov/cghome/hccrisis/img11.html )
It is clear that the American system of privatised health care is extremely wasteful in
terms of the cost of fragmented administration and paying for a vast system of private
health insurance companies.
The figures above give the lie to the efforts of assorted old party politicians and
monetarist ideologues to ‘talk-down’ the NHS and push us towards a national switch
to private health care. The real reason for such efforts is that such people have
already made their minds up to be opposed to the NHS in principle.
This position is also widely spread within both the Labour and Conservative parties.
Since they know, however, that open talk of dismantling the NHS would lead to
catastrophic election defeat, they dare not advocate it openly. Instead, the plan is to
run down the existing health service until it is in such a state that the public
themselves demand radical change – at which the privatisation ‘option’ will be
brought out into the open.
“How hard is it to keep a hospital clean?” Very hard, when the last Tory government
replaced ward-based staff cleaners with contract cleaning staff as part of their
disastrous ‘marketisation’ policy, and the Blair regime continued with the same
dangerous system in order to keep down costs.
Once again, however, it is necessary to remind ourselves that the driving force behind
such partial privatization and cynical exploitation of problems to impose desired
solutions, is not any actual financial need, but the complete commitment of the entire
Westminster political Establishment to globalisation in general, and the World Trade
Organisation rules in particular. Under these, all signatories (including Britain) agree to
ensure a ‘level economic playing field’ between different countries by removing all
‘subsidies’ on labour in their own countries. Many of the social welfare provisions won
for the working class by social democratic parties in the last century – council
housing and state-funded healthcare in particular – fall foul of this agreement.
In addition, of course, the giant for-profit corporations which are poised to move into
such potentially lucrative ‘markets’ have their own ways of persuading previously
‘principled’ politicians and media pundits to come round to their way of thinking and
start to promote the bogus case for such services.
Our belief is that dealing with sickness is not something that can either morally or
economically be done for a profit. As the only serious party in Britain to oppose

General Election Manifesto 2005

Page 26

British National Party

globalisation, the BNP utterly rejects such chicanery, and gives the British people a
real choice by putting the case for a fully-funded NHS, while dealing with the genuine
problems that will otherwise give the globalist politicians the opportunity they are
looking for to do away with it. We will ensure that Britain has an effective, sustainable
and free National Health Service by enacting legislation to ensure that
1.

There is an immediate end to the counter-productive ‘culture’ of targets in
healthcare. All these achieve is to push staff and administrators to cut corners,
find ways to fiddle the statistics and to deal with insignificant but easily dealt with
health problems while leaving the smaller numbers of the chronically sick to wait
for even longer. All health care should revert to being assessed on the grounds of
patient need, not bureaucratic targets.

2.

Staff numbers are boosted, slashing unnecessary bureaucracy and by
addressing the root cause of low recruitment and retention - low pay. There is no
shortage of beds in the NHS, only of staff to look after the patients who should
be in them.

3.

Doctors and nurses are given interest free mortgages from the government to
buy houses in areas where their services are needed.

4.

The hospital crÅches which were done away with under the last Conservative
government are re-established, making it much easier for nurses to return to
work after taking time off to have children.

5.

Experiments are carried out into the opening of ‘term-time’ wards, run mainly by
staff with school-age children. This would be used to clear backlogs of minor
operations.

6.

The asset stripping of the doctors and nurses of the developing world ends, and
all future British doctors and nurses – except for rare experts required to teach
new skills and techniques - are recruited and trained within Britain.

7.

Abolish the bursary system for student nurses and pay them a decent wage
during their training.

8.

More emphasis is placed on healthy living with greater understanding of sickness
prevention through physical exercise, a healthier environment and improved
diets. All multi-choice school canteens should be closed down as soon as
enough catering staff have been trained to return to traditional school meals
eaten in properly supervised dining halls. Hospitals should wherever possible buy
locally produced food, which will be fresher and healthier as well as supporting
local businesses and strengthening the links between hospitals and their
communities.

9.

Introduce a programme whereby sophisticated new equipment comes
automatically with proper training for sufficient operators to make the best use of
it. At present it is common for items such as MRI Scanners, often bought thanks
to great efforts by League of Friends groups, lie unused because there are no
staff available to them.

10. We extend the ‘polluter pays’ principle from environmental damage to the impact
of processed foods as well. The link between highly processed products such as
white sugar and flour and a wide variety of degenerative diseases is so well
proven as to make it entirely reasonable to insist that the producers and vendors
of such junk should pay extra tax to help society as a whole cover the cost of
the damage that goes hand in hand with their profits.
11. An effective fight against MRSA by the immediate replacement of contract
cleaners with ward-based auxiliaries. Also a return to in-hospital laundries for all

General Election Manifesto 2005

Page 27

British National Party

staff uniforms, which are rarely washed at a sufficiently hot temperature now that
staff are forced to take their dirty uniforms home and wash them themselves as
part of yet another short-sighted cost-cutting exercise which typifies what
happens when health services are run by bureaucrats rather than experienced
medical staff.
12. The burden imposed on our NHS by treating imported diseases such as TB and
the new wave of heterosexual AIDS is removed forthwith. In addition to refusing
to allow their carriers entry into Britain , or deporting those already here, we
would also introduce a massive public health awareness campaign on the
danger of choosing high-risk groups as sexual partners. This may be Politically
Incorrect, but it would save many innocent lives and save huge amounts of
money which are needed for other patients.
13. We support wholeheartedly the nursing unions’ campaign for Zero Tolerance for
violence directed against NHS staff. Such incidents should carry an automatic
prison sentence, and the withdrawal of all medical care from the culprits for a
period which should vary according to the severity of their attack on NHS staff.
14. Medical research facilities researching the potential for global pandemics of
deadly viruses, and ways in which to combat them, must receive immediate and
massive increases in funding.
Finally, there clearly is a problem building up in the long-term as a result of new
medical technologies making it possible to keep people alive well beyond previously
realistic expectations – albeit at huge cost and often with very limited quality of life. To
state that this issue needs to be debated and addressed is not to propose
euthanasia in any way, but merely to recognise that death is a natural and
unavoidable end for us all, and that there comes a point at which fighting it is neither
humane nor affordable for society as a whole. This, however, is not a matter for
political manifestos or parties, but for a full and informed national debate and decision
by referendum.

A fair deal for our pensioners
It is a national disgrace that people who have worked all their lives, paid in to the
system and raised families forced to live on the lowest state pension of any Western
European nation except Portugal. There is also a potential danger in that, if
unresolved, the growing pensions crisis and the steady ageing of the population
could lead to damaging friction between pensioners and people of working age. This
would be particularly dangerous if the pensioners are overwhelmingly native Britons
and the workers are immigrants with no ties of blood or sentiment to the older
generation. The long-term solution to this problem is the recreation of a
manufacturing base capable of generating the national wealth required to pay for the
social benefits which are a mark of a civilised society and a united nation.
1.

We pledge to ensure that all our pensioners receive a minimum £10 increase on
the current (April 2005) weekly basic of £79.60 and to rebuild the national
housing stock so as to enable them to live in comfortable, adequately heated
homes. A major part of this increase could come from the £2–3 billion annual
cost of the asylum system.

2.

We would also restore the link between pensions and the rise in national
earnings – abolished by the last Tory government and not restored under Labour
- as the current system whereby annual pension increases linked to the cost of
living index has meant that our pensioners’ quality of life has fallen further and
further behind.

General Election Manifesto 2005

Page 28

British National Party

3.

We would ensure that no-one has to sell their home to pay for nursing care. This
would also remove a source of discontent among those pensioners who have
saved during their working life to look after themselves in old age and feel that
under the present system “they need not have bothered”. To be forced to sell the
family home is yet another disincentive to work hard and save for the future.
In 2004, £4.26 billion was spent by Social Services for residential/nursing home
provision. However, £1.63 billion was recovered from pensioners who had to pay
all or part of the charges. Therefore, this is the very maximum amount that it
would cost to implement the BNP policy of eliminating the requirement that
pensioners are liable to sell their home for residential care. It is expected that
those pensioners with adequate private pensions would be expected to make a
contribution to residential care or nursing home costs. The extra cost to Social
Services that ensuring the continuity of the family home would entail could well
come out of the £8 billion Britain would save annually by withdrawing from the
EU.

4.

In implementing the above new deal for pensioners we would eliminate the
present means-tested Pensions Credit system. This involves an expensive
bureaucracy to implement and is felt to be degrading by many proud elderly
people. Means testing also hits medium income people the hardest, as the rich
do not need pensions and benefits such as winter fuel allowance – which the
BNP would continue.

5.

In order to help to alleviate the alleged labour and skills shortage which is used
by Establishment politicians as a propaganda excuse for continued mass
immigration, we would allow active pensioners to continue working beyond
retirement age without paying any income tax on their earnings, while that tax is
being phased out.
Once the reduced burden of taxation on ordinary people has been shifted from
falling on their income to their expenditure, it will obviously be necessary to
compensate pensioners by giving them very substantial increases in their
pensions. These will be financed with some of the savings made by not having to
operate the massively expensive system required to collect income tax.

General Election Manifesto 2005

Page 29

British National Party

Education for a British future
We are against the ‘trendy’ teaching methods that have made Britain one of the most
poorly educated nations in Europe. These are based upon neo-Marxist egalitarianism,
which has done untold damage both to the fabric of our nation and to an entire
generation whose average level of attainment is now lower than before the
introduction of universal state education.
We reject egalitarianism, and base our plans for the education system on the
scientific fact that different individuals are born with different abilities and potentials.
All are entitled to the same chance of realizing their own potential, but this cannot be
done be forcing them all into a low-grade ‘one-size-fits-all’ education system.
Under the present regime Britain is rapidly becoming the worst-educated major
nation in Europe. This threatens us with economic decline, a barbaric culture, and a
citizenry that cannot think well enough to govern itself. We intend to rebuild the entire
British educational system in order that future generations of British children are not
lost to illiteracy and selfish ill-discipline.
This has not come about by accident or due to mysterious forces like
"permissiveness" or "the 60’s." It has been the result of deliberate attempts by the left
to abandon the traditional purpose of schools – to educate – in favour of using them
as instruments of social levelling and politically-correct indoctrination, combined with
the right’s economics-obsessed lack of interest in the problem.
We will end the practice of politically correct indoctrination in all its guises and restore
discipline in the classroom, give authority back to teachers and put far greater
emphasis on training young people in the industrial and technological skills necessary
in the modern world. We will abolish student tuition fees – which are a stealth tax
upon education, and create apprenticeships in our rebuilt manufacturing industry.
We will also seek to instil in our young people knowledge of and pride in the history,
cultures, and heritage of the native peoples of Britain.
Prior to our forming a government, we will fight tooth and nail against the looming
catastrophe of forced integration within secondary schools. As a result of the
recommendations in the New Labour-sponsored reports into the riots in northern
English towns in 2001, a massive programme of social engineering is about to begin.
This will involve the demolition of dozens – in due course probably hundreds – of
perfectly good schools, and their replacement with brand new premises in which
pupils from different ethnic minorities are mixed through bussing schemes which will
rightly be resented and resisted by all communities.
We are opposed to this entire scheme on three grounds: The huge sums of money
involved would be far better spent upgrading existing schools; it will add to the racial
tensions, hatred and violence that various other old party policies have fostered in
these areas, and it is based on the destructive and anti-human extermination through
integration model of community relations we have already condemned in our section
on multi-culturalism.

Key Policies on Primary & Secondary Schooling
1.

All staff at teacher training colleges will face compulsory re-evaluation and retraining. The egalitarian and anti-British dogmas that have betrayed a generation
will be rooted out and replaced with a commitment to competition, excellence
and British culture.

2.

We will reopen every closed grammar school, and will allow every community
that wants such a school to open one.

General Election Manifesto 2005

Page 30

British National Party

3.

We will restore all of the old exams that have been abolished, starting with the
"A" and "O" Levels, and will reverse the dumbing down of those that have not
been dumbed down.

4.

We will reverse the dumbing down of school curricula and teaching aids, and
raise expectations back to the levels of the past.

5.

We will replace the study of world history and cultures with a predominant
emphasis on the history of the British Isles, English, Welsh, Scottish and Irish
culture, and their relation to Western Civilization as a whole. We will prohibit all
curricular pandering to the cultures of immigrants.

6.

PSE lessons, which are nothing more than left-liberal indoctrination sessions, will
be scrapped. When it comes to decisions about civic matters, children should be
taught how to think, rather than what to think.

7.

We will systematically eliminate bureaucratic positions in the schools and
reallocate their salaries to hiring actual teachers, buying textbooks, and other
direct needs.

8.

We will eliminate nonsense subjects and reallocate funding and the time of pupils
to traditional subjects like reading, writing, and maths.

9.

We will inculcate a meritocratic attitude in the education system so that pupils of
all class backgrounds can rise as far as their abilities will take them. We will
prohibit the promotion of an expectation of failure for working-class pupils.

10. We recognise that the Labour policy of closing special needs schools and forcing
their pupils through the mainstream education system is a policy imposed for
reasons of egalitarian dogma and short-sighted cost-cutting. It is harmful both to
the special needs children who are unable to cope in conventional schools, and
to normal children whose education is disrupted or held back by the extra strain
imposed on teachers by having to cope with such mixed abilities. We would
therefore reverse the closure of special needs schools.
11. We recognise that especially gifted children also have special needs, and would
make extra resources available to enable them to reach their outstanding
potential.
12. We will end the dumping of anti-social expelled students on other districts.
Exclusion policies should be in the hands of head teachers and governors, not
bureaucrats.
13. Council education authorities should be abolished and the money swallowed up
by their bureaucracies given instead to each individual school. Co-ordination
between schools should be organized on a county basis by the head teachers.
14. Competitive sport must be reintroduced and encouraged at all levels of the
education system.
15. In order to combat unhealthy eating, including eating disorders and the
consumption of over-processed junk food, all schools will be required to provide
proper traditional meals, using locally-sourced ingredients wherever possible.
This is an ideal use for the less than aesthetically perfect fruit and vegetables
produced by organic farmers which supermarkets claim are unsaleable.
16. We will aim to make a good high-school education sufficient for many
professions, eliminating the need for expensive university degrees where they are
not called for.
17. We will re-introduce assemblies based on traditional Christian values and
worship.

General Election Manifesto 2005

Page 31

British National Party

Key Policies on University Education
1.

We reject the idea that the left is entitled to institutionalised control of higher
education and through this means impose its ideas on the rest of the nation.
We will require ideological balance on university faculties.

2.

We will abolish the Access Regulator and all other politically-correct attempts to
undermine university standards in the name of social leveling.

3.

On satisfactory completion of their period of National Service, all suitably qualified
youngsters will become eligible to receive a university education (just as the less
academic will be entitled to proper paid apprenticeships or training and aid in
running their own businesses) without fees or debts.

4.

We will systematically de-fund nonsense disciplines and will not provide grants or
loans for such studies.

5.

We will increase funding for areas of value to the nation, like high technology and
traditional culture. We believe higher education must serve both our economy
and the maintenance of our culture and national identity.

6.

We will use bursaries to encourage students to study difficult, unpopular, or longcourse subjects that are in the national interest, such as science, technology and
medicine.

7.

We will fund industrial-incubator laboratories and other means by which
university research is made useful to industry.

General Election Manifesto 2005

Page 32

British National Party

Britain-first economics – The antidote to globalism
The BNP stands for a British national economy and is opposed to globalism,
international socialism, laissez-faire capitalism and economic liberalism. We stand for
rebuilding a strong national economy operating solely in the national interest. We
favour as much national self sufficiency as is practicably possible. We will trade with
other nations when it is the best interests of our people and nation to do so.
Although Britain in 2005 enjoys a fragile prosperity redolent of the "you never had it
so good" years of the 1950s, thoughtful citizens realize that this is built upon a
foundation of rising debt and record trade deficits and is therefore unsustainable. The
present regime and its Establishment opponents have without exception abandoned
the attempt to run the economy for the benefit of Britain , surrendering simultaneously
to the strangling statism of Euro-regulations and to an international free market that
has no loyalty to this country.
We are economic nationalists, and we believe it is the duty of the government to
proactively run the economy for the benefit of the nation. We reject the current myth
that this is impossible, and point out that there are many examples of nations who
follow precisely such a policy. Economics is a highly-structured body of thought, and
this can be achieved by systematically thinking through what economic nationalism
means and how it differs from the policies of the current regime. Therefore we present
the following Twelve Axioms of Economic Nationalism as the core of our thinking:
Axiom 1: Economic policy is not a matter of inevitabilities; there is room for choices
and the right choices can be effective.
The reigning myth of economics – which goes under names like
"Thatcherism," "neo-liberalism ," "the Washington Consensus," and
"laissez-faire," is that there is very little a government can do about its
economy other than submit to the dictates of the international
marketplace and its one-size-fits-all model. We observe, however, that in
truth many nations around the world have thrived economically while
defying this model, the most brilliant examples being the tiger states of
East Asia like Japan , South Korea , and Singapore. No sane nation
simply accepts the hand dealt to it by the forces of international
capitalism, but rather seeks to play the game of the world economy to its
own advantage.
Axiom 2: The fundamental concern of the government’s economic policy-making
must be the material well-being of the British people.
This sounds obvious, but recent governments have not believed this. The
Tories have simply surrendered to an international free market that
doesn’t care a whit about Britain over Timbuktu, and Labour is primarily
interested in preparing Britain ‘s economy to be soldered into a European
super state.
Axiom 3: The material well-being of the British people is similar to, but not identical
with, Britain ‘s economic well-being.
The key point here is that not all aspects of material well-being are part of
the economy. For example, a home-cooked meal may be superior to one
eaten out, but the economic statistics record the labour of preparing this
meal in a café but not at home. The same is true of a child cared for at
home rather than in a day-care center. This creates the illusion that we
have a higher material standard of living when we purchase things that
used to be produced within the traditional family, which illusion has been
a key part of the attack on the traditional family.

General Election Manifesto 2005

Page 33

British National Party

There are other examples of how the fetish for GNP misrepresents our
material well-being. The fact that environmental degradation doesn’t show
up in the figures is one. Another is the fact that a safe neighborhood that
needs no private security guards shows a lower level of economic output
than a dangerous neighborhood where every business has to hire them.
Hordes of lawyers settling disputes by expensive litigation are another.
We reject the mistake the current economic establishment makes of
confusing economic output with material well-being.
Axiom 4: The economic well-being of Britain is more-or-less a function of per-capita
GNP, not aggregate GNP.
This little point undoes a huge amount of sophistry that is currently being
put about in economic policy, principally with regards to immigration.
The current Establishment keeps yapping about how immigration is
supposedly good for the economy. All this means is that immigration
increases Britain ‘s aggregate GNP, a natural consequence of increasing
the number of persons working here. It does not mean that immigration
increases per-capita GNP. In fact, because immigrants tend to be cheap
laborers who are less productive than the average Briton, immigration
actually decreases per-capita GNP. Furthermore, because productivity is a
function of capitalisation-per-worker, immigration dilutes productivity by
increasing the number of workers dependent on the given capital stock.
We will not try to expand our economy by dumping foreign labor into it.
Axiom 5: The economic well-being of Britain is more precisely a function of the
income of the average British family.
It is no secret that since Thatcher, economic growth in this country has
tended to flow to the top of the income scale. While this does increase
per-capita income, it means that the beneficiaries of this income do not
include a large portion of this country. Britain has a much higher level of
economic inequality than comparable countries, and this is inexcusable.
Of course, it is no secret that the old-style socialist methods of
redistributing income down the scale turned out to have harmful effects,
so unfortunately it is not just a matter of taxing income away from the rich
and towards the working class. But there are other policy tools that can
be used to reduce income inequality. The BNP will use all non-destructive
means to reduce income inequality.
Axiom 6: Economic well-being must take inflation accurately into account.
Rising incomes mean nothing if the cost of living is rising just as fast. The
present government is lying about inflation by excluding housing costs,
which are a significant part of the average family’s budget, from the
inflation rate. House prices in Britain , particularly in the southeast, have
been allowed to skyrocket in recent years to the point where many
ordinary people who don’t own houses cannot afford to acquire them and
those who pay rent must spend an excessive portion of their income. Can
this possibly have something to do with the fact that over 300,000
foreigners have moved into the southeast since 1990? Of course it can.
Immigration also drives up the cost of everything else in the economy that
has a real-estate component -- everything from shop rents to car prices - as our supply of land is finite. The BNP will fight these immigrationdriven rises in the cost of living and report a truthful inflation figure.

General Election Manifesto 2005

Page 34

British National Party

Axiom 7: The income of British workers is a function of how big the “profit pie” is at
the companies where they work and how big a “slice of the pie” workers
get compared with management and owners.
This sounds obvious, but the major parties have tended to forget this.
Tories and New Labour only care about the first, and old-fashioned
socialists care about the second and take the first for granted. Unions, for
example, can fight to extract a bigger share of the pie for their members
at the expense of management, but they generally don’t do much to
make the pie itself larger. The BNP supports strong unions and strong
industries, and the kind of unions that work for the health of their
industries.
Axiom 8: Sustainable income is what counts.
Unlike the old parties, the BNP wants Britain to still be here for our
children and grandchildren. Economic “quick fixes” abound, but they all
exact a price in the long run. For example, unions that exact wage
increases which their employers can’t afford, just produce corporate
bankruptcies and redundancies. Governments that spend borrowed
money just saddle future taxpayers with the need to pay interest. The
BNP will not pursue quick fixes, unlike Labour leftists like Gordon Brown,
who wants to borrow his way to better public services.
Axiom 9: Wages are set by the supply and demand for labour, so immigration
drives down wages by increasing supply.
Establishment economists have this odd quirk: they teach all day that the
price of any given commodity is determined by its supply and demand,
and then they conveniently forget this when it comes to labour. Why?
Because obviously the establishment wants labour to be as cheap as
possible. It is in the interest of the average British worker to minimize the
supply and maximize the demand for his labor. The BNP will not allow
immigration to Britain and will implement the orderly repatriation of past
immigrants.
Axiom 10: Sustainable income is a product of the investment in British industry
What makes Britain a first-world country, rather than an economic
basket-case, is the fact that British workers have hundreds of years of
accumulated capital equipment to work with. This means the long-term
prosperity of this country is a matter of having the highest possible level
of capitalisation. Unless the capital flows in from abroad, which just
means that the profits must flow out again, the capitalisation of British
industry is a function of how much money Britons save. Furthermore, a
high savings rate is a good thing because it helps provide for people in
their retirement. The BNP will support policies designed to raise the
national savings rate, like the replacement of income tax with a
progressive consumption tax.
Axiom 11: Owners should work, and workers should own.
If ordinary Britons increase their savings rate and invest the money in
British industry, it will over time transpire that they are the owners of
British industry. This has been called “pension-fund socialism,” and it
combines the efficiency of capitalist private ownership with socialism’s
ideal of worker ownership of the means of production. It also gives
workers an incentive to care about the long-term health of the companies

General Election Manifesto 2005

Page 35

British National Party

they work for, as they are part owners. It is also a pro-nationalist policy, as
it tends to bring the ownership of British industry into British hands. The
BNP supports the gradual assumption of worker ownership through their
pension funds.
Axiom 12: Well-educated workers get better paid.
No serious person disputes this, but Britain’s education system still
doesn’t reflect this insight very well. Britain suffers from a class-based
bias in favor of impractical education and against technology education
that is absent in more prosperous nations like Germany, Japan, and the
United States. The BNP supports better education, particularly in those
disciplines and institutions most relevant to the bulk of British industry, like
the polytechnics. We support the systematic rebuilding of the pure and
applied scientific prowess that supports industrial research.

General Election Manifesto 2005

Page 36

British National Party

Extending ownership and responsibility
The current pensions crisis was created largely by Gordon Brown’s smash-and-grab
tax raids on pension funds. But even without that it is clear that the cost of providing
for a steadily ageing population is a major concern that responsible politicians must
address. The facile UKIP or Sun answer that all such difficulties can be addressed by
spending and re-spending the massive but finite amounts of money at presented
wasted on EU membership or asylum seekers is no real solution.
In the end, decent pension provision can only be financed from the productive
capacity of the generation which is working at that moment. Money saved during a
worker’s employed life has to be invested somewhere, and the return which pays the
pension comes from the extra wealth that money generates now.
The provision of long-term sustainable pensions therefore depends on the rebuilding
of profitable and sustainable British industry. This in turn cannot be achieved simply
by assuming that our foreign competitors will concentrate on traditional
manufacturing and leave the high-tech computer for us to use as our passport to
prosperity. The idea - implicit in the old parties’ tunnel vision on this sector as the
source of future employment and profit – that people in the Far East are incapable of
seeing and acting on the same opportunity is, curiously, fundamentally racist.
The truth is that Britain will only be able to sustain the social welfare benefits that are
recognised by all parties as the hallmarks of a stable and civilized society if we rebuild
a broad-based manufacturing economy.
The starting point for this must be the election of a nationalist government that has
not bought in to globalist dogma and which recognises that it is a primary
responsibility of government to create, preserve and strengthen the overall framework
within which individuals and companies working in a general atmosphere of private
enterprise competition can thrive.
In calling for a nation in which responsibility is prized, we begin with the fact that the
government itself must accept responsibility for the overall well-being and direction of
the economy, rather than hiding behind the decisions of independent banks, currency
speculators and the people running other nations’ economies.
In the run-up to this General Election, the loss under New Labour of one million
manufacturing jobs has been compounded by the shattering blow of the collapse of
one hundred years of British car-manufacturing at Rover. Foreign competition from
companies with good designs, excellent products, supportive governments and often
lower wages than ours is the obvious reason, but the real reasons for the slow death
of British manufacturing is to be found at home:
Bad management; high taxation; workforces without a real stake in their companies;
chronic under-investment (largely as a result of a taxation system that penalizes
productivity and saving, and rewards spending); an education system and salary
differentials that push most of the nation’s best brains into essentially parasitic
professions such as the law, the management of bureaucracies and advertising, and
a succession of governments with a positive aversion to anything which smacks of a
patriotic procurement policy or even national pride in general.
Turning these problems around and reviving the industrial and technological base on
which our survival as a First World country depends will require an enormous effort.
The resources required can only be mobilized by a government that sets out to play
the guiding role in our national revival, rather than managing our continued decline
and pretending that tourism and selling each other imported consumer goods will
allow us to keep ourselves in careless luxury.

General Election Manifesto 2005

Page 37

British National Party

There is a great deal for us to learn in the way in which the Japanese Ministry of
Finance has overseen and helped to create the conditions which enabled the tiny,
over-crowded and almost resource-free island of Japan to recover from being utterly
crushed in 1945 to being the global economic super-power which she is today.
Obviously there are many differences between our situations, our peoples and our
cultures, so we do not envisage a direct carbon copy of the Japanese system, rather
the creation of a Westernised version of it. As nationalists we expect to “do things our
way”, but we are not too proud to learn from others who have enjoyed success in
areas where our Masters have delivered us only demoralizing failure.
In keeping with our commitment to parliamentary democracy, it will of course be
necessary for the British National Bank (based on the Bank of England) to be directly
responsible to the pan-British parliament. Further details of how this system will work
will be published before the next major election, once our Economic Strategy Group
has had the time to research this crucial matter much more thoroughly.

Britain? Whose Britain?
Past nationalist proposals for reviving British industry have tended to begin and end
with a plan to protect British industry by erecting tariff barriers, and then leaving
conventional capitalist businesses to take advantage of the newly favourable trading
conditions to rebuild our manufacturing base while making themselves huge profits.
We, however, are acutely aware that tariffs on foreign manufactured goods are also
an added tax on the ordinary families who buy those goods. And as radical
nationalists we do not intend to tax our own people white in order to benefit the selfsame companies and businessmen who have spent the last few decades maximizing
profits by shipping in cheap labour and shipping out British jobs. Our new industrial
and technological revolution must benefit the Many, not just the few.
Since we are not egalitarian socialists, it is not our intention to run around
expropriating existing businesses, but we are determined to ensure that social justice
is done, and the incentive value of personal ownership is built-in to as much of our
rebuilt manufacturing economy as possible.
Wherever new industries are created, therefore, worker-ownership schemes will be
implemented as far as is practical. In smaller concerns the presumption will be in
favour of workers’ co-operatives; in larger ones for share-ownership, profit-sharing
and management board places.
This plan to extend personal private ownership is not an optional whim, but an
integral part of our entire vision for Britain. Nor is it confined to the means of industrial
production. The fresh food sections of supermarkets, in particular, are a prime target
for conversion into owner-run ‘urban markets’. And in view of their bosses’ long
record of exploiting British consumers and farmers, and of financing political parties
and unhealthy technologies guaranteed to give them even more clout and profits, the
supermarkets are entirely legitimate targets for radical and legally enforced change.
The same is true of land ownership, particularly arable land. As noted in our section
on Agriculture, the creation of an entire new class of independent family farms is at
the core of our plans for Britain’s countryside, food production and increased health.
We have no intention of setting the disastrous precedent of expropriation of existing
landowners – with the exception of speculators and such like who are actually guilty
of crimes such as tax evasion and fraud against present laws. But we will undertake a
series of measures intended to create the circumstances in which large numbers of
young people can obtain the training, experience, land, homes and capital they need
to return to the land of their ancestors as productive owner-farmers.

General Election Manifesto 2005

Page 38

British National Party

Apart from the many health, long-term economic and environmental arguments in
favour of such moves to expand the ranks of the owners of productive property, there
is one very important political reason: This is the fact that the assumption by the
government of the responsibility of directing (though not running) the commanding
heights of the economy will inevitably lead to a very significant growth in the power of
the State.
In order to keep under control the State’s inherent tendency to add more power to
existing power (yes, even our State, for it is the nature of the beast), it is necessary to
look for ways to balance an increase in the power of central government with an
increase in some other area in the power of ordinary people.
Turning growing numbers of ‘hands’, ‘wage slaves’, ‘workers by hand or brain’ or
middle class contract workers – call them what you will – into the personal owners of
their own tiny share of our national productive capacity, is one such way to increase
the average level of independence and hence freedom among our people.

A return of pride and purpose
In deciding where to locate new industries, the Ministry of Finance and the other
government agencies and private investors with which it will work will do their best to
‘match’ the new developments to the traditional industrial roles of specific areas.
Thus, for example, a plant to build the structure of off-shore wind and ocean current
power rigs would be set up in a community once known for its shipbuilding yards,
while the turbines for the same system would be built in one of the cities which used
to turn out engines when British cars, bikes and planes were the best in the world.
Such developments must of course be economically viable, but there is much more
to our vision that simple economics. As ordinary people, not members of the leftliberal elite or the tired remnants of the old ruling class, we know all too well the
terrible damage done by the old parties’ decision to allow British industry to wither
and die. We see it in the health problems of redundant workers, in the divorce and
crime rate in their communities, in the hurt and bitter eyes of hopeless young men
who turn to crime and drugs in a desperate attempt to give their lives meaning, and
in communities where old ladies once scrubbed their doorsteps sinking into decay
and dereliction in their own squalor.
In our burning passion to undo that wrong, our greatest motivation is not to see
Britain climbing back up the world tables for GDP or balance of payments’ surpluses
or for harnessing genius to productivity. More than anything, we want to see men and
women who can hold their heads up high and say to the highest and mightiest
people it is their misfortune to meet: “Well, I’ve got a proper job.”

General Election Manifesto 2005

Page 39

British National Party

Abolition of income tax
Under the present regime, the state’s total take in taxes from the British people has
risen by approximately 50%, and now stands at more than one third of our entire
GDP. We are not a Thatcherite party and do not propose deep cuts in government
spending, although we would massively reallocate it, eliminating entire national and
local government departments which gobble taxpayers’ money to finance Politically
Correct social engineering schemes and State interference in matter which are not its
proper concern.
We nonetheless believe that the present level of taxation is roughly the limit the
economy can bear and we pledge not to increase total taxes, as a percentage of
GDP, above this level. Naturally, we may alter the mix of taxes so that some activities
are taxed more than they are now and some less, but the total will not be allowed to
increase.
The only exception we must make to this rule is if there is a recession, which naturally
diminishes tax receipts and forces tax increases to satisfy rising demands for social
benefits due to increased unemployment, or an international emergency beyond our
control similarly impacting the British economy. To keep our pledge on taxes, we
embrace a similar pledge on total spending levels.
However, within this framework of a constant percentage level of taxation, we
propose several key reforms in the mix and manner of taxes. Any reforms we
introduce will be imposed gradually, not precipitately, in order to allow evidence of
their consequences to correct any defects in the initial scheme. Having seen the
fiascoes of the present and past government, we are not going to rush into untried
schemes.

Income tax – the ‘temporary’ solution that became a menace
One such scheme rushed into by a previous administration is income tax. This was
first introduced in 1799 to finance the war against revolutionary France. After being
abolished and reintroduced, it was finally imposed in 1842, again as a ‘temporary’
measure.
When it was first introduced, the burden fell largely on the unearned income of the
very wealthy, and thereby had some moral justification. As it was extended by
successive governments, however, more and more people fell victim to what is in
general a tax on the hard work or ingenuity of each individual. Today we have the
ridiculous situation when even people below the official poverty line pay income tax.
Such obvious injustice, however, conceals far deeper moral and practical problems
with income tax:
The moral point is precisely that it is a tax on people’s labour. There is actually very
little difference between the feudal mediaeval serf, who was compelled on pain of
eviction or violence to work one day in three for the Lord of the Manor in order to be
entitled to till his own patch of land and to pay for the lifestyle of his ‘Lord’, and the
position of the modern wage slave who must work half the entire year before
reaching his ‘tax freedom day’.
It is one thing entirely to tax people for the use of facilities built by the wider
community, or for taking advantage of opportunities to profit which are generated by
the fact that they belong to a community. Such taxes are morally entirely justified, for
no man is an island and all should contribute to the commonweal.
The practical problems with income tax, meanwhile, are even greater.
The first is that it can be – and very often is – evaded. The feudal serf could take the

General Election Manifesto 2005

Page 40

British National Party

risk of running away and hoping not to be caught within the year and a day in which
he could be dragged back to his Lord’s village, whipped and mutilated, and set back
to work. The modern wage slave simply slips into the black economy. Of course, the
risk of fines and possibly a term in prison is not as much of a deterrent as used to
exist, but that does not excuse breaking the law.
Tax evasion is not a victimless crime. If Person A dodges paying tax, then Persons B
& C have to pay more tax. Tax evasion robs our neighbours and undermines the
national cohesion that underpins our democracy. Perhaps most corrosive of all, it
inculcates a contempt for the law and a resentment against legitimate authority.
If income tax evasion was a minor problem, none of this would matter too much. But
Britain now has one of the largest black economies in Western Europe. It is estimated
to involved between 5% and 13% of our total GDP (Professional Oversight Board for
Accountancy, Feb 2005).
According to the Construction Confederation, citing the last available figures (2001)
black economy work in the building industry alone cost the Exchequer – and hence
other taxpayers - £500m in lost tax revenue. By its very nature the true figure is
impossible to obtain, but Prof Colin Talbot of Nottingham University suggests
(February 2004) that the black economy is worth between £53 billion and £137 billion
a year. That involves somewhere between 1.4 and 3.6 million workers evading £27
billion in taxes.
In addition to this staggering cost, the collection, and legitimate avoidance, of income
tax is also a huge burden on the productive economy and the opportunity to do
something better with our time and money. The Inland Revenue employs 82,180
people. Of course, some of these spend their time collecting other taxes, such as
Corporation Tax, with which we do not take issue, but a huge number are employed
to collect income tax.
On the other side of the line there are 252,000 chartered accountants, plus a further
140,000 student members of professional accountancy bodies. There are even more
ancillary office staff and book-keepers working for them, and on top of all that there
are the untold millions of man-hours wasted by individual small businessmen
struggling with the accountancy records. A massive proportion of all this work is
generated by the need to pay – and efforts to avoid paying – income tax.
Finally, there is the problem that to tax peoples’ work and productivity is the biggest
disincentive possible to hard work and economic efficiency. To allow workers of all
levels to keep the fruits of their own labour would in itself spark an unprecedented
productivity upsurge which would dovetail with and help to finance the massive
economic rebuilding programme which our overall plan for the reconstruction of
Britain requires.
The reforms we propose are:
1.

We will introduce, phased in over five years, a consumption tax on non-essential
goods in place of the income tax. The purpose of this is to raise Britain ‘s
savings rate, which is the basis of our capital formation and thus investment in
economic growth. This consumption tax would be very similar to the present
income tax, except that the basis for taxation would be income spent, not
income earned, during the year. It would be collected by the present VAT
authorities, who could do the relatively limited extra work with only a small
proportion of the workforce currently employed one way or another by the
income tax monster.

2.

We are aware that a consumption tax, unless adjusted to compensate for this
fact, favors the rich because they save a higher percentage of their incomes.
Therefore we will alter the tax code to maintain present levels of progressivism in

General Election Manifesto 2005

Page 41

British National Party

taxation by income bracket. In essence, this means that the spendthrift rich (who
spend most of their income) will pay more tax than they do today, the thrifty rich
(who save most of their income) will pay less, but that the rich as a group will pay
the same as today, and similarly for other income brackets.
3.

A relatively small number of the bureaucrats freed from shuffling tax forms would
be redeployed as Customs Officers to guard all points of entry into the UK.
These would primarily prevent attempts to evade consumption tax through
smuggling, but they would incidentally provide us – at no extra cost – with the
proper security on our borders to protect us from illegal immigration and
international terrorists.

4.

The hundreds of thousands of professionals and office workers released by this
reform from essentially unproductive income tax-related jobs would be
systematically redeployed to more productive areas of the economy.
We are aware of the theoretical and practical complexities of the consumption
tax, but given the complexity of the present tax system, we believe they are no
greater and we will address them in a forthcoming document on our tax policies.

Other tax policies
1.

While the present Council Tax system (introduced by the Tories and increased by
76% under New Labour) is far from perfect, the same is certainly true of the
other likely alternatives, including the unworkable Poll Tax and the Liberal
Democrats proposals for a Local Income Tax which would be subject to all the
criticisms of its national big brother. We believe that the key to making council tax
bearable is simply to eliminate at a stroke the vastly expensive network of
Politically Correct social engineering projects and unnecessary (and often EUimposed) bureaucracy which all councils maintain.
Such operations are the mechanism for both New Labour patronage and for the
long-term development of what Hilaire Belloc rightly termed the “ Servile State ”.
As well as their abolition allowing us to slash council tax, our country would be a
better place without them.
No one minds paying a fair price for essential council services; the problem is not
the tax itself, but the amount of tax being levied by councils which have
expanded into areas which it is not the business of government, national or local,
to interfere. We will conduct a full audit of the extent and cost of such operations
once we take control of our first Unitary Authority council and so have proper
and ready access to the information required to begin to make a proper
assessment.

2.

In order to strengthen the traditional family, we will restore the married man’s tax
allowance, which we will raise to £20,000.

3.

We will abolish nuisance taxes such as the BBC license fee and car licence
discs.

4.

We will introduce a special ‘level playing field’ super tax on companies that evade
paying other taxes in Britain by out-sourcing jobs to factories and call centres
overseas. If they want to do business here, they must pay their full share of taxes
here.

5.

A further major source of central government tax revenue would be the tariffs
placed on foreign-manufactured goods of types which the Ministry of Finance
identifies as being suitable targets for replacement by items made in British
factories. This money would be ploughed into the rebuilding of our manufacturing
base.

General Election Manifesto 2005

Page 42

British National Party

Public service, not corporate profit
The present regime has increased public spending by approximately 50% since 1997,
and yet the average citizen is painfully aware that the quality of public services like the
NHS, schools, and public transport has not improved.
We believe the answer to this paradox lies in the fact that Labour has spent the
additional money, not upon direct providers of services like teachers, policemen, and
nurses, but upon tiers of bureaucrats. It is no accident that these middle-class public
administrators are the core supporters of New Labour.
The present regime has engaged in a ridiculous pantomime of pseudo-management
in its empty attempts to duplicate the management techniques of the private sector,
such as quantitative targets in public sector fields where they are not appropriate.
Therefore, our primary programme for the reform of public services will be to eliminate
bureaucratic positions and reallocate the funds to direct providers of services. We
believe in the leanest feasible bureaucracy and the allocation of funds as close to the
end-users, the British people, as possible.
Furthermore:
1.

We will not engage in pointless privatisation of services such as public transport
out of a misunderstood admiration for the successful privatisations of the 1980s.
The decision as to whether a certain needed service should be provided by the
public or private sector is not something to be made on abstract ideological
grounds, but must be made upon considerations of the feasibility of real
competition, the public’s right to universal service and other unprofitable
provisions, and accompanying factors.

2.

We believe that it is absurd that 38% of voters are now recipients of meanstested benefits while public services languish. While we do not believe in cutting
the welfare state as an end in itself, we will reduce the number of people
receiving benefits and reallocate the funds to the truly needy (especially
pensioners) and to public services like the NHS, schools, and public transport.

3.

As already noted in the section on the NHS (see Social Inclusion), we recognise
that the underlying motives of Labour and Tory moves to privatise every single
institution they can lay their destructive hands on, are globalist dogma and
corporate greed.

In the next few years, it will become clear that this privatization drive extends way
beyond targets which have already been clearly signaled, such as council housing,
the health service and the Post Office.
From July 2005, for instance, Europe ‘s largest media company, the German firm
Bertelsmann AG, is to run the council administration of the East Riding of Yorkshire.
500 council employees, providing services to some 350,000 inhabitants, will
henceforth be employed and directed not by elected representatives of the people,
but by a profit-hungry multi-national company.
The takeover plan set out a timetable which shows the company would, within
months be making a profit from running services, collecting council tax and paying
wages and social benefits.
Not surprisingly, Bertelmann and its subsidiary Arvato regard the East Riding
experiment as “a pilot project of strategic importance.” They believe that the potential
British ‘market’ in this field is £6 billion per year. The Arvato board has stated that it
was in “substantive discussions” for the takeover of other local administrations in
Britain.

General Election Manifesto 2005

Page 43

British National Party

This begs the question as to why at least one of the thousands of old party local
councilors, who must have had advance notice of this outrageous scheme, have not
explained what is going on to their constituents and begun a campaign to stop it. The
British National Party is different, and we will expose and lead the popular fight
against such attempts to turn public services into corporate milch-cows whenever we
find them.

General Election Manifesto 2005

Page 44

British National Party

Transport – Life’s too short to spend in a traffic jam
Britain’s overall transport policy will inevitably be shaped over the next few decades
by the growing worldwide energy crisis caused by the peaking and subsequent
decline of oil production coinciding with increasing demand in the rapidly
industrialising economies of Asia.
This subject is dealt with in more detail in the section on the Environment (Section 15,
Our Blessed Plot ) although the problem is so vast and all-encompassing that it will
take several years of further work to finalise and perfect our proposals for dealing with
it.
Increased investment is needed in Britain ‘s public transport system to bring it up to
the highest standards in the world. The fiasco of rail privatisation, with different
companies running services and tracks, has led to higher fares and lower safety
standards. The BNP would end the nonsense of private transport companies making
huge profits through public subsidies. Those private services which are unable to
operate profitably in the “free market” will have those subsidies reduced and removed
and operations brought back into public ownership. The British taxpayer will no
longer be fleeced to boost profits for private companies.
Passenger safety and the safe carriage of freight are paramount and Britain should
once again have a world-leading railway industry and railway infrastructure. We will
seek to bring about the electrification of all existing and re-laid rail lines. We will phase
out diesel locos unless fuel can be obtained cheaply and efficiently from biorenewable sources. The introduction of super-efficient Maglev trains is a national
transport priority. Transport projects must be in sympathy with the landscape and
historical townscapes, and therefore we will introduce legislation to ensure the use of
road tunnels rather than overland roads through areas of beauty and close to historic
sensitive areas.
The traffic congestion that makes life so hard for millions, especially in south East
England, is partly the result of over-crowding and immigration, and partly because
British membership of the EU tends to suck business and investment down into one
corner of the country. Our policies on stopping immigration and encouraging a
gradual fall in the overall population will, over the long-term, reduce congestion. At
the same time, ending the distortion of our national economy by withdrawal from the
European Union will reverse thirty years of over-concentration of business, people and
traffic in the South East.

Proposals
1.

A BNP administration would abolish the road fund tax on all private and
commercial vehicles. We view this as an over-bureaucratic and unnecessary
method of tax collection, inherently expensive to collect and easy for the lawless
to evade. In addition, it provides a spurious justification for the maintenance and
extension of the surveillance state. We would replace the funding acquired from
the road tax with an element built into taxation of the purchase of non-renewable
fuels.

2.

Congestion of our towns and cities must be eased by the provision of greater
incentives to use rail, bus, tram and Urban Light Transport (ULTRA) scheme
transport instead of private cars. The first step is to end the crime and squalor
that puts so many people off public transport.

3.

Our building plans for human-sized cities will also see a general ban on out-of
town retail/leisure developments. They encourage car dependence and socially
disadvantage pensioners, single mothers and non-car (poorer) families. Such

General Election Manifesto 2005

Page 45

British National Party

projects need to make use of brownfield sites within towns, linked by public
transport networks.
4.

Motorists will be freed from repressive and restrictive legislation; we want to see
overall motorway speed limits raised, and made subject to variable speed limits
depending on surface/weather conditions and volume of traffic. A motorway may,
for example, have a 40mph limit during heavy rain, but a 90 mph limit during a
summer’s night.

5.

We are committed to the maintenance of toll free motorways.

6.

Speeding and careless driving kills and injures but we seek to save lives by
making drivers more responsible. A tougher driving test is needed as well as the
introduction of refresher driving tests for those drivers who have held a licence
for 25 years and again after holding a licence for 50 years.

7.

Hidden speed cameras will be prohibited. Speed cameras in places other than
documented accident black spots will be made illegal, in order to prevent
motorists being used as cash cows. Local authorities and highway agencies will
be encouraged to engineer solutions to deal with accident black spots.

8.

Far more must be done to encourage the development and use of cleaner fuels.
An integrated transport system and the creation of new transport technologies
such as hydrogen fuel cells are essential to the development of our
environmental transport policy.

9.

Our education system must be reconstructed with the emphasis on
mathematics, science and hands-on experience to prepare the new generation
of engineers and technicians needed to design, build and maintain new breeds
of environmentally friendly, safe and efficient transport.

10. As a maritime nation we are pledged to keep our busy waterways moving, safe
and environmentally sound. We are pledged to bring the RNLI into public
sponsorship. The generous and courageous efforts of those lifeboat volunteers
perform a valuable service for marine safety and should not be left to the
vagaries of charity giving.

General Election Manifesto 2005

Page 46

British National Party

Food production – A radical shift
A healthy nation depends on a healthy environment and on healthy food. We see a
strong, healthy agriculture sector and vibrant farming communities as vital to the
country ‘s wellbeing. Britain ‘s farming industry will be encouraged to produce a
much greater part of the nation’s need in food products. Priority will be switched from
quantity to quality, as we move from competing in a global economy to maximum
self-sufficiency for Britain , sustainable agriculture, decreased reliance on petrochemical products and more organic production.
In particular:
1.

CAP subsidies will be phased out following our withdrawal from the EU. The New
Zealand experience will be studied closely and we will work on the principle that
if anything is to be subsidized, it will be increases in food quality (nutritional
quality) rather than the quantity produced as well as environmental sustainability
and rural communities.

2.

The first five years of BNP government will see extensive effort put into
researching, running pilot schemes and establishing training facilities designed to
facilitate a massive and irreversible long-term shift away from giant, mono-cultural
agribusiness land-holdings. A graduated land-tax related to the size of holdings
and the quality of land involved, incentives to new young farmers, and the
extensive use of National Service labour will all be employed to transform the
south and east of England in particular.
The current unsustainable practice of ‘mining’ our soil for what little remains of its
fertility in the industrial production of low quality arable food will be replaced by
sustainable, mixed agriculture based on family farms employing high technology
as well as sound husbandry.

3.

We will ensure a major shift to healthier and more sustainable organic farming.
Local farms will supply local schools with fresh produce for free school meals.

4.

Urgent research work will be carried out into the potential benefits of a massive
remineralisation scheme, carried out with National Service labour.

5.

The work of the Countryside Restoration Trust will be publicized and studied and
used as lessons which are more widely applicable in our pursuit of more
sustainable, healthier food production and a more beautiful Britain.

6.

Factory farming and related agricultural practices will be phased out.

7.

Halal and Kosher slaughter, will be banned, following the lead against animal
cruelty given by Switzerland.

8.

Animal cruelty and abuse of the land will be punished with severe prison
sentences.

9.

We are pledged to ensure the restoration of Britain ‘s once great fishing industry
with the re - imposition of the former exclusion zones around our coast. The
Royal Navy will police the territorial limit and prevent all foreign fishing fleets
entering British waters by force if required.

10. We will fund urgent research into the replacement of environmentally disastrous
river, loch and estuary fish farms with off-shore deepwater fish farms, possibly
built in conjunction with wave, ocean current and wind power generation units.

General Election Manifesto 2005

Page 47

British National Party

The environment – Our ‘blessed plot’
Our ideal for Britain is that of a clean, beautiful country, free of pollution in all its forms.
We will enforce standards to curb those practices which pollute the environment,
whether by business or individuals, and which cause environmental damage. "The
polluter pays to clean up the mess" must become a fact of life, not an electioneering
slogan. We will restore damaged environments and rebuild local pride in local
environments.
In towns, we will work to replace the brutalist modernism of 1960s-style-architecture
with a blend of traditional local styles and materials and ensure that developments
take place on a more human scale. We will balance utility with beauty and make our
communities more aesthetic and accessible.
The BNP is committed to a policy of National Energy Independence based on, as far
as possible, renewable energy sources supplying our national energy needs. This
must be achieved within a decade of the BNP taking power. We cannot rely on
foreign energy sources such as Middle East oil and Russian gas supplies, and still
pretend that we are an ‘independent’ nation.
We are the only true ‘Green Party’ in Britain as only the BNP intends to end mass
immigration into Britain and thereby remove at a stroke the need for an extra 4 million
homes in the green belts of the South East and elsewhere, which are required to
house the influx of 5 million immigrants expected to enter the country under present
trends over the next twenty years.
The environmental policy of the current regime is an utter fraud, as the number-one
threat to the British environment is the population growth driven by the mass
immigration that they support. At present rates, immigration requires the equivalent of
a city the size of Birmingham to be built every five years, and implies that by 2050,
Britain will have a population of 90 million people, reducing our country to a tarmac
desert.
We will ensure that the traditional crafts and trades which are needed to preserve the
unique building styles and landscapes of our country receive all the financial and
infrastructure support we as a Government can provide. The living treasures of
thatchers, dry wall stone builders, masons, carpenters, farriers and gamekeepers will
be seen as key people in our society. Courses will be available in many more
vocational colleges and livelihoods in these crafts and trades will be made more
appealing than moribund university courses which lead to a degree but no worthwhile
employment. Our programme for restoring diverse family farms to the agribusiness
prairies of much of rural England will provide greatly increased employment prospects
for many trades connected with re creating an environment and landscape which is
recognisably ‘English’.

Our Key Environment Policies
1.

We will end immigration to the UK and reduce our land’s population burden by
creating firm but voluntary incentives for immigrants and their descendants to
return home.

2.

We will implement "polluter pays" legislation designed to bring the costs of
repairing environmental damage like toxic waste dumps to the creators of this
damage. We will set up an national ‘Environmental Court’ with powers to
investigate and prosecute all those (flytippers, bush meat importers, factories
which pump dioxins into the environment and so on) who damage the national
environment.

General Election Manifesto 2005

Page 48

British National Party

3.

We will end all intrusions of new development into Greenbelt areas, except in
clear cases of genuine local need.

4.

We will support inner-city and suburban infill development to supply the needs
for new housing and commercial space.

5.

We will maintain, though not increase, current high taxes on petrol to encourage
conservation of energy. We will, however, compensate the traveling public by
ensuring that this money is spent specifically on improving our transport network,
and does not vanish into a taxation black hole.

6.

We will implement a "feebate" system in which low-mileage cars are taxed at
purchase and the resulting revenue applied as a subsidy to high-mileage cars.

7.

We will fund research into renewable and quasi-renewable energy sources and
transmission systems, such wind power, solar power, wave power, hydrogen
fuel, and the pebble-bed nuclear reactor.

8.

We will end the current government’s policy of meeting Britain’s Kyoto Protocol
obligations by building gas-fired power stations, which are dangerously
dependent on a non-renewable fuel imported from unstable and hostile nations,
and will promote genuinely-renewable power sources instead, insofar as feasible.

9.

We will properly fund and upgrade Britain’s public-transport facilities to get
people out of their cars.

10. We will not permit the growing of GM crops.

Green, but hard green
We are a "green" party, but we are a "hard green" party, meaning that our
environmentalism, though as vigorous as the irrational left, differs from it in a number
of ways, the main ones being these:
1.

We believe in environmentalism based on sound science.

2.

We believe environmentalism must centre ultimately on the good of human
beings.

3.

We believe in economically-sensible environmental solutions. We accept the
need to count costs and make rational trade-offs.

4.

We believe in respect for property rights, subject to the understanding that
property owners have duties, too.

5.

We believe protecting the British environment must be done with respect for our
national sovereignty. We reject handing control over our environmental protection
to international bodies.

6.

We care about the urban as well as the rural environment. People habitats
matter, too!

General Election Manifesto 2005

Page 49

British National Party

Britain and the world – Good fences, good neighbours
Britain’s foreign relations should be determined by the protection of our own national
interest and not by our like or dislike of other nations’ internal politics. We will be
neither slave to the Euro or the dollar but remain a free nation by keeping the pound.
We would have no quarrel with any nation that does not threaten British interests. We
will not act as the world’s policeman either for the UN, the EU or the United States.
We will maintain an independent foreign policy of our own, and not a spineless
subservience to the USA , the ‘international community’, or any other country.

Post-EU Foreign Policy
Planning to withdraw from the European Union naturally raises the question of what
Britain ‘s post-EU foreign policy would look like. We believe that the present regime,
despite posturing to the contrary, has essentially forgotten the very purpose of having
a foreign policy: to safeguard the nation’s security, independence, and interests.
The primary fact which will remain in a post-EU Britain is that the UK is, despite its
superpower past, a medium-sized nation with a number of key vulnerabilities.
Fortunately, these vulnerabilities are easily identifiable and tractable to feasible policy
options.
The number one threat to Britain ‘s national independence remains what it has been
since the Romans launched their full occupation of Britain in 43 AD: a united Europe.
Since the Norman Conquest, European imperialists or aspiring imperialists have
threatened to invade this country, or otherwise extend their rule over it. The long list
includes the Hapsburgs, Louis XIV, Napoleon, Kaiser Wilhelm, Hitler, and now, the EU.
We must assume the pattern will continue as long as continental Europe remains a
large centre of demographic, economic, and political power. Therefore we need a
long-term means by which to resist the "gravitational pull" of the Continent if we are
to remain an independent and self-governing nation. The prosperous nations of
Norway and Switzerland have shown that we can trade and maintain good relations
with our fellow Europeans without being part of the EU.
From the post-Napoleonic era to WWI, the British Empire largely fulfilled this role, by
giving Britain overseas connections that enabled us to largely ignore the Continental
powers. The sole exceptions were the mistake of the Crimean War and the 1839
Treaty of London, which committed us to defend Belgian neutrality in order to
preserve a split balance of power on the continent and thus prevent the emergence
of a hegemonic power capable of threatening us.
Starting in 1917, however, Britain had to resort to an external counter-weight not
under her sovereignty, the United States, in order to preserve her independence
against a dominant continental power. This became doubly true in 1941, and the
whole of Europe fell into our position vis-ê-vis the USSR in 1945.
Therefore, however much we may dislike the present American regime, and see the
need to resist American cultural imperialism, we still need the USA as a
counterweight against a European super state. Therefore, while we should politely but
firmly refuse to fight America ‘s wars, we would give serious consideration to allowing
the Americans to keep their bases in the UK so long as they refrain from interfering
with our nationalist political agenda along the lines of what they (and others) did
recently in Ukraine.
Under this policy American bases would be essentially hostages to America ‘s good
behaviour. (If the Philippines can expel its American bases, it would certainly be
possible for us to do so.) As long as Britain allows American bases, the American

General Election Manifesto 2005

Page 50

British National Party

government will have every incentive to cooperate with a future BNP regime. If Britain
threw them out, they would have every incentive to try to overthrow such a
government to get back in.
Such a policy would, of course, be subject to immediate review if it was felt that
aggressive action or threatened intervention by the USA anywhere else in the world
was turning us into a target at risk of becoming collateral damage in other peoples’
quarrels.
Returning to our relationship with our former EU partners, we do envisage certain
areas, such as the development of massively expensive technologies such nuclear
fusion and space exploitation, in which we would engage in joint ventures with other
European nations. This however, would be as sovereign partners on specific projects,
and would involve no diminution of our political, economic or military sovereignty.

The ‘Clash of Civilisations’
The BNP is widely known as the only British political party warning of the danger
posed to our democracy, traditions and freedoms by the creeping Islamification and
dhimmitude of Britain.
This does not, however, mean that we are against Islam per se. As far as we are
concerned it is simply another foreign mindset whose adherents are welcome to do
whatever it instructs them to do – in their own countries.
We are utterly opposed to attempts by American imperialists, the Zionist lobby, the
neo-con movement and the US’s British puppets in the Labour and Tory parties to
drag us into a ‘Clash of Civilisations’ with the Islamic world.
We insist on our right to resist and reverse the Islamification of Britain, and to oppose
the ‘Eurabia’ project of the French and Italian liberal elites. But we also uphold the
right of the people of the Islamic world to resist the attempts by the political elite to
democratise or Westernise the Middle East.

Assisting the Developing World
We reject the idea that Britain must forever be obliged to subsidise the incompetence
and corruption of Third World states by supplying them with financial aid. We also
reject the policy of ‘asset stripping’ the Developing World of its doctors and nurses
due to under investment in the NHS.
The Developing World has been robbed of its essential services staff by decades of
‘people plundering’ by the West. It is time that those doctors and nurses returned
home to take care of their own suffering people with all the knowledge, training and
financial support that Britain can offer. Mass immigration into Britain is triggered by
suffering abroad. If we can help end the suffering of those people in their own
countries without them coming to Britain and claming asylum or refugee status, then
it clearly benefits us to support the rebuilding of the Developing World.
1.

We will link foreign aid with our voluntary resettlement policy, whereby those
nations taking significant numbers of people back to their homelands will need
cash to help absorb those returning. The billions of pounds saved every year by
this policy will also be reallocated to vital services in Britain.

2.

The biggest assistance we can possibly give is to produce a phased and
financially assisted – to both the individuals and countries concerned –
programme under which their skilled people now being exploited as cheap
labour in this country return to take up vital positions in their home economies.

3.

In the case of countries capable of producing imports which we cannot produce

General Election Manifesto 2005

Page 51

British National Party

ourselves – such as tropical farm produce - we would conclude 25-year
preferential trade agreements with such nations, guaranteeing to buy as much as
they want to sell us at 10% above the market rate. Such agreements, together
with foreign aid money being pumped into improving their national infrastructure,
would make returning home to thriving economies an increasingly attractive
option to many immigrants and their descendants.
4.

All members of ethnic minorities taking advantage of our voluntary assisted
Homeward Bound schemes would be entitled to receive a British pension in their
own homelands on reaching retirement age. This would be graded according to
how many years they had worked and paid taxes in Britain.

5.

All Homeward Bound settlers would be allowed to take with them all the legally
acquired proceeds of their time in Britain, including the full profits from any
investment in property here.

National Defence
We would have no quarrel with any nation that does not threaten British interests.
We will not act as the world’s policeman either for the UN, the EU or the US. We will
maintain an independent foreign policy of our own, and not a spineless subservience
to the USA , the ‘international community’, or any other country. We will restore the
county regimental system and also withdraw from the European Union plans for an
European Army. We will invest in creating an integrated defence structure that can
respond to all 21st Century threats.
Successive cuts in defence spending have left Britain ‘s armed forces perilously
weak. We will boost Britain ‘s armed forces to ensure that they are able to deal with
any emergency, and defend our homeland and our independence.
1.

We will bring our troops back from Germany and withdraw from NATO, since
recent political developments make both commitments obsolete.

2.

We will also withdraw all British troops with immediate effect from Iraq. We will
never again involve British troops in any more American ‘ wars for oil’ or neo-con
adventures on behalf of the Zionist government of Israel.

3.

We will refuse to risk British lives in meddling ‘peace-keeping’ missions in parts
of the world where no British interests are at stake - a position of armed
neutrality.

4.

We will restore the county regimental system and withdraw from the European
Union plans for an European Army.

5.

We will invest in creating an integrated defence structure that can respond to all
21st Century threats.

6.

If Britain is attacked by rogue states or terrorists then we will respond with
maximum force until the threat is eradicated.

7.

The compulsory National Service system discussed elsewhere in this Manifesto
would begin at the age of 18 with a period of basic training in the army. This
would include full training with the citizens’ assault rifle. Conscientious objectors
who refuse to undertake military service would be allocated other constructive
work for the community, but would not receive the citizen’s right to be armed, or
the right to vote.

8.

Individuals would be free to refuse to undertake any form of National Service, but
such a refusal to serve the community for the common good would result in their
not being entitled to free places at university, on training courses or selfemployment schemes. Whereas some other politicians mouth platitudes about
there being “no rights without responsibilities”, we mean it.

General Election Manifesto 2005

Page 52

British National Party

Conclusion: Popular nationalism – The idea whose
time will come
The material contained in this document has been written by a team of highly
qualified experts in their own fields who support the BNP and who have the political
awareness to create and develop a solution to the problems in our society. The
manifesto you have read is very much a working document. As political, economic
and social changes occur, or as new technological advances are implemented and
new knowledge is uncovered, the material which fleshes out our fundamental core
values may change.
We will however never betray nor change our fundamental core values which call for
national and cultural regeneration. Those values are our commitment to the principle
of national sovereignty, our commitment to ensure that these islands in the North
Atlantic remain our homeland for all time and that all economic and social structures,
institutions and legislation must be built or developed around the fundamentals of
ensuring the freedom and security of our people and maintaining our unique cultural
and ethnic identity.
We believe that the material contained in our manifesto will strike a chord with
ordinary British folk who are deeply concerned about the future of their country and
the way it is being run today.
Never before are so many Britons awaking to the idea that they are being betrayed
and short-changed; fleeced to pay for public services which do not deliver, lied to by
politicians and ministers, strangled by bureaucracy and gagged by the repression of
political correctness.
Never before have so many Britons contemplated the notion that the mere acquisition
of material goods at great cost to health and family life is not enough; that the quality
of life in their communities is deteriorating and that the imponderables such as a
good education, clean streets, safe parks for the children to play as well as a green
and clean environment are vital for life and that the quest for happiness in gadgets
and consumer tat is futile, costly and destructive.
Those Britons who feel this way are ready for our radical but commonsense program
for change.
So despairing of the status quo are the majority of Britons, that time for a radical
change in political thinking is being demanded and actively sought. The British
National Party with its comprehensive, articulated and common sense approach
seeks to be the vehicle for that change.
Our time is approaching.

General Election Manifesto 2005

Page 53

British National Party

General Election Manifesto 2005
Published by the British National Party, PO Box 14, Welshpool, Powys, SY21 0WE

