POPULAR FRONT

ELECTION PLATFORM

The Popular Front is committed to the people all of the
Republic to devote all their efforts and endeavors in achieving the objective
primary, the village will form in an awareness and civic culture,
in order to embody national unity, waving flags
Peace, Order and Concord, the basis of all political action,
economic, social and cultural standing, in the common ideal of attaining
National greatness, defending the heritage of the nation and their property
material and spiritual inalienable, achieved through effort and
sacrifices of the creative will of all sectors of national life
and projecting the free, sovereign and socially just future destination
greatness. Our Action Plan is to consubstantiated
Principles underlying our party doctrine, deep content
social, political sovereignty and economic independence, and within that
conception, the service of the Republic and its people, proposes
Political Action Plan following:

LEGAL POLICY
1) Reaffirming our respect and observance of the purposes of the
Constitution, as well the strengthening of the institutions
Republican representative government, with real balance and
separation of powers. Defense of Freedom, the law, with special
References to those derived from the human personality, supporting a
true federalism.
Respect for provincial autonomy and restoration of Regime
Municipal self. Commitment to the democratic system and respect to

established legal order, rejecting any act of violence against
that order, or against the basic and fundamental institutions
the nation.
We hold multiparty system, ie, competition in politics
two or more political parties, as well as universal suffrage and the system
electoral majority. 2) Review all current legal system,
with efficient technical sense of genuine public interest, and promoting
Fund Law that address the major principles regarding the
inviolability of our sovereignty, based on political freedom,
economic and social justice. 3) Repeal all legislation
repression, the death penalty, as well of that in any way,
violate individual freedom by the single action or execution of
activities

policies,

guild

or

from

expression

from

thinking, oral and written, which can freely develop,
under the principles and guarantees of the Constitution. 4)
Reform of electoral laws, in order to adjust the fidelity
referendums. Effective range for the operation of the
Political parties ample guarantees to these groups, for free
expression and dissemination of ideas and political action programs.
Severe penalties for any kind of fraud. Equal opportunities
action for citizens and parties. Defense permanent presence
of the people in the nation's history and in all political action, which should
be based on honest and democratic consultation, to reaffirm the
Representative institutions Republican Government. 5) We encourage
as a contribution to spiritual and moral renewal, sucking Republic, the
active and committed participation of the Argentine Youth, men and
women, in order to harness their creative capacities and as a means to
definitive end to the old practices and contradictions, which have
divided and distorted the country. 6) We support the absolute incompatibility

to hold public elected office or function and / or
State administrative bodies, autarchic or decentralized, to
who were managers, agents, representatives, consultants, advisors or
managers or those directly or indirectly, tuvieren relationship
involving dependency, subordination, or linking of common interests,
with consortia, companies, industries, or foreign banks, whose headquarters and
principal place of business resides outside the country's borders, or
which conform monopolies or international economic groups,
apparent domestic home. 7) Planning and legislative coordination,
promoting the creation of high, middle s of studies and research
Legal. 8) Ensure efficient and effective administration
justice, responding to a real division of powers, giving it
the elements and means for proper action, assuring the
Magistrates in the judiciary, and other auxiliary of Justice,
"Status" professional and fair remuneration, in view of the high function
played. Complementary legislation to ensure litigants and
the parties in all the jurisdictions, the effective guarantee of due process and fair
and broad defense of their rights. 9) Reform of the prison system in
humanely natural for the effective execution of rehabilitation and
social adaptation of the offender, as well the immediate sanction
urgent measures for the construction of special facilities
intended prosecuted, convicted and minors of both sexes.
Compulsory primary education courses that include plans
special, technicians and professionals. Creating jobs Institutes,
centers

from

instruction

Y

fields

from

sports.

SOCIAL POLICY

FAMILY RIGHTS: Laws will be promoted to overcome the

material and spiritual welfare of households, constitution,
defense and fulfillment of its purposes. 1) Protection of marriage and
equality

from

both of them

spouses

Y

respect

to

the

Custody. 2) Consolidation of the homestead, extension
same, updating the Act. 3) Sponsor Lot Home, for all
naturalized Argentine citizen or alien, parent, widows / os
with children, single or also with children, who are entitled to
vacant land ask the National, Provincial or Municipal State,
property, building permanent housing them in areas
urban. The lots are delivered in property as homestead and
They may not be seized, transferred or sold, but another family. These
lots will be free of taxes, levies or fees and Institutions
Loan, grant preferential long-term credits and low interest rates,
intended to cover the costs of building. The amortization of such
credits, will be the only guarantee of subsistence and condition of the property.
This right is granted to those who lack all other real property and
also meet the requirements determined by law. 4) Similarly,
granting tax favors land in suburban areas whose
Law extent determined Argentine citizens and / or naturalized
children,

widows / os

with

children

or

singles

higher

old with children, property, parcels destined to exploitation
agricultural and livestock, farm or ranch, according to the particularities of
each region. These plots will also be assigned as a Site of
Family, and they may not be seized, transferred or sold except to another group
family; They are also free from any charge, tax or duty,
creating a priority system of long-term loans and minimum
interest APRA meet the needs of provision of animals,
implements
buildings

from

sowing,

seeds,

indispensable

from

tools,
living place

or

improvements
from

Y

works

necessary to production. Such credits will be charged with the fruits
collected and reimbursement of these will be the only condition
survival of the property. The special law will also cover the
conditions, terms and obligations of purchasers, and determine the
extension areas of the plots, depending on the type of exploitation, regions and
soil characteristics. 5) National Health Plan, with social meaning and
economic, advocating systems to ensure the entire population,
comprehensive health benefits of medical assistance. Fighting
endemic and epidemic infectious diseases. 6) Legislation
Child Protection to ensure permanent care for women in
power of being mothers and children up to school age. 7) Protection and
assistance to the elderly. We hold the right to protection
Aging integral, through adequate legal provisions that
elderecho ensure housing, food, clothing, physical health,
spiritual, and moral, recreation and economic tranquility. Such rights and
deberánser obligations by their immediate family in attendance
with the state, and inthe case helplessness exclusively by the
Been. We creationof advocate large geriatric centers
modern conceptions care, leisure and relaxation,
for

to

such

purposes.

8)

Law

from

the

fathers

in education, spiritual guidance, moral and maintenance of their children.
9) We hold the full enjoyment of civil and legal equality policy
women, promoting their active participation in the social, economic life and
policy.
RIGHTS OF WORK: The work plan of the Popular Front
purely to achieve the material and spiritual well-being
everyone in the country, by law,
economic and social that enshrines the full realization of rights
private work. The work must be protected and covered, with

dignity presuppose that such rights, whether any activity
physical, intellectual or artistic, aimed at producing economic goods
destined to satisfy essential needs, the foundation of the
community.
1) Full employment, for which purpose it shall: a) Create and maintain
jobs. Technically exploit natural resources and
increase production; b) Stabilize workers in their
activities; c) To promote and rationalize the workforce, coordinating
supply and demand; d) To regulate immigration flows, taking into
account national and regional needs of the workforce,
especially

the

of

interior

of

Country

Y

the

Argentine farming tasks; e) preferential occupation and professionals
Argentine technicians. 2) Absolute guarantee in the public and private empelo,
for which legal rules that protect all be sanctioned
workers, whatever the place where present their services. 3)
Higher economic standard of living to which end we hold: a)
increase in the financial resources of the productive activity of the country,
and the fair distribution of the fruits of the common effort; b)
periodic fixing of remuneration in relation to the oscillations
of

cost

from

life;

c)

He

increase

from

the

productivity through labor discipline, technical improvement
and vocational training; d) Maintenance and adjustment of salary
family, collective compensation systems; e) The regime
free collective bargaining between organized workers and employees,
for the periodic fixing of salaries and extent of
agreements to non-signatories. 4) Strict compliance with the provisions
legal, relating to decent working conditions and preservation of the
health of workers. 5) Raising the health status by
integrated biological protection, intended to keep the population in the

best conditions of health and capacity for work. 6)
Adjustment regimes accidents on the requirements
current. Organization of the respective services by different
social security bodies, in relation to its staff and its affiliate
family. 7) Making the material and spiritual improvement of the class
employee

Y

from

their

family

than

them

allow

live

in conditions of decency and enjoy the amenities they have
right, in a just society. 8) argue the justice of participation
Workers trained in the conduct of business and the
distribution of wealth produced. 9) Promoting and encouraging tourism and
vacation, according to the social justification and the rest
recreation. Development of tourism and recreation areas, spas,
beaches, parks, mountain areas, facilitate the appropriate and fun
recreation

of

Town

employee

Y

from

their

families.

TRADE UNION RIGHTS: To protect and enhance all rights and
They make guarantees free unionization and the overall defense of the
workers. The specific interests of the unions constitute a charter
inviolable to ensure the free activity of trade unions and their
leaders; why we sponsor: 1) Trade Union Unity, with a view to
strengthening trade associations and Unique Workers Central,
independent and loosely structured. 2) the multiple union action
Unions, for their material interests besides watch your interests
spiritual and social needs of their members, avoiding unjustified suspensions
and mass layoffs. Ensuring the stability of the worker. 3)
Participation of Trade Unions in all matters relating to the
regulation of Economy, Labor and Social Security Assistance. 4)
Union Training: trade schools, cultural centers and organizations
and union journalism. 5) Defence of the right to strike and clarification of

the problems arising from that right, through commissions
permanent arbitration.

SOCIAL SECURITY
1) rules to ensure strict compliance with the laws dictate
Social Security, simplifying the procedures for obtaining the
benefits. Elevation of benefits that allow stops
just and dignified existence to pensioners. 2) Generalization
reciprocal arrangements between all services computer systems
national, provincial and municipal welfare, these individuals are
or official and international recognition through agreements
reciprocal, without excluding any country. 3) Banks autarky
Previsionales

for

their

best

development

with

the

investment of its funds in social work for the exclusive benefit of their
members, spouses and dependents, and spatially bound
the acquisition of homeownership.

LIVING PLACE
With the new systems will be encouraged parcelamientos to industrialize and
standardize the construction of houses with the consequent reduction
of costs without affecting the quality, allowing the acquisition of the house
own the entire population. The funding will be addressed through loans
preferential and mortgage to longer terms and minimum interest overlooking the
social function of property. Support and encouragement for cooperatives
housing, professional associations and civil nonprofit consortia.
Long-term credit assistance, low-interest for all companies
Argentine construction companies engaged in construction of housing and
road communication works.

PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL WELFARE

1) National Health Plan, with social and economic sense, advocating
systems to ensure the entire population, the benefits of assistance
medical and health comprehensive. 2) National Healthcare Insurance: prevention,
reparation and compensation. 3) Legislation medicine
Preventive health Public Health Action, aimed at combating
endemic, communicable and epidemic diseases. Medical care
Integral to the entire population and social medicine, health education,
coordination of all national, provincial and municipal health care network
together with the private sector; Mutual assistance and private institutes
médicasanitaria, to ensure the benefits of health policy at all
urban, suburban and rural areas of the country.

PUBLIC WORKS

1) Construction of works required throughout the Republic for life and
progress of the Argentine people and all those of value and remuneration
self-funded to serve the welfare of the different regions. 2)
Road construction, shall be governed by a system of priority
allow invigorate urban centers and rural accelerate their progress,
increase industries, improve the welfare of the population,
According wings present and future demands and needs of transit
linked to security and national defense. 3) The hydraulic action,
We will promote the purpose of an appropriate and necessary distribution
water, performing works or improving existing, containment and
reservoir in areas with constant overflow, to clean up the land and
especially urgently execute the necessary works to the
orientation of the water in those desert regions, by reservoirs,

dams, dam, perforations, and / or pipes aimed at rescuing the
performance capability of unproductive land extensions. 4) Works
supply and distribution of drinking water in urban centers and
suburban, evacuation of rainwater and sewage and services
health in order to achieve the preservation of the health of the population.

EDUCATION POLICY AND CULTURE

1) In education, the optional religious instruction is held and
free education at primary, secondary and university orders. 2)
Cultural, social and moral education for a common purpose, based on respect
individuality and freedom of students. 3) Strive for
disappearance of illiteracy and semi-literacy. Compulsory
primary education, free primary school. Promoting
school cooperatives and subsidies to them, in order to solve
school expenses and charges. School box subsidy whose regulations
and benefits, a special law shall determine. Social insurance and assistance
comprehensive medical-psychological and general health. 4) Free access to school
primary, secondary, and university técnicaprofesional, state or official.

INTERNATIONAL POLICY

1) we affirm the International Personality of the Republic, the integrity
its territory, political independence, national security and
Argentina's own institutional life forms. 2) Defense inalienable
the rights and interests of the nation, to its recovery on
the Falkland Islands, South Georgia Island, South Sandwich Islands,
Antarctica
Argentines.

Argentina, platform

underwater

Y

Sea

Epicontinental

CONCLUSION
We aim to work for the principles that we set out, with Fe and
Hope, no other intention than to serve the people, of the fibers
We come, in the belief interpret their longings, but convinced
also the greatness of the Republic can only be achieved by
Peace, Order, Work, social justice, economic independence and
Political Sovereignty and supported and Unity of the People.
