1

Alma words
Dear Alberto:

Now we dream every day.
Think so little time ago, I had the immense satisfaction that I
encomendaras the wonderful task of organizing and coordinating the thirteen committees for the implementation of
"PROTOCOL FOR COEXISTENCE OF ARGENTINE
IN THE XXI CENTURY "
I thank you sincerely; not only dispensed confidence in me but
also because it allowed me to see you more often, but work steadily
with an unmatched optimism, and I catch your dreams.
We work with love, passion and together as a team and
set target.
I know from conversations we have had, it is your Proposal to
People of Argentina and also a commitment that you assume and
never fail to meet.
Sincerely thank Alberto; Today I give these writings that make up the
Protocol and ask you to let me continue accompanying you on this historic occasion.

Studies Center
Juan Bautista Alberdi

Carlos Roberto SAAD
President

2

3

Buenos Aires, June 9, 2011.

Mr
Doctor Alberto Rodriguez Saa
S / D

Dear Candidate for President of Argentina:
Attached to this, we are sending to you the "Protocol for the coexistence of Argentines in the XXI Century", which was executed under his
instructions and directives, thus being prepared -after the approval of your part-
Government Plan for the period 2011- 2015 Presidential Management Doctor ALBERTO
RODRIGUEZ SAA President.
This school has had the honor to lead and coordinate the work of the 13
commissions, thanks to you, have entrusted the realization of this proposal you
He made the people of Argentina.
Without further ado, we welcome the Lord Candidate for President of the Nation, with the
increased expression of respect, esteem and consideration.

Juan Carlos Rodriguez Saa
Secretary

4

Carlos Roberto SAAD
President

5

Buenos Aires, June 9, 2011.

A Lords Party proxies for ALBERTO RODRIGUEZ SAA President 20112015:
Doctors Sergnese Carlos José Alfredo BARZOLA, Mario LEAL;
To the Presidents of the Commissions;
The Ministers of the Executive Branch of the Province of San Luis and their advisers and
Attendees who have participation and collaboration;
Dear friends:
Attached to this, we are sending to you the "PROTOCOL FOR
COEXISTENCE OF ARGENTINE IN THE XXI CENTURY ", which was executed,
under the instructions and directives of the candidate to the Presidency of the Nation Argentina
Doctor Alberto Rodriguez Saa, thus being prepared the Government Plan for
presidential administration, 2011-2015.
This school has had the honor to lead and coordinate the work of the 13
commissions, thanks to Doctor Alberto Rodriguez Saa, trusting making
This proposal, which made the people of Argentina.
We ask you, any suggestions regarding the content of the attached Protocol,
do not hesitate to bring it to the attention of the Study Center, which will be evaluated for
incorporation into the final text which we consider binding for mass dissemination.
We thank all the cooperation provided without which, obviously, he would not have
able to achieve the goal, and we thank the meager -atento time we have
dispuesto- he is having worked with love, passion, and together as a team
with set target.
Without further ado, we welcome you with the ultimate expression of respect, esteem and
consideration.

Juan Carlos Rodriguez Saa
Secretary

6

Carlos Roberto SAAD
President

7

"PROTOCOL FOR COEXISTENCE
OF ARGENTINE
IN THE XXI CENTURY "

The Union of Argentine is a compromise.
This is our only address.
We undertake not to promote our
legislative agenda, or to provide treatment
proposals from third parties, subject to any
that divides the Argentines.
Federal Commitment main objective
Government Unite and Argentinos
restore social peace.
Study Center that performed the task under the
directives and instructions of the Lord
Candidate for the Presidency of the Nation
Argentina, for
finalization of
Government Plan Period of 2011-2015
Doctor Alberto Rodriguez Saa.

Juan Carlos Rodriguez Saa
Secretary

8

Carlos Roberto SAAD
President

9

WE HAVE THE BEST
TECHNICAL AND EQUIPMENT
PROFESSIONAL
we are
grateful:
a) The Committees comprising
this Protocol:
Commission of Government and Institutional Quality: p. 17
List of Subjects. Summary of Issues. Decrees of Necessity and Urgency. Superpowers. General Audit Office. Advice
of Magistracy. Ombudsmen.
Supreme Court of Justice of the Nation. Fiscal federalism. National Digest. Freedom
Religious. Conscientious Objection. Development Issues. Decrees of Necessity and
Urgency. Superpowers. Auditor General
of the Nation. Council of Magistrates.
Ombudsman. Supreme Court
Justice. Fiscal federalism. National Digest. Religious freedom. Objection
Awareness.
Justice and Security Commission:
p.43
Justice. Justice rank. Training
University of Lawyers.
Professional Accreditation System. Training of members of the judiciary. Selection, Appointment and Removal
Magistrates. Council of Magistrates.
Elimination of corruption. Enhancements
Procedure and Judicial Management. Procedure Reforms in Civil and Commercial Matters. Procedure Reforms in Criminal Matters.
10

Agility Execution Procedure
Judgments against the state. Trial by Jury. Alternative Dispute Resolution
Disputes. Digital record. Judicial City. Security. New Scientific and Technological Tools for the Police.
Modification of Laws Excarcelatorias
Current. Police municipalization Prevencional in Prov. De Buenos Aires. City
Autonoma de Buenos Aires will take care of Crime
Local. Construction of Facilities for Juveniles Serious Offenders.
Creation of the Federal Organized Crime Agency. Implementation throughout the country
contravention of the law.
Foundations.
Specific measures for the nation. Diary
Digital Federal Safety. Creation of
Federal Agency for Combating Organized Crime. Crime Analysis Unit. Promotion and Support to the Police Municipalization
Provincial. Transfer of the Federal Police Serves the city of Bs. As. Construction Plan 100 prisons.
Creation of the "311" Reporting for Receiving no serious cases. Catch unit.
Tracking Units and released
Conditional Freedom. Violence initiators. Community Police. National legislation
Criminal. Modification of art. 42 of the Penal Code, added in fine. Incorporation of art.
108a of the Criminal Code. Modification of art.
52 of the Penal Code. Legislation on Liability for Minors. Changing art. 14
Penal Code.
eleven

Creating a National Data Bank
DNA. Prisoner releases Contravencional-code.
Committee on Economy, Transport, Trade, and Industry: p.69
Introduction. Public budget. Guidelines
budget. Modifications. Participatory budget. Implementation way.
Containment of public spending. Promotion of
Savings. Savings in the private sector. National Tax Agenda. National Register.
Corporations with Participation
State. Transport. General objective.
Integrated Intelligent Transportation System. Cargo Transportation. Air transport.
Trade and Industry. Economy. Summary.
Public budget. Balanced budgets. Budgetary guidelines.
Participatory budget. Containment
Public spending. Savings Promotion. Saving
in the Public Sector. Savings in the private sector. National Tax Agenda. goals
to achieve. National Register. Companies
Trade with State participation.
Transport. General objective.
Public Passenger Transport. Transport
Loads. Air transport. Trade and Industry.
Commission of Public Works and Infrastructure:
p.87
Concept. Scanning clause. Land Transport Infrastructure Modernization Program. PROMITT Draft Law.
National Housing Plan. Benefits
Plan. Generating Funds.
Foreign Relations Committee. Mercosur:
p. 95
Our position before the world. Our
12

Position regarding Latin America. Our
Facing the Mercosur position. Our position on the Theme of Immigration. Foreign Ministry. Developing. Our Position
Facing the World. Our Position Against
Latin America. Our position on the
Mercosur. Our position on the Theme of "Migration". Foreign Ministry.
Education Commission:
p. 111
Regions reality. Reality School. Technology. Rural Schools. Exclusion, Resilience, Desertion, absenteeism,
Repetition. Mercosur. Education Budget. Educational Quality.
Health Commission. Mental health:
p. 119
Public Health / Mental Health / Social Inclusion. Mental health. Alcoholism. Health Plan
Federal for a New Argentina. People Awareness Training Health Model
Solidario. Ethics and Values ​​in Health. Federal Health Plan for a New Argentina.
Annex I. Annex II. Assistance Programs
Social Health doctor.
New Programs. Annex III. Mobile units and Border Hospital.
Committee on Agriculture and Livestock:
p.135
Agricultural Plan to develop their potential. Withholdings. Conclusions.
Defense Commission:
p.145
National Defense. General Guidelines.
Committee on the Environment
and Sustainable Development:
p. 151

Federal Environmental Policy. Global Strategic aspects. Institutional strengthening
Environmental. Sustainability Development.
Summary. Global Strategic aspects.
Environmental Institutional Strengthening.
Sustainability Development.
Commission of Tourism, Culture and Sports:
pág.171
Tourism. Tourism and Transport. Tourism and Infrastructure.
Strategic Line: Promotion of Tourism Investment. Tourism and Infrastructure. The
Cultures. Tourism and Cultural Heritage.
Commission Progress (Digital World) and Modern Technologies:
p. 187
Digital Argentina. Objectives of the agenda
digital. Topics of the digital agenda. Digital inclusion for the future Internet. Education. Security.
Legal framework. Identity. Transport. Justice.
Bless you. Open Government. Production. Synthesis. Conclusions. Internet access law.
Maximize the economic and social potential
from Internet. Provide free and open Internet - accessibility for all. Training.
Internet of the future. Education. Synthesis.
Conclusions. Security. Synthesis. Conclusions. Legal framework. Synthesis. Conclusions.
Synthesis. Digital identity. Digital health.
Conclusions Identity. Conclusions Health. Transport. Synthesis. Conclusions. He
SITI. Public Passenger Transport. Cargo Transportation. Air transport. Justice.
Synthesis. Conclusions. Objectives of the Administration of Justice. Digital record.
Interprovincial cooperation. Training
Stakeholder System. Government. Synthesis. Conclusions. Golf and Environment. Conclusions. Information systems

Digital. Monitoring and control. Traceability and
efficient use of resources. Energy. Education and training. Governance. Technology industry. Synthesis. Conclusions.
Working Committee on Culture (Agenda
Social)
p. 213
Fundamental Human Right. Inclusion
Social for All. Unemployment. The requirements of the new social pact. Inclusion
Social for All. Goals. Federal Plan
Social inclusion. Benefits excluded. Total lack of transparency and
intermediaries. Duration of the Plan. Control
of admitted. The objective of the Plan. Macro Lens. Family Solidarity. Goals. Macro Lens. The rights of women are
a Human Right. Macro Lens. Plan
National Strategy for Children and Adolescents. Goals. Macro Lens. Recognition
and Social Inclusion for Older Adults.
Goals.

13

b) members of the various committees
by strict alphabetical order:
Mr. José Jorge AGUIRRE LAMAS
Mr. Sergio ALLENDE
Dra. Maria Esperanza ALONSO
Mr. Rosendo ALSINA
Mr. Enrique ALVAREZ AMUCHASTEGUI
Dra. Berta ARENAS
Mr. Raul ARROYO
Ms. María del Carmen ASTUDILLO
Lic. Alicia BAÑUELOS
Ms. Sandra BARROSO
Lic. Marcela BECERRA
Ms. Ivana Deputy BIANCHI
Mr. César BLAQUIER ROCK
Ing. Juan José BOGGIANO
Ms. Susana BOLPILLAR
Ms. Maria Cristina BOMBACE SLUDGE
Ms. Elsa BOTT
Ms. Viviana BUDBRIDGE
Mr. Hubert Buezas
Dra. Emilia BUSTOS
Mr. Francisco CACHAZA
Mr. Oscar CALDERON
Mr. Journalist Carlos CAMPOLONGO
Ms. Maria Eugenia Cantaloube
Mr. César CASCO
Ms. Mirtha Cristina CASTRO
Mr. Jorge CHADA
Mr. Victor CORIA
Dra. Celeste Ema CORRAZA
Actress and playwright. Laura Cuffini
Lic. Ana Maria DEL BOSCO
Ms. Maria Fernanda DEL CERRO
Mr. Gustavo DELGADO
Mr. Andrés DIAZ
Ms. Lorena DOMINGUEZ
Lic. Eduardo DONOFRIO
Lic. Mario ECHEVARRIA
CPN. José María EMER
Ms. Enriquez Edelma
14

Dr. Martin ETCHEGOYEN LYNCH
Mr. Pablo FERRANDO
Ms. Agustina FERRARO
Mr. Alberto FERRARO
Mr. Orlando FERRATTO
Carlos Edgardo FERRO
Arq. Vicente FERRONI
Mr. Fabian FILOMENA
Dr. Rosalino FLOWERS
Mr. Maximiliano BORDER
Mr. Guillermo GARCIA RICO
Ms. Maria Ines Garcia Prieto Saenz
Ms. Silvia Garolla
Ms. Agustina GARRO
Mr. Fabian GAUNA
Dr. David Ghelman
Mr. Lucas GIECO
Dr. Diego GONZALEZ
Mr. Hector GONZALVES
Dr. Adrian HAVAS
Mr. Norberto HEMPEL
Lic. Daiana HISSA
Mr. Arturo Lavallol
Mr. Jorge LEDESMA
CPN. Alejandro Alberto LINDOW
Ms. Olga Lottito
Dr. Federico LUCERO GAGLIARDI
Mr. Hernán MARTENS
Ms. Gabriela Martignone
Mr. Irun MARTINEZ
Mr. Luis MARTINEZ
Ms. Monica MARTINEZ CONDE
Dra. Maria Emilia MARTINEZ soquet
Arq. Alfredo MATTIOLI
Mr. Hector Mazzina
Roberto Rafael MAZZITELLI
Mr. Guillermo MEIER
Mr. Amancio Luis MENDIONDO
Ms. Lucia MIRANDA
Ms. Gloria MIRAVELLI
Mr. Mario MONDELLI
Mr. Hugo MORRIELO

Mr. José Benito MUÑIZ
Mr. Gustavo Muñoz
Antiquarian. Maria Alejandra MUÑOZ
Lic. Ignacio NASCIMBENE
Senator Prof. Dra. Liliana Negre de Alonso
Lic. Mariangeles OJEDA
Mr. Martin OLIVERO
Mr. Santiago ORTIZ
Mr. Gustavo PAGANO
Ms. Sonia PANSA
Dra. Ana Maria PARINI
Mr. Ariel PARRILLIS
Mr. Claudio PASTORINI
Prof. Dr. Jorge PELLEGRINI
Mr. Oscar O. Pereyra
Mr. Alejandro PEROTTI
Mr. Roberto POLITANO
Mr. Hector PORTANOVA
Ing. Arnold PUCCI
Dr. Julio Quevedo
Cryo. Gral. (R.E.) Daniel Second RODRIGUEZ
Dra. Norma RODRIGUEZ
Tec. Nicolas RODRIGUEZ Ianello
Juan Carlos Rodriguez Saa
Ms. Norma ROJAS
Mr. Juan Manuel RED
Mr. Francisco Carlos RUIZ
Dr. Omar Marcelino SAA
Prof. Dr. Carlos Roberto SAAD
Dr. Mariano SAAD
Dr. Alberto Alfonso SAENZ
Mr. Pedro Saenz
Mr. Andrés SALAS
Lic. Fernando SALT
Ms. Maria Antonia SALT
Mr. Facundo SANTARONE
Ms. Maria Lucia SANTOS
Lic. Eduardo SANZ
Dra. Karina SBACCO
Ms. Liliana Scheines
Mr. Guillermo SCHORLANDMAN
Mr. Ruben SCOTTI

Mr. Roberto SAFE
Cap.F. Roberto SIESDEDOS
Mr. Oscar Miguel SILVA
Journalist Andrea SOSA ARAUJO
Ms. Silvia SOSA ARAUJO
Mr. Victor TARABANKO
Ing. Franco TODONE
Ms. Alejandra TOLEDO
Mr. Andres Alberto VALLONE
Prof. Dr. Carlos VANNEY
Mr. Sergio VAZQUEZ
Mr. Marcelo VELASCO
Mr. Claudio Enrique VILLALBA
Dr. Pedro Wouterlood SAPAG
Ms. Monica Whitechurch
Executive Assistant: Ms. Maria Monserrat.
FERNANDEZ POSDELEY

fifteen

1st COMMISSION
Government and Institutional Quality
16

17

LEGISLATIVE POLICY:
We promise that will not be incorporated into the legislative agenda any item
Divide the Argentines. Federal Commitment
main objective of joining government
Argentines and restore social peace.

I. LIST OF SUBJECTS
I.1. Decrees of necessity and urgency,
Promulgation and legislative delegation
Partial Laws
I.2. Superpowers
I.3. General Audit Office
I.4. Council of Magistrates
I.5. Ombudsmen
I.6. Supreme Court of Justice of the Nation
I.7. Fiscal Federalism
I.8. National Digest
I.9. Religious freedom
I.10. Conscientious Objection

II. SUMMARY OF
TOPICS
II.1. Decrees of necessity and
URGENT

II.2.- SUPER POWERS
II.1.1.- enact a law amending Article 24 of Law No. 26,122 for the approval of both chambers is needed for
the DNU, decrees of legislative delegation
and partial promulgation of laws still in force;
II.1.2- enact a law for the Presidency
Bicameral Commission of the legislative process
is in the hands of opposition lawmakers largest number of representatives, and
whether in Deputies or Senators, depending on who
appropriate exercise the presidency;
II.1.3.- enact a law to amend the
quorum established by Law 26,122, adding a final paragraph in Article 7 of the
26,122 law that says you within half an hour after the established in the call, the Commission may, at least with the
presence of a third of its members,
consider and determine the matters to be discussed. Is
is a modification necessary, essential,
for the exceptional nature that has the Power
Assume executive powers, in principle, they are not appropriate;
II.1.4.- enact a law for the Chief
Cabinet provides reports
personally before the Bicameral Committee
Legislative process when it comes to decrees
of necessity and urgency and decrees partial enactment;
II.1.5.- Set a deadline, for example, 60 days

18

for the treatment respecting an Congresose
a DNU, a Delegated Powers Act or a Decree of Partial Promulgation
Law, after which without being addressed by the
Congress, should be rescinded.

II.2.1.- enact a law amending Article 37 of Law No. 24.156 of Directors
Financial;
Prohibit II.2.2.-, trying annually law
General Budget of the Nation, placed in
her articles delegated to Executive Power
powers of the legislature.

II.3. GENERAL AUDIT
NATION
II.3.1.- believe that the Auditor General
Nation should be in charge of five members appointed each as Auditor General and that they should take their positions
four years and may be re-elected, unless
in the case of the President, when cambiare
the opposition party with the largest number of legislators in Congress;
II.3.2.- propose that four such
Auditors General are appointed by
resolutions of both Houses of Congress of the Nation, corresponding two to the
Senate and two House of
Deputies, noting the composition of
each chamber.

II.4.- COUNCIL OF THE JUDICIARY
II.4.1.- Enact a law that sovereign representation, in the case of the provinces,
and proportional representation, in the case of
19

MPs, leading to a balance
in the Council, consisting of the representation in the case of legislative-third
minority. It is an institution that is readjusting dearly institutional quality of the Republic makes a projection of different sectors of the work
national in the three branches of government and
those that contribute to these powers,
as are representatives of bar associations, representatives of the
judges and representatives of the Argentine Parliament;
Regarding II.4.2.- expiration
we propose an amendment mandates appropriate the expiration of terms of members of the Council of
Judiciary;
II.4.3.- Enact a law to raise the number of members from thirteen to twenty by
achieve a better balance;
II.4.4.- enact a law to eliminate
"Veto power" that has the ruling party in the current law where the president of the Council has just vote and
event of a tie, a casting vote. We therefore consider it necessary for the President vote
only in case of a tie or for the purposes
to reach the qualified majority provided by law;
II.4.5.- enact a law to give more
importance to academic representation
in the composition of the Board;
II.4.6.- enact a law to amend the
Within the Judicial Council for a new commission called
"Judicial School", composed of two jue20

ces, a deputy, a senator, two lawyers
and representatives from academia
and scientist. The functions of this Commission
They should include everything that has to
do with the training of officials and
candidates for the judiciary;
II.4.7.- Enact a law to create an Honorary Advisory Committee, composed of
twelve members, elected at the rate of two members and two alternates for each of the
following society organizations
civil: 1) human rights bodies
and institutions with an interest in the administration of justice; 2) organizations
environmental protection and resources
natural; 3) judicial organizations representing workers; 4) national centers of registered workers
the Ministry of Labour, 5) Organizations
defense of the population at
risk; 6) social organizations not
found included in the above
estates statements.

II.5. Ombudsmen

National Executive for incorporation
the budget of the National Administration;
II.6.2.- enact a law amending Article
4 of the law 23,853 in order that the Executive Branch can not make changes
in the expenditures of the Judiciary of the Nation,
which may be made only at the request of the Supreme Court of Justice of the Nation,
as required under the regulation;
II.6.3.- enact a law amending Article
10 ° 23.853 law to be the Supreme Court
of Justice only law regulating the Budget of Expenses and Resources
the judiciary in aspects concerning
la-budgetary financial management without
Executive participation in such regulation.

II.7. FISCAL FEDERALISM
Changing laws II.7.1.- 23,548; 24,130;
20,628; 23,966; 26.565; 25,413 and generating a comprehensive regime of Federal Revenue Sharing.

II.5.1.- creating other advocates is proposed regardless of the Ombudsman
People, for, thus giving more
dynamism to national institutional reality.

II.8. NATIONAL DIGEST

II.6. SUPREME COURT
Justice

II.9. RELIGIOUS FREEDOM

II.6.1.- enact a law to amend Article 1 of the law 23,853 for Judicial Autarky
the Supreme Court of Justice of the Nation
you can prepare the expenditure budget and resources of the judiciary and send it directly to
National Congress for information, and

II.8.1.- Development of a National Digest, promoting greater legal certainty that will strengthen the institutional.

II.9.1.- Enact a law on religious freedom and
Cult.

II.10. Conscientious objection
II.10.1.- pass a law on conscientious objection.

III. DEVELOPMENT
TOPICS
III.1. Decrees of necessity and
URGENT
The new constitution reformed in
1994, is to leave behind the doctrinal and jurisprudential discussion under the
paradigm established by the constituent
of 53/60, he is raised. Back then
decrees of necessity and urgency, they were constitutional as long as they were submitted to the
Congressional consideration. It was not clear
attributing what consequences the denial
parliamentary. This is the position of Joaquin V.
Gonzalez in his "Manual of Argentina Constitution" of 1890.
In a position negatoria constitutionality thereof, stood Linares Quintana, following the criteria that Orthodox
it is not prescribed by law, you can not do. He adhere Bidart Campos, Vanossi between
others.
On this point, we can read "The decrees
of necessity and urgency in the Constitutional reform "by Julio Rodolfo Comadira (LL 1995-B,
págs823: 850), where it states that between
field of administrative constitutional legal thought and opinions were divided, for while a section of the
doctrine admitted the constitutional legitimacy
of such regulations, conversely
others denied it.
The reformer goal of the year 94, was oriented
to a power attenuation attributed to
President. Within perfectibility, the reform had many points of equilibrium. Thus,
thus they contribute three legislative institutions
Very strong:
1) decrees of necessity and urgency,
21

2) legislative delegation,
3) partial promulgation of laws.
The revised Constitution puts thus term
to the dispute, and expressly contemplates the decrees of necessity and urgency.
The big question raised by objectors
constitutionalise of decrees
necessity and urgency is the presumption that
authorize the decrees regulating means
openly. This is a serious error. Putting
rules to an exceptional situation means
nothing but limit it.
However, the political reality places us
against indiscriminate use of the decree or regulation of necessity and urgency,
projecting an unfavorable image
same. To this, the existence of it has a
specific regulatory framework that does not ensure a
adequate parliamentary control.
He notes when Germán Bidart Campos
He says "... Is craze 'decretismo' symptom
an authoritarian trend reinforced
excessiveness the presidential system and thwart the attempts were made to reform
to model it and qualify it. "(Bidart Campos, Germán J." decrees of necessity and
Urgency ", JA 1997-II p. 967: 971.).
The Constitution, amended in 1994,
provides the regulatory framework in which a decision of the executive to legislative nature is exceptionally valid, while the circumstances that it
rule states. This shows us the character
exceptional decrees of necessity and
urgency and therefore interpretive hermeneutic of standard must be made in
directly.
Given all that. The interpretation of the exception to the general rule should be narrowly.
Article 99, paragraph 3, of the Constitution
National enshrines the prohibition to Power
22

Executive to issue legislative provisions. Plasma, the words of Cassagne,
a complex system, largely based
in history of our own reality.
(CASSAGNE, Juan Carlos "About booking
Law and regulations Necessity and Urgency in the constitutional reform. " Magazine
Administrative Law, Ed. DePalma, Buenos
Aires, 1996, p. 61:68.).
The aforementioned Article 99, in relevant part,
tells us:
Art. 99. The President of the Nation has the following powers:
Section 3. Participates in the formation of laws
Under the Constitution, promulgates them and has
to post.
The Executive Power shall in no case under
penalty, and void, issue legislative provisions.
Only when exceptional circumstances
They make it impossible to follow the ordinary procedures
foreseen by this Constitution for the enactment
laws, and it does not involve rules governing
criminal, tax, or electoral regime
political parties, may issue decrees
for reasons of necessity and urgency, which will be decided by a general agreement of ministers
they shall countersign conjunction with
head of cabinet of ministers.
The head of cabinet ministers personally and
within ten days submit the decision to the consideration of the Joint Standing Committee,
whose composition should respect the proportion
policies of each chamber performances. The Commission shall submit its report within
ten days to the plenary of each chamber for
express treatment, which immediately considered the Chambers. A special law enacted with the absolute majority of all the
members of each House shall regulate the procedure and
the scope of congressional action.

In making the general prohibitive principle,
This general pattern is exposed in the second
part or provision of the aforementioned article. "The power
Executive may in no case under penalty of
absolute and void, issue legislative provisions ".
This pattern should be a guideline, and not miss
never view. Governs all matters relating to the
decrees of necessity and urgency in the Constitution. It means, the rule is the ban
under absolute and void. The decrees
of necessity and urgency they are an exception and,
as such, the interpretation of the rule must
be restrictive.
As for the enabling requirements
competence of the executive, should
ask what, then, are exceptional circumstances enabling the legislative power of the executive branch.
Because recourse to the third clause of the article "Only he says when circumstances
Exceptional make it impossible to follow the ordinary procedures foreseen by this Constitution
for the enactment of laws. "
Exceptional circumstances should be
objectively and truly such, so
to prevent the decrees of necessity and urgency are merely exceptional voluntarism President, for your personal urgency, political interests or convenience
party.
The Constitution, after the Reformation of the year
1994, and the case-law set Recepta
substantially in the case "Peralta".
In this case, the plaintiff challenged the constitutional validity of the decree of necessity and urgency 36/90 (Adla, LA, 58) and the Supreme Court
Justice (Decisions 313: 1513) (LL 1990-D, 131)
doing an exhaustive study of the
decrees of necessity and urgency and the case
Specifically, he said that the budget for these

She was given on the need to "ensure the survival of the society Argentina", highlighting its unique character. In essence, and as
Colautti points out, the vote of the majority outlined
two basic assumptions to be valid:
a- that ultimately Congress in exercise
their own constitutional powers
it fails to take different decisions in the
political points involved, and
b- has mediated a risky situation
social against which there was a need for
sudden take measures such as those implemented.
It then authorizes the exceptionally
legislative powers of the executive, in
both attend those exceptional cases
make it impossible to follow the ordinary procedures
envisaged by the Constitution for
enactment of laws. In fact, it is a
no functional failure and lack of possibility of enforcement of the legislative process
for political reasons, as can be no
have the necessary quorum or majority required.
Therefore it is necessary to enact a law
to amend the Law 26,122, which is fundamentally important to our republican system and that has to do with the
control of legislative decrees,
which they can be issued by the Executive
National. Regarding this law, which was enacted
in 2006, we can say that from that date
Currently, according to the goals set by the Constitution, is a standard that stood halfway.
First, we must be clear that
these legislative decrees of nature, as
decrees of necessity and urgency, delegates decrees and decrees promul23

Partial gation, are faculties or mechanisms
exceptional that may be exercised by the
National Executive.
Greater control of Parliament itself is
just in the constitutional demand for
advance the creation of a joint commission to regulate, would audit and verify
the decrees of a legislative nature, which
Exceptionally they can be invoked by
the executive branch, conform to the forecasts
which provides for the National Constitution.
However, in 1994 the constituent failed to agree on the characteristics
the operation of the Bicameral Commission.
Therefore, through a special law it was delegated to the National Congress building
This Commission, which was materialized in 2006.
When the law regulating the regime of delegated decrees sanctioned in that year,
this control is halfway due to
that tools having a content
extraordinary and exceptional opportunity for Power
Can invoke executive powers does not
They are themselves, as legislative, became habitual.
In recent years, these decrees are
the finished expression of a distorting and harmful to the republican system tool.
The decrees of necessity and urgency must
It is taught in exceptional circumstances;
and these exceptional circumstances exist
when the Legislature is unable to make progress in the enactment of a law.
In practice the current wording of the law
26,122 has enabled the executive branch use the shortcut of these decrees to try
to evade the real discussion in the field
the national parliament.
This because Article 24 of Law No.
26,122 Legal Regime Decrees
24

Necessity and Urgency, which states that "
rejection by both Houses of Congress
decree in question involves the repeal of
According to the provisions of Article 2 of the Civil Code, without prejudice to the rights acquired during the term, "leads, on demand
rejection of both Houses for repeal
and not the insistence of both for its validity,
an unconstitutional exercise of powers
legislation by the National Executive.
Therefore we suggest on this issue to increase transparency and improve institutional quality urgent modification
of this article.
Also, with this same goal, should, for
a true prior checking to be performed
DNU by the Bicameral Commission of Step
Legislative, also changed the law to
the President of the Bicameral Commission
of the legislative process is in the hands of
Opposition lawmakers with more representatives in either Deputies
or Senate, according to whom it may concern
exercise the Presidency.
This because the Commission is a body
control and that in this context minorities
parliamentarians are the target of ensuring transparency and speed.
Another point to improve is the one that has to do
the quorum established by Law 26,122,
because today, as the rule is drafted, the
ruling has the management of performance times of the Commission.
An example of this is the fact that we have experienced when using treated
Central Bank reserves in the context of the
decrees. At that time, as today
Commission is in a frame-eight parity
Lawmakers of the ruling eight legislators
of the opposition, any political group exerts a blocking maneuver and prevents the

Commission to work with the times themselves under these Regulations.
Such blocking maneuver can be exercised because, under Article 7 of the
law, the Commission meets when has the
absolute majority of the members; and as
He said Regulation, to rule half plus one is required. Therefore, one can,
minority, after thirty minutes, do simple manifestations, but having
the ability to according to the parameters
the Constitution establishes precisely advance
treatment of these legislative tools that provides exceptional
Magna Carta.
Then, given the current composition, any
-oficialismo or opposition political group may justly be given to block the normal
operation of the Bicameral Commission, such
How did it happen.
Therefore, this criterion should be modified to incorporate a final paragraph in Article
7 of the Act that says you then 26,122
After half an hour of the established in the call, the Commission may, at
less with the presence of a third
of its members consider and rule
the matters to be discussed. This is a modification
necessary, essential, nature
outstanding having the Executive Power
arrogate powers, in principle,
they are themselves.
Another change that should be done
to improve the quality of institutions is that
the Constitution provides that the Chief
Cabinet of Ministers should provide the
reports personally to the Bicameral Commission on Legislative Procedure
when it comes to decrees of necessity
and urgency and decrees enacted
partial.
We can ask how can the Chief

Cabinet of Ministers to be present in the
within a Bicameral Commission of Step
Legislation to provide a report on the reasons, reasons or circumstances that make possible the
issuance of a decree of necessity and urgency.
To this question, we believe that because of this, because the decrees of necessity and urgency are an outstanding tool, because the only cases that enable
his dictation are legislative paralysis, the chief of staff can attend in person,
and that would be very few times in your
presence was necessary.
In the Verrochi case, the Court has stated that,
First, Congress must be prevented
operate and, secondly, that the tooling required rules is a
urgency such as to prevent Congress meeting
in a timely manner.
So we're talking about circumstances
exceptional. Therefore, at this exceptional Chief of Cabinet must
appear in person before the Commission
You provide explanations of why it is used
an exceptional tool, as required by the Constitution.
There is also a central issue that was the subject of previous discussion when already discussed
the creation of the Bicameral Commission of the legislative process.
In the current law defines the legal status
decrees as a simple act, so
which the fictitious approval of these legislative tools is enabled.
The action is simple when the body itself that
dictates has the ability to establish their validity.
When an act is required for complex
validity of the presence or operation of
two or more organs of the State.
Importantly, as we have expre25

sado above, the other aspect
center, linked to the criteria established by Law 26,122, is that a decree of necessity and urgency no effect
when both Houses reject. As
we said, yes this is very important and
It should be modified.
But what happens in practice ?:
1. A decree of necessity and urgency can
be approved by either House and, before the
silence of the other, the decree of necessity and urgency is valid; or
2 can be rejected by either House
and at the silence of the other, the decree of necessity and urgency is fully maintained
force.
This is an absolutely distorting approach because if for a law requires the
approval of both chambers, more
reason for a substance which is not itself a power of the executive branch, but
It is an award granted by the Constitution to exceptional circumstances.
This is a central aspect. Therefore, there
to modify this criterion, because with this
thesis simple act, it also enables or
viable the fictitious approval of this standard.
Therefore, we propose that to be valid
a decree of necessity and urgency, and this
legislative tool, necessarily must be approved by both Houses.
Everything we are proposing for
decree of necessity and urgency, it also extends to the decrees of powers
delegates and the partial enactment
laws.
Thus, also we solve another
issue that was widely discussed, linked to
the lack of time for treatment in
enclosure.
That is, there is no deadline. The law states that
26

these decrees or legislative tools such exceptional should be treated
expressly; and once considered so
expresses, or obtained an express ratification of
the willingness of the Commission, each House shall inform the other of its own decision.
However, a deadline is not set to establish criteria for the immediacy with which the
Congress must tackle the treatment of
these exceptional tools.
When this issue was discussed to be the Law
26,122, warned that a deadline for Parliament is issued not be established, not the end of the immediacy was defined. By not set a
term, what happens is that it institutionalizes
the ineffectiveness of parliamentary scrutiny and today
we decrees of necessity and urgency
treated in the Chamber of Deputies and no
considered in the Senate, but that supply
Indeed from the moment when the
The Executive Branch issued.
In short, to remain in effect decrees of necessity and urgency
necessarily they must be approved by
both Houses; It should be fixed within,
eg 60 days for Congress
I devote itself to his treatment, after which no
be treated by Congress, should be
no effect.
We must remember that the Congress
It is not practically operate because
the abuse of the decrees of necessity
and urgency.
Finally, note that our Charter
Magna sets the bicameral system because
It requires two types of representations: the people and the provinces. Therefore, it is necessary
the expression of the two Houses. Therefore, no
there can be no law if two Houses but as expressing tacit but sharp and
clearly, as required by Article 82 of
the Constitution.

III.2. SUPER POWERS
In regard to the delegation of powers
own the legislature in the executive branch, we must note that on 2 August
2006 Law 26.124 was enacted, whereby
Article 37 of Law 24.156 of modified
Financial Administration, authorizing the Chief
Cabinet of Ministers to have the budget to consider restructuring
necessary within the total approved for each
budget law.
Between 2008 and 2009 several initiatives in the Senate of the Nation, to limit
this "superpower" given to the Chief of Staff and, therefore, the Executive Branch. (S-943/08
of Sen. Liliana Negre de Alonso; S-2522/08
Sen Rossi; S-3061/08 of Sen. Morales
and Sanz; S-3773/08 by Sen. Adolfo Rodriguez
Saá; S-175/09 Sen. González de Duhalde;
S-1190-1109 Sen. Basualdo; S-1984 to 1909 the
Sen Giustiniani;).
In 2009 the National Executive Power
He sent to the Senate 177/09 PE Project by
that the powers granted in limited
2006 Chief of Staff, up to 5% of
total budget.
We believe that to improve the quality
institutional in making the superpowers, ie the legislative powers
It delegated to the Executive, it is
essential to make the modification
Article 37 of Law No. 24,156 on Financial Administration Act.
Failure to do this modification, the Power
Executive still has a number of
instruments that guarantee complete discretion in the management of public funds and
on other issues which corresponds to regulate
Legislative power.
In regard to item 37, it must be established there in order to modify and not

up to 5% as the executive branch he limited himself but nullifying any possibility of reallocating items by
the executive branch.
Under the current wording of Article 37 of the law
Financial Management empowers the executive branch to change everything
want: join, are changed, matching and
millions and millions of pesos are removed; as
with this wording can be changed 402 returns the budget, for an amount
sixty-odd billion pesos.
Currently, the Chief of Staff can modify budget items redistributing or concentrating on using Treasury
an administrative decision without any control
by Congress.
We also believe that one should "prohibit"
annually to treat the laws of General Budget of the Nation, placing them
items delegated to it by the Executive Branch powers of the legislature; as
It occurs, for example, under the current Article 9
Budget which means the double round
the superpowers and the granting of authority to the Head of Cabinet. We say prohibited by the fact that in practice
this happens. However, this is already banned
by the same Constitution in Article 76, except as in the same article mentioned.

III.3. GENERAL AUDIT
NATION
The National Congress must exercise in the most responsible way possible representation
people entrusted to him.
To do this, we believe desirable Law No.
24,156 of Financial Administration and
Control Systems Public Sector
National reform is to improve the quality
27

institutional of Argentina.
In this sense, we propose that the Audit
General's Office, as well as the Comptroller General's Office, is transformed to optimize even more the results of its management.
We believe that the Auditor General
Office should be in charge of five members appointed each as Auditor General and that they last in office
four years and may be reelected, except
in the case of the President when cambiare the opposition party with the largest number of legislators in Congress.
We propose also that four such
Auditors General are appointed by
resolutions of both Houses of Congress of the Nation, corresponding two
the Senate and two House
of Deputies, noting the composition
of each chamber.
All this because the Auditor General
Nation is an important body for
Control of Public Administration and deserves,
Therefore, to be suitable, permanently in
depending on the dynamics of the system and the results expected by the community.
On the other hand, it must be taken into account
budgetary importance ascribed to
these two institutes that are part of the system of public control.
At the same time, we want to stress that controlling institutions of this nature should
achieve more efficient results immediately to fulfill its purpose of contribution to the public common good, as is
expressed in Article 85 of the Constitution, as well as on the fundamentals
Law 24,156 of Financial Administration
Systems and Control Public Sector
National.
The need to reduce bureaucratic and costly structures for the community and transfor28

sea ​​to them in more dynamic entities
and less costly for the state, leads
implement these proposals.
Also, it is important to require the collaboration
of all public sector entities, it is obliged to provide the data, documents, records and reports
with the exercise of their functions. Therefore, it
proposes to add in the law 24,156 that no
Answering reports or information required in a timely manner, shall constitute Unless justified, a fault that should be
punishable with a fine personal and financial
applied to the official responsible for the
distribution defaulting.
Thus, it is absolutely clear that
the control function of the state must be properly exercised and that austerity
times demand.

III.4. COUNCIL OF THE JUDICIARY
The Judicial Council is an agency
which it was incorporated in the Constitution in 1994,
as a mechanism of constitutional control
in designating who would integrate
Judiciary of Argentina.
Organism, on the other hand, had already been
previously incorporated in some provincial constitutions, as in the case of
Province of San Luis.
The beginning of the development of the Council
Magistrate was provided with important
difficulties being harshly criticized by the
slowness of its procedures.
What I had was positive achieve balanced composition of various sectors.
Subsequently, and he is in charge
Presidency Affairs Commission
Constitutional, the current President of the
Nation Council reform pushed
Judicial stating that it would

allow dynamic operation and also would be more balanced representation in some sectors
within the organism.
Fundamentally, there was talk of sector
popular representation by counterweight representing sectors
corporatism.
At that time, Senator Liliana Negre de Alonso proposed reform.
In fact, many reforms were proposed
during the discussion in the full committee.
Senator Liliana Negre de Alonso longer
He integrated the Constitutional Affairs Committee because it had been displaced.
However, he suggested an amendment to
full Committee concerning a well that was given to participation
Argentina advocacy representatives.
This modification was incorporated, but
since the enactment of the reform
the Judicial Council until today
We have been witnessing a serious lack of transparency and a serious lack of lack of democratic participation.
We believe that progress should be made on a
project where the sovereign representation in the case of the provinces, and proportional representation in the case of
deputies, leading to a balance
the advice.
This balance is really important and
Key to the designation of who will integrate one of the three branches of government.
It is, nothing more and nothing less than the
power exercising constitutional control
the acts of the executive and Power
Legislative.
This is a balance that originally had the
Judicial Council and is

representation in the case of legislative-third minority.
A sector of the doctrine called "majority" to
ruling, and then speaks of the first and second minority.
In particular, it is an institution that is readjusting dearly institutional quality of the Republic makes a
projection of the various sectors
national life in the three branches of
State and those that contribute to these
powers, such as representatives
bar associations, representatives of judges and representatives
Argentine Parliament.
With regard to the expiration of the mandates
we propose an amendment to
appropriate the expiration of mandates
members of the Judicial Council.
We have seen in the effective restraint
appointment of members of Supreme Court, we liked them or not
persons appointed by the Executive Branch in its
moment.
So we must go a step further in institutional quality that makes the Council
Magistrates.
Currently, the ruling has 5 counselors
13 (because when elections are won
two senators is imposed, two deputies and a
a representative of the executive branch), which
It gives power to lock both the prosecution of a judge to approve the shortlist
of candidates of judges; ie blocks
the possibility of two-thirds.
Therefore, from this point of view, should
proposed increasing the number of members
thirteen to twenty minutes to accomplish and more
balance.
This in itself, but with the number, it means going in a direction of what the Constitution says and the balance
29

in the representation of organs for
election of judges for the election of
lawyers with federal registration, political bodies, that is, for the establishment of
Council of Magistrates.
Therefore, we consider both improve
institutional quality change again
number of members of the current Council
Magistrates.
The National Constitution Article 114 stipulates that "The Council of the Magistracy will be ...
Integrated periodically so that the balance between representation be sought
political bodies resulting from the popular election of judges of all levels and
lawyers with federal registration. It will be also integrated by others in the field
academic and scientific, in the number and shape
established by law. "
Therefore, more equal distribution between
the members representing the Congress is
essential as current law designates three representatives from each chamber, corresponding
2 to majority party and each opener
minority.
What we propose is to keep the numbers
equal, ie, 3 members for each
camera, but the representation corresponds to a representative of the 3 blocks more
numerous.
Another proposal is to eliminate the "power of
veto "which is the ruling party in the
applicable law where the Chairman of the Board
features simple and in case of a tie vote voting twice. We therefore consider it necessary for the President vote only in
case of a tie or in order to achieve
qualified majorities provided by law.
Another proposal is to give more importance to academic representation in the composition of the Board.
30

Also we consider it necessary, as
It makes commissions within the Council the introduction of a new commission called "From Judicial School", composed of two
judges, a congressman, a senator, two lawyers
and representatives from academia and
scientific.
The functions of this Commission should include
everything that has to do with the training of officials and candidates for the judiciary.
Another proposal to improve institutional quality as the Council of Magistracy
It is concerned, it is to create an Advisory Committee
Honorary, composed of twelve members,
elected at the rate of two members and two alternates for each of the following civil society organizations: 1) human rights organizations and institutions
with interest in the administration of justice;
2) organizations protecting the environment and natural resources; 3) organizations representing workers
judicial; 4) national centers of workers registered with the Ministry of Labour,
5) organizations defending the population
at risk; 6) social organizations that are not covered
estates in previous statements.
The functions you have this Advisory Committee are to create the Special Registration
NGOs and must incorporate all organizations
who so request and meet the requirements set out in this law.
Also their functions must be:
1. Evacuate the inquiries from the plenary, the Board Committees and the Jury
Prosecution;
2. Issue non-binding opinion on reforms to internal regulations governing

Council and Trial Jury;
3. To monitor and issue opinions on the work of the Council and Jury
Prosecution; conformation and orientation
the Judicial School; plans and judicial reforms
and the budget of the Judiciary;
4. Promote, order tracking and channel complaints, claims, proposals and
concerns of citizens;
5. Collaborate with the Council initiatives
it will propose;
6. Propose to the Board an annual budget
Honorary Committee of expenses;
7. Promote policies of communication, participation and access to information of the public attending the federal character of the
Argentinian republic.
In making the regime of anticipated contests, we propose that the Commission convene a competition every two years, by category,
by jurisdiction and matter for the City of Buenos Aires and regions in the course of
the federal justice of putting inside
knowledge of stakeholders said
competition will be used to cover all
Vacancies occurring during the conduct of the competition and up to two years
after completion, provided that
try the same territorial jurisdiction,
of subject and grade, and candidates have
obtained a score of not less than sixty
percent of maximum is established.
Because it is now called
competition whenever a vacancy occurs
in a jurisdiction or specific jurisdiction, having to wait a while until the whole process is developed and the vacancy is filled.
This causes a long period during the
are judged by alternates.
With our proposal will be made and contests
have lists prepared for candidates, even
before the vacancy occurs, so

then not have to wait for the conduct of
contest.
Another proposal is related to the methodology of the review.
The law takes effect the jury selected
test and qualify the test, merely raise the notes to the Commission.
Instead, we propose that the jury, in addition to taking a written examination must,
According to the results, take a public and oral exam. Based on these results and background of the applicant, should develop a
order of merit which is then weighted by
the Commission. After running view past applicants and the term to formulate
challenges the Commission prepares an order
priority that rises upon plenary
conducting a psycho test.
In short, through these changes, and
additional, it seeks to give greater
transparency, openness, and merit the mechanism of election of judges.
To improve institutional quality must
also make changes to the procedure for removal of judges.
To do this we must establish as a function
Judiciary Council meeting in full,
to dictate, in addition to its own rules,
those regulations that make the selection,
prosecution and discipline. This presents an innovation over the current text that enables the
Council meeting in the issue only,
its own regulations.

III.5. Ombudsmen
Law No. 26.061 INTEGRAL PROTECTION
THE RIGHTS OF CHILDREN AND TEENS incorporated the new institution
Defender of the Rights of Children and
Teens in Chapter III, Article 47.
The same is responsible for ensuring the protec31

and promotion of the rights enshrined
in the Constitution and, within it,
more specifically those enshrined in the
Convention on the Rights of the Child and
national laws.
Regarding his appointment, Article 49
Law No. 26,061 provides that "will be proposed,
appointed and removed by Congress, which will appoint a bicameral committee
which will be composed of ten members, five
each respecting the proportion House
political representation, who will have to
responsible for the evaluation of the designation
It will be carried out through a public tender
background and opposition. Decisions
This Committee shall be adopted by a vote of the
two-thirds of its members. "
Its functions are provided for in Article
55, remain the same:
a) promote actions for the protection of
the individual and collective interests relating to
children and adolescents;
b) bring actions to protect
the rights of children and adolescents
in any trial or court instance;
c) To ensure full respect for the rights and
legal guarantees secured to the girls, boys
and adolescents, promoting judicial and extrajudicial measures of the case. This can
take statements from the complainant, deal directly with the person or authority
claimed and make recommendations
view to improving public services and
deprived of care for children and adolescents, determining a reasonable time
for perfect fit;
d) Initiate actions towards the implementation of
penalties for infringements of the rules on the protection of girls, boys
and adolescents, subject to civil and criminal liability of the offender, as appropriate;
32

e) monitor public and private entities engaged the attention of girls,
children or adolescents, is housing them in
temporarily or permanently, are developing programs of attention to them,
and reporting to the competent authorities any irregularity that threatens
or violates the rights of all girls,
children or adolescents;
f) Request for the performance of their duties the help of the police, medical-care and educational services, are
public or private;
g) Provide advice of any
kind to children and adolescents and to
their families, through an organization
right;
h) Advise girls, children, adolescents and
their families about public resources,
private and community, where they can use to solve their problems;
i) Participate in the advisory body
mediation or conciliation;
j) Receive all claims formulated by
children or adolescents or any complaint that is made in relation to girls,
children and adolescents, either personally or
by a permanent free telephone helpline to proceed immediately
the requirement in question.
Furthermore, Article 62 provides that
"All entities, agencies and individuals
legal, whether public or private, and individuals are obliged to provide cooperation to the requirements of the Ombudsman
Rights of Children and Adolescents
with preferential and expedited basis ", and Article 63 that" Everyone who disobeys
or obstruct the exercise of its functions under the preceding articles shall be liable to
The offense under Article 239 of the Code
Criminal. The Ombudsman for the Rights of Children,

Children and Adolescents must transfer the
background respective Public Ministry
Attorney for the exercise of appropriate action. It may require the intervention of justice
for the submission of the documents
that would have been denied by any agency, organization, person, or their agents. "
As we see this institution is:
Modern, dynamic, flexible, and unbureaucratic; It is ideal for achieving improved
institutional quality Argentina.
Therefore we propose to create other more as defenders, for example, the Ombudsman
Older Adults.
All with the assurance that these modern institutions ensure a full exercise
the rights of people and a strengthening of the republican system of government.
In the same sense, the constitutional reform of 1994 was introduced in the text
our Constitution an ombudsman
People (art. 86 CN) as an independent body established in the field of Congress
Nation and with full power to act
functional autonomy, without instructions
from any authority. Its mission is to defend
and protection of human rights and other
rights, guarantees and interests protected by the
Constitution and laws, to facts,
acts or omissions of the administration.
Therefore, in particular, the creation of other defenders are proposed independently
the Ombudsman, and in this way
give more dynamism to the institutional reality
national.

III.6. SUPREME COURT
Justice
The principle of separation of powers is a
the fundamentals of the rule of law, as it tends to ensure the objective more

important of constitutionalism, which is the
formation of a limited government, to safeguard the essential rights and freedoms
of people.
In order to guarantee the principle of separation of powers and consequently the validity of an authentic democracy, citizenship
a nation must strive to avoid
takes effective all measures, rules, regulations and acts that endanger
vitality and independence of powers
Been.
A phenomenon common to all democracies
Advanced is the increasing expansion of the role
of jurisdiction, which responds mainly to two reasons:
1. A linked to the change in the structure of the legal system, produced in the second half
of this century with the evolution in the forms of
State constitutional law;
2. The other linked to the transformation of the political system, produced by the contemporary
social and consequently for state intervention in the economy and society development.
Formerly, the judge serving a mere technical function of law enforcement. This system
radically changed constitutions
the Second World War, transforming the judge
guarantor of fundamental rights through
censorship of the invalidity of the laws and other
acts of political power that violate those
rights.
In this context, it is attributed to the jurisdiction
a new role: that of guaranteeing the fundamental rights of all and also the legality
public authorities.
The principle of independence of judges, which
is a corollary of his subject only to the law,
divided into two pillars:
1. The external independence of the judiciary as a whole regarding the powers exter33

us to it, and particularly the executive branch; Y
2. The internal independence of each judge against internal hierarchy of the organization, able to influence any
how the autonomy of the judiciary.
The judge, in contrast to what happens with
the organs of the Legislature and Power
Executive should not represent a majority or
minorities, and the consensus of the electorate, not only
it is not necessary, but would even be dangerous for the proper performance of their duties
determination of truth and protection of
the fundamental rights of individuals
judged by him.
It should be noted that the objective of "strengthening the
justice "embodied in the preamble of our
Constitution obliges the three branches of the rule of law.
It is essential to have a Power
Judicial solid and genuine, endowed with judges
impartial, in an institutional framework that
meets the financial and human resources to act in defense of constitutional guarantees
Members of the Nation.
We understand that the independence of Power
Judicial be plausible only as long as the necessary autonomy to magazine abor34

to the development and operation of its own expenditure budget.
In this way, it strengthens the judiciary,
providing it with the necessary technical tools in order to strengthen its independence.
In Comparative Law it is appropriate
quote a paragraph from a publication of authorship
Stephen G. Breyer, Judge of the Court
Supreme of Justice United States: "The
five components of judicial independence
the constitutional protections
enjoyed by judges in the United States;
the independent administration of the judiciary by the judiciary; judicial disciplinary authority regarding the conduct of the
judges; how conflicts of interest and ensuring legal rulings are resolved
effective. "
It is worth mentioning that on the occasion of holding the Conference of the Supreme Courts
of the Americas, in 2009, Dr. Ricardo
Lorenzetti said that one of the major issues discussed during the meeting was the
judicial independence.
In this context, he said that there was consensus among members of the Conference to ensure
that "independence is a budget
proper functioning of the judicial powers

cial "and that" the State must guarantee the independence of judges ".
During the meeting, said Dr. Lorenzetti, the relevance is of the autonomy
budget of the judiciary and
the need to preserve the Justice
intervention of other powers.
Therefore care should be taken to strengthen the
Republican State and take appropriate measures to ensure independence of the branches that comprise laws to improve the quality
institutional.
Currently, and as the law regulates 23,853, the
the judiciary budget is prepared and
made by the Supreme Court of Justice of the Nation who sends it to the Executive to be incorporated into the draft
General Budget to be presented to the
Congress annually.
Therefore, we propose to pass a law
amend Article 1 of the law 23,853
Judicial autarky to the Supreme Court of Justice of the Nation to prepare
Budget of Expenses and Resources of the judiciary and send it directly to the National Congress for their knowledge, and
the National Executive Power for inclusion in the budget of the Administration
National.
Currently the Court prepares the budget
the Judiciary and the Executive Branch submitted for inclusion in the General Budget of the Administration which then sends the
Legislature for approval.
We also consider a law penalizing
amend Article 4 of the law with 23,853
so that the Executive Branch not
You can make changes to the expenses of the Judicial Power of the Nation, the
which may be made only at the request of the Supreme Court of Justice of the Nation,
as required under the regulations.

We also propose to pass a law
amending Article 10 of Law 23,853 for
it is the Supreme Court of Justice
The only nation to regulate the law
Budget of Expenses and Resources
Judiciary in matters concerning
the-budget financial management
without participation of the executive branch in that
regulation.
He is currently the Executive together with the Court makes this regulation.

III.7. FISCAL FEDERALISM
Reinforced Fiscal federalism: Federal Commitment, he wants to strengthen the government as policy established by our federal system
Constitution. For these purposes it is essential to define the areas of responsibility between the federal, provincial and
municipalities, so that everyone can meet
correctly and with full respect what
mark our Constitution. This implies a
Today absolutely misrepresented and distorted, with the institutional rearrangement
corresponding allocation of resources,
get to sign a new fiscal pact between the
provinces and the nation. That way you will advance to a final pressing problem now plaguing our country solution.
In order to unify all modifications to the various distributions, both
primary and secondary tax
national, we propose creating a system
only aimed at simplifying legal
the current tax system and redistribution. Therefore, in order to give greater
economic autonomy to the provinces eliminating the aegis of the Executive
National and various financial aid programs.
35

The aforementioned changes include:
a) Elimination:
1. subsection a) of Article 6 of Law 24,130
returning to the gross mass coparticipable
detraction of 15% was destined for the
national security obligations;
2. Article 104 of Law 20,628, text ordered by Decree 649/97 - Law on Income Tax, recovering detraction
34% to the gross mass of sharing;
3. Article 52 of Law 23,349, text ordered by Decree 280/97 - Tax Law
Value Added recovering detraction
11% of the gross mass of partnership;
4. Article 55 of Law 26.565 Regime
Simplified for Small Taxpayers,
recovering 70% of the gross mass of partnership;
5. Under Article 3 of Law 25,413 Tax
Debits and Credits, recovering 70% of the gross mass of partnership.
b) The repeal of Law 23,548 of General Revenue Sharing, which arose

in 1988 as a transitional arrangement with
encouragement of the creation of a law retrospectively
Final Federal Revenue Sharing.
c) Creating a Nation-State agreement
generating a new Law on Federal Tax Sharing which includes the
following:
1. The creation of a new index of primary distribution, which extends the portion corresponding to the provinces;
2. Incorporating a direct distribution percentage bound for the Administration
National Social Security;
3. The creation of a new system of secondary distribution to consider statistics and own needs of the regions and provinces, as population gap
development, poverty, homelessness, among others;
4. The ratification of a flat secondary distribution exceeding 34% now;
5. The establishment of an automatic distribution of the proceeds, depending

tooth of an autonomous integrated
representatives of all the provinces.

III.8. NATIONAL DIGEST
In regard to the improvement of governance and institutional quality by strengthening legal certainty, we
the sanction of a National Digest necessary.

III.9. RELIGIOUS FREEDOM
The right to religious freedom is a right
all to be immune from coercion, therefore
part of individuals, social groups and of any human power,
so that, in religious matters, nor force
anyone to act against his conscience, nor prevented from acting according to her privately and
public, alone or in association with others.
Otherwise, it would be absurd to recognize that
There is the right to religious freedom, to
that simply is created, but not to live or act on what you believe.
We therefore propose the enactment of a law
enshrines religious freedom and worship.

III.10. Conscientious objection
First we approach the task
to provide a concept of human right
essential to conscientious objection. In
Here we must note that the laws in various legal duties imposed
that may conflict with the moral, ethical or religious convictions of some. Given this,
It has always been considered the right to conscientious objection and how to respect the rights of the minority within society. This long recognized, charges
especially important in societies each
36

more plural time such as current.
Conscientious objection is a right
human, constitutional foundation, which
It is to be a peaceful testimony by
which a person refuses, for reasons of
conscience, to perform an act which is
legal or legally bound by a positive rule, even by a contract, which directly or indirectly contradicts their ideas
ethical or religious beliefs, or both.
This right, therefore, becomes relevant
when it occurs in a moment of existence, a crossroads where it is solved
disobeying a positive law, civil law, the
legal obligation on the imperative of conscience under conviction of philosophical, ethical, or religious.
Thus, conscientious objection would become thus a practical application of the
rights to freedom of thought, conscience and religion.
The right to conscientious objection oppose matter play a positive duty
It imposes a law or a rule (usually consisting of a do), but not
for political reasons, but for reasons of
awareness.
A legal obligation to do something is objected,
and even to give something, and this can happen both when the obligation is generic to all
the population, such as when it is specific to
certain types of people (doctors,
civil servants, judges, over eighteen years, taxed,
etc).
Who intends to disobey a rule Building on this fundamental right is not looking directly repeal it
the norm contrary to their moral convictions
or religious, but not obligatory for him,
they are not forced directly to him; namely,
the general rule remains in force, only to be EX37

ceptúa of compliance objector.
The right to conscientious objection is founded on democratic coexistence and
by the rejection of obedience.
The right not to be compelled by a law or rule of law, to act contrary to conscience
ethical or religious convictions or fundamental institutional, is something that is at the base
constitutionalism itself, ideals
freedom and democratic coexistence.
Indeed, if, supposedly in order to give greater freedom to some, it is chosen
not recognize others, it would violate
the rights of persons who have not
let them think according to what they want,
and live and work according to what they think.
This issue, as well as violating the rights to freedom of thought, religion
and conscience, strongly compromise
the right to equality enshrined in Article 16 of our Constitution, and,
as appropriate, also other rights to
then we must refer.
It is worth noting that it is not already
it is prevented to do something you want and you

38

you are entitled to make an issue which would
in itself, and very seriously, but something much
more delicate: it could be forcing
to do something that is not wanted, because wrongs
seriously consciousness, or the ideals and convictions.
This is because the rationale of this right does not respond to the public authority has
pierced or not the limits of their competence,
but it finds its rationale in
imperative of personal conscience, or
imperative of conscience, embedded in
the fundamental reasons which have led to
some people to associate, has thus given the
ideology of an institution framework of convictions for development.
Legally compel a person or a
institution do something that seriously offends their deepest convictions, what
which could abstain without harm to others,
contrary to the most elementary requirements relating to fundamental rights and public freedoms on which it was founded
the modern vision of the proper relationship
between the relevant fields to power pub-

public and autonomy of individuals.
The objection must be based on reasons of conscience or institutional ideology. This way, you prevent the breach is disguised with the alleged exercise of this right,
when the reality is that failure
It is guided by political, economic reasons,
comfort, etc., and no ethical, religious
or institutional.
Also, the need to lie on the grounds of conscience or ideology leads to
not mere disobedience of the will for protection
laws.
The objection must not cause direct damage,
illegitimate and not preventable by other means or by
the realization by others, third party rights
or public interests. There is talk here of a damage

with these characteristics, because any objection
cause a disturbance of consciousness or difficulty interests outside the objector.
Moreover, ignoring the right to conscientious objection would, in fact, the
restoration of obedience. But,
as we know, no obedience
It should never be reintroduced into the country.
We want to remember that you can not conceive of a democratic, prosperous and harmonious country
(Cfr. Art. 75, subsections. 18 and 19, CN) without such a basic right man to ensure,
such as the right not to be compelled to act
against conscience.
It is for all these reasons that we consider
necessary to approve a law on conscientious objection.

39

40

41

2nd COMMISSION
Justice and Security
42

43

Justice
With regard to Justice, deep structural reforms to be made to achieve a
short time the following objectives:

I. RANK JUSTICE
II. CHANGES IN
SELECTION PROCESS,
APPOINTMENT AND REMOVAL
JUDGES AND COMBAT
CORRUPTION (Integrates
and correlates with point IV
Government Commission - Quality
Institutional)
III. Extensive modification
OF PROCEDURAL RULES,
JUDICIAL MANAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT
ALTERNATIVE MEDIA
DISPUTE RESOLUTION
IV. IMPLEMENTATION OF
"DIGITAL RECORD"
V. CREATING A CITY
JUDICIAL

I. THE RANK
JUSTICE
I. A. TRAINING
UNIVERSITY OF
LAWYERS
Modifications were made in the plans
study of national universities
in racing barrister and solicitor,
in order to adapt the content to
new challenges posed by society to light
international agreements ratified by
our country.

ity to determine the academic and
exercise professional activity.

Referred to the career of Law and Legal Science, delivered in institutions around the country,
It aims to promote and advocate the adoption
and categorization of all curricula
taught undergraduate and graduate-at least in
those areas.

Assessments may be made in several
opportunities during each calendar year,
no cost or minimal cost tending to
cover the costs of management, on areas
or about specific topics of professional activity. They will be designed so
that responses limit the maximum discretion of the body of assessors. They will
and will be subject to voluntary option
registered its realization.

It aims to provide future professionals
specific tools for the successful development of their professional activity, increasing
the hours of practice at grade level. It also aims to coordinate the various
existing curricula to level
and balancing the contents of graduates
across the country, avoiding unfair imbalances.

To this end, the CONEAU must have sufficient resources to fulfill that role
ensuring the impartiality, independence and
autonomy in the development of the task and academic excellence and management of those authorities responsible for the evaluation.

dictation graduate training courses will be encouraged in all universities of the country, especially in the interior,
avoiding maintain centralism in management
information and scientific activity, achieving
so that professionals want
postgraduate study and not have to travel from
their home provinces to the center of
country.

Currently the process of assessment by the agency is directed mainly to
analyze the processes of education (programs,
faculty, objectives, evaluation, including
others) and not the results (level
graduates) professionals. Extending the evaluation aims also at this point
in order to achieve a comprehensive analysis of the cycle
educational, as well as the insert
legal professionals manifest in the
social media.

Law 24.521 of Higher Education determined
the creation of the National Assessment and Accreditation (CONEAU) with
In order to perform evaluations and controls
about the educational quality of the various
institutions of higher education both
degree and postgraduate.
44

From the lessons learned the usefulness of the recommendations made was observed that
allowed these establishments become aware of their own strengths and weaknesses,
enabling them to have a vision of reality compared with other universities and educational institutes and used as
starting point for improving the quality of the
institutional management and teaching.

I. B. ACCREDITATION SYSTEM
PROFESSIONAL
It will stimulate the Bar Associations
each jurisdiction to organize competitions
evaluation of their registered with the fi-

This will provide information about the shortcomings in terms of skills
or theorists who have enrolled to
to provide training courses run
colleges themselves or articulated with
universities and institutes of the medium.

Thus it is trying to promote training, without establishing hindering requirements
the exercise of professional activity, to
while stimulating the training and updating and encourage the recognition of merit and professional excellence
for the benefit of the community and of the entire judicial system.

IC TRAINING OF MEMBERS OF THE JUDICIARY
They will be designed integrated judicial schools
between the Judicial Branch and the Public Ministry
(Nation and Provinces) and the Universities
National, to teach courses in the form
coordinated, unified content, providing
equal access to training employees and judicial officials.
This will allow the creation of a design VA45

background coloration applied by each
jurisdiction to cover the vacancies
occur in administrative positions of these branches of government.
Similarly, the design is being proposed
public, open and unique entry system
Judiciary in order of merit and background screening.

II. SELECTION
DESIGNATION AND
REMOVAL
JUDGES
II. A. COUNCIL OF THE
JUDICIARY
One of the serious problems afflicting the
Justice of our country is the system of selection, appointment and removal of judges.
While the last constitutional reform
the Judicial Council is established to
provide greater transparency and objectivity
this matter, its practical application over
a decade and a half of that body has
It is shown that the problem persists and has
even worse.
In order to finish once and for all with
arbitrariness, accommodations and the designations "finger" of judges who do not meet
minimum professional and ethical requirements
for the high office to which they will be, a profound modification of the Council be held
of Magistracy.
With the same will ensure that the party
president and general political branch
it can not, directly or indirectly,
46

appoint or remove judges alone, or
You can lock appointments or removals.
With the new structure we will do, it will substantially change the current composition of the
Council providing greater representativeness
academic branch, lawyers and the
magistrates. We will ensure thereby
greater fairness in the appointment and removal of judges.
As for being appointed judge, the Constitution requires certain requirements in
its new Board members shall be appointed taking into account its capacity,
honesty and academic background and
Professional.
Procedures for appointment and removal of judges so that they are agile and very fast is substantially modified, in order to provide certainty to the public
the ability and honesty of the judges who judge the Argentines.
In order to make reform and deep
not only reach the judges, the appointment system is also reformulate and
removing tax ensuring that it is
performed without influences plíticos actors.
And we achieve total independence of
prosecutors regarding the PEN Congress and
the judiciary so that they can carry out their work free from any pressure.
The way to access these charges will be for
capacity and professional background and
academics and competitive.
And so that prosecutors can in Day
day properly perform its functions,
heavy penalties shall apply to officials

e) monitor public and private entities engaged the attention of girls,
children or adolescents, is housing them in
temporarily or permanently, are developing programs of attention to them,
and reporting to the competent authorities any irregularity that threatens
or violates the rights of all girls,
children or adolescents;
f) Request for the performance of their duties the help of the police, medical-care and educational services, are
public or private;
g) Provide advice of any
kind to children and adolescents and to
their families, through an organization
right;
h) Advise girls, children, adolescents and
their families about public resources,
private and community, where they can use to solve their problems;
i) Participate in the advisory body
mediation or conciliation;
j) Receive all claims formulated by
children or adolescents or any complaint that is made in relation to girls,
children and adolescents, either personally or
by a permanent free telephone helpline to proceed immediately
the requirement in question.
Furthermore, Article 62 provides that
"All entities, agencies and individuals
legal, whether public or private, and individuals are obliged to provide cooperation to the requirements of the Ombudsman
Rights of Children and Adolescents
with preferential and expedited basis ", and Article 63 that" Everyone who disobeys
or obstruct the exercise of its functions under the preceding articles shall be liable to
The offense under Article 239 of the Code
Criminal. The Ombudsman for the Rights of Children,

Children and Adolescents must transfer the
background respective Public Ministry
Attorney for the exercise of appropriate action. It may require the intervention of justice
for the submission of the documents
that would have been denied by any agency, organization, person, or their agents. "
As we see this institution is:
Modern, dynamic, flexible, and unbureaucratic; It is ideal for achieving improved
institutional quality Argentina.
Therefore we propose to create other more as defenders, for example, the Ombudsman
Older Adults.
All with the assurance that these modern institutions ensure a full exercise
the rights of people and a strengthening of the republican system of government.
In the same sense, the constitutional reform of 1994 was introduced in the text
our Constitution an ombudsman
People (art. 86 CN) as an independent body established in the field of Congress
Nation and with full power to act
functional autonomy, without instructions
from any authority. Its mission is to defend
and protection of human rights and other
rights, guarantees and interests protected by the
Constitution and laws, to facts,
acts or omissions of the administration.
Therefore, in particular, the creation of other defenders are proposed independently
the Ombudsman, and in this way
give more dynamism to the institutional reality
national.

III.6. SUPREME COURT
Justice
The principle of separation of powers is a
the fundamentals of the rule of law, as it tends to ensure the objective more

important of constitutionalism, which is the
formation of a limited government, to safeguard the essential rights and freedoms
of people.
In order to guarantee the principle of separation of powers and consequently the validity of an authentic democracy, citizenship
a nation must strive to avoid
takes effective all measures, rules, regulations and acts that endanger
vitality and independence of powers
Been.
A phenomenon common to all democracies
Advanced is the increasing expansion of the role
of jurisdiction, which responds mainly to two reasons:
1. A linked to the change in the structure of the legal system, produced in the second half
of this century with the evolution in the forms of
State constitutional law;
2. The other linked to the transformation of the political system, produced by the contemporary
social and consequently for state intervention in the economy and society development.
Formerly, the judge serving a mere technical function of law enforcement. This system
radically changed constitutions
the Second World War, transforming the judge
guarantor of fundamental rights through
censorship of the invalidity of the laws and other
acts of political power that violate those
rights.
In this context, it is attributed to the jurisdiction
a new role: that of guaranteeing the fundamental rights of all and also the legality
public authorities.
The principle of independence of judges, which
is a corollary of his subject only to the law,
divided into two pillars:
1. The external independence of the judiciary as a whole regarding the powers exter33

us to it, and particularly the executive branch; Y
2. The internal independence of each judge against internal hierarchy of the organization, able to influence any
how the autonomy of the judiciary.
The judge, in contrast to what happens with
the organs of the Legislature and Power
Executive should not represent a majority or
minorities, and the consensus of the electorate, not only
it is not necessary, but would even be dangerous for the proper performance of their duties
determination of truth and protection of
the fundamental rights of individuals
judged by him.
It should be noted that the objective of "strengthening the
justice "embodied in the preamble of our
Constitution obliges the three branches of the rule of law.
It is essential to have a Power
Judicial solid and genuine, endowed with judges
impartial, in an institutional framework that
meets the financial and human resources to act in defense of constitutional guarantees
Members of the Nation.
We understand that the independence of Power
Judicial be plausible only as long as the necessary autonomy to magazine abor34

to the development and operation of its own expenditure budget.
In this way, it strengthens the judiciary,
providing it with the necessary technical tools in order to strengthen its independence.
In Comparative Law it is appropriate
quote a paragraph from a publication of authorship
Stephen G. Breyer, Judge of the Court
Supreme of Justice United States: "The
five components of judicial independence
the constitutional protections
enjoyed by judges in the United States;
the independent administration of the judiciary by the judiciary; judicial disciplinary authority regarding the conduct of the
judges; how conflicts of interest and ensuring legal rulings are resolved
effective. "
It is worth mentioning that on the occasion of holding the Conference of the Supreme Courts
of the Americas, in 2009, Dr. Ricardo
Lorenzetti said that one of the major issues discussed during the meeting was the
judicial independence.
In this context, he said that there was consensus among members of the Conference to ensure
that "independence is a budget
proper functioning of the judicial powers

cial "and that" the State must guarantee the independence of judges ".
During the meeting, said Dr. Lorenzetti, the relevance is of the autonomy
budget of the judiciary and
the need to preserve the Justice
intervention of other powers.
Therefore care should be taken to strengthen the
Republican State and take appropriate measures to ensure independence of the branches that comprise laws to improve the quality
institutional.
Currently, and as the law regulates 23,853, the
the judiciary budget is prepared and
made by the Supreme Court of Justice of the Nation who sends it to the Executive to be incorporated into the draft
General Budget to be presented to the
Congress annually.
Therefore, we propose to pass a law
amend Article 1 of the law 23,853
Judicial autarky to the Supreme Court of Justice of the Nation to prepare
Budget of Expenses and Resources of the judiciary and send it directly to the National Congress for their knowledge, and
the National Executive Power for inclusion in the budget of the Administration
National.

Currently the Court prepares the budget
the Judiciary and the Executive Branch submitted for inclusion in the General Budget of the Administration which then sends the
Legislature for approval.
We also consider a law penalizing
amend Article 4 of the law with 23,853
so that the Executive Branch not
You can make changes to the expenses of the Judicial Power of the Nation, the
which may be made only at the request of the Supreme Court of Justice of the Nation,
as required under the regulations.

We also propose to pass a law
amending Article 10 of Law 23,853 for
it is the Supreme Court of Justice
The only nation to regulate the law
Budget of Expenses and Resources
Judiciary in matters concerning
the-budget financial management
without participation of the executive branch in that
regulation.
He is currently the Executive together with the Court makes this regulation.

III.7. FISCAL FEDERALISM
Reinforced Fiscal federalism: Federal Commitment, he wants to strengthen the government as policy established by our federal system
Constitution. For these purposes it is essential to define the areas of responsibility between the federal, provincial and
municipalities, so that everyone can meet
correctly and with full respect what
mark our Constitution. This implies a
Today absolutely misrepresented and distorted, with the institutional rearrangement
corresponding allocation of resources,
get to sign a new fiscal pact between the
provinces and the nation. That way you will advance to a final pressing problem now plaguing our country solution.
In order to unify all modifications to the various distributions, both
primary and secondary tax
national, we propose creating a system
only aimed at simplifying legal
the current tax system and redistribution. Therefore, in order to give greater
economic autonomy to the provinces eliminating the aegis of the Executive
National and various financial aid programs.
35

The aforementioned changes include:
a) Elimination:
1. subsection a) of Article 6 of Law 24,130
returning to the gross mass coparticipable
detraction of 15% was destined for the
national security obligations;
2. Article 104 of Law 20,628, text ordered by Decree 649/97 - Law on Income Tax, recovering detraction
34% to the gross mass of sharing;
3. Article 52 of Law 23,349, text ordered by Decree 280/97 - Tax Law
Value Added recovering detraction
11% of the gross mass of partnership;
4. Article 55 of Law 26.565 Regime
Simplified for Small Taxpayers,
recovering 70% of the gross mass of partnership;
5. Under Article 3 of Law 25,413 Tax
Debits and Credits, recovering 70% of the gross mass of partnership.
b) The repeal of Law 23,548 of General Revenue Sharing, which arose

in 1988 as a transitional arrangement with
encouragement of the creation of a law retrospectively
Final Federal Revenue Sharing.
c) Creating a Nation-State agreement
generating a new Law on Federal Tax Sharing which includes the
following:
1. The creation of a new index of primary distribution, which extends the portion corresponding to the provinces;
2. Incorporating a direct distribution percentage bound for the Administration
National Social Security;
3. The creation of a new system of secondary distribution to consider statistics and own needs of the regions and provinces, as population gap
development, poverty, homelessness, among others;
4. The ratification of a flat secondary distribution exceeding 34% now;
5. The establishment of an automatic distribution of the proceeds, depending

tooth of an autonomous integrated
representatives of all the provinces.

III.8. NATIONAL DIGEST
In regard to the improvement of governance and institutional quality by strengthening legal certainty, we
the sanction of a National Digest necessary.

III.9. RELIGIOUS FREEDOM
The right to religious freedom is a right
all to be immune from coercion, therefore
part of individuals, social groups and of any human power,
so that, in religious matters, nor force
anyone to act against his conscience, nor prevented from acting according to her privately and
public, alone or in association with others.
Otherwise, it would be absurd to recognize that
There is the right to religious freedom, to
that simply is created, but not to live or act on what you believe.
We therefore propose the enactment of a law
enshrines religious freedom and worship.

III.10. Conscientious objection
First we approach the task
to provide a concept of human right
essential to conscientious objection. In
Here we must note that the laws in various legal duties imposed
that may conflict with the moral, ethical or religious convictions of some. Given this,
It has always been considered the right to conscientious objection and how to respect the rights of the minority within society. This long recognized, charges
especially important in societies each
36

more plural time such as current.
Conscientious objection is a right
human, constitutional foundation, which
It is to be a peaceful testimony by
which a person refuses, for reasons of
conscience, to perform an act which is
legal or legally bound by a positive rule, even by a contract, which directly or indirectly contradicts their ideas
ethical or religious beliefs, or both.
This right, therefore, becomes relevant
when it occurs in a moment of existence, a crossroads where it is solved
disobeying a positive law, civil law, the
legal obligation on the imperative of conscience under conviction of philosophical, ethical, or religious.
Thus, conscientious objection would become thus a practical application of the
rights to freedom of thought, conscience and religion.
The right to conscientious objection oppose matter play a positive duty
It imposes a law or a rule (usually consisting of a do), but not
for political reasons, but for reasons of
awareness.
A legal obligation to do something is objected,
and even to give something, and this can happen both when the obligation is generic to all
the population, such as when it is specific to
certain types of people (doctors,
civil servants, judges, over eighteen years, taxed,
etc).
Who intends to disobey a rule Building on this fundamental right is not looking directly repeal it
the norm contrary to their moral convictions
or religious, but not obligatory for him,
they are not forced directly to him; namely,
the general rule remains in force, only to be EX37

ceptúa of compliance objector.
The right to conscientious objection is founded on democratic coexistence and
by the rejection of obedience.
The right not to be compelled by a law or rule of law, to act contrary to conscience
ethical or religious convictions or fundamental institutional, is something that is at the base
constitutionalism itself, ideals
freedom and democratic coexistence.
Indeed, if, supposedly in order to give greater freedom to some, it is chosen
not recognize others, it would violate
the rights of persons who have not
let them think according to what they want,
and live and work according to what they think.
This issue, as well as violating the rights to freedom of thought, religion
and conscience, strongly compromise
the right to equality enshrined in Article 16 of our Constitution, and,
as appropriate, also other rights to
then we must refer.
It is worth noting that it is not already
it is prevented to do something you want and you

38

you are entitled to make an issue which would
in itself, and very seriously, but something much
more delicate: it could be forcing
to do something that is not wanted, because wrongs
seriously consciousness, or the ideals and convictions.
This is because the rationale of this right does not respond to the public authority has
pierced or not the limits of their competence,
but it finds its rationale in
imperative of personal conscience, or
imperative of conscience, embedded in
the fundamental reasons which have led to
some people to associate, has thus given the
ideology of an institution framework of convictions for development.
Legally compel a person or a
institution do something that seriously offends their deepest convictions, what
which could abstain without harm to others,
contrary to the most elementary requirements relating to fundamental rights and public freedoms on which it was founded
the modern vision of the proper relationship
between the relevant fields to power pub-

public and autonomy of individuals.
The objection must be based on reasons of conscience or institutional ideology. This way, you prevent the breach is disguised with the alleged exercise of this right,
when the reality is that failure
It is guided by political, economic reasons,
comfort, etc., and no ethical, religious
or institutional.
Also, the need to lie on the grounds of conscience or ideology leads to
not mere disobedience of the will for protection
laws.
The objection must not cause direct damage,
illegitimate and not preventable by other means or by
the realization by others, third party rights
or public interests. There is talk here of a damage

with these characteristics, because any objection
cause a disturbance of consciousness or difficulty interests outside the objector.
Moreover, ignoring the right to conscientious objection would, in fact, the
restoration of obedience. But,
as we know, no obedience
It should never be reintroduced into the country.
We want to remember that you can not conceive of a democratic, prosperous and harmonious country
(Cfr. Art. 75, subsections. 18 and 19, CN) without such a basic right man to ensure,
such as the right not to be compelled to act
against conscience.
It is for all these reasons that we consider
necessary to approve a law on conscientious objection.

39

40

41

2nd COMMISSION
Justice and Security
42

43

Justice
With regard to Justice, deep structural reforms to be made to achieve a
short time the following objectives:

I. RANK JUSTICE
II. CHANGES IN
SELECTION PROCESS,
APPOINTMENT AND REMOVAL
JUDGES AND COMBAT
CORRUPTION (Integrates
and correlates with point IV
Government Commission - Quality
Institutional)
III. Extensive modification
OF PROCEDURAL RULES,
JUDICIAL MANAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT
ALTERNATIVE MEDIA
DISPUTE RESOLUTION
IV. IMPLEMENTATION OF
"DIGITAL RECORD"
V. CREATING A CITY
JUDICIAL

I. THE RANK
JUSTICE
I. A. TRAINING
UNIVERSITY OF
LAWYERS
Modifications were made in the plans
study of national universities
in racing barrister and solicitor,
in order to adapt the content to
new challenges posed by society to light
international agreements ratified by
our country.

ity to determine the academic and
exercise professional activity.

Referred to the career of Law and Legal Science, delivered in institutions around the country,
It aims to promote and advocate the adoption
and categorization of all curricula
taught undergraduate and graduate-at least in
those areas.

Assessments may be made in several
opportunities during each calendar year,
no cost or minimal cost tending to
cover the costs of management, on areas
or about specific topics of professional activity. They will be designed so
that responses limit the maximum discretion of the body of assessors. They will
and will be subject to voluntary option
registered its realization.

It aims to provide future professionals
specific tools for the successful development of their professional activity, increasing
the hours of practice at grade level. It also aims to coordinate the various
existing curricula to level
and balancing the contents of graduates
across the country, avoiding unfair imbalances.

To this end, the CONEAU must have sufficient resources to fulfill that role
ensuring the impartiality, independence and
autonomy in the development of the task and academic excellence and management of those authorities responsible for the evaluation.

dictation graduate training courses will be encouraged in all universities of the country, especially in the interior,
avoiding maintain centralism in management
information and scientific activity, achieving
so that professionals want
postgraduate study and not have to travel from
their home provinces to the center of
country.

Currently the process of assessment by the agency is directed mainly to
analyze the processes of education (programs,
faculty, objectives, evaluation, including
others) and not the results (level
graduates) professionals. Extending the evaluation aims also at this point
in order to achieve a comprehensive analysis of the cycle
educational, as well as the insert
legal professionals manifest in the
social media.

Law 24.521 of Higher Education determined
the creation of the National Assessment and Accreditation (CONEAU) with
In order to perform evaluations and controls
about the educational quality of the various
institutions of higher education both
degree and postgraduate.
44

From the lessons learned the usefulness of the recommendations made was observed that
allowed these establishments become aware of their own strengths and weaknesses,
enabling them to have a vision of reality compared with other universities and educational institutes and used as
starting point for improving the quality of the
institutional management and teaching.

I. B. ACCREDITATION SYSTEM
PROFESSIONAL
It will stimulate the Bar Associations
each jurisdiction to organize competitions
evaluation of their registered with the fi-

This will provide information about the shortcomings in terms of skills
or theorists who have enrolled to
to provide training courses run
colleges themselves or articulated with
universities and institutes of the medium.

Thus it is trying to promote training, without establishing hindering requirements
the exercise of professional activity, to
while stimulating the training and updating and encourage the recognition of merit and professional excellence
for the benefit of the community and of the entire judicial system.

IC TRAINING OF MEMBERS OF THE JUDICIARY
They will be designed integrated judicial schools
between the Judicial Branch and the Public Ministry
(Nation and Provinces) and the Universities
National, to teach courses in the form
coordinated, unified content, providing
equal access to training employees and judicial officials.
This will allow the creation of a design VA45

background coloration applied by each
jurisdiction to cover the vacancies
occur in administrative positions of these branches of government.
Similarly, the design is being proposed
public, open and unique entry system
Judiciary in order of merit and background screening.

II. SELECTION
DESIGNATION AND
REMOVAL
JUDGES
II. A. COUNCIL OF THE
JUDICIARY
One of the serious problems afflicting the
Justice of our country is the system of selection, appointment and removal of judges.
While the last constitutional reform
the Judicial Council is established to
provide greater transparency and objectivity
this matter, its practical application over
a decade and a half of that body has
It is shown that the problem persists and has
even worse.
In order to finish once and for all with
arbitrariness, accommodations and the designations "finger" of judges who do not meet
minimum professional and ethical requirements
for the high office to which they will be, a profound modification of the Council be held
of Magistracy.
With the same will ensure that the party
president and general political branch
it can not, directly or indirectly,
46

appoint or remove judges alone, or
You can lock appointments or removals.
With the new structure we will do, it will substantially change the current composition of the
Council providing greater representativeness
academic branch, lawyers and the
magistrates. We will ensure thereby
greater fairness in the appointment and removal of judges.
As for being appointed judge, the Constitution requires certain requirements in
its new Board members shall be appointed taking into account its capacity,
honesty and academic background and
Professional.
Procedures for appointment and removal of judges so that they are agile and very fast is substantially modified, in order to provide certainty to the public
the ability and honesty of the judges who judge the Argentines.
In order to make reform and deep
not only reach the judges, the appointment system is also reformulate and
removing tax ensuring that it is
performed without influences plíticos actors.
And we achieve total independence of
prosecutors regarding the PEN Congress and
the judiciary so that they can carry out their work free from any pressure.
The way to access these charges will be for
capacity and professional background and
academics and competitive.
And so that prosecutors can in Day
day properly perform its functions,
heavy penalties shall apply to officials

of any power and hierarchy that do not provide
to them the information they requested in the
causes are investigating.

II. B. ELIMINATION OF
CORRUPTION
The bodies of the Public Administration
as they are not adequately
controlled, they end up being affected
greater or lesser extent by various deficiencies
Operating that make their effectiveness. In
regarding current legislation on the point,
Argentina ratified the Inter-American Convention Against Corruption (ICAC), as part
the "Specialized Conference on the Draft Inter-American Convention against
Corruption "held by the Organization
American States. Moreover the Law
25,188 "Ethics in the Exercise of the Function
Public "(BO 01/11/99), has changed the wording of several articles of the Criminal Code,
creating new criminal offenses.
In turn in our country there are two separate bodies of the subject, such as
Anti-Corruption Bureau, the National Prosecution
Administrative Investigations Unit
Financial Information (UIF) and the National Public Ethics Commission. From the above, it would seem that exists in our country poor
regulatory structure or specialized agencies, designed to prevent this scourge.
However, the inefficient operation, not
transparent and bureaucratic administration
public is propitious environment for generating corruption, since the
normal channels through which should elapse
State's actions are blocked
by a series of legal, social, physical and idiosyncrasies disabilities. From this
point of view, the act of corruption is present

ta not only as an isolated individual act
public official, but as the obvious consequence of a perverse, negligent and saturated system, which consciously postponed
"Sine die" the resolution of conflicts
individuals take their podiums. Relegates
and passive resignation to the realization of the
principles of justice and social equity, constitutionally guaranteed.
The citizen has the right Legally recognized-making administrative and judicial procedures presentations
where have the status of interested.
Failure to resolve and excessive delays violate file processing
current legislation and therefore requires the application of sanctions to those
those responsible for this situation.
Framed by the effects of the other proposed reforms, it aims to increase the control and monitoring of actions
this nature, the application of sanctions
quickly and at the same time stimulate recognition efforts
judicial integrity by employees
critrios based on recognition
merit.

III. IMPROVEMENTS
PROCEDURE AND
JUDICIAL MANAGEMENT
III. A. REFORM PROCESS IN
CIVIL AND COMMERCIAL
The current procedural legislation proved ineffective to provide the defendant with
a service of agile, fast and fair justice.
47

A profound change and modernization of the legislation should take place by
Procedure for both controversial and purely judicial stage to the previous stage and
for subsequent execution of sentences.
The Code of Civil and Commercial Procedure were amended to ensure that
all processes are dynamic and fast, through a simple procedure and
accessible to litigants.
To this end the Oral procedure will be implemented in all trials.
Dotaremos such infrastructure purposes
building industry and technology to all judicial offices so that they can meet
new oral forms of judicial proceedings.
This added to the digital package will
the speed of the judicial process and the maximization of public resources

cos dumps to provide the service of justice.
Trials have a period of time,
which can not be exceeded. If
this happens the judge will dismiss the evidence
pending nonessential and issue
without further delay sentencing.
Courts will be created for Causes Low
Amount, with simple shortcuts and economic procedures and formalities, thus guaranteeing all citizens the
free access to real justice.
These courts have jurisdiction in neighborhood issues, questions of minor economic importance, and for certain procedures
Special as inheritance, evictions,
injunctions, etc.
To avoid the "bottleneck" that occurs before the judge responsible for sentencing unique, different courts will be created,
according to the importance of the matter under discussion.

So that the minor will be
by a single judge, and intermediate
by collegiate courts and most important but by magistrates
in addition to the procedure laid down in the
Constitution of jury trials, but with revolutionary and innovative idea LETRADOS jury (the number of
Jurors will be 8 but not laymen but lawyers,
for reasons that will be explained at length orally when so required).

III. B. PROCEDURAL REFORMS
CRIMINAL MATTERS
Criminal procedure law also amended so that those who commit crimes
effectively serve his sentence and not
is a danger to the rest of society to
be free soon.
The prison regime also restate
Preventive so that it effectively
is fulfilled. The guiding principle is that whoever
offender, no sale.
A profound modification be made
prison system, respecting the dignity
human prisoners and ensuring
constitutional principle of healthy prisons
and clean, removing any privilege
within prisons. The VIP prisoner shall not
but here the strongest, the most influential
or the richest, but one that has really
good conduct and work, study and seeks
rehabilitated to be useful to society.
To avoid corruption in the prison system and implementation reports
relating to the conduct of prisoners, an independent body be created to PEN
check the transparency of the prison system
and the performance of all actors.

48

III.C. AGILITY IN THE PROCESS OF EXECUTION
Judgments against the state
We will also make a profound modification of the method of execution
judgments against the Federal Government to
that they are met within a reasonable time by a simple procedure
guaranteeing payment automation,
eliminating the possibility of corruption in
discretion in issuing payment orders of judgments.
The sentences involving an obligation for the state to do, can not be
unknown and enforcement can not
be delayed. Be responsible official who does not meet this principle, moving from office immediately.
It will be particularly important in ensuring more quickly to sentences
order the pension payment causes
ANSES against so that retirees
they can effectively collect and enjoy
life funds belonging to them.

III. D. TRIAL BY JURY
Art. 118 provides for implementation of judgments
jury "all criminal trials
ordinary, not arising from the right of
prosecution granted in the Chamber of Deputies ... "coincidentally with the provisions of art. 24 in stating that "Congress
promote the reform of the current legislation
in its branches, and the establishment of trial
jury ".
The assumption is based on an ideal of justice
and independence in its exercise. Consists
49

the possibility that a group of citizens to determine the guilt or innocence of a defendant, whichever issue
on the facts and not on the applicable law, the latter being found
headed by the judge.

III. E. ALTERNATIVE MEDIA
DISPUTE RESOLUTION

The provision has been maintained even
after the constitutional reform
1994, in the latter part of inc. 12 art.
75 of the Constitution, which assigns
as a faculty of the National Congress
to enact laws "... requires the establishment of trial by jury."

Law 24.573 (as amended) establishes, since 1995, with mandatory
the mediation as a requirement for
start legal proceedings. Mediation
as an alternative form of resolution
conflict has been shown with solution
satisfactory results in decreased
of causes. Maybe not yet been able to obtain maximum results she can
providing, becoming in some cases
in a simple preliminary hurdle that must be saved to get to trial, unaware
that is an applied--well
solution in itself.

As we see the abundance of rules
our Constitution referred to
theme, expressed a definite intention
constituent of doing this really justice system, subject to which the
date, this mandate remains unfulfilled.
It is therefore proposed to boost the jury trial system, limited in
first instance tort processes
smaller or certain criminal figures and then extending it to the rest
processes.
These judges would be formed by licensed attorneys and employees
and judicial officials title
all jurisdictions attorney-in amount
determine- according to listings taken to
effect by the Ministry of Justice or the Supreme Court. Participation would be compulsory and unpaid.
Thus, beyond meeting sends
constitutional creation jurors are
decompress the judicial work and independence and impartiality would encourage their
actions.
50

Deepen and will promote alternative means of dispute resolution.

Therefore, the proposal is to step up support for this and other media
conflict resolution through
judicial training and dissemination aimed at achieving incorporation and acceptance by the community and its assessment
as a useful means of achieving social peace
and the realization of rights, in brief and useful time.
The assumptions currently excluded extension is also postulated as causes
and some minor criminal cases in which the
National Government or its decentralized entities are party, maintaining strict
control over who traded in the chance state interests. This
theme doctrine has developed deep
studies, particularly related to the scope of tax debts.

IV. FILE
DIGITAL

with courts and lawyers, so
the old system of filling out and answering trades will be removed.

One of the factors causing great
delay that exists in the current Justice
is the use of near zero
tools provided in the digital age
which is immersed in the world
XXI century.

Each lawyer will have a key by
which will access the file and which
may submit written in different
judgments. All the evidence will be presented in digital format. The remaining
players also have access process
the file, with different levels, according to the
satisfying role in it.

The trials continue being processed on paper and all actions in the
necessarily involve record
transfer of any kind of documentation from the court and from the various
players judgment (written submissions,
notifications bonds, filling out trades, etc.).
This delay, causing a huge delay
in the process of trials and involves also
wear a large footprint both
government agencies, law firms and especially tribunalicias dependencies,
often causing collapse
building infrastructure and the temporary closure of courts by the risk caused by the
weight records.
It will be created in order to end this system
archaic and costly, the "Digital Files".
The same hardware will not have paper,
but it will be entirely in the
Court's computer system, and which
They shall be accessible to litigants, their lawyers
and other stakeholders. Each party shall
register your digital signature that will sign the
various writings, which will be presented
e-mail, means by which they also will attend all notifications.
Public agencies also use the same route for communications

Interjurisdictional system notifications (Law 22,172) to the new digital system will be adapted by a new agreement between the federal and provincial governments, to
that they advance their computerization
speed up the process and this is beneficial for the entire country.
To democratize the judicial control
by the population, it will be included in the
Judicial website the information on each court that contains statistical indicators deadlines, Power dictated sentences, income and completion
causes, etc.

V. JUDICIAL CITY
Currently the Judicial Power of the Nation
Seated their national courts and
Federal in Buenos
Aires faces a serious problem consistent atomization of outbuildings on a
vast amount of properties surrounding the
central town, with excessive distances between them, which leads to professional
a shift in different media
transport, which threatens the quality of their
professional work.
51

In most cases the courts of first instance did not share the same building with cameras and other appeals, or
even they found in the same area
courts of the same jurisdiction.
Analogous situation is seen in the
Public Prosecutor's Office, in relation to
occupied offices and ombudsmen
federal prosecutors of various instances and
jurisdictions.
Moreover, in many cases the properties
used are not owned by the Judiciary of the Nation or the Public Ministry
the Nation, but rented or belonging to
other agencies of government that yield "to the end".
Thus, the judicial activity is transformed into a maze of offices where the
daily records are transferred
a place so we can see piles of them
They are displaced through the streets of our
city.
This situation also hampers the development of professional activity, while the
Lawyers must move from one point to
In order to control the evolution of their trials, even when turning to a single branch
right.
In general the structure of the occupied buildings is severely damaged, it is
very old, does not comply with the requirements of workplace health and safety or-at least-not
They are functional.
The offices that handle criminal cases
example, are designed not meet safety standards in order to protect the
psychophysical integrity of detainees and
employees must share the same
52

areas at inappropriate times, to the detriment of respect for the dignity of detained and working conditions for
employees. Even in some cases, health facilities are shared by detainees, employees and the general public, with
all risks it generates.
Nor is it has offices for
specifically abducted tank elements or backup documentation
evidence of the cause. This is a common denominator in all jurisdictions.
Nor they have adapted facilities
for those jurisdictions that handled issues
linked to family conflicts or where
It can be dangerously exposed the privacy of minors or integrity Features. The absence
sufficient waiting rooms; hearing;
meeting (essentially for the purpose of performing mediations); care professionals;
offices for free legal advice to the public; training; sanitary facilities; among many others, are a
constant. Those that do exist are created adapting to the few spaces available, with
minimal amenities.
In this context, the design of a project
City Judicial it is imperative and urgent. This project should not only consider
the number of courts and other dependencies, but also provide
future needs, possible extensions and the possibility of incorporating all
technological innovations available
and that may be generated in the future.
The establishment of this urban complex, should take into account other factors,
such as security and accessibility,

issues relating to traffic and
parking capacity, access by
public transportation, zoning and environmental impact, among others.

SECURITY
(Basic scheme to communicate)
- IT'S TIME TO DO SOMETHING ABOUT OUR
VICTIMS TO WHICH THE NATIONAL CONSTITUTION AND LAWS TOO HUMAN RIGHTS RECOGNIZE THEM.
- BARS ARE FOR CRIMINALS AND NOT
FOR PEOPLE honest and hardworking.
- GIVE RESPONSE FROM THE FIRST MINUTE OF MANAGEMENT, NO MORE TIME
LOSE.
- We talked especially MOTHERS lowly VILLAS, THE
FOREVER SLUMS postponed,
SAVE OUR CHILDREN'S Paco,
INDUSTRY OF CRIME !!! (EG. NGOs
"PACO MOTHERS").
- NEVER AGAIN THESE terrible statistics:
IN THE CITY OF BUENOS AIRES, JUST IN
2010, were committed:

- 18,000 qualified Steals
- 110 Intentional Homicide
IN THE PROVINCE OF BUENOS AIRES, JUST IN
2010, were committed:
- 50,000 Qualified Theft
- 2,000 intentional homicides (accomplished and
tempted)
- 1,000 violations.
- SOCIAL JUSTICE he will always be present in our government, but at the same
TIME will fight vigorously
CRIME WITH THESE decisive action:

1 New científicotegnológicas tools to the police:
Use: digital map crime system
urban, rural and roadside surveillance, Banco
Genetic Data (DNA) research
sexual offenses, AVL (Automatic Location
police and private) vehicles, radar installation
Air and road total portable cameras for patrol walk (to everyday policing transparent), smart patrol (may
identify people and cars in real time)
Judicial online complaint with protocol form
digital, install antennas geo-detection
shooting firearms; all these dis53

positive will be connected to a large core
Intelligent Command (NIC), which concentrate
information, further analysis, and establish
aplicar- strategies to being an essential part of
system of citizen participation in control
of its management and show that
We're smarter than criminals.

2 Modification of the "generous"
excarcelatorias current laws, they
They are the "shipwreck" of guarantees, and
only benefit criminals
"race". Construction of new
prisons:
In case of serious crimes only it releases on humanitarian issues properly credited (terminal disease, HIV or allowed
advanced cancer, etc.). Offenders must
await trial behind bars.
Build 100 new prisons over the course of two years; They will be "themed" with capacity
maximum of 500 prisoners, with the possibility of
all or a percentage of them are privately owned.

3 Pursue the urgent
Police municipalization
prevencional in the territory of the
Buenos Aires province:
Uniformed and armed police who depend
of each municipality, on which will rest
the brunt of the task prevencional and misdemeanors; These bodies will be audited by the
proposed Federal Organized Crime Agency (AFCCO).

4 Buenos Aires
will occupy local crime:
The key is the security forces
54

existing (Federal and Metropolitan) divided work is not the best. In one structure CABA
should take care of public safety, that's what
we will guarantee from the Federal Government,
unite for security possible.

5 Construction of centers
specialized protection and
accommodation for minors
They have committed serious crimes,
beyond the debate about age
of accountability that we have not
led to nothing.
For situations suggest the country predelictuales the Family Solidarity puntano system that adequately contain the
risk children who can not remain
with their families of origin.

6 Creating the Federal Agency against
Organized Crime:
It will be a new security force, high technology, expansion to the whole territory
national levels to combat, essentially: drug trafficking, human trafficking, money laundering, crimes committed by criminal gangs, etc. It is out of the current police structure. All
great state has such an agency
kind, USA has the FBI. It will cover the whole country.
It is composed of police and military personnel
impeccable dossier.

7 Application unrestricted and all
country of the Misdemeanor Law
currently in force:
As Gen. Peron said: "It must meet the
Half of all laws passed, this is
the formula to solve the problem
insecurity. If everyone plays their role and

meet half of the laws is sufficient. The
Police must do their police work side
the good, and judges can not be the
side viewers, and citizens must be citizens, not citizens, and participate.
We must firmly say things can not be cut to the streets and enforcing
law "(Alberto Rodriguez Saa).

(BASIS)
We will promote law enforcement at all.
No more drugs in the streets, no more "cleaner" at traffic lights, no more "ups" extorsionándonos, no more cuts or roads.
No more poor against poor usurpándose
homes.
No more losing your childhood children begging,
taking drugs or prostitution.
The street will be a friendly space
honest and hardworking people.
KNOW that as -grave- political problem,
security must be resolved with political decision, no matter what they say minority groups ideology contrary to public policy.
That is our decision.
As technical problems, we advise
skilled in the art, as if we were
to high inflation or a pandemic, the
we would need a specialized economist or an expert medical sanitarian. Security no friends of power are needed,
needed public security experts. The
we have.
We know that the consolidated policy areas belief that social injustice, hunger
or the lack of opportunities generated crime is at
least partially false.
They mistakenly believe that only taking
the basic needs of the people the crime

will decrease when the simple observation
reality and world experience show that among the safest countries there are very poor and others rich, and vice versa.
Recent studies show criminological
growing countries, not fit
quickly to the new criminal problem,
They are those that increase their rate by tort
tort increased opportunities.
We do not confuse poverty with crime.
The majority of our poor are also the
Most people are honest
victims of insecurity every day. They are the most
exposed and least equipped to
guard against crime.
A recent example close? Brazil, which
It changed the situation of 50 million people
I taking them from the lower class to the middle, he had to,
at the end of President "Lula" Da
Silva, acknowledged that crime was on
hike and take serious steps in this regard, as
the militarization of the favelas to fight
drug trafficking.
We know that the violent crime, the most
concerned, not from poverty but, mostly, and from the 80s in Argentina, drug and its derivatives.
The globalization of the drug, already thanks
the government's prolonged inaction has
in our country representations bloodiest cartels or bands on the planet,
is the cause, also globally, a
high rate of violent crime (estimated
from 30% in suburban areas and 70%
urban, while the crime "by poverty" is less than 5% of all tort).
And it is for 3 reasons: 1. The massacres between cartels and dealers by territorial domain (and occasional innocent victims), 2. The crime
addict to get money to pay his
addiction, and 3. The crime of the person droga55

da, lacking inhibitory brakes, causing
from automobile accidents to sexual assault.
We know that the crime generally has multiple causes, and integrate biological, social and even environmental causes. In particular,
each offense is motivated, for example
is not the same the sexual attacker that
the fraudster.
But we also know that insecurity
we suffer every day has a single cause:
number of offenders released to each country, province or region producing
that insecurity. This is a basic concept
the Argentine ruling jurisdictions most affected seems to grasp.
We know this not already arranged with speeches but with concrete measures in the three
main actors in the criminal system: police, judicial and criminal and prison system.
And this starting from a criminal law
according to these times.
We know that the Criminal Policy should
provide targets in the medium and long term
keep out of the criminal justice system actors
as, for example, rescue and care
children at risk and strengthening
your family, or providing a substitute in
its case-, the fortification also education in general and, specifically,
drug education programs courses
in schools.
We know that the security plan, in contrast, must contain measures for the speedy solution of the problem of urban crime, ie only it targeted
separated from the social womb who permanen56

ciently assaults its members. People need solutions now, not 20 years. The
Plans show that sporadically
in Argentina as they are not successful. A
efficient plan must show at least one
sustained low rate of criminality
20% annually.
We KNOW formulate them and we will.
As we know all this, then in
the first year of government will implement, law
in hand, their own strategies to prevent crime, incarcerating criminals and prevent the entry of criminal primary system.

SPECIFIC MEASURES
NATION:
12 Main Points
1) FEDERAL DIGITAL AGENDA FOR SAFETY.
It is imperative: using technology to support security policies
that generate higher levels of prevention,
efficiency and effectiveness of public safety.
Technologies available in open standard formats to achieve interoperability
all security systems, provincial
and national. Facilitate participation
residents through access tools
friendly, deterrence and fostering crime prevention.
Specifically, we propose:
- Creating a legal framework at the federal level,
determine the minimum standards that permit
use of technology in order to
plan and develop preventive actions
front and crime.
- Provide appropriate technological infrastructure that allows, to the security forces,

improve prevention and the fight against crime guaranteeing the full exercise of the rights, freedoms and constitutional guarantees
for all Argentines, promoting citizen participation in monitoring the
security politics.
- Create a map of the entire Digital Crime
country, providing it with technological tools that allow updating, monitoring, analysis, evaluation and planning of geographical behavior
criminal activity, ensuring different levels of access to information,
including a level of public access
Internet.
- Facilitating citizens Tools
allow the complaint through public media (on line), assuring the identity of
complainant through the use of Digital Signature,
and allowing the same track (traceability).
- Provide the state of technological tools that enable the prevention or detection
Early disasters, accidents and contingencies consideration.
- Generate, with the technological tools and
appropriate standards, interconnection of
databases that allow access by
part of the various security forces in
the federal level, the data misdemeanors
and criminal of all inhabitants of the nation.
2) CREATION OF THE FEDERAL AGENCY
FIGHTING ORGANIZED CRIME
With special emphasis on the fight against drug trafficking according to the relationship of this crimnalidad with urban violence.
It shall consist of a Director-General. Civil who reports directly to the Ministry of Security
and the President's Office, Technical Director (ex .: Drug Trafficking, Trafficking and Money Laundering), links to the Federal Justice and

with specialized international organizations
as DEA and then operating tables
Research trained police and military personnel with impeccable dossier.
Immediate radar installation to be promoted
throughout the country, and it will provide it technically trace elements and art communications technology. vehicles, helicopters and aircraft will be incorporated to
rapid mobility across the country.
It will aim to remove the posters and
organized gangs and rooted in Argentina, and their aforementioned business.
Moreover, it based on the economic principle that no offer was ever removed
of a product as having a strong
demand will be promoted via the Ministry of Health, detoxification of addicts
in many new centers for
the specialty. Prisons shall be set up
for addicted offenders with rehabilitative purpose, and it will be provided to existing units
detoxification.
3) Crime Analysis Unit was created, within the Ministry of Security.
True Crime Situation Room in
Nation. It will nourish your data in real time
311 complaints (non-urgent) and 911 Free
software and analysis of the situation "hot spots", hours, days and be known type
crime, type of victims and how to prevent
crime, optimizing the distribution of staff
Police and Community Safety. Also
what station or delegation works and what does not.
This monitor also the provision of mobile
GPS.
We will provide NEW TOOLS
TECHNOLOGY THE POLICE:
Use: crime map, system
video surveillance (cameras), AVL (location
automatic vehicles), traffic radar installation
57

and air, portable cameras for patrol
foot transparent to the police action,
smart patrol (you can identify
people and cars from the same vehicle
Police, in real time), install antennas geo-weapons fire detection
of fire.
4) PROMOTION AND AID
POLICE MUNICIPALIZATION
PROVINCIAL.
With many municipalities that request.
Because every large city Mayor
You should take over the security of its inhabitants and because mega-police have shown their inefficiency when faced with the new
globalized crime.
5) TRANSFER OF PART OF THE POLICE
FEDERAL ATTENDING THE CITY
BUENOS AIRES.
Provided that the principles are respected Police
Community, heart of our plan, it provides staff of the Federal Police until 15,000
effective and consistent metropolitan facilities.
The delegations of the interior will be complemented by the new force FIGHTING
Against organized crime.
6) plan to build 100
ESTABLISHMENTS IN PRISON
FIRST TWO YEARS OF GOVERNMENT (50,000
places for federal inmates, 500 prison for
year, 100,000 more seats in two years).
When we do run the police-judicial system, we will find missing prisons
where isolate and reeducate convicts.
And also we think of reformulating, almost reinvent the Argentine prison system, lacking
infrastructure, education and pockets of significant corruption.
We need more prisons (many more), moder58

nas, safe, where no permits to sell
or drug output, where it is not violated and torture, to
that no judge will hand tremble long sentences to convict, because you know that the same
only involves the separation of the offender from the
assaulted society and no other "accessory".
Prisons where they work 8 hours on activities
productive, not as punishment but as part of
rehabilitative treatment, to pay for the prisoner's own maintenance and repair
the damage to their victims.
They can also be used by the prior provincial jurisdictions pay a maintenance fee for each prisoner sent.
BUILDING PROTECTION CENTERS
SPECIALIZED FOR MINORS
HAS SERIOUS CRIMES COMMITTED PLUS
BEYOND THE DEBATE ON AGE
Insanity.
For situations suggest predelictuales
the country Family Solidarity System, which
adequately contain children at risk
who can not remain with their families
7) creation of the "311" (or 911 for non-emergency
the receipt of any complaint of non-serious cases
ranging from 911), which will be automatically
led to the judiciary, adding that for effective prevention work in the street. There will not be
more stations for making complaints. Alone
Police centers Strategy and Distribution, Provisional Detention and Police Investigations
and Scientific. The police will be on the street, caring
to the Neighbours. 911 will be called derivatives
directly to the patrol, they take the allegations in situ.
8) will be created or reorganized specialist
CATCH police UNIT, which receive, daily, catches sorted by
various courts and federal prosecutors, proceeding to search for people in absentia.

Normally the rebel is as follows committing crimes until he is caught.
9) create, within the Federal Penitentiary Service, new monitoring units
people in Probation, Parole and released.
10) We will work and will train against
VIOLENCE initiators (especially domestic violence, where they arrest the
-mediando offender complaint and verifying the
flagrancy- at the first crime-usually
leve-, not waiting until the homicide or serious injury to do that). Because the
aggressive criminal begins his house.
11) We will promote all kinds of programs
community policing because police not
implements its programs with the support of its community is destined to fail.
Here are some examples that will promote and incentivize for all
Nation jurisdictions have with them:
-Programmes Quality of life, dedicated to winning public spaces in the hands of criminals, drug addicts, and offenders. We will promote model legislation and misdemeanors
We invite the whole country to follow.
-Programmes Anti-drugs, which are dictated from
elementary and middle school (where the
posters followers seek to integrate their
tort commercial chain).
It also integrates a zonal religious institutions to share anti-drug message. Ex.
D.A.R.E LAPD the program.
Remember: it is estimated that between 30 and 70%
urban violent derived directly crime
or indirectly marketing
drugs.
-Programs for the elderly, where it serves
criminal vulnerability of these groups and their

specific concerns.
-Programmes Of forming the anti-graffities unit, in which volunteers led by
community policing graffities clean their neighborhoods (often characteristic of messages
organized criminal gangs).
Intervecinal -Programmes support of "Neighborhood Watch".
-Programmes "Police for a Day", which is to show young people the difficult police work
and to be appreciated.
"Criminal for a Day," in which -Programmes
It leads to juvenile criminals and "beginners" to
see the reality of being locked in prisons
Adults, as a deterrent.
-Programs of assistance to victims, especially domestic violence.
-Programmes Sports police-community interaction, promoting sports tournaments.
-Programmes Of citizen patrols, "Citizen
Patrols ".
-Programmes Object identification, where police helps identify by brands
and / or non-removable stickers, furniture items
valuable house, for example. TV, Stereo, comput-

59

ras. These have proven very effective in
reduction of theft and robbery, and at the same time also
effective in the event of recognition
effects removed.
These are just some general programs
imbued with the notion that the police should
be ahead of the crime to prevent it.
Of course they are complementary to the police investigation and classical schemes
repression of the crime.
12) NATIONAL CRIMINAL LAW THAT
PROMOTE:
A) Amendment of art. 42 of the Penal Code, added in fine.
Because we do not believe that an offender
exhausts its means to commit a serious crime deserving punishment for failing reduction in
the attempt (reasons beyond its control).
Attempt: not proceed reducing
Art penalties. 44 (first three paragraphs) in
If the following crimes: art. 79 and 80 (Murder), 119 and 124 (Sexual Abuse), 125,
125a, 128 and 130 (corruption and prostitution
Juvenile pornography with minors, abduction)
140, 141, 142, 142a, 144 third, 144 room, 145, 145 bis, 145 ter, 146 (crimes
individual freedom), 165, 166 and 167 (qualified theft).
Legislative history: Criminal Code
Wyoming (for all crimes), Code
Argentine Customs (offense of smuggling)
California Penal Code (concerning intentional homicide).
B) Incorporation of art. 108a of the Code
Criminal: Felony child endangerment
(Child Endangerment).
Will become autonomous offense putting
young persons at risk for lack of supervision by parents ("child endangerment" of the USA system).
60

The child must go to school without fail. The parent or guardian to let
without the right to education or explode in street activities must respond
to justice. Using suitably the
Convention on the Rights of the Child
currently only it wields less free to leave offenders without worry
the future status of children by the time they are no longer.
This criminal offense under California (and in most state jurisdictions of the United
States) worth specifically parents
or guardians or who have children in their
care only by putting them in danger of
cause physical or mental harm. It differs between felony or misdemeanor depending on
or that the circumstances were not the kind that can logically or no harm. They do not include cases of intentional abuse
of any kind, cases are referred
apart with heavier penalties. They have been considered the first: the speeding
Having a child in the car, driving having consumed toxic (legal or illegal)
wander to leave children in school or at night, etc.
They have considered the second: Smoking
closed environments where there are children, leave
minor young children unattended at home, etc. In these cases, if advised
the child remains at risk, it is
mandated by the State, temporarily or permanently, integrating them with families in homes
substitutes ("foster homes" Americans). This situation has resulted in the system of "Family Solidarity" of the Province of San Luis.

It accumulates apply when:
1. Three custodial sentences (sentences)
one of which is greater than 3 years.
2. Four custodial sentences (sentences) of 3 years or less.
For the pto. 2. The courts may ...
They should be final, for purposes of this
Article sentences confirmed in double
instance: ex. oral and cassation court or tribunal
Provincial and Superior Court sentencing without
prejudice to any actions brought extraordinary.
D) Legislation on Liability for
Children.
As in all criminal justice problem is
You must go to the source of the income to curb

so actors system, in this case the lower
crime.
Why it has increased juvenile crime? The two seem indisputable data
They are: income drug or alcohol early
age, and lack of control of the family group,
when there. These two elements make
minors are recruited by criminal gangs adults as labor
not punishable.
Today it seems that, given the social pressure, agrees on the need to lower the age of criminal responsibility of minors to 14 years. Without further discussion,
without more research.
Humbly we say that is a mistake.
What will we do with the next case when a
under 13 matte or violates?

C) Modification of art. 52 of the Penal Code.
Indefinite detention.
We end with the eternal repetition tort
of dangerous criminals.
61

The problem will disappear with the decline in the
penarlos to age 14? Do not.
These same bands only look for
integrate their workforce not punishable under
12 or 13, it sets a figure of 14 years
to impute will push encourage juvenile crime even smaller. And goes on
Mexico, with gunmen used by minors
drug cartels. Let's learn.
Someone will say what can happen with minor
10. In rare cases, due to the degree of
mental and physical of less than 10, and at maturity
these cases, the State must also have
thereof in order not to punish but to reeducate before the first incident, not when
reaching the murder.
As in any tort phenomenon first
should discourage the entry of less than
62

crime. This requires having a strong state presence in the streets and schools, as
possible with specialized equipment to detect
or abandoned children at risk. Also
with primary school anti-drug programs such as DARE Proven
effectively applied in more than 50 countries, unfortunately not ours. For the child
you have to treat it before it becomes
delinquent. To criticize at this point
Argentine "progressivism" looking for another
side when seen milling about the streets, begging at traffic lights, taking drugs or prostitution, that is when they are at risk. They
expected to be criminals, and then,
according to this "school" society caused this situation, is not penalized.
By common sense, safe countries do

quite the opposite: the lower risk should be
rescued by the state, not institutionalized,
and placed in foster homes, with real families, that is eg. system "foster
homes "in California, or in our country, as
here he quoted above, that of Solidarity Families
Saint Louis. In turn parents or guardians
who deliberately leave children in
risk should be penalized, as is done in
many jurisdictions in the United States, more
still severely those who intentionally used to commit crimes.
Once the juvenile offender is declared responsible, you must go to jail. A specialist in juvenile jail, no doubt.
We promote an "elastic" legal system, because what is sought to know ultimately,
impute, it is whether the child acted knowing or
not the criminality of the act, and it depends
not only chronological age, but the
maturational and the act committed.
On the threshold earlier "age
reason "the world specialists are close to 10 years, undoubtedly
here there will be insanity disability
to understand. And surely to 14
too, but unless proven otherwise.
So-following is based on the school
English Common Law and application in various countries including USA, in most of its states should not codified,
operating the system of accountability of
minor:
Until age 10 the child is unimpeachable.
After 14 is fully attributed.
Between 10 and 14 there will be a presumption of
insanity, and she may be challenged
depending on the type of crime committed and
the child's ability to understand the
criminality of the act, it analyzed by experts and determined by the judge in each case.
Ex .: is not the same as under 10 years

steals a chocolate, that violates or 13
Bush. No international convention
which it has adhered Argentina, such as
Children's Rights, opposes this scheme. General Comment no. 10
United Nations, not mandatory, only proposes not to fall below 12 years of age
accountability.
E) Modification art. 14 of the Criminal Code.
Probation: not proceed
these serious crimes in which no
reduction comes penalty attempt,
all the same kind of benefit as
to early departures of law Execution
Criminal (24660), except in extraordinary cases
in which the judge bases the decision
otherwise. In the latter case of emergency,
and cases of convictions for offenses
sex, the obligation imposed on the judge
published in a national database
the address where the offender is housed.
According to this kind of recidivism
criminals, we must address the potential innocent victims. (Megan's Law).
F) Creation of a National DNA Data Bank: mandatory Sampling in
every birth, any public process

63

need identification documents,
driver's licenses, immigration etc.
sample was extracted by oral swab to
requesting, processed and archived on bench
digitized data. Also it identifies (DNA) to the entire prison population and
you will crossbreed with all court cases
severe cases with no particular author
where physical evidence had been collected, eg. murder, rape, etc.
There is talk that the government count on
biological material from people, but at the
when identifying people who receive some public document, along with their personal data, fingerprints
fingerprints, etc., is taken by swabbing
buccal, and then perform processing in state-controlled laboratories,
and subsequent digitization, their genetic data. It is making material must be destroyed,
He is in state power only digitized information.
The world is moving towards universal
data banks of DNA. The first DNA database was implemented in
1995 in England. From there, and with the widespread acceptance of the use of DNA in
the identification of victims and criminals,
criminal conviction and exoneration
innocent, massive use in identifying
people in natural disasters and wars,
parenthood, etc., many countries have followed this trend.
In 2002 INTERPOL reported that 41 of its
179 member countries have implemented DNA database., Though many
more today. Argentina is not one
from them.
England, with its 5 million profiles
DNA, and has "joined" them with scenes 550,000
processed crime where there was evident

64

physical cia, despite not having a base
universal DNA data but has only genetic data of people
charged or arrested for any crime.
G) Offences Code-Prisoner releases
Based on Offences Code and
the Code of Criminal Procedure of San
Luis will promote misdemeanor legislation and model and invite excarcelatoria
all provinces and C.A.B.A. bonded.
It will cover all activities that affect the quality of life of citizens day
predelictuales to day situations. The releases for serious crimes will be
very exceptional.

65


66

67

3rd COMMISSION
Economy. Transport.
Trade. Industry
68

69

INTRODUCTION
This work contains ideas and policies
exceeding the next 4 years and also
will be the future of Argentina plaintiff company of a welfare state otherwise
to understand the country that does not have a single thought. We are convinced that we can
You carry out this change is felt in the social majority that will become a majority
policy for the future.
This series of measures consist of a plan
Economic and Fiscal co ntendrá the reforms
necessary to restore growth
Argentina, "we need a fair tax system and certainly a development plan
economic". Argentina's economy must be
competitive, globally integrated, with the right intervention and under the premise of the
Social justice, federalism and respect for the Environment
Ambient.
Current demands of the Argentine people are
greater efficiency and effectiveness of the State in
meet their needs, within a framework of
honesty and transparency in its management. In this
line is that it proposes a "Second Reform
State "still unfulfilled task that requires urgent and definitions in order to achieve smart State to serve the country. This reform is
defining new ways to manage
public funds to distribute wealth and
meet the demands of the most vulnerable sectors of our society. Year after year
allocate significant resources through
public budget, however it has not been
achieved to date the total of such resources are transformed into services that meet
fully the needs of these sectors.
Those who have or have had responsibilities
policies and techniques have a debt with our people.
Corruption and inflation, the evils of our
70

economic stability and growth in quality management, which implies on the other hand,
increase the efficiency of activities
government and establish sound public finances.

PUBLIC BUDGET

time, need to be eradicated with the mechanisms of the State at their disposal and
participation and effective collaboration of all
society.
This reform also means transparency in governance is important to note
also that although processes after
Governmental Sector privatization appears formally separated from the private sector;
this separation is not as factual as well as
there are gray areas where operating expenditure
called "quasi" in subsidies and regulations play a major role. Correction
these policies, niches of corruption and patronage
policies is not achieved only with the modification of the financial management system,
required operating systems
control which should complement
with new tools to control
more substantive than any government can have: social control, ie participation
and control of the recipients of public spending and
that of those who, through the payment of taxes,
finance.
In short, this series of measures seeking
"Good governance" as a condition for

The budget is the financial instrument
providing specific financial allocations of costs and resources needed to
meet the collective needs over a period of time, taken as
public sector responsibility. Saying
instrument is the budget, authorizing statute spend what was planned.
That is the plan of government for a year,
where resources are allocated
to achieve that plan.

Balanced Budgets
As a nation we must constantly improve the internal composition of spending
budget, reducing and controlling
current expenditure and increasing capital expenditure.

BUDGET GUIDELINES
Current expenses: finance all
current expenditure with tax resources
currents.
Costs and resources reflected in the budget: costs and resources should
expressed in full in the budget,
must be no budgetary concepts.
Estimates in constant growth: this
It expresses the firm intention of the Government
to cover each and every one of the needs that arise in the population and to achieve
resources to address them.

Investment in education: the investment in the education sector should be at
at least 23% of the resources.
Date of submission to the Legislature: submit to the legislature before 15 September of the previous year's draft budget.
Recognition of the importance of the Central Bank of Argentina as
regulatory institution of monetary policy and its influence on the inflationary effect.
Sound public finances.

CHANGES
New clause in the Financial Administration Act and the retest Systems Sector
National public (law 24.156): Set stop
Maximum current spending (which emerge from
analysis of national finances).
Elimination of superpowers as perverse practice of indiscriminately change
the budget originally approved.
Fiscal responsibility law: the expenses
expected run should never exceed income raise therefore never Nation
will throw fiscal deficit.
Debt level: it must honor
the debt and the issuance of new
debt must be approved by Congress
National.

Participatory Budgeting
The participatory budget system
It is a set of activities
through which they are gradually defining sectoral demands,
community priorities, criteria
allocation of funds and the program
investment of the Nation through the participation of the people.
71

METHOD OF IMPLEMENTATION
Together with all the provinces to determine a calendar throughout the year.
Develop provincial participatory budget days.
Office personnel budget will go to each of the meetings around
the country.
Develop a National Day of Participatory Budgeting to define a single document.
Transposition budget.

Cost containment
PUBLIC
Tax parameters to be determined
which should adjust the handling of finances, establishing ceilings on current expenditures,
multiannual budgets and requirements
limits on transfers of items.
Modernization of the procurement process, through a centralization of
Procurement and Contracting System implementing new technologies that will ensure a quick, simple and safe procedure, thereby achieving reduction
spending by eliminating
unnecessary purchases a product
greater cost control is possible
simply by allowing the filter system
by orders, items, executing units,
periods.
Transparency in public spending which
Regarding the granting of subsidies.
Eliminating unnecessary expenses and protocol for all government official
national.
Eradication of neighborhood dining rooms, of
social programs and food parcels; this
will allow us to create the basis fundamenta72

them to generate a Social Inclusion Plan
National where everyone works and children
eat at home with their parents.

BUILDING SAVINGS
Savings in the Public Sector
In times of prosperity, surpluses are a crisis fund or generated
reserves. This support allows inject funds
the economy in times of recession, through
public works, plans and programs.

SAVING PRIVATE SECTOR
The goal is to instill in the people of
our country "savings culture" which the various stages that has traversed the country's economy have been almost extinguished; is
so healthy, inclusive, practice has been excluded from the curriculum of study by the National Government; allowing among other things
develop the habit of setting goals and plans for the future, ensuring and facilitating
development and welfare of individuals.
We therefore propose the issuance of stamps
non-postal savings, this will be oriented
all social strata, allowing you to
any citizen to make a certain amount of savings stamps not use
postcard with a nominal value in a basket
coins, being guaranteed 100%
by the Federal Government. Thus, the saver will maintain the purchasing power of the money invested. And enjoy absolute security of their savings backed by assets
financial state.
And the purpose of promoting this culture of
Smaller savings develop

Stamps school plan which is
They accumulate in the course of the school year
and can be redeemed by the total of the savings
at the end of high school, this will stimulate the development of education, it will encourage
students finish high school to work in this way reduce the
level of repetition and dropout rates.

TAX AGENDA
NATIONAL
Diagnosis of the main drawbacks
generated by the current tax system:
Regressive tax system features:
the impact of the tax burden deficit
It affects more to the low-
income, becoming a system of regressive features.
Proliferation of special regimes and exemptions that reduce the imposition universality.

Financing national system of pensions.
Exercise of fiscal power in very high proportion by the Nation, arranging
Provinces powers and possibilities very
including sewage restricted almost invalidating the term of "correspondence principle". East
aspect must be reconciled with the implementation level
Local half of consolidated expenditure and the provision of essential office (security, justice, primary and secondary education services,
health, housing and infrastructure) so that a comprehensive tax reform is necessary and
a new federal revenue sharing law.
Permanent modification of the rules and almost
daily issue resolutions permanence to remove legal regime, even conspiring in achieving proper knowledge and
implementation, both by the administration
public and taxpayers.
Main concern accentuate the power

73

discretionary and often arbitrary -held by mid-level officials and even
under- AFIP.
Low efficiency of the body that comes
to unacceptable limits on the area of ​​security
social and customs.
All these specific issues are inserted into a
much broader context that must
be corrected, which is why it is necessary
consider other fundamental aspects,
concurrent and conditions.
Objectives to be achieved:
Taxes should achieve the necessary revenue to meet expenditures of the State, in order to meet
the objectives of macroeconomic policy
Government.
The tax system must reduce interference to the operation of the market, in order to mitigate the lowest consumption or welfare
for the population (ie, reduce its effects
on the concepts of effectiveness and efficiency
the economy).
Taxes should contribute to a
more equitable distribution of wealth or the
He entered.
Taxes should be simple, facilitating
Revenue from the tax administration
minimize compliance costs for
taxpayers.
They should be predictable, avoiding changes
abrupt in its amount and structure.
Therefore the major reforms recommended are:
A new partnership of federal law
taxes are matched with functions
the various levels of government. Comply
as established by art. 75, para. 2 para. 3rd
which states: "The distribution between the federal, provincial and City of Buenos Aires
and between them, it shall be made in direct relation
74

the powers, functions and services
each delivery contemplating objective criteria; It will be fair, supportive,
and will give priority to achieving an equivalent level of development, quality of life and equal opportunities throughout the country
national. "
Long-term planning of the social security system, functioning and purpose
ANSES.
Minimizing taxes, based on a system that orbits primarily on profits, VAT, contributions and employer contributions.
Therefore there is a need for
a comprehensive reform of the tax system
Argentine, that aims to reduce
the relative share of taxation to
consumption, strongly regressive in terms of income, and give more participation to
Direct taxes also necessary
reduce the VAT rate applicable to products of the basic food basket.
Generalization to avoid the imposition
distortions.
Permanent rules, and changes one or two times a year in the form
scheduled (like Germany or the Netherlands
Low).
Establish non-taxable minimum and loads
reasonable and upgradeable family.
Incorporate the fund profits from the dividends from a company,
which are now tax exempt within
personal.
Encourage tax incentive programs for
regional economies.

National Cadastre
National Registry Office will be created, to
nonexistent today, enabling:

Rhystic, new technologies, alternative, real estate and energy services which increase the rate of private sector investment,
encouraging the installation of new enterprises and strengthening existing generating
a virtuous circle with a clear objective: Expand
private investments, create new
work with both actions and push the economic movement of the country so that the wealth generated remain in our nation.

Generate common minimum data 23
jurisdictions in order to have the legal, economic and graphics of the country. This will see the reality
current and have some basis for projecting political públicas.Como an act of national sovereignty develop, in conjunction with the provinces involved, the detailed survey of all
National border, this will have knowledge and protection mismo.Propender unification of appraisal work methods both in urban areas as
in the country for the purpose of having a base
All uniform economic boost territorio.Dar Infrastructure Data
space, which will be the basis of the parcel
provincial registers, in the same containing all existing public infrastructure
georeferenced, schools, police stations, networks, roads, dams, hospitals, among others,
data associated therewith such as
in schools number of students, number
teachers.

TRANSPORTATION

Corporations
WITH PARTICIPATION
BEEN

Specific objectives:

It should review all corporations
or majority state-owned companies
existing State at national level in order to ensure compliance with the purpose for which they have
They have been created.
Strengthen the network of public laboratories for the purposes
to assess market prices.
Pass a law which aims at boosting
new investments in the country, whether domestic and / or foreign, linked to the sectors
industrial, agricultural, livestock, mining, you-

GENERAL PURPOSE
We propose the implementation of a system
Integrated Intelligent Transportation -SITI- that
territorially includes all inhabitants
of Argentina, from the periphery
toward the center, improving the quality, safety and efficiency of land transport, air
and maritime passenger and goods, promoting regional integration with countries
neighbors and the world.

Generate policies, including new
technologies to manage and audit the use
rational, federal and transparent public transport for the benefit of the user.
Encourage passenger distribution nodes that integrate different platforms
-aérea, rail or vial- conducive political and economic integration of the country and
Mercosur.
Rescuing the social, political and economic role of first grade possessing transportation development, promote economies
regional and smaller localities.

75

INTEGRATED SYSTEM
INTELLIGENT TRANSPORT

safeguard the individual's right to possess
each citizen using your vehicle
particular.

A SITI, considers the human resource and
transport as a whole, with information
central, unifying common interests
jurisdictions, resulting from the
vehicle information that benefits the
quality of life of citizens.
The integration of transportation information,
It is directed primarily to assist in the management of the fleet and human resources; joining this platform, public mobile cargo transport units
or passengers.
The intelligence of the system takes advantage of Internet connectivity to communicate the spatial position of the real-time
vehicle units, generating a relationship
interdependence with business, the enforcement authority and service users.
With an interconnected reality, vehicles
they occupy a common space environment, they can interact with web applications available for public use, allowing interaction
the different services together, forming
fleets of vehicles interdisciplinary and addressed to a particular purpose.
For better development of SITI, terminals
automakers could integrate devices
-that of monitoring units to no effect
significantly in the cost- and telecommunications companies should generate
special plans for data transmission
provide greater coverage of real-time information.
State policies on development
transportation should be addressed to the care of the environment.
The arrangement of the different spheres of
ground transportation and Expenses must -pasajeros

PUBLIC TRANSPORT
PASSENGERS

76

State policies related
Public passenger transport should be
addressed to bring who is more isolated with the nearest urban center strategy. Territorially include all
the inhabitants of Argentina, from the periphery to the center that should be the
spirit of the state policies.
Since the economic crisis of 2002 and
in order to ensure continuity of
system the state began to subsidize
public transport companies of passengers.
The policy for the sector was disappearing as the effects detracted
crisis, quite the contrary, in 2010 the national government subsidized system with 1,000 million.
80% of existing subsidies that are addressed in the public passenger transport
favor the Buenos Aires Metropolitan Area
- AMBA. It is also in the AMBA where there
the cheapest ticket in the country, the large injection
State money achieved the lowest rate in
the most important electoral region.
Today subsidies are allocated on the criterion of the number of employees, kilometers.
Routes, passengers and affected units. The bigger they are the higher numbers is the subsidy.
The subsidy must be designed to include
priority to those living in the most isolated places, to bring those who -for ie-
They inhabit Dunes Tatón with Catamarca
or those who live in the Salta and Colte with
including those in the corridors

less profitable beef.
Subsidies as state policy should
be reformulated. Private companies operated for almost eighty years without contributions
State and current directionality benefits
companies to the detriment of the user.
With vehicle tracking technology
identifies each mobile allowing real-time monitoring; can then diagnose and plan the development of strategies
and acted upon throughout the country. The information provided will allow ICT
developing a SITI operating through feed or collecting lines and corridors
Central
The use of ICT allows the efficient management
transparent and transportation subsidies.
With the technological tools authority
Application can be established with precision
time of the allocation of subsidies
Km covered within the corridor, the actual Presby

service station, the amount of fuel
consumed and passengers, among other variables.

LOADS TRANSPORTATION
The SITI should consider the combination of rail networks, river transport,
air and land cargo and goods to
effects of streamlining its delivery.
From the unification of related information with regional economies and
the freight transport logistics in a
database, you can set the development, planning and implementation of channeling the waterway, comprehensive renovation and expansion of the existing rail network and
the layout of a conveyor system
automotive cargo to supplement the
above.
By developing centers transfe77

ence of the operation will be encouraged loads
in urban centers from the macro to micro load.
The enhancement of the rail system shall provide for the unification of the trails
existing, leaving the current overlay systems, thereby facilitating the
interconnection charge for all railway lines that cross the country.
Through the use of ICTs can monitor real-time information in situ
loads, providing traceability from
their place of origin to destination, protecting the legal certainty of the producer or
investor track your merchandise.
The SITI should contemplate a strategic plan of infrastructure development to be held
providing logistics and integration of the country
MERCOSUR routes.

Air transport
Encourage passenger distribution nodes

78

that promote political and economic integration of the country and Mercosur.
Development of a commercial aviation policy
allows the integration of regional economies with a better exploitation of
tourist destinations and the federal territorial integration of the cabotage system.
Generate policies designed to decongestion and decentralization of the system
by developing network nodes operating domestic flights in major regions.
Encourage the development of private operators by granting new air corridors (NOA - Cuyo - PATAGONIA) of
cargo and passengers.
Use of technological tools
needed in the control of airspace
by the National Administration of Civil Airports and safeguarding internal security.
Radar installation with air traffic control
by Air Regions.

E-COMMERCE
INDUSTRY
One of the main problems of the sector
is the lack of investment, this requires
eliminate barriers to trade and industry, which are made through the Ministry of Commerce, the National Government has
to accompany private investment and not
interfere in the economy when it is not
necessary.
We must grant legal security and encourage them to invest in the country and create real jobs.
Clear and lasting rules in time,
to encourage production and employment generation.
We must generate a financial circuit,
not only to finance consumption, but to finance working capital and industries
mainly of SMEs.
We must generate added value to the economies

Argentina mine, especially in agribusiness and regional SMEs.

ECONOMY. SUMMARY
PUBLIC BUDGET
The budget is the financial instrument
providing specific financial allocations of costs and resources needed to
meet the collective needs over a period of time, taken as
public sector responsibility. Saying
instrument is the budget, authorizing statute spend what was planned.
That is the plan of government for a year,
where resources are allocated
to achieve that plan.

Balanced Budgets
As a nation we must constantly improve the internal composition of spending
budget, reducing and controlling

79

current spending and increased capital expenditures.

Budget guidelines
Current charges:
-Expenses And resources reflected in the budget:
-Presupuestos Constantly growing:
-Investment In education:
-Check Presentation to the Legislature:
Recognition of the importance of
Central Bank of Argentina.
You sanitized public -Finance

Participatory budget
-The Participatory budget system consists of a set of activities through
which they are gradually defining sectoral demands, priorities
the community, the allocation criteria
funds and the investment program of the Nation through the participation of the people.

Public Expenditure Restraint
He fiscal parameters to determine which should be adjusted financial management,
establishing ceilings on current expenditures, multi-annual budgets and demands limits on transfers of items.
-Modernization Of the procurement procedure,
-Transparentar Public spending as
Regarding the granting of subsidies
-Elimination Of protocol and unnecessary expenses for any official of the national government.
-Erradicación Of neighborhood dining rooms, of
social programs and food parcels; this we
It will create the foundations for
create a National Plan of Social Inclusion
where all children eat and work in
houses with their parents.
80

BUILDING SAVINGS
Savings in the Public Sector
In times of prosperity, surpluses are a crisis fund or generated
reserves. This support allows inject funds
the economy in times of recession, through
public works, plans and programs.

Saving Private Sector
The goal is to instill in the people of
our country "savings culture" through
Stamp issuing stamp Savings and School.

TAX AGENDA
NATIONAL
Objectives to be achieved:
a) The taxes should achieve the necessary revenue to meet the
State expenditures, in order to meet
with the objectives of macroeconomic policy
of the government.
b) The tax system must reduce in-

interferences the functioning of the market,
in order to mitigate the lowest consumption or
welfare for the population (ie, reduce
its effects on the concepts of efficiency and
efficiency of the economy).
c) Taxes should contribute to a
more equitable distribution of wealth or the
He entered.
d) Taxes should be simple, providing the revenue from the tax administration and minimize compliance costs for taxpayers.
e) They should be predictable, avoiding changes
abrupt in its amount and structure.
Therefore the major reforms recommended are:
-A New federal law partnership
of taxes,
Long-term-planning system
social security, functioning and purpose of ANSES
-Reduce The minimum tax,
based on a system that orbits primarily on profits, VAT, contributions
and employer contributions.
-therefore The need exists
a comprehensive reform of the tax system
Argentinean,
Generalization to avoid the imposition
distortions.
Standards of permanent, and changes one or two times a year in the form
scheduled (like Germany or the Netherlands
Low).
Non-taxable minimum and loads -Establish
reasonable and upgradeable family.
Incorporate the fund profits
dividends from a company, which today are exempt within the
Personal tax.
-To Promote tax incentive programs
for regional economies.

National Cadastre
National Registry Office will be created,
until today nonexistent.

Corporations
WITH PARTICIPATION
BEEN.
It should review all corporations with majority state-owned or
existing state companies nationwide to ensure compliance
the purpose for which they were created.

TRANSPORTATION
GENERAL PURPOSE
We propose the implementation of an Integrated Intelligent Transportation System SITI - including all territorially
inhabitants of Argentina, from
the periphery to the center, improving the quality, safety and efficiency of transport
land, air and sea passenger and

81

goods, promoting regional integration with neighboring countries and the world.

E-COMMERCE
INDUSTRY

Specific objectives:
• Generate policies, including new
technologies to manage and audit the use
rational, federal and transparent public transport for the benefit of the user.
• Encourage passenger distribution nodes that integrate different platforms
- Air, rail or road - which favors
political and economic integration of the country and
Mercosur
• Rescuing the social, political and economic role of first grade possessing transport development, promotion of regional economies and localities more
girls.


• One of the main problems of the sector is the lack of investment, this requires
eliminate barriers to trade and industry,
• You have to give them legal security and
Encourage them to invest in the country and create real jobs.
• clear and enduring rules in time,
• We must create added value to the economy Argentina.

Public Passenger Transport
State policies related
Public passenger transport must be addressed to bring who
is more isolated to the city center
closest strategic. Territorially include all inhabitants of Argentina, from the periphery to the center that should be the spirit of the policies
state.

Freight Transportation
The SITI should consider the combination of rail networks, river and land transport of cargo and goods to
effects of more efficient service provision.

Air transport
Encourage passenger distribution nodes favoring political integration and
economic of the country and Mercosur.

82

83

84

85

4th COMMISSION
Public works and infrastructure
86

87

GROUND TRANSPORTATION:

Concept:
The basic livelihood of any development plan is infrastructure.
Without infrastructure, you can not advance
any organization or state.
The national infrastructure is the set of
goods and services that enables the operation of a business, industry or society.
Argentina has saturated most
the entire infrastructure capabilities:
-The Transportation infrastructure (air, land, sea and river)
-the Communications infrastructure.
-The Information infrastructure.
-The Energy infrastructure.
-the Industry infrastructure.
-The National defense infrastructure.
-The Education infrastructure.
-The Health infrastructure.
-The Security infrastructure.
-The Sanitation infrastructure.
To reposition the country on track of a PLAN
STRATEGIC DEVELOPMENT is necessary
implement initiatives that allow the necessary investment to support the development
88

industrial production, agribusiness, agriculture, livestock, etc.
These works will be implemented according to the
Strategic planning priorities set, but enunciate some as
basic and fundamental character:
-Plan National highways.
-Plan National housing.
-Plan National transport (air, land, sea and river)
-Plan National power.
-Corredor Bioceanic Atlantic-Pacific railway.
-Red North-South railway.
-Hidrovía Parana-Paraguay.
-Canalización Bermejo River.

Scanning clause
To improve the integration of information among the various areas of planning,
development and management control of the national infrastructure plan will be implemented
a computer system with the digitized
modern technologies available.

PROMITT Draft Law.
The PROMITT project begin to be implemented once it has been enacted into law
corresponding by the Congress
Nation, and in order to address the building
FEDERAL MOTORWAY NETWORK and rehabilitation of the national railways.
The PROMITT project promotes the implementation of a national program LONG
TERM, whose goal is to modernize the
land transportation in our country and sets state policy.
It already has the approval of the Cabinet interprovincial public works
of all provinces.
The construction of the federal highway network, enable effective integration of
country by building
Free toll highways linking
almost 80% of the population and interconnecting over a thousand cities including
provincial capitals, river and sea ports, tourist resorts, etc., enabling
faster and more efficient communication with
neighboring countries by building
of bi-oceanic corridors.
The new motorway network will have a high
social returns, because it will reduce
87% of fatal accidents by avoiding July
in 8 deaths and reduce costs

freight by 20% and travel times
30%.
Also generate a strong impact on the
labor market, anticipating the generation
100 thousand productive jobs.
Funding will not require financial guarantees
State as it provides fully realizing private resources and bridge loans from commercial banks. To facilitate
access to credit for local businesses,
project will guarantee b.i.d.
Repayment of long-term construction will be implemented through a system of indirect toll to be levied through COMPENSATION RATE OF WORKS AND HIGHWAYS SERVICES
(TROSA) to be collected by businesses
oil and deposited directly into the
accounts without any dealer
intermediation.
This fee is charged only when each functional module network is complete and
enabled public use by the authority
application.

NATIONAL PLAN
LIVING PLACE
The national housing plan envisages a
delivery system "certified credit" to individuals duly surveyed in the whole area of ​​the Republic, and

PROGRAM OF
MODERNIZATION
INFRASTRUCTURE
89

apply the minimum conditions for the program "National Housing Plan".

an update of assessments as determined by the INDEC, once standardized, and
it should depend on the Congress of the Nation.

(Proximity to roads, media, etc.) electricity, sanitation, and drinking water.

1) The credit certificate will be personal
transferable and the holder will be credited
concept of credit, to apply to buying a brand new property. The loan disbursement will be made once
built housing and notarized the mortgage constituted in favor of the state.
2) 500 000 certificates were awarded during
the first four years of the government calendar
the federal commitment.

4) The construction of housing should
be faced by SMEs in construction
the full scope of the Nation, which duly registered in the National Register will build homes with private capital
type 2 and 3 bedrooms, on grounds
individuals, or of the same SMEs and will
offered for sale to citizens entitled to collect the credit certificate
housing, and previous QA
the work by the institute.

Great generation of productive employment
throughout the national territory occupying thousands
Youth today, unemployed and disadvantaged.
Improving the quality of life of the poor and combat mortality
Children.
Eradication of villas, ranches and slums.
Stimulate SME industries through
decentralization of the management model
in the construction of housing for the Plan
National.

3) Holders of appropriations canceled
mortgages within 120 months

5) The housing must be built to
satisfy transportation needs

PLAN BENEFITS

GENERATION OF FUNDS
1- The works may be financed
the use of Central Bank reserves, which may be replaced by credits
flexible quotas offered by the IMF and
operating as Temporary Illiquidity insurance.
2- by creating Bonds (indexable) of
infrastructure, financial or insurance products that capture the money of depositors or
mutual funds, time deposits, etc.

90

91

92

93

5th COMMISSION
External relationships.
Mercosur
94

95

1. Our position
FACING THE WORLD
- A substantial change in our RR.EE., recovering our prestige in foreign policy, thereby promoting national pride.
- The commitments made to international bodies should be honored.
- Troubleshooting External Debt for the recognition of
investors necessary to promote our development.

- Use our best efforts to
enter the BRICS, the most select group of
nowadays called emerging countries.
- Deepening our political and commercial relations with the Republic of China.
Promote together with our neighbors to the conclusion of the Agreement MERCOSUR EU - MERCOSUR, as well as
tariff reduction proposed in the
Doha Round.
- To strengthen the commercial and political relationship
with the Russian Federation, through the recent strategic partnership agreement.

- Repair relations with the United
States, deposing the recent controversies.
Insist, based on Resolutions
- UN General Assembly,
our claim of sovereignty over
our Malvinas Islands, South Georgia and
Sandwich Islands and the maritime areas
adjacent and to consolidate our
Argentina complaint about the Continental Shelf, recently introduced to international organizations.
- Encourage the reform of the Security Council of the United Nations in line
Group "Delivering Consensus" to which we belong.

2. OUR POSITION
FACE OF AMERICA
LATIN
Delineate and define the powers of the
UNASUR, especially against the MERCOSUR and
the rest of the Latin American integration processes. UNASUR is an instrument
political cooperation and Latin American defense, but the economic and integration
Business in Argentina is through MERCOSUR.
Complementation further agreements
Economic between MERCOSUR and countries
ALADI.
Strengthen the relationship with the Federative Republic of Brazil from enduring understandings, based on a deep and strong cooperation in diverse areas.
We will promote the final incorporation of
Venezuela to Mercosur regional bloc.
Promote the strengthening of relations with
the Republic of Chile, through the application
of the agreements reached at the "Treaty of
Maipú ".
96

Consolidate relations of cooperation and assistance with the Andean Community, with the Republic of Mexico through the recent Treaty
Reciprocal Assistance and the Alliance formed
Pacific to promote regional output
MERCOSUR to the Pacific and Asia.

3. OUR POSITION
FRONT MERCOSUR
Our integration in Mercosur will be one
the axes of our government. Reinstate the original idea of ​​the formation of our
Regional Union: a place of importance in the
world stage.
propose the creation of independent bodies to manage and administer the
fulfillment of mutual commitments between the states parties, and especially strongly promote the creation of court
MERCOSUR justice recently approved
in the Mercosur Parliament.
We propose to recover the quadripartite negotiating, negotiating as equals
among the four States Parties to contribute
thus to overcome mistrust and end the
asymmetries that separate us.
The Foreign Ministry should explain to our citizens what MERCOSUR is and what are the
comparative advantages that make it necessary
for the development of our peoples.
We pursue the consolidation of Parliament
MERCOSUR, pushing in Congress
Nation approval of the Election Act
Direct MERCOSUR parliamentarians.
Promote the creation of instruments
and mechanisms to overcome conflicts of interest, and will foster intra-zone
the integration of our peoples, spe cial through the free movement of persons
through its borders.
97

4. OUR POSITION
FACING THE THEME OF
MIGRATION

DEVELOPING

Today the problem of migration,
especially with the European Union, will point
our policy on the matter, rejecting
primarily European standards
on the issue.
We will promote the creation decidedly
in our country the Migration Observatory,
with a mandate to perform
tracking issues related
to migratory flows in the Euro area
Latinoamericana.
In the MERCOSUR area, we will promote
the work of the Specialized Forum on Migration
MERCOSUR, while internally we will promote policy development
aimed at the reinstatement of migration flows into the country, taking it away from the large urban centers,
providing social assistance and labor to
migrants.

It is necessary to think about a substantial change
in our Foreign Affairs to recover the prestige of old foreign policy
of Argentina, rebuilding
confidence and national pride.

5. Foreign Ministry
We limit the power of the Executive
National designation for Political Ambassadors, to a maximum of eight (8) and
that such designations forgets
interests of the nation, passing only be valid for the cyclical interest
Government. The charges must be
covered by the appropriate representatives
our own Foreign Ministry, respecting
also the ratio accepted as
concerning gender equality.

98

1. OUR POSITION
FACING THE WORLD

The Republic of Argentina will not be respected or
you can influence international affairs if
continues its policy of ignorance
multilateral organizations, and with his criticism pointless to the core countries. The commitments made by the country in the sense
to accept that the progress of its economy is audited so that it meets the objectives
established under the G20, should be
honored. You can not achieve the objective of
reenter the international capital markets, the only way to foster investment
necessary for our development, while not
our outstanding issues are resolved
External debt, both with the Paris Club as
with individual creditors, especially
the European Union and Japan.

emerging countries, called to play a role in
superlative importance in the future concert
nations, and this will require profound changes implemented within our
domestic and international policy.
I incorporate us in this block BRICS (since
They are those who make up the largest countries
Emerging) will be a strategic repositioning against neighboring countries and our
Latin America, who would also be
represented by Argentina, and
which by its rich political, cultural and economic history it was always respected in international forums.
In addition to our efforts to enter the
BRICS, considering the recent changes in the international arena, especially
in the global economy, the Argentina Republic must face a deepening its relationship with the PRC, today
It is one of the major players in the table
international negotiation, while one of
the most important countries demanding real world. With the Chinese economy growing at a rate close to 10% annually, and to
their need for resources to be provided

the growing needs of its population,
increase in our production of these resources to the Chinese economy, including
which are the raw materials
They are part of the export supply of our country, as appropriate diplomatic task to consolidate our relationship with the
Asian giant in the political order, it shall
promote a deepening of relations
trade with the Republic of China, the
time will serve as a bridge for expansion
our trading relationship with the rest of
Asian continent.
In regard to our relations with the
EU will continue the line of historic friendship with the Europeans, especially countries in the political side, while in the
We will use commercial best efforts for successful completion
European Union Agreement Mercosur Association and the negotiations will restart after
Madrid Summit of 2010, which was recently boosted by the Euro-Latin American Parliamentary Assembly EuroLat with
the adoption of a resolution marking the

The world needs good expeditious actions and significant quantities, capable
to generate new policies in macroeconomics in the region.
From the Foreign Ministry, we use
our best efforts for which must
be now one of our main goals,
which is making the country part of the BRICS
(Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa), as
our history and we must address potential decisively the task of obtaining membership for admission to this select group of paí99

importance of concluding a trade agreement
between the EU and Latin America, which benefit
more than 700 million people.
The Republic of Argentina through its negotiators should pawn his diplomatic effort to have the Mercosur countries
special treatment as most favored countries,
and likewise we have to strive for a substantial reduction of agricultural subsidies, such
as it has been repeatedly proposed in the non-
conclusion of Doha Round.
Similarly, the Argentina Republic
should continue to strengthen its political and economic relations with the Russian Federation,
historically located as a bridge between
Europe and Asia, taking into account their increasingly
more important role in international politics
and global economy, with its vast natural resources and industrial might, and taking advantage of its growing demand for different
products of Argentina, increasing

taremos bilateral exchange capacity.
Necessary to specify the facts in the agreement recently signed strategic partnership, where our country has recognized the
Russian Federation as a "market economy"
fact of singular importance not only in the
international political, but also flat
the commercial.
With regard to our relations with the United States, they must lay down their positions that have led to recent
misunderstandings, initiating a new stage in
bilateral relations, to rebuild the
always trust that existed between them
countries.
Facing the global concert of nations, and
especially with the United Kingdom, the Republic
Argentina will continue to demand our
sovereignty over the Malvinas Islands, Georgias
South Sandwich Islands and the surrounding maritime areas in accordance with the

Resolutions of the General Assembly of the United Nations, just as our right on the Continental Shelf Argentina,
reason for recent filings with the
relevant international organizations.
The reform of the Security Council of the United Nations, should continue to be one of the
main issues of our foreign policy.
We will continue to support the line adopted
in the "Uniting for Consensus" group, which
We belong, who share an interest in
achieve a comprehensive reform of the Council,
including both its working methods as
expanding its membership to do
a body more democratic, representative,
transparent and effective.
It should deepen the idea of ​​improving the
participation of regional organizations in
the election of members to the agency
UN achieving that Latin America and the
Caribbean to choose candidates for
positions that correspond to the region, rejecting the view expressed by other countries
for permanent seats on the Council was increased.

in Latin America. It will be quite
required by the Foreign Ministry
trade and economic integration of Argentina it is from MERCOSUR.
The Foreign Ministry will promote the deepening and widening of the Economic Complementation Agreement that MERCOSUR
He has negotiated with other countries
ALADI (Latin American Integration Association) in order to consolidate integration
our brothers in Latin America countries. Thus the guarantee will be consolidated
economic, commercial, democratic stability
and politics of the region.
One of the priorities of our foreign policy will strengthen our relationship with the sister Republic of Brazil, from permanent and enduring understandings, based
on cooperation and mutual collaboration,

2. OUR POSITION
FACE OF AMERICA
LATIN
Foreign Ministry should delineate the powers and interference of UNASUR (Union
of South American Nations), in regard to
its relationship with the rest of Latin American integration processes, especially with Mercosur. UNASUR was born as an instrument of political cooperation and defense
intercontinental (the South American Defense Council approved in 2009 proves it)
but the remaining areas are the responsibility of
the respective existing regional processes
100

101

deep and resolute in the most varied areas.
This will be achieved by creating the conditions for
a true strategic relationship, for
as I said Alberdi (in its basis, makes it
hundred and fifty years) "to the good cause
Argentina always agree a friendly policy toward Brazil. Nothing more backward,
The alleged false political system antagonism between Brazil and the South American republics. "
We will promote decidedly final
accession of Venezuela to MERCOSUR, when
The acceptance process will culminate admission by the parliaments of the states parties and the income of this country can only
bring benefits to the block, not only by the
expansion of territory and MERCOSUR
regional and energy, but by the consolidation of the peace process and market decision
policy that will require all major Parties.
It also will promote the strengthening of
our relationship of cooperation and brotherhood
Chile, through the implementation, between
others, the agreements covered under the "Treaty of Maipú" because through them will be achieved
greater integration with this brother country,
as different international instruments whose implementation propitiate
will have to expand our interaction with the
neighboring country.
We shall consolidate relations of cooperation and integration with the Andean Community (Bolivia, Colombia, Ecuador and Peru) by agreement of economic and social cooperation,
to facilitate their participation in the process
regional integration, with a view to training
gradual of a Latin American common market.
Similarly, the sister Republic
102

We pursue the consolidation of Mexico's
Strategic Partnership Agreement as well as
realize this country's participation in the meetings of MERCOSUR.
Finally, given the recent establishment of the
Pacific Alliance between Chile, Peru, Colombia
and Mexico, we must encourage, through MERCOSUR, constitute an Atlantic-Pacific Strategic Alliance, through cooperation,
facilitation of trade and investment, contribute to sustainable growth of the whole
Latin America on the importance
Asian countries in global trade.

3. OUR POSITION
FRONT MERCOSUR

of law and protection of rights
fundamentals of MERCOSUR citizens.

two rules that every State should be prepared to meet and
put into practice.

We further propose to recover the quadripartite negotiating, negotiating and debating
on an equal footing all matters
from negotiations between the four member countries. Thus we
special consideration in regard to the
situation of the two smaller partners, Paraguay and Uruguay, Mercosur, starting
thus a period of sinceramiento
the integration process from a
deep and conscious analysis to be
culminate in the identification of the agreements

To the inhabitants of MERCOSUR, the Foreign Ministry's actions should be
Information activities focused on
what MERCOSUR is and what benefits
the improvement in mercosureños
respective living conditions. A citizen of the MERCOSUR must be explained
clearly it is creating the pathways necessary
for universal access to information.
We pursue further consolidation
MERCOSUR Parliament, transforming it from its current deliberative face a

Our integration in the MERCOSUR, of
full and true, so it must be one
of the cornerstones of our government, restoring the original idea to give
MERCOSUR origin: a platform for
occupy an important place in the concert of nations as Regional Union and
not merely a commercial space, today
plagued by regional confrontations without
a place to settle major
regional disputes.
We will have to face decidedly propose the creation of independent bodies to manage, administer and control
the fulfillment of the commitments
up the customs union, and for that
superlative importance will take
measures necessary for the implementation
and implementation of the Court of Justice
MERCOSUR (project recently approved by the Parliament of MERCOSUR)
since the deepening of
Integration requires that Court as an essential element for the effectiveness of the State
103

Migration and Trafficking in No. 26,364
Persons and Victims Assistance.
Today the problem of migration,
especially with the European Union, will point
our policy on the matter, rejecting
primarily European standards
on the issue, as has been repeatedly asking for the whole community of Latin America in general.
We will promote the creation decidedly
Migration Observatory, integrated
in organic Foundation whose EU-LAC
creation was resolved over a year ago,
with the mandate to track
issues related flows
Migration in the Euro-Latin American area, thereby facilitating the debate on
common strategies and actions to strengthen relations between the two regions,
not only from the standpoint of
but extending them in migration matters
economic, cultural, political and scientific.

space decision-makers with a
major emphasis on what makes creating
effective tools for rights
MERCOSUR citizens. To do this we will promote in Congress of the Nation
consensus and approval of a draft
Law providing for the direct election of
MERCOSUR parliamentarians by the citizens of the nation.
In addition, we push through the Foreign Ministry and the creation of instruments
mechanisms to overcome the permanent intra-zone trade disputes,
reducing sources of conflict between
States Parties. Similarly we will promote the deep integration of our
104

peoples, especially in trade and economic, transport and energy, the free movement of persons and the
mutual political cooperation, setting
a plan on strategic issues that have
into account the particularities and needs
in our region.

4. Our position
And the theme
"Migration"
The Republic of Argentina today has a
modern and comprehensive regulations regarding
to Migration, established in several key laws, including Law No. 25,871

At the local level, with the Argentina Republic the country with the largest number of
Migrants from Latin America, with
a current projection of nearly a million and
through migrants, we will promote the improvement of the regulations cited in force,
especially in regard to rights
human of migrants and refugees
reach our territory, creating a favorable environment for its reception in our
I usually. Similarly we will promote, in
Together with the relevant ministries, the design and implementation of
policies filing of these new immigrants into the country, moving away
its concentration in large centers
urban, procuring social assistance
and proposals for full employment through

minor local industries and SMEs in order to achieve the objective of maximum reformulate
Argentina's immigration policy.
In MERCOSUR, we must
enhance the performance of the Specialized Forum on Migration of MERCOSUR (FEM) which
work is noted for its timely search
Constant improvements in migration management at the regional level.
Then we will promote international and regional level the development of policy
model on the immigration topic, highlighting the parliamentary sanction rules
that aim to protect the human rights of migrants, as
that training and education actions
of governmental and non-governmental organizations to improve information flows between actors, and finally
we must recognize the migrant as
subject of law and not a mere object of
rules contribute to these ends with
comprehensive work in raising awareness of the
civil society.

5. OUR
FOREIGN MINISTRY
Pursue modify Law No. 20,957,
Foreign Service Law of the Nation, limiting the authority granted to the Executive Branch, which in its Article 5 has the
power to "appoint exceptionally ...
Ambassadors Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary to persons not belonging to
Foreign Service of the Nation, possess relevant conditions. This appointment
will consider extended for as long as
for the term of the President's Office
it has been effected. "
105

Slots allocated to political Ambassadors rub today the top 25, according to
Decree No. 337/1995 old. The Argentine diplomatic corps, formed at the Foreign Service Institute of the Nation (ISEN)
has qualified men and women, of
wide experience, to make it sitting
the country's image. It is not necessary that the
favors or political power pay meets
commitments or charges assignments embassies abroad.
The appointment of ambassadors politicians not
responds to professional capacity, but
a domestic political need, since
respond to short-term interests
Government in power, forgetting the interests
standing of the Nation.

106

For these reasons, we shall limit the ability to appoint Ambassadors Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary granted to Power
An initial maximum eight National Executive
(8) and only if these designations make the
interest of the nation. Gradually also
we will reduce this number to achieve
Race the Ambassadors of Argentina are those who take charges
for those who were prepared and fought through
of their life. And, as also exists in other levels of national government, will seek
implement, in all areas, equality
Gender in the diplomatic service.

107

108

109

6th COMMISSION
Education
110

111

1. reality
REGIONS
Argentina suffers the education process
deep deterioration. The current authorities
They do not recognize this reality.
It should objectively measure the current situation. Should accept international measurement standards and work on improving
Continuous thereof. The measurement should be
performed by region so to implement specific solutions to each problem.

2. THE REALITY
SCHOOL
In the current situation the school fails
minimum training goals. No easy nor
knowledge nor the possibility of employment. They are alarming levels of inequality.
Retrieve to school their specific function.
Incorporate technology as a vehicle for co-

knowledge and fairness. Ensure training
educators able to reverse this situation.
Meet the diverse needs of students: training for knowledge and research, or prioritizing job prospects. Knowing
research for development is source
generating wealth. It becomes imperative that
university education supply is connected directly to the demands of
productive sector.

3. TECHNOLOGY
The technology provides tools for improving educational quality. The current rulers ignore the digital revolution
encircles the world.
It is essential:
Ensure connectivity of all schools
the country of all its students.
Ensure the use of information and communications technology.

Ensure production budget
digital educational resources for all levels and modalities.
Promoting through play and art to improve
logical and formal reasoning by
use of information technology and
the communication.

4. RURAL SCHOOLS
The socio-economic difficulties of each region move to these areas. Students
have difficulty in integration, support,
supply. They are not ripe for the formation of children.
From improving conditions so112

cioeconómicas of each region, children must share the table with their parents and
brothers. Must be evaluated in every circumstance the ability to generate the necessary mechanisms to address education,
health and the integral formation of students.

5. EXCLUSION, resilience,
DROPOUT, absenteeism,
REPETITION
The current education system presents indices
very high in each of these areas. Excludes, not motivating, standardizes and has
containment resources to students.
Provide real equality of opportunities
113

in access to education, culture and
Recreation is an imperative of a social state of law. Education should be
inclusive, personalized and quality at all levels and modalities, aimed at
encourage creativity, given
the different skills of the students.

114

6. MERCOSUR
No automatic recognition of qualifications within the Mercosur.
Strengthen these mechanisms, facilitating
exchange and exercise of the profession
education in the various member countries.

7. BUDGET
EDUCATION

8. QUALITY
EDUCATION

Today there is a budget mess and discretionary management of funds from the Ministry of Education's Office that has
schools in their charge.
A more federal funds management. Review
Law Education Financing under
fairer criteria to recognize the
reality of each province.

All experts and all measurements
agree on the low educational level. It is low
and continues to decline.
This decline is closely
social development. In these times it is indisputable that the development of a
Nation is determined largely,
for educational progress. All resources should be applied to education
improving educational quality.
115

116

117

7th COMMISSION
Bless you. Mental health
118

119

Public Health / Health Mental Health
MENTAL / INCLUSION
The huge social crisis of our time afecSOCIAL
ta serious and progressively psyche
"Work, housing, and healthy food
Are the indirect components of health
And the happiness of the people,
And it is in this area where social medicine
It is called to fulfill its role.
No inhabitant of the Nation can
It is forsaken by the mere fact
Lack of resources. The pain and illness
They are social levelers; That's why not
There will be true social justice if the
Poor does not have the same opportunities
To heal the rich, if not count
With the same elements, and the same
Medical assistance than this. "
Dr. Ramon Carrillo

120

our town. The statistics of 2000/2010
Ministry of Health of the Nation, clearly show that this problem means greater economic expenditure of the budget,
results that denigrate the human condition,
They deny human rights, and neglect
those affected and their families. The existence of
institutions is an indictment insane opinions
against public consciousness. The detentions by
indefinite time without therapeutic targets
They must end. This is shown by the experience of San Luis, Jujuy, and Colonia Montes de Oca,
like many others that depend on effort
and willingness to isolated professionals, backless in state policy decisions.
Our Government will IMMEDIATELY

will launch a National Health Plan
Mental inspired by the experiences and teachings of our great masters
this field (today silenced), relying
in Argentina's successful experiences
course, with those outside hermanándonos
our country's progress towards institutional transformation, the dignity of the
patients, families, professionals and workers, repairing the enormous damage
cause the institutions of confinement, to the
which we will close but not propose to transform into decent hospitals,
scientifically updated, respectful
of HR, effective and efficient.

This plan will include:
- Rescue clinical and modern approaches
based on democratic participation of
actors of Public Health.
- The final banishment of bloody ways to tackle the disease, such as electroshock, the sobremedicaciones, closures and places of punishment, promiscuity
and abuse.
- The dejudicialization of medical behaviors, leaving solely to
professionals licensed by the State
welfare-oriented decisions.
- Expressly prohibit, as does the Law
I - 0536 - 2006 of the Province of San Luis
prosecution of admissions and
assistance. The same prohibition shall apply to
police institutions or third parties
try the deposition of humans sick.
- Health care approaches should be governed by the speedy reintegration of the
sick, avoiding social neglect and
cronificación.
- The care of the mentally ill
excludes any possibility of institutionalizing

tion for which our Plan will
start the transformation immediately
based centers in the reservoir enclosure, and social exclusion of those held.

- This plan will involve the conversion
human resources, training in these applied sciences, dignifying
their working conditions, their equal role in the hospital work, your
pay fair wages and respect for the
provisions of unhealthy work.

- Also we chart a Plan
properly articulate the three subsectors
Health (public, social work, private) harmonizing complementarities,
while exercising proper and constitutional oversight and standardization. The
university programs in Science
Health must comply with the definitions
to establish, on a harmonious work
chaired by freedom of thought,
opinion and criticism.
To all this we request the help of the academic, scientific, cultural organizations and
professionals, labor unions, the
organizations of relatives and patients,
voluntary groups, among others.
Before them and our people are committed to realizing these statements. We know that workers and professionals
Health are also affected by the collapse of the health system. There are provinces where wages do not exceed 2,200
pesos. There are institutions without electricity,
gas, supplies, etc.
As shown in the example of several provinces, including San Luis, we will face the manufacture of drugs to make them accessible to those in need. Nor we accept or
We got used to this abandonment
popular rights.

121

Alcoholism
This social medical illness is suffered
Today four million compatriots. They
is a disease that destroys the social fabric, human dignity and groups
family. Produce individual harm, family
and social, weakening intellectual ability,
productive and humane of our people.
Our government will launch immediately a National Plan of Alcoholism, based on proven experience
Institutional Groups of Alcoholism
(G.a.i.) of signal success in ten provinces
Argentine.
"Where there is a need
Birth of a law "
Eva Peron
No Health without Freedom.
No Health Without Justice.
No Health without Human Rights.
No Health without Dignity.
No Health without inclusion or inclusion without Health.

STUDY GROUP
RAMON CARRILLO
PRESIDENT ALBERTO 2011

Definition of Health Dr. Ramon Carrillo Argentina,
Prime Minister of Health of the Nation.
"It is an integral phenomenon. It is the state of physical, economic welfare and
MATERIAL (RESULTING FROM THE BENEFITS
TECHNICAL AND CIVILIZATION) harmonically CONDITIONED TO A MINIMUM
HAPPINESS OF SOCIAL, MORAL AND SPIRITUAL
(RESULTING IN TURN OF CULTURE). "
122

Public health is necessarily part of
State social policies. Therefore
our government has three main policies to be developed:
Public health in Argentina must respond
an identity that does not end in the
medicine, but it expands to other disciplines
as economics, management, sociology,
biology, engineering and law.
Public health seen from the point of
social, is not only a scientific issue,
but also a moral and political science, as
within their specific features, you must teach the people to live and work healthily
and with joy.
Public health should occupy a place advanced in the march toward human welfare
from the country.
The country needs a moral and physically healthy people who develop and prosper in all
what is proposed; for growth of this
I usually.
This is social justice. ... So we have to
efficient ....

VISION, MISSION

HEALTH PLAN
FOR A FEDERAL
NEW ARGENTINA
AWARENESS TRAINING
POPULAR MODEL HEALTH
SOLIDARITY
We must restore and rebuild the
ARGENTINE PUBLIC HEALTH SYSTEM;
in its three subsystems state - private and
social security, with a view of
complementarity and solidarity; watching
and for the physical and mental health of the people.

"A great destruction, large buildings"
Ortega y Gasset
The population health is a right and good
social public interest to be protected
by the Federal Government, and all jurisdictions Homeland.

ETHICS AND VALUES IN HEALTH
Health is an essential attribute inherent
the inherent dignity of the human being. The
Dignity is the essence of being human.
Therefore the health service, it is the inherent dignity and can not be transformed
commodity.
Health This service must be consistent with the
needs of society, whether in the
individually and collectively. Must be
effective and efficient in their management, both in the
time, through public policies,
in the continuous improvement of the quality of life of those who are recipients of
same.
To achieve results and effectiveness necessary knowledge of advances in biotechnology, research, update and
education, globally, that is outside
the borders; to provide delivery
optimal services, capitalizing results socially and not to maximize economic benefits of any actor. Health
It is integrated into its essence, and demands that it be
treated in the same terms, by way of
interdisciplinary work.
The human being is an integral being, ie a
be biological, psychological, social, and spiritual.
Therefore; individual and collective health is
integrated in its essence; and must service
health be provided in the same way, it is
multidisciplinarily say.

1. Health is a fundamental human right.
2. Equity in health should be the expression
of social justice.
3. Ethics is guiding all actions
public health, health policy, the
research, social and economic policies.

FEDERAL HEALTH PLAN
FOR A NEW
ARGENTINA
(GOALS)

Comprehensiveness universality - Humanization
and Socialization;
Optimization objectives and honesty in
the officials who run;
Address the overall health of the population and
to promote healthy behaviors
the community, under the slogan:
"Towards achieving a life of dignity and
quality for all Argentines "
In this collective construction, it is required to prioritize the most serious and epidemiologically
immediate problems affecting our
Town:
Infant mortality rate to less than one
digit.
Malnutrition: Food Plan with input
caloric necessary to combat this embarrassing problem. Together with
immediate attention of unemployment,
lack of housing and other social needs of this violated and vulnerable sector.
Specific plans for institutionalized over 40,000 poor children to live with their families helped by the State.
Quality assurance in health care
at various levels.
Health budget to social investment
123

Planning the public health sector
coordination with health authorities
jurisdictional framed in COFESA
(Federal Health Council) and COFELESA (Legislative Federal Health Council) from a
social vision.
Federal digitization of Public Health
Argentina:

Preparing anthropological Argentina
health professionals, caring and respecting different cultures, from the concept
global inclusion.

CREATION OF NATIONAL PAPER
PERSONAL HEALTH

Streamlining adoption laws in response to the current emergency situation.

Register of Institutions and professionals
health, accreditation and certification in all
Homeland jurisdictions.

Creating mobile hospital units
and permanent border.

And information dissemination through the media
media and the Internet; prevention measures and health promotion; education
to health. Micros and television programs
TV.

attentive to emerging needs;
Free access to all the
public health services; warranty
recovered by state institutions through social works companies
prepaid medicine or health insurance coverage corresponding to benefits
health for people with social or private or foreign coverage; through
framework agreements with other countries.
Prohibition of discrimination or selection
adverse to the users of public and private services for political reasons,
religious, social, economic background, age, health, ethnicity, etc.
Supervision and control by the health authority in all activities
impact on health; by each
jurisdiction. (Pharmacies, professionals, insti124

tions).
Design policies to ensure adequate sanitary control in border areas, addressing regional integration
neighboring countries and MERCOSUR.
Consultation with health policy
provincial and municipal governments, countries
border, MERCOSUR and other international organizations.
Complementarity of services, both in
technology, research and teaching; physical and human resources of the three subsystems
public health (state-private and social security)
Review, optimization or elimination of outdated existing programs.
Revision or elimination optimization
Current structure of the Ministry of Health
the nation.

Standardization of the practice of
health professionals and related; ensuring
and their activities.
Medical supervision of immigrants and emigrants; and health protection of borders, ports, airports, and international means of transport.
Traceability of all products and equipment related to the health and empowerment of institutions and
industry health supplies.

Establish international conventions
fair practice in the medical area with other countries.

Inclusion in specific health actions
vulnerable groups.
Public care policies for: Adults
People with disabilities-elderly-Countryside- Peoples originarios- People
deprived of their liberty; ATHLETES.
Promotion and development of programs to protect the health of people in their
labor, educational, recreational, sports, cultural and other fields
Plans for prevention, care and rehabilitation
addiction; and any other expression
psychosocial distress.

Standardization, inspection and veterinary
bromatológico and food products.

Creating Palliative Care Services
throughout the national territory, especially in the
home mode; providing the best
quality of life until the time of death in case of terminal illness.

Training and ongoing training
human resources for health area.
This training will also humanistic and social science.

Identification of priority and important programs in terms of the affected population
or the extent of the damage, which will be considered as strategic programs.
125

Attention 24 hours. at the State Public System
of health. Improving human resource
this purpose. Creation of the post full-time; with tasks
assistance, training, teaching and research.
The Federal Government will grant guarantor,
of all health facilities should
granting all jurisdictions of the country and that
they do not comply. Also the performance of security institutions
social and private healthcare companies,
they do not comply. For these
Latest provided they are subject to
National regulatory regime state.

The National State will require the recovery of
the costs of health benefits made in exercise of the guarantee allowance
by the institutions of social security
and private healthcare companies. The mode of recovery for services to
by jurisdictions will be determined
by binding opinion prior authority
Federal Health Council.
Regulating the access form
benefits, to judicially demand the protection of their rights.
Review health benefits and active

specific and specialized ities in patients with recoverable functional deficit
varying degrees. It also includes the basic benefit package and specific services established by Law No. 24901 of
Integral System for Basic Benefits
People with disabilities.
Creation of rehabilitation centers for persons with disabilities and people with severe sequelae disorders (post-traumatic, neurological,
cardiovascular, post-surgical. Etc.).
Inpatient service implementation
Home in every case so requires.
Coordination of care for animal health with an impact on human health.
Epidemiology: epidemiological and health information and surveillance. Monitoring and control
vector and risks arising from the transit of goods and international traffic
rating.
Promotion and protection of environmental health.
Promotion and protection of occupational health.
Promoting food security.
Immune Preventive Medicine: incorporation of vaccines in the official calendar, so
to prevent these preventable diseases. National vaccination campaigns.
Control and registration of the National Bank
oncology drugs.
National Cancer Institute. Registry of patients with cancer throughout the national territory, specifying type and stage of tumor,

126

treatment; to control any
subsystem is their attention if covered
the same.
Control and registration of the National Plan
Blood. Awareness campaigns. Enforcement of the law 22.990 in
throughout the national territory.
Survey and control bodies
State belonging to the Ministry of
Health of the Nation, but decentralized;
proposing new ways of functioning, efficient and caring.
Hospital and decentralized bodies of the Ministry of Health of the Nation,
promotion, prevention, care and rehabilitation of Health are: National Professor Dr. Alejandro Posadas Hospital, Dr. Baldomero Sommer National Hospital, National Cologne
Dr. Manuel Montes de Oca, National Institute
South of Psychophysical Rehabilitation Center
National Social Rehabilitation (CE.NA.RE.
SO), and the Hospital of Pediatrics S.A.M.I.C. "Prof.
Dr. Juan P. Garrahan ".
The National Administration of Laboratories and Health Institutes (ANLIS). Decree
Decree 660/1996 and 1628/1996.
Unique Central National Institute of Ablation and Implant Coordinator (Incucai). Law No.
23,885.
National Administration of Drugs,
Food and Medical Technology (ANMAT), Decree No. 1490/92.
Superintendency of Health Services, Decree 1.615 / 96

127

Annex I

Document
National
Personal Health.
Telemedicine
Foundations for a digital identity
Developments in Health and Telemedicine:
Today, with advances in computer technology,
there are countless databases referred to
most people activities

(Identity, banking, credit cards, health systems, etc.)
However, within this system, the protagonist NOT HAVE relevant data (personal health) your health, despite
that would help them in their power to
welfare, whether in emergencies and
disasters or to a simple consultation with a
doctor than your doctor.
So it happens that a person has several case histories as institutions where
concurred, and partial information
It is dispersed.

Annex II
In addition, the construction of several Stories
One patient clinics involves a series
of material costs and time consuming
Lovely physician must devote part of their already limited time only
for administrative aspects (write a
new medical history, request already made studies, etc.).
The creation of a National Health Document, with appropriate characteristics, adaptable
and upgradeable according to the development of the
Personal Health Record during
his life, would give an important safety
carrier, and facilitate medical care in whatever situation they find
person: Scheduled care or emergencies and disasters, as their document
give it a personal health information
valuable to the attending physician.
In a first step, the National Document
Health can be implemented using
existing computerized systems in
Now, after advancing to a change
progressive with updated technology.
Exists in the country developed software
Argentine professionals facilitating their implementation and immediately,
moreover, it is easy to integrate the different software used in institutions
of health.
Professional secrecy is guaranteed by laws and by the characteristics
computer security.
Digital Argentina, integrating telemedicine
(ICTs) and the proposed document would allow the
communication and immediate advice
the health care field, from regions
far from medical centers with technology
updated, creating a national health information network.

128

Programs
Medical and social assistance Health
- Mother and Child Programme.
- National Immunization Program.
- National Program to Combat Human Retroviruses, AIDS and Diseases
of - Sexually Transmitted.
- National Cancer Program. Sub - National Bank of antineoplastic drugs.
- National Sexual Health and Responsible Parenthood Programme.
- Epidemiological Surveillance Program.
- National Programme against Chagas disease.
- National Programme against Myasthenia Gravis.
- National Program for Community Physicians.
- Medical Program for Primary Health Care.
- Leprosy Control Program.
- National Malaria Control Program.
- Indian Health Program (ex - ANAHI).
All these existing programs will
subject to survey and analysis, to
establish their improvement, continuity or appropriate.

NEW PROGRAMS:
- Integral Assistance Program
Aging.
- Integral Assistance Program
For teenagers and young people.
- ASSISTANCE PROGRAM FOR INTEGRAL
FAMILY.
- Environmental Sanitation Program E
HYGIENE.
129

- Hospice program.
- Home Hospitalization Program.
- ECOLOGY AND HEALTH PROGRAM.
- PERMANENT TRAINING PROGRAM
HEALTH.
- PROGRAM emergencies and disasters.

integrated by a specialist in family medicine medical equipment; and they will engage in
both emergency and preventive medicine
clinical and surgical.
This mobile unit will be completed
with advances in telemedicine.

Annex III

Filing hospital units
border areas.
Its purpose is to assist both Argentine residents from countries
border. They also will play a role
Preventive health (communicable disease control, emergency assistance, and others).

Mobile units and Border Hospital
Creation of hospital units
MOBILE PERMANENT designed to go rural and remote areas of hospitals of different complexity. It will
130

131

132

133

8th COMMISSION
Agriculture and Livestock
134

135

Agricultural Plan
To develop their
POTENTIAL
Argentina has an unavoidable destination
global food supplier. This not only
It constitutes an important opportunity to
our country; it is a responsibility
in a world that still has more than 1 billion hungry people. The recent crisis
world has not hit equally to all
sectors: mainly affected property owners and financials
and therefore will suffer for some years the
demand for consumer durables, deferrable typical consumption sectors
medium and high.
Instead food demand has picked up recently, showing significant increases in the prices of grains,

meats and dairy. The conclusion is that food demand in both emerging and developed countries, will not suffer much
as industrial production.
To take advantage of this opportunity, and
Brazil seek to share with the role of power
agroindustrial, it takes many things, but
most importantly, is that the next government
take the political decision to advance this
course.
We have the land, the climate, job training, technology and capital for Argentina to reach 150 million tonnes
grain production in a few years.
But that is not enough, nor is
an exclusive goal.
A country that produces 150 million tons of grain, mainly for export, runs the risk of becoming the
"Soy emirate", an oil type country,

a rich state by withholding a small
producer group to concentrate most of their production and profits, and
a majority suffering unemployment and the consequences of an appreciated currency and
the 90.
Not bad produce 150 million grains,
but if we must industrialize
have an economically harmonious country,
social peace and political maturity. Currently among the largest producers of soybeans, we are the
less industrialized country, regardless
oil: only 5%, compared with 25% in Brazil
and more than 50% in the United States.
The industrialization of the means grains
production of beef and pork meat, poultry, dairy and many other products, including biofuels. And all this means employment in the various parts of our
136

country, enabling Argentina balanced geographically and economically just.
The political decision of the government of the day
to turn Argentina into a power
agroindustrial should be complemented with
many other decisions, both state
as private.
Agribusiness goals for the end of the
decade ahead, consistent with a
grain production of 150 million tons (which very easily be overcome)
They should be supplemented with projects aimed at: livestock-dairy-meat alternatives and regional economies
The production of 5 million tns beef, which involves reaching in 2015 a
60 million cattle stock, requiring
a growth of 5% annually.
137

bilities expansion in domestic and international markets, if measures are taken
and appropriate agreements are reached between the
various stages of production and
manufacturing, prioritizing development in
production sites, increasing the time
Man throughout the country.
Set differential export duties prudently. Financing from banks
official at reasonably low rates, investment and restructuring to achieve some
industries such as refrigeration.
From this paradigm shift, and consequently the objectives, they may be implemented many other decisions are
ripe to be studied and applied.

Deductions
The most sensitive issue in the current conflict
between the government and farmers are withholding. The country needs that producers Agrocon technology that is available today
It can increase the production rate
cows and slaughter weight increase
230 kgs and the extraction rate to 29%.
To meet the above is essential to ensure the free operation
eliminating market regulations
and export quotas and bureaucratic obstacles.
Production of 18,000 million liters of milk, which is consistent with the
goals being discussed in the Plan
Dairy Strategic 2020. This primarily involves abandoning cycles
inflated prices, and to reach agreement
between Industry and Production.
Such production would bring the
domestic consumption to 250 liters per capita anua138

livestock re-planted more than ever,
bellies retain and increase production
meat and milk. But the country also needs
avoid fiscal collapse, and realistically
program, to maintain a policy of stimulating demand in the context
of the global crisis, and assistance to the poorest sectors, which already exceed 32% of the
population.
While, from an idealist standpoint corresponds strongly reduce withholdings, admittedly fiscal collapse is not
a solution that can afford even encouraged
punished in the social situation in Argentina
from today.
On the other hand, excel in the economic outlook and the most interesting facts
complementary: the record level of real tax revenues and lower debt
public private hands.
It would seem then that the only way to reconcile the need to remove (the retention

them, and exports to more than 20,000 million dollars, generating jobs, foreign exchange and tax revenues.
The development of swine, and poultry industry
fishing, they need, and the alternatives meat, that meat prices
vaccine are not subsidized. With significant increase in production and consumption
of these meats, Argentines would overcome
100 kgs. equivalent annual meat
consumption of protein, which is essential in the development of our population.
Including Regional Industries, which
produce fruit, wine, oil, wood, sugar,
snuff, grass, coffee, vegetables, wool and many
other products, including biofuels. Each of these products has posi139

tions) without affecting the financing of the state is gradually reducing them go, but
compensating with "forced savings in the
head of the exporter. " This could get a
five-year bond, similar to 15 or Bonar Bonar
17, currently they listed above
85% of its value.
In the table below you can see the
immediately generate impact in
prices "paid to the producer" while
further improve tax revenue by higher income tax charged that
plus interest exceed the cost of
those bonds.
Moreover it would tend to minimize evasion income tax, giving
the importance of this tax should be
awareness of producers.
In the example described in the table we can
check that the producer receives today
65% of the international price would increase their
income to 78% of that price in 2011, and ending at 92%, which is 8% retention, reasonable to stimulate the industrial processing of the raw material. He
State, in turn, maintains its operation
about 35% today, because it compensates
with some minor deductions and debt
higher tax revenue from taxes
gains, even considering the interest paid.

Conclusions
In conclusion, the field ahead
huge potential for further growth
if the next government avoid repeating recent mistakes, and intends to convert to Argentina
an agro-industrial power.
This requires the adoption of State policies,
accompanied with actions that are sufficiently studied.
140

But it is also important for producers, industry and sector leadership
they are up to these objectives, and,
in addition to fulfilling responsibilities
that laws determine, reach agreements
as part of a shared long-term vision.
The necessary role of the state must
applied to eliminate bureaucratic interference in production and marketing, and
operate credit instruments, tax
and to stimulate exchange accumulation
of productive capital. Concrete actions
this regard are:
- Provide guarantees political stability
legal and tax regulations.
- Gradually replace taxes
distortionary taxes imposed on production
those levied on the income and businesswoman territorial gain.
- Promoting, especially from the allocation
budgetary, technological innovation
the state and private sectors.
- Prioritize public investment in transport infrastructure (railways, highways and
waterway).
- Making a reality credit policy today
declamatory, to stimulate production and specific sectoral SMEs.
- Do not penalize the technological incorporation
through exchange measures.
- The presence of the state in protecting
natural resources is unavoidable to ensure sustainable production and friendly
with the environment.
The Argentine agricultural sector has advantages, some structural, some quotas,
giving it a unique competitiveness in
the global stage. Also confer the ability to be one of the key engines
integrated national development.
141

142

143

9th COMMISSION
Defense.
144

145

National Defense
A Government Plan is based on a study
National Reality to establish national objectives Project formulation
And Draft National Government and
its application in Development Planning
National Planning and National Defense.
The National Policy has two processes
They are:
Phase 1. Policy, which is initiated by the study and analysis of the national situation, for
then formulate, establish and update national goals and the National Project
Government Project, ending with the issuance of Government Policy.
2. Strategic phase begins with the receipt of Government Policy and leads
processes National Military Planning and Development Planning
National defense.
National Defense, is the set of measures, plans and actions that the State
It generates, adopted and implemented in an integrated manner
and permanent, and develops in the outer and inner areas.
The State guarantees the security of the nation by and Safety System
National Defence, whose function
prepare, exercise and lead the National Defense in all fields of activity
national.
Security Policy and National Defense, is a state policy which aims
intended to guide the selection, preparation
and use of the state media for
obtaining and maintaining national security both in the external front
and the internal.
This policy is built on the set of general guidelines for estruc146

Turar, coordinate and harmonize efforts
fields of state action.

Guidelines
General
Beyond the imperative need
consensus at the highest level of the State, of a
Strategic Plan for Argentina,
comprehensive of the most fundamental aspects
national development, including Defense
National, and given the extremely weak situation, in terms of Defense is concerned, this Study considers it
must analyze the present, from a
defense base zero, which is what really we have today in the country.
To design the future defense of the country, it is
therefore necessary and priority trace three
cornerstones, on which it must
Redesign and restructure the armed forces
Nation and National Military Industry.
The first axis, should consider reconfiguration, reorientation and repositioning of the armed forces and military equipment.
Second, it is the study of National Reconstruction of the defense industry,
including participation Sector
public and private.
The Third, corresponding to the recomposition of the pictures of military personnel
and its reserves, its scientific staff and
researchers, and the training of
thereof, to obtain operational capabilities
optimal, as support for the Strategic Plan
the National Government and its permanent objectives.
Should also be considered here, the necessary organization, training and use
Military Reservists in time

peace, since the high capabilities of this
reserve personnel may well take on tasks of Civil Defense, in situations of natural disasters such as earthquakes, floods, forest fires, epidemics,
international relief, search and rescue
people, etc.
With regard to their status Reservations
Active National Defense should also provide their organization and updating of knowledge, by distance learning, for example.

Based on the Strategic Plan of the National Government, and aims to achieve in your plan
development, the Ministry of Defense
Nation, perform the necessary studies, based on the three pillars, here indicated,
pergeniar the armed forces for future and achieve
priority targets in four calendar years,
evaluating also the economic budget, depending on amounts may not
exceed a certain percentage of P.B.I.
allocated by the national budget.

147

148

149

10th COMMISSION
Environment
150

151

ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY
FEDERAL
BASE POLICY: Message to the Peoples of the World of General Juan Domingo Peron (1972)..
"We believe the time has come when all
the peoples and governments of the world, aware of the suicidal march humanity
It has undertaken through pollution
environment and biosphere, squandering
natural resources, unbridled growth of
population and over-estimation of technology and the need to invest immediately
address this march through action
International joint. Awareness must originate in the scientists,
but it can only be transformed into action at work

see the political leaders ... ".
The legacy of the vision of a statesman, a commitment to action.
The federal environmental policy is systematized in
three functional pillars:

I) STRATEGIC ISSUES
GLOBAL
"7 pollution of the environment and the biosphere against wastage
natural resources, noise and overcrowding of cities, must be started at the municipal, national and international level. These problems, in the international order, must pass the
agenda of the negotiations between major
powers and permanent life Nations

United tions as a matter of first priority.
This, as a whole, is not a problem over
humanity; is the problem".
8 All these problems are inextricably linked to social justice, the
political sovereignty and economic independence of the Third World, and detente and international cooperation. "
1.1 Environmental Governance: Participation
and environmental information. Guiding Principle
The environmental challenge due to its size and
It brings us quite complex
all, with the state guaranteeing welfare
Generally, you should redirect the social pact to sustainability of development,
based on values ​​of respect, fairness and solidarity with information, transparency, education, training, and constant political dialogue and citizen participation, building
consensus and arranging actions, strengthening, environmental democracy.
Argentina currently has a model
extractivist and short-term development, and
that way it hurts the country and that
It works without thinking short term vision
future. Fallacious oppositions must fall
"Environment vs. economy and progress," "progress
domestic vs international community "," Province vs Nation. " The scenario is complex but
Advanced real and public policy
the country can not ignore the environment
and development require a stakeout,
far from being a sympathetic or decorative instrument, integrate decisions.
The integrity of the Nation comprises of
its environmental heritage. Environmental protection is of general interest. The environment

It is under the aegis of the state.
The national government, provincial governments,
public or private legal persons and
individuals are responsible for ensuring the enjoyment, use and exercise the right to the environment to the extent of their duties and the
extent of their rights. The property has
an environmental function, and can not be source
environmental degradation and obstacles to
recovery and conservation. They recognize the acquired rights
individuals, in accordance with the law on the
environmental elements and renewable natural resources. Use, enjoyment and disposition
They must observe the provisions of the Digest
Environmental.
To do this, observing the guiding principle should open the environmental agenda in Argentina. Environmental issues must occupy a
home page on the agenda, since it is an essential condition for development
the country in a sustainable manner and the effective enjoyment of human rights in all sectors of the community Argentina.
The first step to open this schedule is set
a guiding principle that will guide our steps in all decisions made. That
principle is none other than the presiding all
The Protocol aims Argentines:
peace, coexistence. This peace should be
also between progress and the environment.

We have to make an agreement between Progress and
Environment, are two human rights,
Both have tremendous value, each of us has the right to progress their children are
right to progress; but everyone is entitled to live in a clean environment, to care
planet earth, and this is the obligation to
an agreement1.
1 Post San Luis Governor Alberto Rodriguez Saa to Laun common dream: to live in a healthy environment
Legislative Assembly. San Luis, Wednesday, April 1, 2009
provide the necessary conditions for the progre152

153

so all. (...) We must not fall into the trap of
facing the environment and progress; for him
Instead, we must reconcile these two rights
human maravillosos.2
1.2 Actively participate in the international environmental agenda from a solid regional integration, also promoting South-South cooperation
The environmental issue has a global dimension and importance of an obvious urgency. Unfortunately, there
official consolidated regional position that
Latin America can present as block
in international forums, with solid internal agreements. 3 Our country has lacked in
much of an active, reliable and responsible participation in these important issues. As a country, we must reflect on
actions to run the Argentina
to address global issues such as
climate change, environmental damage
and border control activities
performing risky multinational mega-businesses in the territory soberano.4 is why
why to end that arrears shall be fixed
international positions and actions will be proposed in the framework of Latin American solidarity to defend our right to
sustainable development.
"Introduction to the Peace Treaty between Progreso and Environment": a display unit and integrated participation by the Ministries of Re2 Alberto Rodriguez Saa is created. San Luis, 2010.
3 Paul O. Canziani: "Prospects for Climate Change
Latin America after Cancun "in Annual Environmental Report 2011.
Environment and Natural Resources Foundation. At: //www.farn.
org.ar/informe2011.pdf
4 A. Anselmo Sella: "Prologue" in Annual Environmental Report 2011.
Environment and Natural Resources Foundation. At: //www.farn.
org.ar/informe2011.pdf
5 Environment and Natural Resources Foundation, Environmental Annual Report 2011, Ch. "Climate Change and Biodiversity"

154

Foreign relations and Environment
Nation with a mission to develop 'Documents
Position "and manage national participation in the various forums in which the international environmental agenda is developed.
These must be raised at the regional level for analysis, discussion and consensus, outlining sound policies and joint actions
to present block in the various forums
international, so must be sought
integration and consistency requires that environmental mainstreaming, in order to apply the
subscribed various environmental conventions,
especially climate change and biodiversity synergistically.
Along with requiring timely compliance
Cooperation under international conventions should also be fostered South-South cooperation, strengthening ties, policies and actions as well as the objectives reinsurance
previously raised.
1 .3.- develop a national policy on climate change.
The international scenario poses specific problems and deepen its
climate change and loss of biodiversity. Climate change is no longer a threat but a reality of the scope and impact
global. It develops a national policy
containing measures to mitigate and adapt to this phenomenon, with the participation of all stakeholders and strategically arranged. Assuming
that while the issue of climate change
is broad and comprehensive, according to emission inventories, the main sources of
emission of greenhouse gases
our country, come from energy and
agriculture 5 Hence, the share of these sectors in the plan to develop is
fundamental.

Smoke photo

1.4.- Develop a national policy on
biodiversity, in defense of our heritage
natural
The Argentina lacks a comprehensive policy
for the conservation of biodiversity.
No data are available on certain state
existing genetic resources in our country. Therefore, the new national government
It intends to develop a management plan for
protection of our species as well as regeneration of endangered species
extinction. To this end it will convene all
provinces and the Autonomous City of Buenos
Aires, as well as technical agencies, universities and NGOs
capacity in the field.
It also will create more protected areas are
will encourage creation of conservation areas
private property created new sources of
clean work and highlighting our nature for the environmental services they provide from tourism point of view,
scenic, cultural, oxygen factory, and possible

bility to promote our research
biodiversity adding value through new discoveries, among others.
1.5.- Develop an Environmental Information System Integrated
Our country does not have updated, systematic and orderly environmental information
in many fields, although Act
Environmental Policy No. 25,975 since 2003,
It requires the Executive Branch processing
Annual Environmental Report. This information
It is vital for planning
and management of our natural resources.
Through research, generation and collection will draw up a single database
georeferenced and multidisciplinary, providing accurate and unified information
the correct policy decisions in
environmental matters. Therefore, the new government
National is committed to comply
the Environmental Policy Act generating
the first time the Annual Environmental Report. With
155

For this purpose a Management Unit settle
with an action plan, chaired by the Ministry of Environment of the Nation, in which
all agencies will be represented
technical and statistical Office, the provinces and the Autonomous City of Buenos Aires, as well
such as universities and organizations not
governmental capacity in the field.

II) STRENGTHENING
INSTITUTIONAL ENVIRONMENT
"If you look at large problems
that we face and that we have listed,
see that come from both human greed and shortsightedness, and the characteristics of some social systems, the
abuse of technology, the lack of
biological and natural progression of the growth of the human population relationships.
This heterogeneity of causes must lead
a heterogeneity of responses, although
ultimately have in common the use of human intelligence. TO
the irrationality of collective suicide must
respond to the rationality of desire for survival. "
2.1 Creating the Ministry of Environment
the nation
Today the national environmental authority has
range Secretariat under the aegis of Chief of Staff. However, opening
environmental agenda, which the new government
proposes requires a political decision
which should result in tools that
and equip a ministry conferred for6 Dino Bellorio Clabot: Environmental Law Treaty. Editorial.
AD HOC. T. 2004. II, p. 922

156

taleza, continuity and institutional resources
and management.
That is why the Ministry of Environment of the Nation, which will create focus
all departments and agencies related to the management and control of the environment
environment that are now scattered in the organization of the National State. The authority
national environmental understood in the formulation of plans, programs, projects and proposed standards aimed at ensuring the
environmental management, sustainable use and
integrated management of natural resources
and protection of the environment and coordinate the
national information and surveillance system
environmental. Considering the positive
solid technical equipment belonging to the
administration, as well as officials with experience and incorporating substrate
skilled in the art.
To apply and implement the environmental agenda, the new Ministry of Environment
it will rely on three instrumental axes
They should be addressed in an integrated way,
transversal and systematic: recovery
State action capacity, organization
environmental institutional transversely
and integration of sustainability and environmental dimension to the logic of decisions
economic. 6
2.2 Strengthening institutions and COFEMA
environmental interprovincial
The environment knows no borders: it has a jurisdictional dimension, which
in our country requires the exercise of federalism consultation. Thus, the environment
It will be managed by differentiating roles, compet
gums and responsibilities, then you effectively coordinate and justice.
Therefore, all the mechanisms for coordination and consultation will strengthen federal,

regional, and inter on
environment, beginning with the Council
Federal Environment (COFEMA), promoting coordinated behavior compared to
environmental problems involving more than
a jurisdiction, and the compatibility of the
environmental legislation, particularly
in case of regions with shared environmental units.

You'll administrations in an effort that is provided with own consistency and continuity
of a state policy. To this end will be
convened the provinces and the Autonomous City of Buenos Aires through COFEMA, the
universities and non-governmental organizations with recognized capacity in the
matter, and diverse actors with impact on
environmental matters.

2.3 Making the National Environmental Strategic Plan with a projection to fifteen years
According to the Environmental Report 2011 7 elaborated by various organizations and experts
matter, the evolution of the issues in Argentina in 2010, shows that in a
greater percentage of cases perceives
He has worsened, including the reasons for the deterioration
the situation is the lack of priority points
policy theme, difficulties in allocating funds and also schemes
current production with strong pressure
on ecosystems. The new national government will address environmental issues in
strategically. Fighting poverty
through a system including assessment
the environment and its components, incorporating the green economy to investment decisions and development.
To do this, take it as soon as it is drawn Plan
National Environmental Strategic Participatory,
objectives, goals, actions and indicators
Tracking ready with a range of
fifteen years. Only this will order the
environmental agenda and engage successive

Dictate 2.4 Regulatory Environment Digest
Argentina reality like the rest of Latin America, offers clear failings on
enforcement and compliance
environmental. This is rooted in various causes such as the lack of clear rules,
rules and overlapping legal contradictions, dismantling rules, no
participation in the development of standards
between others.8 To reverse this situation,
National Environmental Ministry as
As first review existing environmental legislation to order and systematize
environmental legal framework developed a participatory Environmental Digest put in
order environmental legislation, to leave
clear what is in effect and thus
eliminate "the legislative amtal pollution."
Also they are regulated standards
minimum protection in force,
a debt from making a década.9
And a system of indicators will be implemented
Application and Regulatory Compliance
Environmental to provide reliable information,
constant and officially recognized in order to measure the state of the environment and the influence of different policies and activities
East.

7 Environment and Natural Resources Foundation: Environmental Report
2011. Annual: http://www.farn.org.ar/informe2011.pdf
August 1st International Conference on Implementation and Enforcement of Environmental Regulations in Latin America (Buenos Aires,
2002)
9 Environment and Natural Resources Foundation, "Environmental Report
Annual 2011 ". In: http://www.farn.org.ar/informe2011.pdf

2.5.- Creation of environmental charters
Environmental cases delay or not allowed
They are likely to be subjected to the vicissitudes
157

Also, arrange policies and actions
articulate and coordinate provincial,
making effective joint action, consistent
and joint.

III) OF SUSTAINABILITY
DEVELOPING

long and slow judicial process. The environment and its protection not admit delay. By
Therefore, in environmental law, the task
the judge is more difficult, because you must use a
legal structure that "prima facie" is prefixed
traditional systems of law and the local positive law "itself. 11 This circumstance
becomes necessary the specialty of the matter and,
thus creating dedicated courts
the subject. Understanding the complexity of the
matters to be discussed: "The resolutions beyond
10

10 Environment and Natural Resources Foundation: "Indicators
Justice and Environment - News of Principle 10 in Argentina ".
(2006).
11 Dino Bellorio Clabot: "The road to environmental justice
in the City of Buenos Aires. A convenient possible variable,
and complex ",, In: http://gcba.gov.ar/areas/med_ambiente/boletin/numero8/nota2_a.php].
12 Ibid
13 Enzo M. Di Tella: "Defenders of the Environment, new horizon for a great and necessary challenge." Adepra magazine, Civil Association of Magistrates and Officials of the Public Prosecutor
Defense of Argentina. Issue No. 1 - Julio2010.

158

markedly economic, contractual, family, or workplace dominial. Constitute the
overall defense of our planet and the exercise of powers novel. Training
environmental law, legal and other sciences interdisciplinary integration, and
broad understanding to recognize as
a new paradigm, real institutional legal political revolution, acquired in the case,
a fundamental role ". 12 will also be encouraged to
through legislative proposals, the creation of
commissions or specific departments are dedicated to environmental matters with defense
coordinated environmental work
interdisciplinary teams in the field
the Public Defender's Office. 13
2.6.- Strengthening the federal environmental control and monitoring
Have an effective presence in the territory
to prevent and / or penalize infringements
environmental, so as to safeguard our
natural heritage.

"4. The modification of social structures and
productive in the world means that the profit and
waste can no longer be the engine
basics of any society and social justice
It should be required on the basis of the whole system, not just
for the direct benefit of humankind only
increase the production of food and goods
required; consequently priorities
production of goods and services should be affected in varying degrees by country
concerned. In other words: we need
new patterns of production, consumption, organizational and technological development at the same
time to give priority to meeting the
essential human needs, rationing
consumption of natural resources and decrease
the minimum possible environmental pollution "
3.1 Undertake environmental land management
Since 2003 is pending undertaking
environmental land management, as foreseen by the Environmental Policy Act. East
system is a political process, in the
As decision comprises
public, which must have an instance of citizen participation and involvement
the different social actors, depending on the
occupation orderly and sustainable land use. It is also a technical procedure
14 Environment and Natural Resources Foundation Environmental Annual Report 2011, Ch. "Energy"

because oriented administrative regulation and
promotion of location and development of
human settlements and activities
various types related to them, in order
the achievement of sustainable development. Therefore, the
new national government will open the debate on the
matters in respect of COFEMA and with the participation of academics, NGOs and sectors
to develop a bill on minimum protection to start
the environmental planning.
Also, strategic environmental assessments will be used to assess impacts
comprehensive and smarter environmental impacts of large projects and / or activities, in making decisions looking
the alternatives to facilitate progress without polluting our resources.
3.2 To diversify the national energy matrix
with clean and renewable energy
In energy, a number of laws and
administrative rules suggest the promotion of renewable energy and efficiency
energy. In this context, they have generated
Small-scale government programs and incipient. However, the current reality shows us otherwise, our parent
Fossil energy is dependent and requires
a fundamental change that is not yet in sight. Furthermore, the present government presents energy alternatives that consolidate and
expand the role of nuclear energy as well
also of large hydroelectric dams and the use of coal as a source. The new government will review and consult
experts in strategic areas such as
economic, social and environmental impact
these activities, the life cycle of waste, its intrinsic risk, and their contribution
to climate change. Considering
profound questions that exist in
159

fuentes14 relation to these, and especially the
nuclear internationally and after the tragedy that occurred in Japan recently and
all know. As the Argentina, a country
it has a wide availability of
renewable resources for energy generation, such as wind, solar radiation, among
other, and having large areas where
the location of these technologies cause a negligible negative effect on
the local population and the environment, the
Renewable energy is a wise option
for our reality, and its development would
favored by these conditions as appropriate. The Strategic Energy Plan 2030
It does not have the participation of different
sectors and experts in the field. Therefore, the
new government intends to review the Strategic Plan in a participative manner and thousands of
160

million of the national budget
the national state spends on subsidies will be the subject of a reorganization, guiding
much of the money for research, development and promotion of alternative energies
in order to diversify energy sources
national, overly dependent on
fossil fuels.
3.3 Protect and defend our water resources
Protection of watersheds in
comprehensive framework and necessary consideration
from prevention and remediation at its
If it is an axis of importance that has been shown in several examples in our country. The Uruguay River and the problem of
Botnia, the Riachuelo, Reconquista, pastera
Dulce left, are some of the emerging that
show the social, economic complexity and
environmental of these basins, added to the ne-

cesidad a strategic institutions
of planificación.15 The new national government
will value water as a strategic natural resource in the XXI century, hence the importance of
preservation and intelligent use in progress
from the country. In managing this resource will include
strategic tools to
since the countries belonging to the same region we can work together in the
design and development of the basin will not act unilaterally, it is what we have learned from the conflict with Uruguay. Work
with the provinces to include the evaluation
Strategic Environmental in regional planning both within the basin committees
existing as well as in the field of
Mercosur. Also, actions will be developed
regulations, and infrastructure management
to protect this resource of suffering serious environmental threats while
their fair and equitable use will seek to benefit the entire nation.
For its part, the Matanza Riachuelo is
a paradigmatic case presents a before
and after in the history of environmental law, access to justice and monitoring
inaction on the part of the authorities
a glaring history of pollution. He
new government funding to ensure that the measures outlined by the Court
Supreme of Justice is brought
out in full transparency and comply with
the purpose of remediation of the basin and
priority to the most urgent needs with respect for the right to the environment,
health and to decent housing. In particular,
will allow the deployment of the work of the Foundation Auto15 Environment and Natural Resources Annual Report
Environment 2011, Cap. Watersheds.
16 Environment and Natural Resources Foundation, Annual Environmental Report 2011, Ch. Agricultural Sector.

rity Matanza-Riachuelo (ACUMAR)
and the mandates of justice be fulfilled,
finally come true promises
decades around its sanitation.
3.4.- Make our country the most sustainable
of the world
The advance of the agricultural frontier in Argentina also contributes to emissions
GHG and in that line various related issues arise. The growing abuse of agrochemicals with a rising number of complaints and court actions and the need for
analyze the effects of the substance in
health and the ambiente16. Therefore, the new national government will propose first a
Plan point to what agribusiness model
You want to suck in the country conducive to the transformation of our agricultural practices
so that, without losing efficiency levels and
performance, our field becomes the
more sustainable world. Promote the sustainable industrial processes that incorporate
value added to primary production is a
how to optimize economic development
without resorting to deforestation sector. With this
It settles purpose under the Ministry of the Nation Ambiente16 a forum
with actors in the field and the environment,
in order to set priorities and coordinate actions. One of these priorities will be the protection
the wealth of our soil, by
inclusion and promotion of new practices
and adaptable to different social realities of the sector technologies. In the sustainable management of agricultural building
good practices and legislation
minimum budget of agrochemicals,
It is another very specific need
it must be assumed, as well as the need
greater promotion and official support research on the effects of the same
161

health and the environment.
3.5.- Making a National Forestry Plan and
Native Forest Protection
Native forests and their protection are another area of ​​concern, which, compared with the
forest emergency situation, he was treated
by Law No. 26.331 on Minimum legislative level, which was passed at the end
2007. And although, according to official data
deforestation decreased by 60%, yet
remain many illegal dumps, which
It adds to various budgetary difficulties that occurred nationwide, the first decline sharply and budget
then raising constant obstacles in its
implementación.17 why the new government
national work on a proper allocation and
distribution of funds to support the implementation of the law.
To monitor implementation of the law
address the issue of deforestation will incorporate tools that are greater today
access, such is the case of satellite technology
and geographic information systems
and they are used in some provinces such as
in the case of San Luis and other areas of
Such digital tools Latinoamérica.18
permit, thanks to its great potential for geographic and biological information, improve
precision and accuracy of current inventories of native forests, thus optimizing
way control mechanisms and fiscaliza17 Environment and Natural Resources Foundation, Annual Report
Environment 2011, Cap. Forests
18 The system of satellite tracking deforestation
the Gran Chaco carried out by the Civil Association Guayrá
Paraguay is a clear example of this issue. For more information about the project, technical reports and position
Civil Association Guayrá Paraguay. In: http://www.guyra.org.py/
Spanish / reports-great-Chaco-americano.php
19 "Salas, Dino and other c / Salta, Province and National State s /
Amparo ". Originally trial Expte. s.1144, L.XLIV.

162

tion corresponding. Also, the native and peasant communities will be convened,
key actors in this area, not only for the
and the rights that come from attending
international law and the same law of forests, but also for the consideration of the
Meeting them in the CS JN failure. 19
As part of adaptation actions and
mitigating climate change, will be
an ambitious National Forestry Plan of native and introduced species under
federal criteria for forest zoning
determine the potential and forest potential
different regions, betting heavily on research and the incorporation
technology. The plan's main goal is to plant during the first year in office
1,200,000 trees, equivalent to doubling
National forested area in just one year.
For this tree nurseries will be strengthened
national, and convened turn to provincial, municipal and private nurseries
adapt their production in quality and quantity in order to provide the raw material
necessary to plan. In turn he bet heavily on research to develop
seedlings and forest management systems that
adapted to the different eco-regions
country, improving survival, growth
and health of plantations and in turn its ability to capture CO2. Given that demand a forestry
number of jobs, will be trained
strongly in all disciplines of the sector
to increase the supply of labor
qualified.
3.6.- incorporate the environmental dimension to mining
Extractive mining activities involve
usually a high environmental impact. Us
are faced with a public-private system,

that ignores much of Argentina and provincial environmental regulations, and consequently has a constant escalation
conflicts have been exacerbated in
recent years by increasing investment in the
sector.20 The proposed new national government
rethink the path started in the 90 '
flourished when the "mega-mining", which is
the exploitation of ores carried
out by large multinational companies
mode in the open, over vast
tracts of land, which has a number of environmental impacts on the landscape,
water, soil and air, mainly by
substances used for the operation.
This type of mining should be subject to public scrutiny in order to protect natural resources essential to life and livelihood
people like water. Parallel
this dialogue will be revised mining law
in our country today responds to a model that prioritizes on exploitation
sustainability of development and not con20 Environment and Natural Resources Foundation, Annual Report
Environment 2011, Cap. Mining.
21 Environment and Natural Resources Foundation, Annual Report
Environment 2011, Cap. Fishing.

tuning or support schemes analysis and discussion of the activity itself.
3.7.- sustainable use of our fisheries
The most endangered species in Argentina
They are hake, squid and shrimp,
shad while it is in the case of
the rivers of the Plata basin. These species
They have suffered sharp fluctuations in biomass, due to mismanagement. The need for
sustainable integrated management, a problem that can not wait is the collapse of the
merluza.21 The new national government will encourage public policies that fishing and
sector itself and incorporate planning
an implementation that values ​​in the short,
medium and long term survival
resources and transparency in the practices related thereto.
Manage 3.8.- comprehensively waste
In relation to the issue of waste, we
We are on one side with a situation
regrettable is that the existing minimum standards laws (on waste
industrial and residential) have not been regulated yet, nor have arrived
basic agreements on the COFEMA to lo163

grate sound management. This lack means in practice that the waste management
in Argentina it is governed by a set of
contradictory rules that increase
risks to people and the environment, without
there is an overall planning for problems. The new national government placed
this environmental problem, with a strong impact on health, priority environmental policies allocating funds to help
provincial governments, without discrimination,
to eradicate open dumps.
3.9. Environmental Emergencies
Procedures that can prevent, where possible, be defined disasters
environmental, and if they occur under specific protocols possible to act more efficiently and effectively with emergencies. Through
environmental monitoring systems and anthropic variables whose behavior
allow unwanted anticipate events and
act accordingly or from plans
or protocols that provide accurate to the emergency instructions
that safeguard the integrity of
people, organize the physical, human and economic resources and mitigate the negative environmental effects.

HOW WILL WE DO IT?
AND DECISION
DRIVING
Drawing a clear and firm way from the
presidency to the whole administration.

STATE POLICIES
Securing that road with the consensus and
management tools necessary for
164

permanence and continuity.

The federal environmental policy is systematized
three functional pillars:

EFFICIENT MANAGEMENT
Walk the road with the huge resources of the State, rearranged and operated with zeal, austerity and efficiency, without
waste and corruption.

INFORMATION, EDUCATION AND
ENVIRONMENTAL INVOLVEMENT
Hand knowledge, training,
interaction, building consensus

Equity, responsibility and
SOLIDARITY
With social inclusion, respect for all
alive, present and future selves.

SUMMARY
BASE POLICY: Message to the People
World of Gral. Juan Domingo Peron
(1972).
"We believe the time has come when all
the peoples and governments of the world, aware of the suicidal march humanity
It has undertaken through pollution
the environment and the biosphere, the squandering of natural resources, growth
unchecked population and over-estimate
technology and the need to invest
immediately address this march, through a joint international action. Awareness must originate in the
scientists, but it can only be transformed into action by leaders
politicians…".
The legacy of the vision of a statesman, to
commitment to action.

I) STRATEGIC ISSUES
GLOBAL
1.1 Environmental Governance: Participation and
Environmental information. Guiding Principle
The environmental challenge due to its size and complexity brings us absolutely everyone.
The first step to open this schedule is set
a guiding principle that will guide our steps in all decisions made. That
principle is none other than the presiding all
Argentine protocol is proposed:
peace, coexistence. This peace must also be between progress and the environment.

protection of our species as well as regeneration of endangered species
extinction.
1.5.- Develop an Environmental Information System Integrated
-To Implement the Environmental Policy Act No. 25,975 creating the first Annual Environmental Report.
-Conformación A Management Unit with
an action plan, chaired by the future Ministry of Environment of the Nation, in
which will be represented all technical and statistical agencies of the federal,
provinces and the Autonomous City of Buenos
Aires, as well as universities and non-governmental organizations with capacity
in the art.

1.2 Actively participate in the international environmental agenda from a solid regional integration, also promoting South-South cooperation
Creating a display unit and
Integrated by the Ministries of participation
Foreign and future Minnisterio
Environment of the Nation, with the mission to produce "Position Papers" and
manage national participation in the various forums in which develops the agenda
International environmental.

II) STRENGTHENING
INSTITUTIONAL ENVIRONMENT

1 .3.- develop a national policy on climate change
-Development Of a national policy that contains mitigation and adaptation
to this phenomenon, with the participation of
all stakeholders and strategically arranged.

2.2 Strengthening institutions and COFEMA
environmental interprovincial
-Strengthened All mechanisms
coordinating federal, regional, and inter consultation in relation to the
environment, beginning with the Federal Environment Council (COFEMA).

1.4.- Develop a national policy on biodiversity, in defense of our natural heritage
-Development Of a management plan for

2.3 Making the National Environmental Strategic Plan with a projection to fifteen years
-Production Of an environmental Strategic Plan

2.1 Creating the Ministry of Environment
the nation
Creation of the Ministry of Environment
Nation, which focus all agencies and organizations involved the
management and control of the environment
They are now scattered in the organization of the National State.

165

National Participatory such, with objectives, targets, actions and monitoring indicators
ready with a range of fifteen.
Dictate 2.4 Regulatory Environment Digest
-The Future National Environmental Ministry
as a first step will review existing environmental legislation to order and systematize
developing an environmental legal framework Digest
Participatory environmental.
-Reglamentación Budget rules
minimum protection in force, an outstanding debt for a decade. 22
-Implementation Of a system of indicators
Application and Regulatory Compliance
Environmental to provide reliable information,
constant and officially recognized in order to measure the state of the environment and the influence of different policies and activities
East.
2.5.- Creation of environmental charters
Creation of specialized courts in this
matter.
2.6.- Strengthening the federal environmental control and monitoring

III) OF SUSTAINABILITY
DEVELOPING
3.1 Undertake environmental land management
-Debate on the subject in the field of COFEMA and with the participation of academics,
NGOs and sectors to develop a project
law of minimum protection
22 Environment and Natural Resources Foundation: "Annual Environmental Report 2011". In: http://www.farn.org.ar/informe2011.pdf

166

to initiate environmental management of
territory.
3.2 To diversify the national energy matrix
with clean and renewable energy
-Review The Strategic Energy Plan year
2030 in a participatory manner with all sectors of society implication in the subject.
Diversification national energy matrix
with clean and renewable energy
3.3 Protect and defend our water resources
-Valuation Water as a strategic natural resource in the XXI century.
-protection Of watersheds in a frame
comprehensive and necessary consideration from the
prevention and remediation.
3.4.- Make our country the most sustainable
of the world
-Plan Point to what agribusiness model
It wants to suck in the country, which promotes the transformation of our agricultural practices
so that, without losing efficiency levels and
performance, our field becomes the
more sustainable world.
-Conformación, Under the future Environment Ministry's Office, a forum
with actors in the field and the environment,
order to set priorities and coordinate actions.
3.5.- Making a National Plan of Forestry and Native Forest Protection
, Rightly allocation and distribution of funds
support the implementation of the Law on Minimum number 26,331.
-Monitoring The implementation of the Act
Minimum Standards address the problem
clearing incorporating satellite technology and geographic information systems,
which they are already used in some provinces,
such as St. Louis and elsewhere

Latin America. 2. 3
National Afforestation -Plan to have as
plant primary goal during the first year of
Government 1,200,000,000 trees, equivalent to double the national area afforested
one year.
3.6.- incorporate the environmental dimension to mining
-Someter To public scrutiny the "mega-mining" in order
protect natural resources essential to life
and livelihoods of people, such as water.
-Review The mining legislation of our country
today responds to a model that prioritizes exploitation over the sustainability of development and
which provides neither support schemes analysis
and discussion of the activity itself.
3.7.- Sustainable use of our resources
Fishery
Establishment of public fisheries policies,
accompanied by the industry itself, incorporating planning and deployment
values ​​in the short, medium and long-term survival of the resource and transparency in the practices related thereto.
Manage 3.8.- comprehensively waste
-generation Of basic agreements on the COFEMA to
to achieve the sound management of waste.
-Put This environmental problem, with strong
health impact, priority environmental policies allocating funds to help
provincial governments, without discrimination,
eradicate open dumps.

23 The satellite tracking system of deforestation in the
Gran Chaco carried out by the Civil Association Para- Guayrá

3.9. Environmental Emergencies
-Defining Procedures that
possible to prevent, where possible, disasters or environmental emergencies, and if
permit an action to occur under protocols
Specific more effectively and efficiently.
Establishment of environmental monitoring systems and anthropic variables
whose behavior allows anticipating
unwanted events and act accordingly or from plans or protocols
performance.

HOW WILL WE DO IT?
AND DECISION
DRIVING
Drawing a clear and firm way from the presidency to the whole administration.

STATE POLICIES
Securing that road with the consensus and management tools necessary for its permanence and continuity.

EFFICIENT MANAGEMENT
Walk the road with enormous resources
the Federal Government, rearranged and operated with zeal, austerity and efficiency, without waste and corruption.
INFORMATION, EDUCATION AND PARTICIPATION
ENVIRONMENTAL
Hand knowledge, training,
interaction, building consensus

cool it is a clear example of this issue. For more information
on the project, technical reports and the position of the Civil Association Guayrá Paraguay. In: http://www.guyra.org.py/espanol/reportes-gran-chaco-americano.php

EQUITY, responsibility and solidarity
With social inclusion, respect for all life, present and future selves.
167

168

169

11th COMMISSION
Tourism, Culture and Sport
170

171

STRATEGIC LINE:
Federalization
TOURIST ACTIVITY
Fiscal federalism AND DEVELOPMENT
REGIONAL APPROACH TO RECOGNITION UNDER A local capacities,
BOTH AS INVESTMENT IN RESOURCES
HUMAN CAPITAL AS A WAY TO COUNTER AND REGIONAL IMBALANCES
PROVINCIAL.
Tourism is recognized as a great promoter
development and national economic growth,
regional, provincial and municipal levels in our country.
The lack of a genuine policy of development
FEDERAL tourism has led to the coexistence of different realities. in terms
regional, provincial and municipal preferably have driven those tourism projects, for their immediate benefits
investment recovery and strong growth
demand, have been considered successful. These
benefits have not been sufficient to improve
economic and social development of a region and its
environment.

TOURISM
PROJECT'S NAME:
AIR CONNECTIVITY
FEDERAL
GOAL:
Promote integration between tourism and the commercial air transport.
There is a need to subordinate strategy
aerocomercial to the needs of tourism.
Plan pose a serious international air transportation and related cabotage
172

tourism. Allowing, in the case of cabotage, better air connectivity, achieving a
Flight comprehensive coverage throughout the national territory. For it does not require a "flag line" deficit and corruption but
an intelligent policy of "open skies" that
allow private companies and / or state
they can freely provide services that support federal integration of our country.

ACTIONS:
Federal Development Plan of international commercial air transport and tourism linked to cabotage.
SCOPE:
24 provinces and tourist destinations.

AREA:
TOURISM AND TRANSPORT
PROJECT'S NAME:
FEDERALIZATION OFFER
TOURIST
GOAL:
Development of adequate tourism products
to the vocation of each destination. Diversify and enrich the tourist offer, with destinations, products and services of higher quality,
Modern and differentiated to increase
It stay and spending of tourists in our country.

ACTIONS:
Design of routes and tourist areas
REGIONAL.
Designing and conducting a full schedule of international events by region, to encourage tourist traffic. To position the Annual Calendar of events
will allow us to achieve two main results,
brand positioning and our
country and its regions, together with the des173

seasonality of tourist destinations.
Strong NATIONAL INVESTMENT IN TOURISM ROUTES (FEDERAL HIGHWAY PLAN OF TOURIST) AND SUPPORT SERVICES tourism.
Design of a real FEDERAL PLAN FOR TOURIST signage, in which involved
municipalities, provinces and the national government,
in order to include all the attractions
regional. The same will overcomes the existing placement only managed about
few posters, a high cost and with a distinctly centralist approach.

SCOPE:
Argentinos over 60
STRATEGIC LINE: PROMOTING TOURISM INVESTMENT

PROMOTE THE PUBLIC AND PRIVATE INVESTMENT
AND FACILITATE FINANCING SECTOR
TOURIST WITH incentive measures
FLOW RESOURCES FOR DEVELOPMENT
And encourage OF TOURIST DESTINATIONS
GROWTH AND PARTICIPATION
SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISES IN THE SECTOR.

SCOPE:
All provinces and tourist regions
country.

AREA:
TOURISM AND INFRASTRUCTURE
PROJECT'S NAME:
Senior Tourism
GOAL:
Develop a unique tourist product
for over 60 years in order to include all sectors in tourism, stimulating economic activity in this
industry in low season, facing
the serious problem of seasonality suffering tourism. Thus also
It contributes to the federalization of tourism,
new destinations and products.
The basis of the project is the implementation
a travel system, in groups during
partially subsidized medium and low seasons, addressed to the citizens of our
country after 60 years.

ACTIONS:
Senior Tourism Product Development
Strengthening the Promotion
174

The promotion of tourism in the country is a
priority sector development. The increase,
diversification, differentiation and regionalization of destinations, products and services demand strategic actions that affect mainly in stimulating projects, investment in
General and tourism funding in all
modalities.

PROJECT NAME: FUND
FEDERAL TOURISM
GOAL:
Create a plan for funding the sector.
Specific financial policies will be designed
for the sector to support the sustainable growth of tourism, with particular emphasis on the development of the regions, and the promotion of micro, small and medium enterprises.
To help create the conditions
allow timely, adequate and accessible financing that enables compliance
sectoral targets, it is necessary to obtain
long-term funding and appropriate costs. They
required to have a toolkit of financial, fiscal and legal that,
175

conjugated, support the development of new
projects and products demanded by the sector.

ACTIONS:
Creation of a National Investment Fund
Tourist

SCOPE:
All of our country tourism SMEs

AREA:
TOURISM AND INFRASTRUCTURE
PROJECT NAME: THE
CULTURAL IDENTITY AS
SOCIAL LAW IN A
MULTICULTURAL SOCIETY AND
Multitécnica
GOAL:
The Federal Government and the Provincial and
Municipal must ensure and promote our sovereign identity as a result of the
and joint meeting between our peoples and strong migration flows
(Respect for differences of gender, age,
ethnic, religious, language, skills, etc.),
from the concept of social inclusion.

GOAL:
FEDERAL build the country from budget equal to provincial autonomy. Encourage the development and integration of
overlapping activities, agreements, exchange and optimization of resources.
- Strengthen the Cultural Heritage of the Provinces by joint management with
Nation. Encourage conducting magnas
works that bring character to the located region. Create a computer bank of Intangible Cultural Heritage.
- Encourage the integration of intercultural
various ethnic groups of the country.
- Promote the exchange of cultural actors
between provinces and with other countries. Perform
Fairs, biennials and international meetings.
To integrate South America.
- Require the federal media dissemination.

AREA:
THE CULTURES
PROJECT'S NAME:
Recognize workers
Culture, and transforming power
Cultural Usina strengthen.

ACTIONS:

GOAL:

Create regional maps of cultural development
and within each of these "CULTURAL POINT" (such
as they do in Brazil) and joint activities
own unique identity.

Convene illustrious personalities from the world of culture in order to patriotically
collaborate with positive awareness campaigns.
- Create a national census of artists.
- A promotion law shall be concluded
cultural industries, eliminating the current elitism and centralism, stating that decisions about artistic excellence should
be taken by an objective jury selection. Strengthen the budget for its
more than 3,000 cultural organizations Community

AREA:
THE CULTURES
PROJECT NAME: Consolidate strengthen federalism
Nation.
176

nity self-managed (applying 0.1%) and
directly to the workers of culture
as the engine that drives public policy
progress, social justice, coexistence, labor and human rights.
- Strengthen the creative powerhouse, by embodiments, trainings, competitions, exchange,
publications, grants (similar to Program
Scholarships Siglo XXI implemented in San Luis, in
where cultural worker selected
It is paid at minimum wage) to return to the community.
- Encouraging cultural and artistic development from the earliest stages of education, the Ministry of Education providing adequate plans to encourage creative development and
art from the earliest ages.
- Cultural and artistic exchanges
among students in the country, America and the world.
- Revalue the equity value of the arterial

sanías, promote their education and give them presence in international fairs. (Europe longs
old craftsmen that industrialization has
left behind).

AREA:
THE CULTURES
PROJECT'S NAME:
TRANSVERSALITY to achieve
universal integration.
GOAL:
Agreements with the various governmental, social and business areas.
Create offices for cultural management and strategic planning in each area.
- EDUCATION: Reconstruction of Identity
National public and creators.
- Health and Social Development: Culture
177

as prevention and participation tool.
- Inclusion, work culture and human development: skills training,
production and means of expression.
- ECONOMY AND PROGRESS: Promoting artistic production. Training for regional and international marketing.
- SCIENCE / TECHNOLOGY AND COMMUNICATION:
Cultural unlimited access law. Democratize and federalize the information.
- Justice and security: crime prevention,
the recovery of dignity and reintegration
social through cultural activities.
- ECOLOGY AND FIELD: Form a network of
cultural activities and transforming expressions of conscience towards preserving the environment.
- NGOs, businesses, international: Stimulating the commitment and establish channels of joint participation with the state of the sectors
public, private and social processes with
cultural development of communities.

AREA:
THE CULTURES
PROJECT NAME: Claiming to ORGINARIOS PEOPLES and
their natural heirs
GOAL:
Recognize a new multinational state
pluralist society and
Democratic. By recovering traditional values ​​and
ancient worldview that respects more
30 First Nations, recognition
their wisdom, their culture, their language, their festivals,
178

their relationship with nature, respect and location untouchable sacred sites;
Recognition and enforcement of their rights.
- It is proposed declaring as official languages ​​of the MERCOSUR Spanish, Portuguese, Guarani and any other living language of the people
and native cultures. Official documents
They shall be written in those languages.

cation containing serious criteria and documented as components of supply and
preserve the authenticity and value of cultures
native.
- Review and update of legislation
the protection of archaeological heritage
artistic.

SCOPE:
Entire country

AREA:
THE CULTURES
PROJECT'S NAME:
TOURISM AND CULTURE
GOAL:
- Articulate heritage and tourism as an important cultural appreciation, increasing choice
choosing the largest source and destination
income for the communities involved.

ACTIONS:

AREA:
Tourism and cultural heritage
PROJECT'S NAME:
SOCCER FOR ALL - OVER ARGENTINE GOVERNMENT ADVERTISING
SPECTATORS.
"O" SPORT FOR ALL AND
WITH ALL - EDUCATION AND
ARGENTINE MORE HEALTH
ACTORS, AND EQUITY ASSETS.

DIAGNOSIS:
- FOOTBALL FOR ALL representing an expenditure of 700 million pesos
- COST OF ARGENTINE $ 17.50
- Oday IS A WAY OF ADVERTISING
OFFICIAL
- THE REAL SOCIAL INVESTMENT IN SPORT
HIGH PERFORMANCE IS 93 MILLION
It represents 13% of what is spent on
FOOTBALL FOR ALL
- THE CeNARD (CENARD) IS POOR AND LOW
- INSUFFICIENT IN GRANTS TO SUPPORT HIGH PERFORMANCE ATHLETES
- NO CENTERS IN HIGH PERFORMANCE
THE REST OF THE COUNTRY
- Little or no SUPPORT TO SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT OF SPORT IN THE PROVINCES.
- Little or no RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION OF THE NATION, THE
SECRETARY OF HEALTH AND SPORTS

- Implement interdisciplinary actions
(Economic, social, cultural, scientific, educational, etc.) with the participation of specialized agents in the field, to base their actions
on respect for diversity and underline the
importance of economic and
cultural communities and the
these rights on their knowledge and
knowledge.
- Transforming cultural potential
tourism products adapted to the reality of the new demand.
- Promote participation in the cultural field in the process of tourism planning,
through cultural managers, capable of
generate significant tourist flows, so that the resulting models planifi179

GOAL:
A- FOOTBALL FOR ALL MARKETING
AND RESOURCES NEEDED TO GENERATE
INVESTING IN ALL NATIONAL SPORT
(Policies of mutual collaboration between the public and private sector)
B- SET DEVELOPMENT POLICIES
NATIONWIDE SPORTS SHORT, MEDIUM AND LONG TERM covering both
SOCIAL AND RECREATIONAL SPORT AS
HIGH PERFORMANCE.

PROPOSALS:
1- SPORT FOR PLANNING CYCLES
OLYMPIC (four years)
Olympic raising objectives eight years
Minimum notice (2 Olympic cycles)

with appropriate monitoring to talent
It will represent the country.
2- IMPLEMENTATION OF REGIONAL CENTERS OF HIGH PERFORMANCE SPORTS DISTRIBUTED NATIONWIDE AND ACQUISITION
Sporting talents.
In a joint effort between the Ministry of
National Sports Federations and National, broaden the base of recruitment and development of talented athletes through
creation of new Regional Centers Alto
Performance at strategic points
from the country. (Cordoba - Santa Fe - Buenos Aires North - South and Cuyo)
The current CENARD Infrastructure is not good, hotel is old and uncomfortable, the
playgrounds are in deficit and the poor
medical coverage.

3- COMPREHENSIVE SUPPORT TRUE AMATEUR ATHLETE OF HIGH PERFORMANCE
The State must assure the high performance athlete conditions
similar training and preparation
to receiving their peers in the rest of
world. Today in our country an athlete
You receive a grant in the amount of approximately $ 3,000.
4- assist national federations to IMPLEMENT A
TRAINING PROGRAM AND INTERNATIONAL COMPETITIONS WITHIN
Stages of preparation.
The SDN must agree with each of the National Federations work Plan
which are defined: training and competition schedules, human resources
economic and necessary use of sports facilities, hotels and services
CENARD doctors in order to optimize
180

the preparation of national teams
5- LAWS AND NATIONAL PLANS SUPPORT
CLUBS
They should promote laws that are exempt from taxes, services and possibility
receive financial contributions from private companies.
6 SPORT FOR CHILDREN AND INCLUSION
YOUTH THROUGH AND MUNICIPAL SCHOOL PROGRAMS IN THE BARRIOS.-
SPORT AS A RIGHT OF CHILDREN AND
ARGENTINA YOUTH.
Set true sports inclusion programs to enable all children and youth in the country and free access
Free to sports, especially
in areas of high social vulnerability.
7- programs to combat inactivity.
181

According to the WHO 60% of the world population
It is sedentary with what there is increased
risk of chronic diseases
noncommunicable diseases (cardiovascular, obesity,
diabetes, colon and breast cancer, depression
and anxiety). What is proposed is to establish
advertising campaigns and targeted activities
especially the adult population which can incorporate healthy habits.
8- NATIONAL TRAINING PROGRAMMES AND INFORMATION TO managers, coaches and referees.
Implement programs to inform, disseminate and train all levels that

linked to the national sport, be they
or belonging to social sport high performance.
It is also intended to inform the population on national sports policies
they are within reach and places
You can receive information within their jurisdiction.

MINISTRY OF SPORTS NATION
LIST OF SPECIFIC ACTIVITIES

CODE

TITLE

EXECUTING UNIT

01

C. Regional Support of National Technical

CREDIT
3430179

Development and other institutions Sport

ECONOMIC DATA:

Sports tions

ECONOMIC DATA FOR ALL FOOTBALL
SPORT AND SECRETARIAT OF THE NATION
FOOTBALL FOR ALL
CREDITS FOR SUBDIVISION - HOME GAME
(In pesos)

Technical Support National Economic and Technical

07

3199100

High co athletes Sport
Performance
Sports Promotion National Technical

08

44142500

High Performance - Sport
Ce.N.A.R.D.
So- National Sports Development De- address

CREDITS FOR SUBDIVISION - Main Program (in pesos)
CLAUSE - HOME GAME

16

cial and Recreation

17

National competition promoting the De-

AMOUNT

cia Social and Sports
TOTAL

TOTAL

690,000,000

Personal expenses

551155

Permanent staff

551155

No Personal Services

689448845

Maintenance, Repair & Cleaning

1,300,000

Professional and Technical Services

86448845

Commercial and Financial Services

700,000

Tickets and Per Diem

1,000,000

Taxes, duties, fees and Trials

600,000,000

182

30855261

Social porte
9492485

Social porte
91119525

AREA:
sport

183

184

185

12th COMMISSION
Progress (Digital World) and
Modern Technologies
186

187

Argentina Digital

Production

Conclusions of the Congress "A social model
digital agenda. "

10. Field and Environment
11. Industry

The digital agenda will be developed on six axes
theme, namely:
- Infrastructure
- Legal framework
- Government
- Technology
- Productive
- Education

Digital inclusion for the Future Internet
Promote a country with high internet access
speed so that each Argentinean can access the content and services they want,
not generating excluded, supporting the knowledge economy by creating new jobs
working and preparing for new
applications and services that will be generated with
the future internet.

OBJECTIVES OF THE AGENDA
DIGITAL
- Export more products containing
technological,
- Have a denser network users
Internet,
- Having more professionals in the fields of
science and engineering,
- And above all, have a broader base
workers with complete secondary education and better basic skills in mathematics, reading and writing and ICT.

Topics of the digital agenda
1. Digital Inclusion in the Internet of the future
2. Education
3. Security
4. Legal Framework
5. Identity
6. Transport
7. Justice
8. Health
9. Open Government

188

- Digitally Include all Argentines,
will be a state policy, propose its
incorporation as a human right, in the
Constitution.
- Facilitate access to technological devices.
- Ensure connectivity throughout the country
Argentinean.
- Digital literacy for the entire population
in coordination with provincial and municipal governments.
- Allocate resources to research and
development of digital technologies.
- To ensure the neutrality of the network throughout the
territory.

EDUCATION
Educate and train brightest minds,
to address the development, innovation
It is needed and will be needed in the near future. More language, more math, more science, more art, more innovation.
- Ensure connectivity of all schools in the country and all its students.
- Ensure use of ICT from the periphery
the center, ie from more places

deficiencies in performance or educational quality to places with better levels
or resources.
- Ensure production budget
digital educational resources for all
levels and modalities.
- Promotion through the game and art
improvement of the formal logical reasoning and the development of creativity using ICT.
- Training teachers with a strong profile
Science, Mathematics, Language and Technology.
- Improve the quality of education to all
available resources, particularly in the
reading, math and science.
- Measure and publish international standards of quality levels achieved as
continuous improvement mechanism.

stage.
- Regulate the effective protection of privacy and personal data, access to
public information, cybercrime,
tools such as digital signatures and
electronic document, digital consumer protection, electronic commerce,
e-government, virtual contracts,
intellectual property rights on the Internet, broadcast
virtual currency and new criminal offenses
own virtual world among others.

IDENTITY
- Giving every Argentine digital identity.
- Generate an electronic government, which facilitates interaction with citizens, 24
hours, 7 days a week.

SECURITY

TRANSPORTATION

Using technology to support security policies that generate
higher levels of prevention, efficiency and
effectiveness of public safety.
Technologies available in open standard formats, to achieve interoperability of all security systems, provincial and national.
Facilitate the participation of the inhabitants
through tools of friendly access,
to promote deterrence and prevention
crime.

Implement an Integrated Transport System
Smart (SITI) to improve the quality, safety and efficiency of land transport, air
and maritime passenger and promoting regional integration with neighboring countries and the world goods.

LEGAL FRAMEWORK
Build on the Legal Framework various aspects of the Information Society. Current legislation does not yet realize the digital revolution.
- Adapt the rules to the realities of the inclusion of new technologies in this new

- Using new technologies to manage
and audit the rational, federal and transparent use
public passenger transport to the benefit of users.
- Scan the information of regional economies and the logistics of transporting loads
that for the planning and implementation of
an integrated system of transport networks
air, water and land cargo.
- Facilitate distribution nodes air passenger favoring political integration
and cost the country and the Mercosur, using
the necessary technological tools in the
airspace control.
189

JUSTICE
Create a computerized judicial system that develops the digital judicial file, supporting digital signature with standards that allow
the interconnection of the different judicial systems:
- Reduce the judicial delay
- Ensure transparency of the judicial management
- Facilitate access to the case file by
of the population in a simple and friendly way.
- Allow the process reengineering and
certification of quality standards guaranteeing due process based on the most
modern management techniques.

BLESS YOU
- Ensure that each have its Argentine
digital medical records, which allows your health care sustainably meeting
ethical standards, achieving thus a
better life quality.
• Promote the use of information technology and communication for people
vulnerable, who have chronic illnesses or disabilities, have a
more independent and dignified life incorporating the
telemedicine as an instrument of care.
• effectuate through the timely provision,
access everywhere, real-time data and medical records, helping to improve
efficiency of the health system as a whole.

OPEN GOVERNMENT
- Set to Open Government and politics
State to have higher levels of efficiency and effectiveness in public management,
Arrange the data in standard formats for
190

increasing transparency and promoting
citizen participation and collaboration.

PRODUCTION
FIELD AND ENVIRONMENT
- Allocate financial resources for the transfer of technology to all the productive sectors, for greater efficiency
of natural resources with a view to care
effective environmental, trying to mitigate and adapt to the effects of warming
global.

TECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY
- Promote the growth of companies
They are working in the technology sector to generate
more skilled employment and computer services
the other sectors of the economy.
- Create a framework for the development of a knowledge-based economy by building links between
companies, universities and government.
- Encourage the use of new technologies
all levels of the various productive sectors.

SYNTHESIS

free internet all Argentines, providing the necessary conditions for this:
devices, Internet connectivity and
training in their use.
- Establish a regulatory framework for the regulation of rights arising,
providing legal hierarchy, providing legal certainty and legality.
- Allocate the necessary budgetary resources to ensure the right to inclusion
digital.
- Signing agreements with the provincial governments, the corporate sector and NGOs to ensure such access.
Maximize the economic and social potential
from Internet
- Implement a national plan of acquisition of digital devices (notebook,
computers, tablets, smart phones, peripherals connectivity) to access the Internet.
- Create a body to regulate, manage
and monitor the plan.
- Provide tax credits to facilitate the acquisition.
- Promote financing plans
the banking sector.
- To promote free trade in devices
digital.

Digital Inclusion in the Internet of the Future

CONCLUSIONS
Internet Law:
- The digital inclusion of all Argentines,
will be a state policy, propose its
incorporation as a human right, in the
Constitution.
- Declare Digital Inclusion, as new
fundamental human rights of fourth generation, that proclaimed the right of access

Providing free Internet and free Argentines - accessibility for all
- Implement a national plan that ensures
connectivity throughout the country.
Encourage investment for construction
new high-speed networks and open.
- Provide access to Internet in all public agencies at the federal level.
- Provide for each infrastructure project,
made by the Federal Government installation
of the pipelines necessary for future TEN

Dido Internet network. Inviting the provinces to adhere.

TRAINING
- To generate awareness level
national, about the importance of incorporating information and communications technology in daily life.
- Run a coordinated nation-provincial plan that will foster literacy
digital in Argentina, implemented to
through digital inclusion centers in each
people of every province and from the periphery
the center.
- We will use all features
social internet for further use
technologies in the daily life of the Argentines.

FUTURE INTERNET
- We will promote knowledge-based economy.
- State will act as a promoter of digital initiatives.
- We will coordinate and orientate resources
economic and human that owns the country,
the best research development and innovation.
- Will generate an interaction between the state,
companies, universities and NGOs, to develop new applications and services.
- We will promote interoperability between all the systems of national and provincial government to leverage social and economic benefits that will bring the Internet
future.
- Will establish a law, openness
and neutral Internet, in order to protect
Argentine rights in access and distribution of information.
191

EDUCATION:
Synthesis
- Training teachers with a strong profile in Science, Mathematics, Language and Technology.
- Improve the quality of education to all
resources available, especially in reading, mathematics and science. Measure with international quality standards levels
achieved.
- Ensure social, employment, digital inclusion and
education of the population.

Conclusions
- Ensure connectivity of all schools in the country and all its students.
- Ensure use of ICT from the periphery
the center, ie from more places
deficiencies in performance or educational quality to places with better levels or
means.
- Making the most of the population
completed his primary and secondary education
through the use of ICTs.
- Improving competences / capabilities
teachers in the teaching of language, mathematics, science and technology using ICTs.
- Ensure production budget
digital educational resources for all levels and modalities.
- Promoting through play and art improving formal logical reasoning and
development of creativity using ICT.

logical to support security policies,
generate higher levels of efficiency and effectiveness
public protection. This model encourages
the participation of citizens in the use of tools put in place to
achieve deterrence and prevention of crimes.

Conclusions
- Creating a legal framework at the federal level,
which determine the minimum standards that allow the use of technology in
order to plan and develop actions
preventive front and crime.
- Provide technological infrastructure
appropriate to allow, to the security forces, improve prevention and control
against crime guaranteeing the full exercise of the rights, freedoms and guarantees
constitutional for all Argentines,
promoting citizen participation in
the control of security policies.
- Create a Crime Map tools
allowing technological upgrading,
monitoring, analysis, evaluation and planning of geographical behavior
ensuring criminal activity levels
differentiated access to information, including a level of public internet access.

Synthesis

- Facilitating citizens Tools
allow the complaint through public media (on line) assuring the identity of
claimant through the use of Digital Signature
and allowing the same track.

A governance model is proposed that
from the use of technological tools

- Provide the state of technological tools that enable the prevention or detection

SECURITY:

192

Early tion of disasters, accidents and
contingencies consideration.
- Generate the technological tools
and appropriate standards, interconnection
of databases that allow access
by the various security forces,
at the federal level, to misdemeanors and criminal data of all the inhabitants of the
Nation.

LEGAL FRAMEWORK
Synthesis
We understand that the development of new
information technology and communication is a drive shaft Social Progress, we plan to engage as Policy
State National Priority Digital Agenda whose legal framework is the result of a thorough review and analysis of legislation
existing, creating a Federal and National Digest that ensures:
- Digital Inclusion of all people:
Human Right recognized as free access to Internet.
- Reducing the digital divide existing
not only among the inhabitants of Argentina
but also between different provinces.
- The development of actions to promote
reducing social inequalities, and
improve the quality of life of people.
- Quality education for all, in order to increase human capacity
in all aspects of their personal development.
- The quality of management in government and public services.
- Increasing opportunities for participation of people in political life,
economic and social.

- The effective protection of privacy and
personal data.
There is, therefore, underestimate the importance that new communication technologies, Internet crystallized, have for the
future of the world as we know it.
The world we live in ten
years will reflect the use, extension and development of these technologies to do.
In that sense, it is worth stopping to observe the principles that served shaft
main digital inclusion in our province, in order to understand how to translate them
at national level in a coherent, integrated, legitimate and lawful in order to improve
and adapt within our bases
Constitution impone.Por us it is of great interest to clarify that
to dissipate any doubt, what it is and what is
exactly the Digital Agenda and how deep is the footprint in society,
to allow the tissue to be where everything is
I developed.

Conclusions
- The legal framework is essential to frame the various aspects of the Society
Information.
- The legislation still does not realize the
digital revolution in the making.
- Congress has the task ahead
adapt the rules to new problems
Information and communication.

Among other tasks, it should regulate
- The effective protection of privacy and
personal data,
- Access to public information,
- Computer Crimes,
- Tools such as digital signatures and do193

Advances in the knowledge society
require communications routes
ensure access for all well implemented policies to encourage coverage of geographic areas and social sectors
currently underserved.

E-ument,
- The defense of the digital consumer,
- E-commerce,
- Electronic government,
- Virtual Contracts,
- Intellectual rights on the Internet,
- Issuance of virtual currency; Y
- New types of criminal own virtual world.
Understanding the development of new
information technologies and communication is a drive shaft of progress
citizens, companies and self-
State, you need to be addressed as a political
STATE OF PRIORITY Digital agenda that has adequate legal framework
to achieve its aims,
which also ensures:
- The digital inclusion (social) of all habi194

tives
- The development of actions to promote
reducing social inequalities and improve the quality of life of people
- Quality education for all, providing equality of opportunity for all
- Increasing human capacity in all aspects of personnel development
- The efficient delivery of public services
- Increasing opportunities for participation of people in political, economic and social life
By regulating the necessary foundations on which should underlie such
: State, such as policy
- Infrastructure for connectivity and access
the information technology and communications

- Electronic Government. Which involves using
intelligent and efficient technologies
improve governance, the relationship between
State and society and strengthening
democratic institutions.
On this basis can be provided not only online services, with an administration that
always answers, simplifying the relationship with
the citizen, but also strategically using ICTs to facilitate participation
citizens, promote collaborative production of knowledge and nurture the public sphere
with relevant information. Digitization
becomes accessible online, all information
government, in pursuit of greater transparency. Finally, citizen participation
in public decisions, through the Internet,
You can designate a new stage of democracy.
- Education, the primary goal should be to extend education to reach all and
each of the inhabitants of Argentina.
All residents are entitled to a
educated to the development of
his own personality and the realization of a
socially useful life. Right to access higher levels of education, depending on
their skills and dedication, without discrimination
due to their economic capacity, level
office or place of residence.
Intellectual preparation will, increasingly,
the biggest differentiating factor of nations
and because of their development. Should be initiated
permanent qualitative process improvement

education, creating incentives for
multiply university and tertiary education
graduates, improve competitiveness
Argentine knowledge and increase their capacity to produce knowledge for political, economic and social development of human
Country.
- The increased use of technology
Information on production processes, seeking to strengthen the global technology services industry as a strategic core
for the country's development.
While it is true that the legislation regulating the Information Society in Argentina shows, first, that they have
begun to adopt some reforms, adjustments and the enactment of provisions aimed at
meet the demands technologies
information and communications rigged to
legal system (protection of personal data, digital signature, telecommunications, right
consumer, etc.), it is also true that
these reforms have been adopted so
fragmented, inorganic and lacking a systemic vision that gives a sufficient answer
or suitable.
That is why we believe that Agenda
Digital Argentina should revolve around:
- The Digital Agenda Argentina should be a
State Policy
- This public policy must promote the development of the Information Society and
Knowledge oriented to the comprehensive social, political, economic and human development
Argentina
- The Digital Agenda Argentina must possess
195

an institution that give guarantees for the implementation, monitoring and success
future initiatives and projects
It aims to promote.
It is recommended that the above strategic priorities are regarded as
essential contents of the Digital Agenda,
its plans and programs, with participation
of multiple areas and levels of government,
permanent and dynamic dialogue with the
all social actors. This Agenda
should be cross-disciplinary and multi-stakeholder,
as a result of dialogue between different
actors and social sectors, and the result of the panel discussion on the various aspects of the
Information Society
The Digital Agenda can be defined as
Way, or national plan for inclusion and
appropriation by the government, institutions and people of the benefits of
the knowledge society, by
intensive and strategic use of ICT. Is a
route, not a port. It is a process, a collaborative, open and permanent construction.
To walk this path, you must first display it, plan it, and then mark it and build it to do so
passable for all Argentines.

IDENTITY AND HEALTH:
Synthesis
Digital identity
- Giving every Argentine digital identity, in order to interact in different
areas.
- Generate an electronic government, to facilitate the interaction of citizens with
the same remotely, 24 hours,
196

7 days a week.

Digital Health
- Ensure that each Argentinean available
its digital clinical history, allowing its
health care sustainably fulfilling ethical standards, achieving
and a better quality of life.
- Promote the use of information technology and communication in order to bring a
more independent and dignified life for people
vulnerable, who have chronic illnesses or disabilities, incorporating
telemedicine as an instrument of care.
- Create mechanisms for analysis
the information obtained allow making
preventively decisions immediately and
correct.
- Effectuate through the timely provision,
access everywhere in real time
data and medical records, helping
improve the efficiency of the health system
whole.

Conclusions Identity
Argentine generate for each digital identity, digital signature, to perform
Internet transactions both for the sector
public and private, that is belonging to
digital world.
- SCHEDULE ELECTRONIC IDENTITY: Allows, in addition to physical identification
person, digital identification and you're your
be able to digitally sign any type
document.
- Digital identity: a person Dota
features to prove their identity when interacting for example through
from Internet.

- DIGITAL SIGNATURE: Technological tool
which ensures the authorship and integrity
of digital documents, enabling
they enjoy a feature that was only proper to paper documents.
- A digital signature is a data set
associated with a digital message which allows
ensure the identity of the signer and the integrity of the message, which document
digitally signed one has equal value
signed handwritten way.

TRANSPORT:

Conclusions Health

Synthesis

Every Argentine should have your health records
Digital, enabling it to your health care
sustainably, generating conditions
for a better quality of life.
ICT should allow a life more
independent and dignified people fragile, that
with chronic diseases or disabilities.

We propose the implementation of a system
Integrated Intelligent Transportation - SITI - that
territorially includes all inhabitants of
Argentina, from the periphery to the
center, improving the quality, safety and efficiency of land, air and maritime transport
passengers and goods, promoting regional integration with neighboring countries and the world.

- Electronic Medical Records: document
chronological binding in stating all
dweller action taken by health professionals and health auxiliaries authorized, processed and systematized using
computing means, the same centric
patient.
- UNIFICATION / single database: repository containing all Stories
Digital clinics that will be available
for consultation by electronic networks
Information for public use.
- FAMILIOGRAMA: Transversal to all activities, enabling trace in the field of
Health, family tree, both Ascending
as a descendant, different diseases
inherited.
- CONFIDENTIALITY: treat the data contained in the DIGITAL MEDICAL HISTORY

Conclusions

absolute reserve, unless authorized by the inhabitant himself.
- Comprehensiveness: included in the DIGITAL MEDICAL HISTORY all procedures are
diagnostic or therapeutic, indicating that
the patient, the evolution of the case and any other
or graphic reference data designed to show
the real situation of the same images such as studies.

- Generate policies, including new technologies, to manage and audit the rational,
federal and transparent public transportation
User profit.
- Encourage passenger distribution nodes,
-aérea integrate different platforms,
railway or vial- that favor integration
political and economic of the country and Mercosur.
- Rescuing the social, political and economic role
first grade possessing transport in the
development, promotion of regional economies
and smaller towns.

The SITI
An Integrated Intelligent Transportation System,
considers the human resource and transport
197

as a whole, with centralized information,
uniting the common interests of the courts, generating the information from the vehicle that benefits the quality of life of
the citizens.
The integration of information transport, is aimed primarily at work in the
fleet management and resource
Human; joining this platform,
public mobile transport units
cargo or passengers.
The intelligence of the system takes advantage of Internet connectivity to communicate in real time spatial position
of vehicle units, generating a
interdependent relationship with business, the enforcement authority and users
service.
With an interconnected reality, vehicles occupy a common space environment,
they can interact with web applications
available for public use, allowing
the different services interact with each other,
fleets of vehicles forming interdisciplinary and directed to a purpose
particular.
For better development of SITI, the carmakers could integrate tracking devices to -that units
no significant impact on the cost-and
Telecommunications companies should
generate special transmission plans
data to provide greater coverage of real-time information.
State policies on development
transportation should be addressed to the care of the environment.
The arrangement of the different spheres of
-pasajeros ground transportation and Expenses must protect individual rights that every citizen has the use of his own car.
198

Public Passenger Transport
State policies related
Public passenger transport must be addressed to bring who
is more isolated to the city center
closest strategic. Territorially include all inhabitants of the Republic
Argentina, from the periphery to the center
That should be the spirit of state policies.
Since the economic crisis of 2002
and in order to ensure continuity
system the state began to subsidize
companies of public passenger transport. The sector policy was not disappearing as the effects waned
of the crisis, on the contrary, in 2010
the national state subsidy system
1,000 million.
80% of existing subsidies that are addressed in the public passenger transport favor the Metropolitan Buenos
Aires - AMBA. It is also where the AMBA
There is the country's cheapest ticket, the great
State cash injection rate achieved
lower in the most important electoral region.
Today subsidies are allocated on the
criterion of the number of employees, kilometers traveled, passengers carried and
units affected. The bigger they are
the higher numbers is the subsidy.
The subsidy must be designed to include
priority to those living in the most isolated places, to bring -for ie- the
inhabiting Dunes Tatón with Catamarca or who reside in the Colte with
Salta - and to include those who are
in less profitable brokers.
Subsidies as state policy should
be reformulated. The function private companies

They tioned for almost eighty years without contributions from the state and the current directionality
benefits companies to the detriment of
user.
With the vehicle tracking technology is identified to each mobile allowing
real-time monitoring; can then diagnose and plan development
strategies and act accordingly at all
the country. The information provided by
ICTs allow the development of a SITI that
operated by bus or supply lines and central corridors.
The use of ICT allows the efficient management
transparent and transportation subsidies.
Technological tools with the enforcement authority may establish with precision the time of allocation of subsidies the kilometers traveled within the corridor,
the actual service, the amount of
fuel consumed and passengers, among other variables.

micro load.
By fostering the development of railways using alternative deepwater ports to the City of
Buenos Aires.
The enhancement of the rail system shall provide for the unification of the trails
existing, past the overlap
Current systems, thereby facilitating
the interconnection charge on all railway lines that cross the country.
Through the use of ICTs can monitor real-time information in situ
loads, providing traceability from
their place of origin to destination, protecting the legal certainty of the producer or
investor track your merchandise.
The SITI should contemplate a strategic plan of infrastructure development to take place providing logistics integration
country for the remainder of the XXI Century.

Air transport
Freight Transportation
The SITI should consider the combination of rail transportation networks, river
and land cargo and goods for the purpose of more efficient service provision.
From the unification of information
related to regional economies and
of freight transport logistics in
a database, you can set the
development, planning and implementation of the
channeling of waterways, renewal
and comprehensive extension of the rail network
existing and layout of a system
automotive cargo transportation to complement those mentioned above.
By developing cargo transshipment centers it will encourage the operation in urban centers from the macro

Encourage passenger distribution nodes
which promotes political and economic integration of the country and Mercosur.
Development of a commercial aviation policy
line flag that allows the integration of regional economies with a
better exploitation of tourist destinations
federal and territorial integration system
cabotage.
Generate policies designed to decongestion and decentralization of the system
by developing network nodes operating domestic flights in major
regions.
Encourage the development of private operators
by granting new corridors
air.
Use of technological tools
199

needed in the control of airspace
by the National Administration of Civil Airports and in safeguarding security
internal.

JUSTICE:
Synthesis
Objectives of the Administration of Justice:
Transparency, accessibility, speed.
Tools to achieve
- Record digital (digital signature)
- Legal Framework chord
- New Judicial Organization
- Interprovincial Interaction
- Training of actors in the system

Conclusions
Management Objectives
Justice:
- Transparency
- Accessibility
- Celerity
To transparent the action of justice, it should be included in policy
OPEN DATA, recognizing the need to
increase publishing data indicating productivity from the sector
judiciary, free-form, open, standard and
accessible, and maximize reuse.
Furthermore we should encourage the development
interactive applications that allow
interaction with a simple tool and
intuitive, giving the citizen of multiple
channels to customize their queries. Caring protect personal data.
For accessibility to the action of justice it is necessary to think the record digi200

so I worked on a web platform.
Video conferencing systems to interact from different geographical locations; by
eg communication between internal
prison officers and judges
cause.
For promptness in the administration of
justice is of fundamental importance
Digital File count with a frame
Legal chord simplify processes and
recognize the full validity of digital documents; together with restructuring
total judicial system.
We propose as a solution, considering
statistics show that it is humanly impossible for one person to sentence records in the same amount
entering; as the bottleneck is the
judge, judicial organization rethink
which, instead of increasing the number of judges judged more are added within the
Current structure of each court.
This would imply solving the central problem,
that is to have more decisions in less time and save the cost of generating further court premises.

electronically.
8. Scan the police summary. National communications system for
Provincial and between them and the Provincial Judicial Police Powers. So that the
Judge charged with receiving the summary
in digital format and can be incorporated directly with all its contents in the
Electronic court documents.

COOPERATION
INTERPROVINCIAL
9. Standardization of processes, standardizing data and formats.
10. Law Review adapting to 22,172
digital file.
11. National database of criminal records with biometric identification
and DNA register, accessible to all
Judiciaries. This technology, coupled with
installation of security cameras
via public, would allow the immediate identification of the offender when taken
by a camera, and elsewhere-would allow better cooperation between the provinces in the prosecution of crime.

DIGITAL RECORD:
1. Actions digitally signed.
2. Test in digital format (documentary and
audiovisual).
3. Provide rooms with oral trials
scanning equipment electronic notification audiencias.4.- website removed the ballot.
5. Access to digital records with different
permits, according to the roles.
6. Remote Entry written digitally signed by the parties involved.
7. Intercommunication with the various government agencies and private entities,

TRAINING FOR ACTORS
OF THE SYSTEM:
12. It should be emphasized the importance
training, but that training in
the use of a computer system, think training for change. The emergence of Information in Justice implies
a very strong paradigm shift obliges
to rethink the organization, distribution
tasks, the assumption of new responsibilities, this means a new concept
leadership that not all the current players
the judicial system or have accepted.
GOVERNMENT:
Synthesis
In the world growing tendency to publish, in
Internet, data from public administration, so that citizens have
information freely.
It is an important step to bring truth
governance. But you must add the
possibility for citizens to interact
with public bodies, in real time,
to participate and collaborate with management
government.
It is an opening that will strengthen
our democracy and promote efficiency and
government effectiveness.
We are talking about an on-line government,
constant interaction with their constituents: a new concept of democracy,
which it is possible thanks to new technologies.
- In terms of transparency, implement a platform for "Surrender
On-line accounts "allow entities
Control, as the Court of Auditors audit
organisms at any time, as
remote.
The reports may be published and would not be
doubts about the management of public funds.
Because they would be in sight of all: just a
click.
Furthermore, such a system would allow
constant dialogue between State agencies, which provide greater efficiency in their
interaction, saving time and money: more benefit to society.
-In The same level, the implementation of
a 'Argentino Portal "for all kinds of
procedures, virtually, expedite the adminis201

Ticket tration avoiding crowded tables
citizens losing productive time.
It also would indelible record
management, to the relief of the citizen, and
for control of public tasks.
On a platform like the Argentine Portal
it is possible to incorporate private institutions
for interaction. And you can implement
all levels of government: national, provincial and municipal.
Of course, these measures should be accompanied with a free Internet and free
throughout the country and with the digitization of public offices.
It also implies the implementation of the electronic record and the use of digital signature
guarantees the authenticity of documents
virtual.
All measurements of a digital agenda in full
March; a scenario very different from today's Argentina. But in San Luis already did; the
we specify, it is possible.
- With regard to participatory government, it is necessary to emphasize that the interaction
fluid greatly improves the quality of
the decisions.

- New technologies also allow
a collaborative government. That is, the opening
road for concrete collaboration of the inhabitants of the country in the government's actions.
In this sense, citizens can actively collaborate to address an issue of
great concern in the country: insecurity.
Through a digital tool, citizens could report in real time, which
happens on the streets of their neighborhood and work
with the police to make more effective policing across the country.
At the border level, it would also be of great
utility so that residents can warn
the Gendarmerie on criminal suspects and movements in the vast and unprotected
national border.
Thus, one can prepare a map
Crime and define national policies
more effective for each security.
Of course, in San Luis this already
We do. And we have several initiatives in full
underway, related to the transparent, participatory and collaborative government.
Only the political decision to do it is needed. And we already proved that it can.

Conclusions
A substantial extent, in that sense, would be
preparation of a "participatory budget
On-line ".
In a virtual platform it can be reported
Argentines on every detail referred
the budget and, right there, you can enter
ideas, projects, opinions and express their needs.
The public budget is an instrument that
It serves to plan how they will use the resources of the State. What better than to listen to citizens to define the destination
of those resources.

202

In the world growing tendency to publish, in
Internet, data from public administration, so that citizens have
information freely.
It is an important step to bring truth
governance. But you must add the
possibility for citizens to interact
with public bodies, in real time,
to participate and collaborate with management
government. It is a cultural change
involving representatives and represented
for participatory democracy, in addition to representative.

This is a paradigm shift, an opening that will strengthen our democracy and
promote government efficiency and effectiveness. To achieve open government, San
Luis uses its technology infrastructure and
It presented as an example in this area. By
it is important to show what you do for
that citizens can use technology
in that sense and understand their benefits. The
idea is that government and citizens associate,
and technology presents an ideal tool
to achieve it.
This change means recovering confidence
citizens in the system and its transparency,
by the government it involves no fear
to show their actions. Another point to take into
account is to make all national, provincial and municipal management under ISO as
tool to organize work, control
efficiency and compliance.
The realization of a government arises
Online, constant interaction with their constituents: a new concept of democracy,
which it is possible thanks to new technologies,
and institutional quality
- In terms of open government, implement a platform for "Surrender
On-line Accounts "allow entities
control, such as the Comptroller General's Office audit bodies at any time remotely.
Published reports would not be doubts about the management of public funds.
Because they would be in sight of all: just a
click. In addition, such a system would allow a constant dialogue between agencies
State, which would provide greater transparency and efficiency in their interaction, saving time and money: more benefit to society.
Of course, these measures involve the application

tion of the electronic file and the use of
digital signature guarantees the authenticity of
virtual documents.
-In The same level, the implementation of
a 'Argentino Portal "for all kinds of
procedures, virtually, streamline administration avoiding crowded tables Ticket citizens losing productive time. Moreover, by using the signing
digital security would be given to citizens on
their sensitive both to enter and to receive data documentation.
It also would indelible record
management, to the relief of the citizen, and
for control of public tasks.
On a platform like the Argentine Portal
it is possible to incorporate private institutions
for interaction. And you can implement
all levels of government: national, provincial and municipal.
These initiatives must be accompanied by
digitizing public offices, and
a free and open connectivity throughout the country
for unrestricted access by citizens.
That is, a digital agenda in full swing;
a scenario very different from today's Argentina. But in San Luis already did; we specify what is possible.
- With regard to participatory government, it is necessary to emphasize that the interaction
fluid greatly improves the quality of
the decisions.
A substantial extent, in that sense, would be
preparation of a "participatory budget
On-line ".
In a virtual platform it can be reported
Argentines on every detail referred
the budget and, right there, you can enter
ideas, projects, opinions and express their needs.
203

The public budget is an instrument
serving to plan how they go
to use state resources. What better
to listen to the citizens to define the
target those resources. And besides, they
They can follow the process until its completion in accountability.
It could also develop a portal for
receptar opinions, complaints and suggestions for each ministry and agency of government, asserting a response time
and so, so that citizens trust
the system and culture of use is generated.
• New technologies also allow
a collaborative government. That is, the opening
of concrete avenues for cooperation of
inhabitants of the country in the government's actions.

In this sense, citizens can actively collaborate to address topic
of concern in the country such as insecurity, or collaborate with the State Services
social through NGOs.
With regard to safety, through a
digital tool could citizens
reporting, in real time, what happens in
the streets of his neighborhood and collaborate with police
to make more effective police action in
the whole country. This happens in San Luis through the platform neighbors on alert.
At the border level, it would also be of great
utility so that residents can warn
the Gendarmerie on criminal suspects and movements in the vast and unprotected
national border.

Thus, one can make a
Crime Map nationwide and define
more effective security policies for
each case.
Of course, in all this and San Luis
we do. And we have several initiatives,
full swing, related to the government
transparent, participatory and collaborative.
The key thing is to have connectivity
Internet. Only the political decision to do it is needed. And we already tested
it can.

Golf and Medio
Ambient:
Conclusions
Research and application of technologies for
a strategic policy planning
environmental, infrastructure and production activities.
Research on adaptation and mitigation to climate change
- Expanding the network of meteorological stations.
- To promote biotechnology development
of agricultural and energy activities.
- Generate maps availability, quality and
use of natural resources.
Transfer technologies in all sectors.
- To promote technologies that enable the generation of value added in primary production chain.

Digital information systems
- Create a digital library environment and field
- Spatial planning at regional and local level to determine where produce and
What type of production do.
- Make information accessible to all citizens and institutions.
204

Monitoring and control
- Network climatic variables and natural resources (satellites, network stations
meteorological sensors)
- Build a map of preventing environmental emergencies
- Monitor and epidemiological indicators
toxicological, allowing the association between certain environmental contaminants
and the effects they have on human health.
- Detect environmental assets and liabilities, forming a monitoring system

Traceability and efficient use of resources
- Monitor carbon footprint, allowing
implement systems of rewards and punishments,
as well as gain new markets for
products obtained with this traceability.
- To promote the production of food that make efficient use of natural resources.
- To evaluate and quantify the environmental services,
detecting possibilities of obtaining economic benefits for providing them.

energy
- Identify potential availability and use of renewable resources for
energy generation.
- Monitor energy consumption and distribution, in order to make them more efficient.
- Implement an intelligent transport system.
- Expanding the energy supply, using renewable energy.
- Incorporate energy distribution networks
intelligent, allowing diversification
205

in generation sources.
- Promote the micro renewable sources, allowing users to inject
surplus to the network.

INDUSTRY
TECHNOLOGY
Synthesis

Education and training
- Promote the incorporation of ICTs in the labor market.
-To Encourage schools digital techniques, directing the training according to the economic characteristics of each region.
- Generate digital training tools.

Governance
Establish a legal framework to encourage the development of ICT applied to this area.
Generate a system of indicators of implementation and compliance.
Incorporate the digital signature.
-To Promote the participation of citizens,
generating tools that guarantee
transparency and access to information.

206

Generate an appropriate framework for development
a knowledge-based economy,
by building links between
companies, universities and the government, through plans of hard and soft investment
Growth of companies
They have a high demand for services and / or
products they offered and can not find the
conditions conducive to face
same, increasing the amount of minds
IT formed through national plans
technical training at the secondary level of education; generating levels of learning
both at baseline and at the secondary level
that allow students to go becoming users of the technology creators
same, eg. through play experiences, enhancing the venture capital system
encouraging the contribution of venture capital

tax credits for angel investors and
improving the link between institutions
parties, generating concentration policies
Space industry in different regions
facilitate the capture of pecuniary external economies and technological external economies,
improving coordination of the labor market.
The decision of an SME is the result of many factors linked to traditional analysis
cost benefit of an investment decision.
When you are speaking of costs not only talks
direct monetary costs but also
the complexity of technology adoption and
benefits are not usually visible and depend
turn on the degree of digitization of consumers and providers in addition to the elements
internal company. As should deepen initiatives that facilitate individuals and companies access to ICT devices
Internet and are highly favorable, strong
emphasizing the concept of "mass" of
information and organizational technologies;
spreading ICT solutions and services available, and related training courses
with sectors and / or specific production and business entities using
implement access to soft loans for

through specific lines for the acquisition
ICT solutions from SMEs to rate
preferential.

Conclusions
i The creation of new jobs
1. Build a framework for the development of a knowledge-based economy by building links between
companies, universities and government.
2. Generate hard and soft plans investment
for growth companies
that they have a high demand for services
and / or products offered and can not find the
conditions conducive to face
same;
3. Generate spatial concentration policies
the sector in different regions to facilitate the capture of pecuniary external economies and technological external economies.
4. The Federal Government should act as a plaintiff sophisticated products and services sector.
5. Increase the number of trained minds
IT through national plans formations

207

bulking PC access and Wi-Fi similar
their structure that charged in St. Louis.
2. Strong emphasis on the concept of "massification" of organizational technologies; perform
campaigns and Solutions Overview
ICT ("awareness raising") services, broadcasting
solutions (software for administrative management, production, logistics, marketing, etc.) available ICT services and courses
related training sectors
activity and / or specific production, using

tion techniques in the average level of education.
Generate a system of savings stamps
as implemented in San Luis to encourage study technology careers.
6. To generate both learning
as the initial level in the medium level
allow students to go transforming
Users creators of technology
same, eg. through experiences
leisure. In this, the private sector is essential.
7. Improve the coordination of the labor market. Availability of information
manage system and know their abilities and potential at regional level. OPSSI regional and / or provincial in scope
the CFESSI.
8. To promote the venture capital system
encouraging the contribution of venture capital
with tax credits for angels inver208

union-business entities (associations,
Sectoral and regional chambers, etc.). In this
sense, we must build a similar massing model structure that applied for
use of ICT in San Luis.
3. Implement access to soft loans
through specific lines for the acquisition of ICT solutions by SMEs
a preferential rate. This is for the purchase of
Software and Computer Services (SSI).

sensors and improving the institutional framework of
link between the parties.

ii. The technology in the industry.
The decision of an SME is the result of
many factors linked to traditional
cost-benefit analysis of a decision
investment. When you are speaking of not only costs
It is speaking of direct monetary costs but
Also the complexity of technology adoption and benefits are often not visible
and depend in turn on the degree of digitization of consumers and suppliers addition
of the internal elements of the company. By
what:
1.Profundizar initiatives that facilitate the
individuals and companies access to ICT devices and the Internet are highly favorable.
In this sense, we must build a model
209

210

211

13th Commission
Working Culture (Social Agenda)
212

213

HUMAN RIGHT
FUNDAMENTAL
SOCIAL INCLUSION FOR ALL
The right to social inclusion is a
new fundamental human right bound
the common good or general welfare that justifies
the very existence of the state, and the right to
equality; It is inherent in the human person, so it is indivisible and inseparable
the same as his attribute, why
which public authorities should make every
its efforts to ensure containment,
equity, equality, development and progress,
any person who, regardless of age, sex,
religion, social, cultural or ethnic background,
It is in a situation of marginalization or
social exclusion.
It is a new human right that escapes
field of labor and administrative law. He
Man must be treated as human beings with dignity and needs binding ties
solidarity with others, so that
214

should seek redistribution mechanisms
and assistance to those who do not
access by itself and naturally indispensable to the development of his life and
integration into society.
A reality that hits us long to all Argentines unemployment. Reality that runs through the body
social of the country and which appears as the largest and
most painful consequences of the crisis
economic that have undermined many
values ​​of our society.

Unemployment and exclusion are not evils
you have to endure quietly and resignedly
it is possible to overcome and minimize the
consequences. You can think of a different country. You can dream and have expectations
A better future.
We speak of a country that answers
the challenges of the times, we dream of a
Country facts that occur daily con-

crete aimed at permanent progress.
We say yes to the good things
brings the Scientific Technological Revolution,
SI to advances and progress offers
a globalized world, holding tightly our right to say NO to the only thought and not exclusion.
The great challenge of humanity that is the ex-

Joblessness not only means exclusion
a large proportion of the population as
consumers and active participants in the process
economic unemployment but also involves the deterioration of the family, loss of self-esteem, moral decay and generation
own conditions for social breakdown.
Social work is the quintessential computer
and social inclusion is the most important and onerous challenge of modern society.
215

social exclusion, we know the answer, it is called Social Justice. And Social Justice
has a name, one name, Justice
It called Social Work.
In Argentina the social pact is broken when the exclusion of about 60% occurs
the population underemployed, unemployed, piqueteros, cartoneros, malnourished, when the violation of rights occurs to property that captivates a small group stays
with the money of the Argentine people.
Are all these violations of rights
Human, which exclude an entire population,
proof that has broken the social compact.
We have to find the way to give
Inclusion our people first they deserve by law and then the quality of life
that is the way of working for the future
our children as we did in San Luis. For
it started on a path. Than
need, what a country needs as
first to belong to our world?
216

What the first world countries have to
makes them be in that condition? Capital, money, have reservations, they have debts. It does not matter
a family if you can have savings
You can live better.
Belonging to the first world is access to
progress, access to new technologies.
So let's redirect programs
which they show us a path to progress. Other
requirement is that no exclusions, we are all included in society. This is
the strongest program we're going to start and
the focus of our policies include all
Argentines, who all feel we are
founding and building a house we
will shelter them all.
Finally the other pillar of this project
refound the Social Pact are human rights, social rights, freedoms and
citizens' rights, rights
women, denied and silenced in Argentina, children's rights fully.

The requirements of the new Social Pact are
legality, rationality, human rights, optimism, guarantees the progress,
equity and social inclusion.
The national budget has funds
necessary to address one of the fundamental problems that plague today our
country: unemployment and social exclusion. Two
generations of young people are excluded from society and the system without
working without study and co-opted by drug addiction and crime. Unemployment also
membership is not only young, but
entering different generations without
watch status. This is solved
a human rights program of social inclusion, and creating sources
genuine work which is essential for the
training.
Let's talk about the Social Inclusion, which is

something much bigger and includes three
realities, the problem will not work, which is a structural niche, because they have culturally and left; the issue of
the industrial era, the exploitation and the new
problem is that you no longer need.
We will create an inclusive program as
San Luis where we will be able to see and experience the
best times of Argentina for the worker, who were joined when Hipolito Yrigoyen immigrants, that huge army
of immigrants that was incorporated and started
to work in all sectors of the community in workshops, in the countryside, in small
and medium enterprises, industry specialists, artists, artisans. The second time
He saw the joy of the worker was at the time
glorious Lady Eva Peron that we can
view images of joy of the Argentine people working with everything that this means,

217

with all inclusive this has.
We will provide work for the unemployed, everyone.
A single mothers. Women heads of household. In women over 40. In women over 50. Women over
60 who never had a chance
working; To our brothers with disabilities, who want equality
opportunities, we have to give work.
In men older than 40 years when
lose their jobs feel shame. Come on
to respect the rights of the child and let them
provide jobs for the unemployed elderly parents
50. Our students to
They are working as they study all
countries of the world. We will provide work
all.
Every human being has the right to live,
maintained and developed through
effort that generates its own work.
In today's world, work in all its
However, it is the ancestral legacy that has
the human being to live and develop.
218

The current debate in the world, states that
it is possible to note that the current processes
social economic are giving rise to an increase and diversification of situations
vulnerability, which can translate into companies with a strong tendency to social and economic exclusion; ie the tendency
now it is towards the formation of societies
exclusive in that vulnerability is the rule
and not the exception, where young people the vast
Most find no place and where you look
to the future with fear, with insecurity and

with despair by the inevitable.
All this leads to consider a change,
a change in the currently prevailing models. In any case, any
alternative should be considered as arising
focus on Social Inclusion, part of the
part of a growing expansion of the citadel

Dania, particularly in the field of "social rights and democracy". Abound
recommendations to governments and legislators
in order to "devise mechanisms to
intensify the action of the parliamentary committees, particularly the budget
and finance issues linked to the re-

219

dignity.
To draw any strategy, it is essential to define a target. The object
Inclusion Plan is precisely include
all Argentines, avoiding any
unjust situation of social exclusion, but
avoiding simply give a subsidy, and
This does not meet the goal of
including: work is giving way
such that the work culture is encouraged, and
This is synonymous with dignity, confidence, ability to progress, independence and

poverty reduction, equity and inclusion
social ".
Social Inclusion Plan represents a
colossal response to symptoms of exclusion
that afflicted the San Luis society. In
This economic plan represents a formidable transferring income to the sectors

220

freedom.
"Keep an open social agenda will be the focus
of my administration. "
Dr. Alberto Rodriguez Saa

SOCIAL INCLUSION FOR ALL
GOALS
• We will create the Federal Plan for Social Inclusion
• We will recover the culture of work
• We will reduce levels of homelessness, poverty and unemployment.
• We will give access to decent housing
• We will train and will train workers to enter the labor market at a first

dispossessed of this society beef.
Income that is earned by working and trying
restore the dignity that each worker
unemployment starts pathetically
flagellar. Each worker from inclusion becomes a social subject, acquires a
existence in society that owes health
education owed, you should work and you should

221

mer job or a better job.
• Creating a program for youth
up to 35 years to be trained, learn a trade, complete their education, etc.,
order to enter the labor market.
It arises through the "Federal Plan for Social Inclusion" a new model of social justice

222

for the whole country, laying its foundation on the culture of work, being computer work
quintessential social inclusion and social challenge of modern society.
The Federal Plan for Social Inclusion is nothing
which the refounding of the social pact guaranteeing the human rights of men,

223

women and children; work for all unemployed, those men and women over forty, single mothers; former
inmates, for those who never could
access to work, the illiterate, for
people with disabilities, for
young, for all the Argentine people.

under be specific, in a particular site and
with a preset schedule to meet.

Federal Plan for Social Inclusion

Duration Plan
The new Plan will end when the last of the
workers go to a job that will ensure their social inclusion.

Benefits excluded
The existence of a paid job: the work

Transparency and absolute absence of intermediaries
It will not require someone to mediate
the worker access to all the benefits
the Plan provides.

agreement linking the State with the beneficiary based on the need to address
exceptional emergency situation generated by exclusion that the labor market creates severely impacting and so
especially on single mothers, female heads

Entered control
Checks are made to ensure that only
who affectionately access the Plan are in a situation of social exclusion.
The relationship between the State and beneficiaries
Social Inclusion Plan is not labor or administrative nature not framing in
none of the provisions of the order
Traditional positive law. It's about a
224

home, women over forty (40)
FIFTY (50) and sixty (60) years, all
people with disabilities, men
over forty (40) years, all young men and women over eighteen (18) years and all sectors of the population

225

the regulation and ownership of the domain
for the purpose of housing construction
social.
The homes will be built entirely
from foundation to roof placement and all subsequent terminations
materials and workmanship of workers
Federal Plan for Social Inclusion, considered as beneficiaries those in emergency housing with large family
more than four children.
Afforestation is another important pillar in the
implementation of the Federal Plan for Inclusion
Social, where workers perform tasks
enhancement of recovery and places
promoting public access tourism,
real estate investments, contributing to
enlightened care and environmental protection
atmosphere improving quality of life
citizens.
Another axis on which the Plan will focus
Federal Social Inclusion, is training
constant of workers in the workshops
ex officio, for it will dictate hairdressing courses

state of emergency social order
to enable them to achieve their reintegration into the
labor market and employment culture.
The objective of the Plan is to include all encouraging work culture, synonymous with
dignity, confidence, ability to progress,
independence and freedom.
The Workers' Compensation Plan
will be provided on rates naciona226

wanted, carpentry, sewing, knitting, electricity,
mechanics, waiters and bartenders, cosmetology,
among others. Also a program aimed at young people up to 35 years will be created for that
train, learn a trade, finished studies, etc., in order to get ready
for their first job or reintegrate
in the labor market.
The aim of the training will be provided
integration of workers into the world of
freelancing or companies
private sector. The aim is to promote
sustained economic growth and
social progress, offering equal opportunities to all people. To stimulate
productive employment opportunities, which
generate sufficient revenues to achieve
adequate standard of living, ensuring equal opportunities and wages and inciting
to creating jobs close
home, particularly for single mothers
or people with disabilities. Through job training many workers will be able to form their
mini enterprise and gradually managed
the long-awaited economic independence.

their poverty and indigence ensuring that
in Argentina there are no families with incomes
Below these levels, strengthening all
citizens a more prosperous future.
Workers have the right to access
to decent housing, so I will project
a law establishing building plans
and / or improvement of social housing, for
eradicate ranch homes, build new
social housing, conditioning and expand existing housing, implementing and promoting
227

As for people with disabilities include them through culture and
artistic expressions, should be adapted
the place and hours of work according to
each beneficiary's disability. They may
forming groups of diverse cultural expressions, such as corals and casts
theater. The training process will involve evaluation, specific guidance, job training and / or professional; its purpose is
the proper preparation of a person with
different capacities for insertion into
the world of work. Specialties
job training that you can access a person with disabilities
They must be determined not only given
psychophysical conditions thereof, but
also the real possibilities that would,
enter the competitive labor market or
protected.

MACRO LENS
Family Solidarity
"I have a dream, already turned in my
province but I want to meet all the
country. My dream is that kids eat with
their parents. Because if that happens is that the
parents have jobs and kids go to
school. "
Dr. Alberto Rodriguez Saa

GOALS
• System will create comprehensive protection of children and adolescents and adults
older, through the elevation to Congress
National project "Family Solidarity Act".
• Revalorizaremos the family as the natural scope of protection and containment
228

• We will make effective deinstitutionalization
people at risk or social vulnerability.
• We will protect tens of thousands of children in
the country hosted arbitrarily deprived of liberty institutions only for its condition
to be poor.
The interests of the child is to live, grow and
develop family. In the belief that the family is the cornerstone of the
society and natural environment for the growth
of its members, the State must ensure
the necessary assistance and protection for
they can fully assume its responsibilities within society.
The new system of family solidarity, allow all families or individuals willing to shelter in their homes to children, adolescents, people with skills
and seniors in different situations
vulnerability, social or issues
family, provide care, love, sufficient and necessary containment and protection
his pursuit of wellness.

It lished long ago, a long road map
avatars that speak of success and failures,
but also a lot of pain.
Our aim is to disseminate ideas and concepts that clarify the nature of our
fight, encroaching on the different manifestations
Life organized essentially of women, so that the activity it undertakes,
carry that mark, which must be superadores
negative practices that disrupt the
growth processes of collective consciousness, lost in selfish warps
pursue only accumulations of power
to the detriment of rights and improvements in quality of life that is supposed, in the
latter end of the twentieth century we should achieve.
Necessary culturizar this challenge, it is not
the fight of women, but society's
take as their own, for imperative that everyone take. Only then feminism
You will have its rationale, because there is a
hegemonies struggle, but a claim that can only disturb the intolerant, say Georges Duby and Michelle Perrot in

his "History of Women, an enlightening concept when they say ...". But it is necessary
very careful to believe that women are
subject of history as such. What we try to understand their place in society,
their condition, their roles and power.
Today is a matter of discussion the exercise of power and its excesses, it is necessary that women here
it is a factor of improving relations and such exercise, humanizing treatment
with the governed and strengthening
rights. Be the guiding light capacity
a pluralistic society without exclusions. It would be unfortunate if the woman who accesses the politics and power, drag on if the vices
they created their disbelief.
If this detail of mankind is
almost inevitably stand out as the only data
generalized crisis. And the crisis is a moment of
traffic between two times, time values ​​listed and a mere conceptions which will be lighted. In this section
our struggle we are.
Hannah Arndt, German philosopher said no

MACRO LENS
RIGHTS OF WOMEN
They are A HUMAN RIGHT
"We will ensure the fulfillment of the covenant
for gender equality and expedite the
creation of women's rights. We are determined to continue leading the fight against the gender pay gap, promoting
from the hardest and most effective in the workplace anti-discrimination measures Parliament ".
Dr. Alberto Rodriguez Saa
The fight for the vindication of Women initiated

229

there may be public space while the words and actions do not go together. To organize
collective action is critical voice,
expression of ideas, the exchange of
opinions, articulation of consensus and respect for agreements.
"The female is not synonymous claim
leaving home, their children and their husbands,
It is the struggle for human dignity. "
Tona Salino

MACRO LENS
NATIONAL STRATEGIC PLAN
Children and Adolescents
GOALS
• We will convene to participate to all citizens, especially children and adolescents
the whole country.

230

• we make an analysis by province and regions of the current situation of children.
• define policies for children and adolescents in the medium and long term, covering the
different areas of the state.
• will articulate actions to ensure the exercise, promotion and defense of rights
of children and adolescents, established
the International Convention on the Rights of the Child.
• We will develop a system of indicators
that allow us to form an index
Child welfare system to provide feedback
permanently and let know what
they are the right policies and social measures
to improve and promote the comprehensive development
of children and adolescents.
"Every child and adolescent has the right to social inclusion, to be sheltered by the roof of the Re-

Republic, is entitled to the Digital Inclusion, to power
access and have the technological tools that allow them to function in equal
conditions in a competitive and dynamic world
and you have the right to preserve cultural diversity and
ethnic indigenous peoples ".
We will develop a national plan that enables
participatory, sustained and coordinated work
and is a key component of the strategy
Comprehensive National Government to implement
the promotion and prevention
ensure the healthy development of citizens from the beginning of life.
A central element of this Plan
be consensual search of indicators that allow us to form a INDEX
CHILD WELFARE realize that the situation of children and adolescents throughout the country
and feed back into the system permanently, allowing to know what measures

231

political and social right to improve and
promote the comprehensive development.

MACRO LENS
RECOGNITION AND INCLUSION
SOCIAL FOR ALL
OUR SENIORS
COUNTRY

existing human rights in particular
towards children, women, elderly
and people with disabilities. Penalize
standards for older adults have the full enjoyment of their human rights,
especially we penalize the 82% that must access the quality of life they deserve with social justice; because we will be a Peronist government, essence and exercise;
because we understand that palliative gifts
welfarism or do not respond to verdade-

GOALS
• Apply the 82% mobile as synonymous with
social justice
• We will develop specific policies real deinstitutionalization, revaluing the person as the primary cell of society.
• We will give income to the Federal Plan for Inclusion
Social Aging all excluded
of our country.
Older adults also are incluidoscomo product ease the Plan
Federal Social Inclusion will give them
for re-intellectual production,
labor and culturally, they are turning to find their vocations forgotten, conveying wisdom and experience, in some
cases, other persons aged 60 or 70
Years perform tasks or learn new things, work that had not been done before
by the vicissitudes of time. They will be assisted in
everything necessary to enable them to access the
regular retirement benefit in cases
that age appropriate.
"Our Constitution, in its art. 75
inc. 23, states that the National Congress
must legislate and promote measures of action
positive to ensure the full enjoyment and exercise of the rights recognized by this
Constitution and international treaties
232

233

ra Social Justice; because we are convinced
the guiding principles that define social inclusion as actual practice in post
of self-determination of the individual,
it dignifies and makes its own
achievements, challenges and destinations and that we proclaim by a true recognition of our Homeland builders who preceded us on the road.
You can not look ahead regardless
account the progress made and honor the good of
History itself. The implementation of the Plan
Social Inclusion meant for the people of
San Luis, the remaking of the Social Pact, ensuring human rights of men, women, children, people with disabilities,
practices and rights of modern society. Homeland dignify with a look
of hope, because the pillars supporting the
2. 3. 4

growth of a country are in Integration and
progress of peoples, following the path of
progress made with steady hands, with dreams and
illusions that are laying the solid foundations
to get our children as an inheritance
valuable ... to a future with jobs and Justice
Social with the firm conviction achieve
Free and sovereign homeland ... that homeland Us
all history ... and write it in handwriting
its protagonists ... the makers of a country
He wants to grow in peace and justice. "

"The country is the feeling of freedom capable
to transform into heroes citizens more
simple "

Manuel Belgrano
235

236

237
