Broad Progressive Front program

Broad Progressive Front program

Broad Progressive Front program

GOVERNMENT PROGRAM
BROAD FRONT
PROGRESSIVE
2011 - 2015

3

Broad Progressive Front program

Broad Progressive Front program

SUMMARY
1.

LETTER Hermes Binner And Norma Morandini ........................................... .................................. 7

2.

PRÓLOGO.........................................................................................................................................................9

3.


Broad Progressive Front PROPOSALS ............................................. ...................................eleven

3.1
A better state for all citizens and all ......................................... ........................................ 12

State and institutions políticas....................................................................................................................................13

Justice and D.D.H.H. ............................................................................................................................................................17
Seguridad............................................................................................................................................................................20

Relations Internacionales............................................................................................................................................26

Policies and from the Juventud................................................................................................................................28

Equality géneros.......................................................................................................................................................30
3.2

Innovation, culture and knowledge: our best investment ......................................... ................................. 32


Culture ................................................................................................................................................................................33
Educación...........................................................................................................................................................................38

Science and Técnica...............................................................................................................................................................41
3.3

Right to derechos............................................................................................................................................44









Pact Social........................................................................................................................................................................45
Job ................................................................................................................................................................................46
Security Social...............................................................................................................................................................48
Policies sociales...............................................................................................................................................................50
Salud.................................................................................................................................................................................... 52
Housing and hábitat.............................................................................................................................................................54

3. 4
Solidarity with the future sustainable economy and territory. .................................................. ....................... 56
Economía............................................................................................................................................................................57

Infrastructure for desarrollo.................................................................................................................................60

Environment. ..............................................................................................................................................................63
Four.





4

ANEXOS............................................................................................................................................................67
Legislative Experience .................................................................................................................................................. 68
Management experience in the Province of Santa Fe (2007 and continuing) .................................... ......................... 69
Management experience in the city of Rosario (1995 and continuing) ..................................... .............................. 71
Founding Act Frente Amplio Progresista...........................................................................................................72

5

Broad Progressive Front program

Broad Progressive Front program

September 23, 2011

In all Argentine and Argentine



When we go through the towns and villages of our country, men, women, children and young people come to us with respect and hope, because they want to change and overcome that exists. It is the people themselves who tell us that need a new way of governing,
you get out of the tension, of Argentina white or black. We should use the time and energy to create and grow
in this wonderful country. Listen carefully and learn from what they tell us and teach, the ability to imagine, to resist,
to forge a destiny and we do Patria Argentines.
The Broad Progressive Front expresses the confluence of different political and social sectors who believe in sustainable development, in the
guaranteeing rights at work, production and culture to realize the aspiration of a better Argentina.
We are not a promise, we are a group of men and women with the capacity, experience and determination to work together for
an Argentina to regain prominence in the world and allows the balanced development of its territory and its inhabitants. Our
call joined thousands of comrades in militancy in every town and in the act of Luna Park. More than two million
people joined us with their vote. Past primary elections, our task is not interrupted to continue touring the country
Argentine and talk to the Argentines, with sectors that produce and work with the common people of our people.
With these convictions, and because we are prepared to govern, we have today given birth to our program. It has resulted capacity,
seriousness, knowledge of hundreds of managers, technicians, professionals, intellectuals, educators, workers, citizens finally all that
They worked long hours pondering, discussing and exchanging ideas that make up this government proposal. We have found
in dialogue, participation and respect for differences, the secret consensus.
Argentina lacks the decades of a true national project. The Argentineans we recognize in our history,
our identity as a society, but we need to recognize in a project that integrates us and mobilize us after an objective justice,
freedom and solidarity.
The Government Program of the Broad Progressive Front is a solid and serious to rule and begin to change the country base. Recognizes
and prioritizes the spiritual and material values ​​creators and producers of our people. Proposes linking the territory, nationalize
federal government to actually do it. Promotes conversation between education and production, memory and innovation, work and culture,
health and children. Drives necessary to give effect to the republican ideals of respect for the law, truth and justice tools.
The men and women, more than his words, define their actions. So we ask, who vote and those who we do it for others
options, to keep this document to control us and require us to fulfill the commitment made by all citizens.

6

7

Broad Progressive Front program

Broad Progressive Front program

2.PRÓLOGO

Our political force does not respond to mere electoral situation: has the vocation to become an effective tool for good governance and Argentina
with real powers to implement it. This proposal summarizes the commitment to transformation
you need the deep Argentina.

The very construction of the Broad Progressive Front is a sign that we believe in the possibility
a collective project that allows us to think of ourselves
as a nation.

"It is difficult to see the connection there may be between a monochord and the planetary system; but the enthusiasm,
like love, it has the power to reduce inteligenciay to turn desires into objective realities:
you must believe to see. "
One and the Universe Ernesto Sabato

This program is a collective creation and learning
common. It is the product of many discussions, reflections and discussions of the participating organizations. Is the
result of advance, with passions and respecting
differences in the search for consensus. The program is our way of providing predictability to citizens and ensuring that they can monitor compliance. The construction itself is progressive because
open participation and puts eyes on the long term.

This exciting and complex recognizes a target
clear: to reunite ethics and politics.
Therefore, are not arbitrary four axes that have chosen to organize our government program, "a better state for each and every citizen", "Innovation, culture and knowledge: our best
investment "," right to have rights "and" Solidarity
with the future sustainable economy and territory. " We believe that the central issues are contained therein
a progressive agenda for the country.

Recognizes significant antecedents in both the Argentine Dialogue, which in the worst moment of the crisis
Argentina from 2001-2002, a methodology raised
to think the nation in its complexity, long-term,
with a wide appeal and noting the need to
political reform; as in the Frenapo (National Front
Poverty), which recognized the civil society
poverty as a situation that we can not
accustom and proposed public policies.

The crisis in Argentina today is political rather than economic: it is a crisis of confidence towards their rulers governed and institutional weakening. They
need alternative answers politically, socially and economically that outline clearly the
collective project we imagine.

The program draws on the practices of governments
progressive city of Rosario, in recent
twenty, and the province of Santa Fe since 2007.
These experiences show that we can govern
with honesty and transparency, with pluralism, respecting the differences, through dialogue, seeking to build
changes together.

A new way of understanding the public is necessary.
A State to build democratic governance.
As we can see in the last years of sustained economic growth of our country, character
inclusive society is not something that has to do with
nature, nor is inherent in market development.
The redistribution and welfare are not met so
automatically. The State generate active policies to prevent the risks that always fall on
the most vulnerable.

And the great collective energy channels of social organizations and workers who participate in this
Front, who they have questioned old identities
policies. They have been able to produce a large
popular participation and mobilization around issues
so urgent to solve as important to our
policy proposal, as the distribution of income,
fighting poverty, and children, who are our hope.

We know the complexities of the international situation. However, Argentina has great potential and possibilities in this context. more than ever
we ratify our vocation and our defense of Mercosur Latin American identity, and propose
have a unified voice in international bodies.

With this background it is our heritage, and the
Looking to the horizon, the program is our
commitment.

It is urgent that the political recovers, strengthening the hand of the state, the ability to make a society
fairer. To recover the credibility bound to honesty and transparency. Politics may be the tie
to give back to society as a collective endeavor.

8

9

Broad Progressive Front program

Broad Progressive Front program

3 PROPOSALS
BROAD FRONT
Progresita
10

Broad Progressive Front program

Broad Progressive Front program

STATE AND POLITICAL INSTITUTIONS

electoral processes).

CURRENT SITUATION

Efficiency and transparency: provide the state capacity
management, communication efficiency for distribution
fair and transparent management of resources and public goods

Single, unambiguous and fragmented form of linkage between the National Government and governments
provincial, governed by the subordination of the provinces to the monetary power of the central government. Discretion of the Nation transfers to the provinces, skewed by partisan political affinities. Equal
dynamic is reproduced in most provinces
Argentina in connection with their local governments. Deep imbalances in the country and lack of
regional and comprehensive perspective of the territory, which inhibit a better use of resources.
Concentration of resources from the national government to the detriment of the provincial governments, which
weakens federalism.

3.1 BETTER

STATE
And ALL
ALL THE
CITIZENS
For the Progressive Broad Front, the state must serve the comprehensive development of citizens
and citizens; guarantee rights and uphold the law and
separation of powers; promote social and political dialogue; orient the society and the economy with a sense
strategic; and distribute with justice, transparency and
effectiveness of public resources.
The institutional changes we propose
aimed at strengthening the state through a
decentralized organization, network relationships,
with justice and security, respecting federalism and
local autonomies. Thus the provinces
will contribute to strengthen the regions and the nation
with active participation in decision making
strategic, discretion and preventing discrimination by the central government.
The State should reflect the plurality need
and heterogeneity of our society and promote a
new political, social and cultural climate for Argentina with Solidarity, participation and transparency.

12

Excessive powers of the Presidency of the Nation
Congressional expense (DNU, delegated powers).
Lack of planning that integrates stakeholder participation and effectively connect with
public policy decisions. Limited use of
mechanisms of participatory democracy.
Excessive bureaucracy and centralization of administrative circuits, logical and overlapping routine
criteria for problem solving. Low professional and technical loss of independence
some institutions (Indec, regulators)
Limited linking areas of the Administration
National public with little internal coordination permeable hierarchical and pyramidal structures.
Absence of clear policies to increase
controls and transparency in management. Important allegations of unresolved corruption.
There are no effective institutional settings articulation and negotiation of agreements and basic consensus
between the provinces and the nation. The Federal Councils
They have little impact on investment decisions and
public policy and its ability to coordinate actions between the provinces is wasted.
There are pending changes in the system
political and electoral system (financing of election campaigns and partisan, democratization of the parties, transparency and credibility matches

AXES
Promote a policy of open government, putting
information technology and communications
to make accessible, and actionable compatible formats for citizens, information management
governance, promoting transparency and efficiency.
Prioritize and professionalise public employment in the
National Public Administration, recovering the sense of career and seeking greater motivation and receptiveness to change.
Enhance coordination between different areas
Public and plans of the different levels of government policies.
Naturalizing over as state policy. This involves working in various dimensions: respect for
the law and the separation of powers, strengthening
civil institutions, the enhancement of the principles relating to public ethics, access to public information, the revaluation of the institutions
responsible for ensuring public control, among
other aspects.
Promote activation and linking the various
-Defensor sectors of internal control of the People,
anticorruption offices, services regulators
public, public audits, among other tools
of citizen-control to share information and
join forces to complement.
Zoom control agencies to citizenship for
bring their knowledge and involvement.
Incorporate public audits and other tools
citizen control within a new concept of
Management understands that the management mechanisms
continuous and not as an isolated instrument control.
PROPOSALS
Organizational redesign of the national state based on regionalization and decentralization.
Recovery of the constitutional role of the Chief of the Cabinet of Ministers, in coordination intraguber-

13

Broad Progressive Front program

govern- as the link with the legislature.
Professionalism and competition for admission and career development in the National Public Administration.
Development of a Strategic Plan for training
point to retrieve the value of INAP and body
trainer, while complying with the requirements defined in the National Strategic Plan. The definition of these plans be participatory, involving
workers in their design.
Revision, adaptation and simplification of regulations governing administrative procedures
adapt to the new dynamics.

Broad Progressive Front program

mechanisms to ensure that evaluations are available
in real time and can be properly corrected
detours.

Boost interprovincial agreements that give this reorganization substrate; and rearrangement of the
respective legislation.

Reformulation of the Federal Network of Public Control
to encourage relations of the estates of national control Accounts Provincial Courts.

Reorganization of the Federal Councils, integrating them more strongly to the definition and monitoring
policy. The councils should provide a more articulated institutional instance of interprovincial coordination; strengthen federal arrangements for
Public Management. The Federal Council for Planning and
Zoning may play a role in articulating the actions of the various councils, the
Once the link between them will be encouraged by
related problems.

Planning and regionalization: strategically plan the country, enabling a strong
coordination between sector plans under
regionalization.

Boosting the Law on access to information for all three branches of government.

AXES
Nation-to transform the current relationship after provinces
the emergence of areas of consensus and consensual implementation in each of the instances
planning with binding.

Expanded use of 2.0 technologies to facilitate
access to timely information to
open government data and encouraging greater involvement of citizens.

Strengthen intergovernmental relations Nation /
provinces / municipalities through a decentralized organization with network relationships, respecting federalism and local autonomy.

Law guarantee plurality in driving and
editorial line of the public media, so that they
not responding to government. Extension to all
the country of the Open Digital Television,
nesting border areas.

Plan strategically and operate with regional approach to promote a more harmonious and homogeneous development in the country integrating strategic plans
sector.

Institutionalizing accountability. Incorporation within the control management entities
binational and trusts, among others.
Strengthening Joint Parliamentary Commission
Through interaction with other parliamentary committees and public discussion of the reports of the
General Audit Office (AGN). Expanding
the powers conferred on the AGN.
Boosting the Law Creating Budget Office within the National Congress.
Strengthening institutional quality through
the articulation of the different levels of control: SIGEN, AGN, State Attorney's Office, Judiciary, Ombudsman, Anti-Corruption Bureau.
Follow-up observations and findings obtained to verify that audited bodies
meet the recommendations and otherwise, if
responsible agencies applied sanctions
by the breaches found. Securing means

Boosting Environmental and Land Management
comprehensive and cross-project to different areas
government.
Generate frames consensus and participation
political, social and economic actors of the territory
towards a program of economic and social development.
Strengthening Federal Councils, so that they are
true areas where agreements are established,
define state policies and investments are geared
and resources with a supportive and federal sense.
PROPOSALS
Impulse national law for the management and land use planning.
Incorporation of regionalization as a framework
strategic for the organization of the different
ministries, pointing to a concurrent planning. Agreements on the definition of criteria for
determine the regions; and issues that have
concern regions

14

Political reform: strengthening democracy and promote a
political reform for greater institutional quality
AXES
Make a return of powers of the executive to
Congress, and promote full independence of the
justice, ensuring strict irrespective of the Executive in the activities of the other branches
and respect for its authority. Respect for the law and
the institutions should not be an adjustment variable
the service of the political situation, but the guarantee for
build an increasingly participatory democracy and
transparent.
Improve the quality of the rules of the system
political, making it more transparent and reliable,
inclusive and equitable, and above all, much more participatory. It is therefore necessary to promote the pending changes in the system of political parties and the electoral system.
Moving towards more transparent electoral systems,
as the only ballot. Moreover, the establishment of effective financing of election campaigns and real controls is essential. Transparency
the relationship between money and politics is key to rebuilding
the public confidence in parties and generate
political reform deep ethical content.
Limit the role and powers of the Executive Branch in
various stages of the electoral process, allow control of civil society in compliance with the rules
election, as well as strengthen and democratize political parties.
PROPOSALS
Public debate on strengthening and democratization

tion of political parties.
Incorporation of the single ballot for all elections categories. The only guarantees the right ballot
to elect and be elected through an electoral offer
complete; prevent fraudulent and clientelism;
It gives voters greater autonomy in decision and urges the parties to select the best
candidates for each category.
Establishment of real controls and effective financing of political parties and electoral campaigns through the reformulation of Law No. 26215.
Control of official advertising and government management of state media.
Regulation by law of the distribution of the pattern
official advertising to ensure fairness and transparency in its distribution.
Creation of an independent electoral body for the
control and development of the electoral process.
Creation of an independent Electoral Institute
political power shift.
Participation: multiply citizen participation
active in public affairs
AXES
Ensuring spaces for citizens to actively engage in public affairs, without exclusions.
Citizen participation mechanisms play a
dual purpose: to make more democratic governance,
by the State, and develop a new consciousness
active citizenship, deepening democracy.
A progressive government in participation
citizenship of one of its foundations, part of their
legitimacy and reinsurance for its own control.
PROPOSALS
Creation of sectoral councils of management and monitoring of public policies, integrated by specific government departments and civil society organizations
related civil as permanent space of consultation
and monitoring of public policies. It will promote the replication of these councils at the provincial and local levels.
Awareness and dissemination of the importance of the application

fifteen

Broad Progressive Front program

Broad Progressive Front program

tion of mechanisms for citizen participation
locally.

JUSTICE AND HUMAN RIGHTS
CURRENT SITUATION
The judiciary is a power devalued its credibility. They are still numerous allegations of lack of
transparency in the administration of justice. The timing and criteria of the Judiciary are far from the
expectations of citizenship. Management models
tribunalicia are obsolete and are permanently at
collapse. The system of appointment, removal and punishment of judges is far from clear and has experienced a setback to his independence.

Assistance to local governments and subnational that
carry forward participatory practices.
Establishment of a priority for financing investment projects in the towns and
the provinces, taking into account the existence of
participatory components in planning, management
and investment control.
Revitalization and implementation mechanisms
semi-direct democracy like popular initiative, referendum, referendum, referendum, public hearings, participatory budgets.

The defense of human rights and condemns
all state criminal systematic are, for decades, common ethical patrimony of Argentina. The Broad Progressive Front is strongly committed
with the completion of a trial for crimes against humanity. And this effort was reflected in decisions, for example, they took our representatives
in Congress for the past 25 years.

Move towards institutionalizing the mechanisms
social and political, such as an Economic, Social and Political Council, conceived as a permanent forum which seeks to overcome conflict and achieve dialogue
consensus for the harmonious development of social life
in Argentina.

There are few tools that the citizen is to meet your legal needs outside
the courts. Mediation, conciliation, negotiation, arbitration, community justice and other instruments of conflict resolution desformalizados only
They are becoming known.
It is concerned about the lack of commitment of judges
in ensuring respect for the minimum guarantees of the prison population or processed.
The participation of civil society in the administration of justice remains an outstanding debt and
public policies on access to justice is not
have universal scope, nor are they deep or systematic and often of poor quality, so still
Large sectors of the population have problems
for a reasonable solution to their conflicts or
recognition of rights.
No reliable diagnostic or sufficiently
Extended situation. A tool that allows an assessment of the needs should be developed
actual population, at the same time enable the description of the operating status of the services
provided by the system. This evaluation should be continuous, deep and coordinated.
The appointment process, through the Council
the Judiciary, is better than before 1994, but

16

it is far from adequate and more from
changes introduced by the National Executive
current. The political discretion in the final decision
and corporate complicity, although higher
mediations, exist as in the past.
The current criminal justice system, with a design close to the 30s, contains the notes of speed, transparency and efficiency required of a modern administration of justice. The procedural scheme not
He has left its traces firmly inquisitive
and it is necessary to move towards a fully oral adversarial process.
Crime victims are forgotten by the State and
re-victimized.
AXES
Ensure judicial independence as an element
Central to the relationship between the powers. Act against the autonomy necessary for a judge to try and
resolve a case, and do right from the state and from civil society, constitutes an unlawful exercise of
exercise power or illegally, respectively power.
Implement active policies to eradicate the problems that conspire against an independent, linked to malfunctions, exercises pressures, traffic internal and external influences to power
judiciary, and poor theoretical and vocational training.
Set priority effective compliance with
the "decisions of the Judges of the Nation", respecting the rules governing how this obligation.
PROPOSAL
Creating a Federal State Agency have
unique mission and role as the criminalization of
crimes of mafia power.
Active participation in the organs that corresponds
by law in the judicial interact (Council
Magistrates of the Nation, selection process and removal of judges).
Creation of the office to respond quickly to the particular requirements that make citizens
deem appropriate cases, implementing
free access to public issues processing
with national legislation and respect. Give
greater and broader framework for access to the jurisdiction of the
citizenship, expanding as necessary di-

17

Broad Progressive Front program

Broad Progressive Front program

rights frameworks in terms of the rules of law
administrative procedure.

conflict at the same time avoid the pain and the effects disvaliosos
of criminal trials.

Progressive unification, modernization and harmonization of records.

Promote the effective realization of the immediacy and
fast resolution of conflicts. To do this will take orality and concentration in Labor Procedure Codes, Commercial, Civil and
Administrative, notwithstanding that such oral it will take on citizen participation in Criminal Matters.

Reform of Civil and Commercial Procedure Code. Orality and incorporate deformalization of all processes. Streamline and simplify administration of justice
incorporating new information technologies
the processes.

Deepening the politics of memory and truth, especially in operational areas such as the National Program Containment and assistance for witnesses,
Trial complainants in State Terrorism.

Impulse as part of tax reform, payment
earnings of members of the judiciary.
Promote the development and training through
public university for better and more efficient and
Judicial efficiency.
Council reform oriented Magistrates
independence of judges from political power;
ensure transparency in the appointment process, punishment and removal of judges and evaluate their
performance.
Diagnosis, with the assistance of the Supreme Court and the Council
the Judiciary, the state of the justice service
(Quality and quantity) to address the relevant improvements.
Promoting legal and administrative reforms
change how courts are managed.
They must transform work processes, culture
actors and correlative training in new skills, information production, interagency coordination, incorporating new technologies and standards of service delivery.
The board of judges, permanent and independent judicial training (powered by Council
Judiciary or promoting agreements with public universities), and the progressive incorporation of orality and deformalization to a number of courts are the best option.
Amendments to the Criminal Procedural Code of the Nation. Grant the Public Prosecutor the investigative task, constituting a criminal investigation under his command for that purpose.
Integration of a greater number of alternative outlets
the process including, among others, criminal mediation, a suspension of judgment proof wider, the
compensation agreements and other mechanisms of justice
Restorative who come to a real solution of the con-

Protection of victims of crime. Implementation
an effective legal support in the complaint
as well as a psychological and welfare support
sought from offices with Victim Assistance
ability to cover the particularity of the situation
particular to each victim.
Implementation of community justice with competence in various subjects and minor amounts
money, to resolve disputes with proceedings
modern, short, agile and oral. The peculiarity of this service will be decentralization and territorial closeness
the citizen.
Mediation. Other outputs should be encouraged to achieve a fair and reasonable solution to a conflict
as mediation. It solves a
faster pace and friendly way, yielding a
decongestion of the judiciary. Equally
community mediation programs to problems between neighbors of different kinds, and conflicts
Community of magnitude.
Measuring policy implementation, diagnosis
and monitoring. Develop and implement, through the
Human Rights Secretariat, tools
assessment on human rights and access to justice.
Diagnosis and monitoring of the adequacy of the proceeding
different areas of the State with the requirements of
international legislation on HR should
become a central policy in the area.
Agreements with the provinces to proceed with unification or assembly of records that can reconcile their databases in areas such as
Legal Persons, Real Property, chop shops, etc. In others that are exclusive control
Nation Records as the Motor Vehicle Ownership and Chattel Mortgages, the same will be modernized
and work processes more transparent will be generated
and accessible to the public.

18

Making a diagnosis on access to rights in administrative areas allowing improvement
thereof in order to allow efficient and full recognition of the rights. The diagnostic
It takes place in relation to measuring the service of justice should include these channels in order to proceed
a suitable redesign.
Implementation of specific policies in relation to
Prison Service. Faced with prison overcrowding should gebnerarse an interagency compomiso
and inter powers through roundtables or
advice, resolve on the use of alternatives to imprisonment solutions, low security institutions, the
use of electronic control mechanisms, etc.
Review of staff training, as the militarization of the area has generated management
prisons focuses on control and repression before
in strengthening capacities and rights
of prisoners. The goal should be re-socializing
reformulated as the most modern views and
realistic that prevent its arbitrary use and more accommodating to the dignity of prisoners and staff
prison.
Momentum strategies "open prison"
that enable traditional decrease opacity
the institutions of confinement, which has the immediate effect of increasing standards of respect
HR of prisoners.
Implementation of the national mechanism for prevention of torture established by the Optional Protocol to the Convention against Torture and Other Cruel
Cruel Inhuman or Degrading.

19

Broad Progressive Front program

SECURITY
CURRENT SITUATION
The available statistics show that crime recorded in the last 25 years the crimes
property have increased two and half times and
also, to a lesser extent, the rate of intentional homicide. Since this increase was particularly intense during the 90s, the amesetamiento experienced in the last decade to mention a
It indicates improvement stabilizing a victimization phenomenon remains particularly significant,
especially in major metropolitan areas
from the country. Victimization surveys, meanwhile,
confirm this fact, showing that victimization
for property crimes affecting significant portions of the population of major cities
from the country. In this context, fear of being a victim of
Crime is high and mistrust in the institutions of significant security.
In the same period, an increase of evidence forms
crime with varying degrees of complexity,
by criminal organizations whose activities
support illegal economies with high economic returns, strongly linked to corruption networks
public and private. These include washing
financial assets derived from illegal activities; he
traffic, development and commercialization of psychoactive substances; trafficking for sexual exploitation and
labor; theft and subsequent sale of goods
(The "piracy asphalt"); and marketing channels of stolen cars and auto parts.
There is abundant evidence demonstrating the existence of links between forms of criminal organization
complex and common crimes, the first being that
creates conditions for the development of the second. Also, several studies have been
Evidence different levels of collusion and participation of members of police forces and institutions
Security with both forms of crime.
At the same time, social unrest linked to the
criminal matter also increased. In response to certain serious crimes, executed
extreme violence, the society began to express
massively in the streets demanding security. Of
Similarly increased fear of becoming a victim
of a crime, hiring private agencies by those who can afford it and
He gave an increase in public spending on security.

Broad Progressive Front program

In response to rising crime and citizen demand for more security, various national and provincial governments rehearsed answers punitive damages.
The paradigm of the "iron fist" says fashion
ending the criminal offense is tightening action
Been. They were implemented policies based on the use
widespread pretrial detention, hardening
the penalties for common crimes and granting broad powers to the police action.
Such policies involve the resignation of democratic governments in planning and implementing policy
security and police delegation domes. Besides being a counterproductive strategy it represents
a flagrant violation of the provisions of the treaties
international human rights. As a result
the tough policy rate of incarceration,
the country and particularly in the province of Buenos Aires,
It grew exponentially without implying an equivalent reduction in crime levels. This increase
strengthened the selectivity of the criminal justice system, whose primary
target young men are still sectors
vulnerable. Trigger cases also multiplied
easy and police corruption.
Contradictorily and to notorious cases
marked varying degrees of policy failures
purely punitive attempts may be mentioned
police reforms. In the province of Buenos Aires, which
It has the country's largest police force, were
three initiatives in 10 years of reform, then abandoned or reversed, not achieved political agreements
sustain, multiply and deepen. However, -a federal level except for the Airport Security Police was created in 2006, they were not created or
They were promoted to national conditions for
comprehensive reforms in the security forces and police, prevailing conservative approach aimed at
ensure continuity of the current state of affairs.
No progress was made nationally in schemes
production of reliable and valid criminal information through the compilation and circulation of statistics of crime registered properly substantiated
and processed, official victimization surveys
conducted periodically, comprehensive observatories of crime and violence, etc. Lack of this
Information is not only an obstacle to a proper understanding of the phenomenon of insecurity and
the impossibility of having serious diagnoses but
reinforcing the delegation security policy
in the police forces.

20

The result of this state of affairs is that the central feature of public safety in Argentina is the lack of a truly comprehensive policy
State, a situation that presents a serious obstacle to
democratic governance.

Building consensus crossing horizontally
political parties and the institutions of society
civil. Nobody alone can reverse the insecurity. Must be one of the central themes of a great
national dialogue.

AXES
Addressing the issue of public security comprehensive and intersectoral manner, linking the three levels of government and civil society that recognizes that
behind every fact there is a process insecurity
emerging social, offenders and victims, all part of the same society. There are multiple
causes converging at the growing insecurity: social exclusion, deterioration of culture
labor, lack of opportunities for social progress,
criminal structuring large economies, the resurgence of violent forms of social behavior and political and police corruption.

You need to build a social and political alliance that
give support and legitimacy to the general guidelines of the security policy. In this sense, we understand that the Agreement for Democratic Security,
signed in December 2009 and has been signed
and promoted by and policymakers today
up the FAP, it represents a significant advance and that
It must be deepened, for which specific actions are needed in this regard from the Executive Branch
National and from the National Congress for that
According to materialize in concrete public policy by drawing.

Therefore, we must be tough on crime and its
multiple causes, otherwise we will never get the
vicious circle. No one who can not make demagoguery
propose a country without crime, to be achieved is to reduce current rates, reversing the trend
and direct efforts in an integrated manner to those
zones where insecurity is concentrated.
Implement an approach to security policy
systemic and comprehensive. We understand public safety as a system consisting of the following links: (1) the socio-cultural and multi-agency prevention
crime; (2) the police and security forces; (3)
criminal justice; (4) the prison system; and (5) post penitentiary institutions, whose
function is to prevent recidivism.
Intervene in a coordinated manner in each of the
five links to enhance the performance of each
one to set. It is necessary to strengthen and increase state capacity in each of the links to make the whole system work better.
Propose a security policy which are mirror
the standards established in international human rights treaties. The security policy as a whole must be reoriented and gradually
begin to adapt, adopt and implement the recommendations of the "Report on Citizen Security and
Human Rights ", prepared by the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights.

Support a governance that strikes a balance between political and technical contributions. Insecurity is a
political issue from the time the crime
It is determined by corporate knots that bind
politics, police and crime. If there is no transparency
"Up" evil can be required to society that respects
the law. The policy must fend turn technical knowledge and the scientific study of the criminal matter
to design, implement and evaluate interventions and
to properly allocate public resources
a truly federal criteria.
Give a central importance to municipal management and
to citizen participation. Local governments should act as coordinators of a number of initiatives, public policy consensus and high impact
on crime prevention. Popular participation
It will be a cornerstone of security policy. Is
increasingly necessary to involve citizens in the
design and control of security policies.
Promoting a culture of coexistence, transparent and supportive. It is no coincidence that violence and crime grew exponentially while ties
social solidarity were cracking.
Directing major efforts to combat the various
complex forms of organized crime, including
including drug trafficking. The statistics of the Observatory
Argentine Drug demonstrate a close relationship between the illegal economies generated
by drug trafficking and committing common crimes. Is
why priorities prosecution of
State crime be reoriented to complete

21

Broad Progressive Front program

ha priority in each type of offense addressing the
illegal economies that support them.
PROPOSALS
Comprehensive crime prevention.
Expansion of universal social policies
Strengthening social policies addressed
mainly young people from socially excluded sectors, with designs and implementations
appropriate to exclude the risk of "criminalization
poverty "and prioritizing:
1. Full implementation of the Law on Promotion
and comprehensive protection of the rights of girls and
children; the launch of the Forum for Children and
the teenager.
2. Strengthening the "Mothers against addictions Red" program (scholarships for developers and
inputs for training plans, replicas and building networks).
3. Strengthening public health networks
for addressing addictions, with categorization of professional and implementation of a
joint work plan with nearby community organizations.
4. The extension and multiplication of vocational training centers in the suburbs; training
Youth trades.
5. The extension of the right guaranteed program.
6. The immediate implementation of compulsory secondary school.
7. The extension of the current program of universal child allowance depending on income program
Universal Citizen.
Implementation of a national program of inclusion
sociocultural with youth crime prevention
and reducing violence
Complementing the universal social policies to ensure access for our people
labor, health, education, food and decent housing, as a starting point in the search for
a more egalitarian society, in areas with high rates
lethal violence among young people, you need to be implemented

Broad Progressive Front program

sociocultural inclusion of specific actions. These actions should address situations where violent criminal alternatives appear as ways
more attractive, more accessible or only available
to build identities, links, social recognition and income.
This requires developing institutional capabilities
intrasectoral, intersectoral and interjurisdictional coordination between agencies to address the problem
crime and violence in all its complexity, taking into
that the use of punitive agencies is not the best way to do it. A proper diagnosis of the
structural conditions on the specific way
manifested in every town or neighborhood certain crimes, it should be accompanied by non-punitive measures and
by the competent social agencies.
To do this we will implement a national program aimed at young people who already have fluctuating interest
in criminal activities, to prevent criminalization
and achieve building links with them, establish
State proposals coordinated with existing sociocultural inclusion suitably adapted or created for that purpose bonds; and job training
the establishment and development of enterprises
productive, recreational, sports and cultural.
Municipalities and public space
Impetus to strengthening provincial levels and
municipal in everything that concerns them on
public safety, such as the urban integration
settlement and slums; lighting
neighborhoods; conversion of wastelands in spaces
recreation; street repairs; Recovery clubs
neighborhood.
Promoting stronger municipal capacity to integrate and implement locally, multiagency approaches to crime prevention.
Citizen participation
Community participation is a prerequisite for the promotion of public safety plug.
To this end, we will promote, through municipalities and
coordination with the provinces, schemes citizen involvement in the design, management and control
implementation of security policies and
police performance.
Disarmament and Arms Control Fire
Impulse control of firearms through disarmament policies and declining circulation

22

Firearms. We will fully implement the National Programme Delivery of Firearms. For that
we will strengthen coordination between the state and the
NGO network dedicated to disarmament. Reorganize
also the National Register of Weapons to give it
appropriate monitoring and control capabilities in
throughout the national territory and eradicate illegal markets firearms and ammunition.
Developing a system of criminal information
and creation of a national observatory on violence and crime
Produce reliable statistics on crime and violence, through coordination with the provinces to
readjust the National System of Criminal Statistics,
by periodic victimization surveys and standardized and comparable perception,
and by proper georeferencing data,
which in turn must be consolidated in a base
Unified data. While this information is
the input for the formulation of diagnoses and for the
design, monitoring and evaluation of security policies, not only nationally but also provincial and
Local, it must be accessible from all jurisdictions.
Promote the adoption of the bill to create a National Monitoring Centre on Crime and Violence, prepared by the Democratic Security Agreement, intended to produce data and accurate diagnoses
policy development for public safety
efficient and democratic. The project has been signed
18 national deputies, including several FAP.
Reform of the Internal Security Act and punishment
a framework law for the reform of the organic laws and
Personnel and national security forces
provincial police.
Promotion of a new national legal framework for public and citizen security for democratic coexistence based on the principles of the Agreement for
Democratic and based on the recommendations of the "Report on Citizen Security Security
and Human Rights ", prepared by the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights.
Formation of the Bicameral Commission of Control Bodies and Activities of Homeland Security
The commission under the Internal Security Act
It has never been and is essential conformation
to promote a truly federal approach to
issue, remove existing distortions, and
advance broad multiparty agreements and durable

ros to promote legislative changes needed and its implementation.
Institutional reform and modernization of forces
national security and promoting reforms in the
provincial police
This includes national forces: Gendarmerie, Prefecture, Airport Security Police and Federal Police Argentina; and provincial and City of Buenos Aires police institutions.
Reorganization Program Implementation
Institutional Strategic Forces and Security
police under the following parameters:

1. Transfer of the Superintendent of Metropolitan Security PFA field of CABA.
2. Transformation of the Federal Police in Argentina
National criminal investigation police, with powers, training and appropriate means for addressing the complex crime of federal jurisdiction.
3. Transformation of the Ministry of Intelligence on a
agencies obtaining, processing and analysis
information pertaining to foreign intelligence.
4. Prioritize police and security forces persecution complex crime such as drug trafficking,
money laundering and human trafficking.
Institutional reform of the security forces
and promoting national reforms in the police
provincial
Promoting institutional reform of the national security forces, deepen those in the Airport Security Police and create a legal framework
national and suitable conditions for reforms
in the provincial police, based on the following parameters:
1. Promoting a consensual style of performance,
based on the model of community policing, with
preventive profile and mediator near the community.
2. Strengthening the civil conduct of police forces
in terms of strategic planning.
3. Reform with federal criteria of the training system,
training and police training. The shaft will pro-

2. 3

Broad Progressive Front program

professionalization of policing.
4. Promoting occupational scheme based on the only ladder.
5. Promotion of better pay and conditions
work of the police.
6. Implementation of a program of equipment
Police in order to renew and strengthen teams
and technical resources available to the forces.
7. Optimizing performance monitoring mechanisms through the reform of the systems of internal and external control, under the premise that control
It must be in the hands of professionals civilians and not the
own police.
8. Modernization of police structure to adapt
the territory.
9. Decentralisation of the police organization.
10. Differentiation and integration of the two functions
basic police: preventive and complex.
11. Strengthening the gender policy. Implementation
a protocol for police action in situations
Violence against Women. Equity policies
genres within police institutions.
Prevention and control of drug trafficking
Creating a Federal Investigation Agency
Concentrate drug trafficking intelligence information linked to narco-criminality, which today
fragmented institutions and agencies
different, for the purpose of better coordination and
effectiveness in the fight against drug trafficking. This will allow the integration of intelligence
criminal of all security and police forces.
Digitization and online access of all court cases in federal and provincial jurisdictions.
Legislation to accelerate the seizure of goods
convicted of drug trafficking and obtained through
this illegal activity, making modifications
needed in the legislation and that those resources
they can be utlizados to finance the fight against
drug trafficking and addiction prevention.
Radar installation complete Argentine airspace,

Broad Progressive Front program

with special emphasis on northern and northeastern borders, and
provide the Argentina Air Force and appropriate means necessary resources to carry out this
task modernizing aircraft available. Strengthen
Invap economic support to accelerate the construction of 3D mobile radars and develop new equipment
sensing integrated manned aircraft and not
manned, working on it in collaboration with the
Argentina Aircraft Factory of Córdoba.
Greater control over customs and border crossings, ports
and airports
These points are vital to cut the entry of drugs into our country from countries of the region
seeking their rear projection outward
(Mainly to Europe and the US) and in turn providing drugs for domestic consumption. Investment in
necessary infrastructure to facilitate the control (zones
Control decks, vehicle inspection pits,
perimeter) fences, technology and means of detection (fixed and mobile scanners for baggage and containers,
cameras, narcotics dogs, computer systems
interconnected between the different agencies in charge
Task: AFIP-Customs, PSA, Gendarmerie, Prefecture, Ministry of Security, Ministry of Interior) and
training, remuneration and adequate amount of
personal.

will of civil society towards the prevention of torture, violence and corruption in the system
prison.
6. Dismantling with criminal intelligence and adequate controls "prison mafias."
Guarantee services in prisons
to. Access to education, culture, health and work
in prisons, generating intense inclusion mechanisms for detainees.
b. Priority attention to the treatment of addictions.
c. Incorporation of professional psychology, social work, medicine and nursing.
Retrofitting program Edilicia Units
Federal Penitentiary System and building
new units in those jurisdictions
Post-penitentiary prevention
to. Strengthening and modernizing state agencies with responsibilities towards prison, in order to ensure the full reintegration of graduates
prisons and reducing recidivism.
b. Promotional policies for employers to take private prisons or graduates of freedom
with temporary releases.

Increased control over the land border, fluvial zone and Argentine Sea, assigning more staff of the National Gendarmerie and the Coast Guard to the priority task of monitoring borders. Crew
more and better technological equipment (sensors,
night vision devices, unmanned surveillance aircraft,
helicopters, ocean patrol multipurpose).
Correctional Services
Reform and modernization of correctional agencies, aimed at the prison system becomes a real civil service is based on the following principles:
1. Demilitarization of prison guards.
2. Creating an area of ​​internal affairs with functional autonomy to investigate misconduct
prison.
3. Integrated approach to the problems of women
imprisoned mothers.
4. Promote the enactment of a law establishing a quota mechanism supervisor conditions
overcrowding.
5. Promotion of visits and monitoring mechanisms
permanent detention conditions for par-

24

25

Broad Progressive Front program

INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS
CURRENT SITUATION
New international scenario: joint economic crisis in the United States, European Union and Japan,
Asia as consolidation and growth pole
demands of the Arab peoples to establish democracy in their countries, with a Latin America that
He reached greater integration awareness in their governments, but still insufficient to achieve effective integration.
Mercosur is a valuable integration project. In recent years it has been possible to see some progress and greater participation by the various social organizations that allowed expanding
agendas, although progress has been insufficient to consolidate a social, political and cultural Mercosur. It allowed the removal of the hypotheses
regional conflict and the incorporation of an area of
regional discussion and coordination has worked in
irregular shape since its formation.
The Union of South American Nations (UNASUR) is the main enterprise in dialogue and policy coordination in Latin America. It has
Integrated important tools such as the Council
South American defense and democracy clause
it prevented coups in Bolivia and Ecuador.
UNASUR complements but does not replace the project
Mercosur.
The region faces many problems such as
drug trafficking, environmental degradation, increasing
military budgets and minor confrontations
they should be discussed and resolved at the regional level to preserve the integrity and independence.
The G-20 is a clear example of the difficulties that
the core countries to bring forward a common policy on
current circumstances and emphasizes the importance of multilateralism. However, participation
in the G-20 does not guarantee that an acceptance but
large countries are ready to share with others
the layout of a new strategy that takes into
account the overall interest.
AXES
Redefine international strategy according to
long-term objectives to successfully overcome the uncertainties and instabilities and economic course
global political. Attaches the international stage

Broad Progressive Front program

unique opportunity for Argentina is its own
compass in a world that reconfigures. It is important
define where and how we want to proceed.

board of parliamentarians, and the reformulation of Parliament flexible mechanisms, and deliberative
operative.

We are in Latin and South America: these are our natural areas to build power and win influence.

A performance boost of International Relations Mercosur would increase the capacity of
influence in the international framework beyond the sum
individual actions of each country.

The relationship with Brazil is and will be essential for the
Argentina.
All regional areas have
- Mercosur, Unasur, the Community of Latin American and Caribbean States, among others - and improvement
gradual and substantive ties with neighboring area
We offer a platform to launch a more active and proactive regional policy.
Progress in strengthening multilateralism allows a better balance in relations among countries and regions.
Climate change is one of the key issues on the global agenda facing humanity as a whole.
PROPOSALS
Developing a comprehensive policy strategy
Argentina outer tripod based on the following:
decisive commitment to regionalism (retraction in times of globalization), the dynamic promotion of multilateralism (the basic space
to advance principles and interests and limit the arbitrariness of the powerful) and active defense
(amid a scenario of international law
increasing devaluation of the same).

Coordination of positions among the countries of the region and emerging G20 members, developing proposals for a more equitable world and
with sustainable development. It also needs a
new international financial architecture, with agencies that serve the interests and needs of
our peoples.
Strengthening national presence in the South Atlantic and Antarctica. Persist in the claim
sovereign and achieve political incorporation of the Falkland Islands, South Georgia and the South Sandwich
National territory.
Allowing active diplomacy efforts contribute
with internal policies to promote peace, democracy and poverty reduction, fair distribution,
human rights and sustainable development.

Setting up a modern diplomacy, a driving Chancellery and effective institutional coordination capacity. The Foreign Service of the Nation shall be advanced to a country that wants to strengthen
its presence in the world to proclaim the principles
multilateralism, democracy, human rights, sustainable development and world including
social and permanent peace.
Promotion of actions of greater integration
Unasur countries to achieve deepening
democratic rights and social inclusion. Support
the Banco del Sur.
Momentum of the process of institutionalization of Mercosur commitment to advance direct election and con-

26

27

Broad Progressive Front program

Broad Progressive Front program

POLICIES TO AND FROM THE YOUTH

cas, ideals, among others.

CURRENT SITUATION
Argentine youths are characterized by their heterogeneity, mainly because the conditions of economic, socio-cultural and geographical structure. Social inequalities facing our
society also cross to young people.

Modify the approach to the problems of young people, surpassing the old stigmatizing paradigms
reductionist and youth policies that generated
sectoral, compensatory, with reactive and prospects
reductionist doomed to treat the deficit, risk and
youthful transgression. The passage from passive receivers
public policy to be active subjects, it involves emphasizing the potential and capacity to become a starting point in a collective social production, recognizing youth as active
rights, socially responsible.

Outlining the realities of young people in our
country, we can say that coexist those of middle and upper classes favorably including through
education mainly with other unfavorably
structured according to the job; and the excluded, whose
is the urgent need to work in the present to
out of marginality.
In Argentina there are approximately 6.5 million
aged 15 to 29 years, of which almost half are
economically active. Considering youth
who neither study nor work nor seeking employment,
are approximately 800,000, of which half are
housewives and 50% mostly integrated
a hard core of marginality that is absent from the
public politics.
Between 2007 and 2010, in full respect for the universal child allowance, 1 in 10 adolescents between 13 and 17
years was not enrolled, and there are graduation rates
low average education close to 50%, without considering those who have levels of repetition.
The public youth policies are fragmented, and although it has increased the degree of political mobilization and public participation of young people, not
observed a real incorporation of the young perspective
in public policy.
AXES
Generate innovative institutional arrangements for
mainstreaming of youth in all
government areas transversely.
Develop comprehensive youth policies, cross
and participatory, according to the different realities
This diverse group. Youth is not only
an age group, is a socio-cultural construction
It varies contexts and times: there is great diversity
within youths, from dimensions
access to symbolic and material goods, gender,
territory, sexual orientation, economic conditions, customs, religions, aesthetic preferences

Deepen ties and cooperation in the areas of international and regional youth.
PROPOSALS
Creating a cross Young Cabinet as space in which proposals are made interministerial
pushed into the themes of youth. Promotes the construction and generation of public policies designed
from young people, but they reach to the whole
society. Its members will have a dual functional dependency being inserted, on the one hand, in the dynamic
each ministry and, on the other, in the Youth Cabinet.

volucren youth. Promotion of cultural spaces
and entertainment that encourage initiative, creativity and
participation.
Promote programs related to: school dropout, school completion, promoting rooting of youth in their communities of origin, support for road construction employment, access to housing,
all geared to promoting processes of autonomy
youth.
Ratification of the Iberoamerican Convention on Rights of Youth, which undertakes to ensure the
people between 15 and 24 years, the enforcement of human rights.
Strengthening ties with the Ibero-American Youth Organization (OIJ).
Generating joint action strategies on youth with Mercosur.

Strengthening of the National Youth,
with the coordinating role of the young cabinet for promoting discussion and definition of the axes
political and strategic management policy
National youth.
Boosting Federal Youth Council as space
participatory and consensus for coordinated generation of strategic lines of action, it proposes
the development of a National Youth Agenda that
including the general and specific problems of
each province and eastern articulated state action
National, provincial and municipal together with civil society organizations.
Creating a Youth Observatory include
updated information system to improve
design, implementation and evaluation of public policies.
Expansion of the universal child allowance to the
21 years for education and job training
Design tools, content and methodological approaches to be incorporated into the different programs in-

28

29

Broad Progressive Front program

Gender Equality
CURRENT SITUATION
Equal rights and opportunities for men
and women is still far from being achieved.

Broad Progressive Front program

Humans. A State to assume this issue as a political priority required.
Conceive of sexual and reproductive health as a
law.

The separation and differential assessment of the areas
Private and public continue to operate as matrix
perpetuating inequality over time, remaining intact the asymmetrical power relations that generate violence, discrimination and
objectification of women.

Preventing and combating the crime of trafficking in women and girls
dismantling the networks and creating campaigns
awareness and prevention.

Important laws have been achieved as a result of the fight
of women's organizations but many
lack of regulation and its incidence is insufficient: Law on the Prevention, Punishment and Eradication of Violence
against Women, Law on Sexual Health and Responsible Parenthood
Responsible Sex Education Law, Law on
Trafficking.

Ensure the non-exclusion, non-discrimination and the full exercise of the rights related to gender diversity.

More than 260 women died in 2010 in the hands
of men of his inner circle. Maternal mortality
It did not decrease, the non-punishable abortions continue judicializing and guide non-punishable abortions Care
It developed by the Ministry of Health is not implemented.
The budget allocated to the National Council
Women is 0.0029% of the national budget: 8 million pesos.
Human trafficking is the third illegal business worldwide, the
slavery of modernity in it are condensed all violations of human rights.
Argentina has gone from being considered a country
destination to be a country of origin, destination and transit
for victims of trafficking networks.
AXES

A present state, to assume responsibility
will be in the implementation of initiatives aimed at ensuring equal treatment and opportunities gender policies.
A progressive policy aims to eliminate all forms of discrimination against women driving
equal rights and opportunities for all
and all, regardless of gender and choice
sex, beliefs, age, ethnicity and ideology.
Violence based on gender differences represents a major rights violations

Promote public policies that guarantee equal
opportunity and treatment in the workplace.

PROPOSALS
Establishment of a government agency with the
order to develop public policies and mainstream
the gender perspective in the formulation of all
State policies. Optics incorporate gender budget in budget making
National Office and Congressional Budget
the nation.
Gender parity in elected and executive
and promoting greater participation of women
in the process of decision making in the public and private sectors.
Eradication policies of the different types of violence against women, ensuring access to justice
and, free, comprehensive assistance transparently,
effective. Coordination with provincial agencies, local and specialized social organizations in the
problematic to generate containment centers and safe houses and support of victims. Development of campaigns based on the promotion
rights and the prevention and awareness to address and eradicate the various forms of violence
women suffer.

Implementation of policies on sexual health and responsible parenthood, promoting sexual health / adolescents as part of the current Law on Sexual Health. Guarantee the population access to information,
guidance, methods and services related to sexual health and responsible parenthood.
Comprehensive combating the crime of trafficking in women. Dismantling trafficking networks and end linking
the same with politicians and police forces.
Assistance and protection of victims rescued
operating networks, in order to reach their
social reintegration. Boost national campaigns
visibility, outreach and prevention of this crime.
Active public policies to ensure equitable entry into the labor market and non-discriminatory treatment.
Changing labor license and birth care / as children / as between mothers and fathers, promoting responsibility for their upbringing and care.
Changing the law mandating
maternal and paternal garden and public areas
private, establishing by number of employees
regardless of gender.
Promote the eradication of violence in the workplace and in particular sexual harassment at work.
Promote the discussion and adoption of the law of identity
gender that recognizes and guarantees the right to
identity and inter trans sexual people.
Promote the discussion and adoption of a law on care
comprehensive health care for trans and intersex people.

Staff training of the judiciary and of the
security forces gender perspective
that addressing violations of rights
women either in a comprehensive manner.
Promotion of education based on human rights and gender perspective into all levels of education.

30

31

Broad Progressive Front program

Broad Progressive Front program

CULTURE
A culture that has the proximity of the everyday,
because without the everyday no affection, and have the distance of the poetic imagination, because without imagination
no change.
INTRODUCTION
Culture has been named in many ways: as
everything the man does, and the way in which the
communities give meaning to their lives in time and
space or mark sense involving multiple languages, values, procedures for assigning significance, ways of looking and perceiving, learning
and transmission systems of representation and symbolization in an existential context, a territory and
community.
So if culture is what people are and do,
cultural policies should be thought of as creating
social links, such as construction of identities,
as opportunities for job training and
job creation, as redefinition of history and
as an effective device of social inclusion.

3.2 INNOVATION,

CULTURE AND
KNOWLEDGE:
OUR BEST
INVESTMENT
A public policy is a collective and transformative momentum with strategic perspective, a regulated and systematized energy facing a necessity,
plays a social imaginary, it builds sense
fragmentation.
The FAP proposal involves memory and innovation,
everything to be a field of action and a look
strategic. Innovation, knowledge and culture
They need new relations with the "political culture" and
"Work culture". Resignificar must hierarchies between education-culture and communication, and the right to recover the symbolic (words, sounds, shapes, ideas, culture conventions
and representations) which is an intangible heritage without
which is a national project impossible.

32

If culture is the network of meaning and symbolization
communities, we must admit that this network is shared policy and education. Consequently who
performs the operation to interpret the symbolic moment of a nation, create citizenship institute memory,
It is the government as a whole.
It is impossible to speak of a society without rights
You represent what it is to enjoy education,
health, culture, communication and identity. The symbolic
makes the rights body, landscape and history
of life.
Education transmits culture, assume or not. Values, looks, languages, symbols and representations are the substrate of the educational process.
The culture is definitely an essential right of every
argetina and Argentina in all its plurality and diversity.
We interpret cultural goods mode
we advance: how to symbol and learning. Multiculturalism appears as foundational criterion.
CURRENT SITUATION
Low institutional hierarchy of government areas linked to the field of culture.

Little emphasis on cultural and symbolic action
representation, which is essential to create richer relationships with the social, education and
new political culture.
The culture is restricted to promoting artists and creators, recovery and care of the heritage and
organization and production of shows, exhibitions
and meetings considering the citizen as a spectator and not as a protagonist.
It has not achieved the goal of universal access to
cultural property as a fundamental right of the Argentines.
AXES
Culture and construction of meaning
Communities develop an intense production
symbolic. This acquis is a real sense
Central significance plant, factory collective imagination.
The cultures are based on a common social project and
values, ideas and practices that sustain it. The construction of meaning, breaking stereotypes and transmission systems are symbolizing fundamental work in the cultural field.
Culture and social inclusion device
Cultural policies and joint cross form the areas of social development, health, education, employment, production, etc., constitute
excellent ways to integrate, include and guarantee
equality, strengthening the symbolic learning
multiple knowledge, job training, the enjoyment of
art and entertainment, and ultimately rescue and promotion of all forms of building citizenship.
Culture and promotion, development and projection of the
arts and their creators
Disciplines and artistic expressions have a role
essential in the federalization of culture.
In its ability to build sense, sensitivity and beauty, creating an essential dimension when
thinking public policies that articulate the ethical and aesthetic, facilitate coexistence and provide citizens of
eyes full of emotion, ideas and critical sense and
images that feed as human beings and as
social groups.
Imagination and creativity make the expressions

33

Broad Progressive Front program

nes artistic reservoir of cultural heritage of
nation and its modes of transmission from a plane
inclusive of language, narrative presence and symbol.
Life exposed otherwise repeating truths and create and innovate through their proposals and counting the
fable of old and new feelings.
For these reasons it is necessary to ensure full freedom
creation, avoiding any form of censorship, overt or
covert and self-censorship or political manipulation aimed at cultural productions, considering
the limit to freedom is the responsibility and commitment to democracy.
It is the task of the State to promote, coordinate and develop systematic support to artists and creators as well as the
develop areas where action and education
art of the younger generation, in a wide arc
which regards innovation and tradition as a route
to move and combine.
Culture and Public Space
The public space is a place for culture "appear"
and not to "appear", a space equaling opportunities where one can reveal and rebel.
The public space is designed for cultural management
as an area of ​​appropriation by citizens in
following ways:
- Well common universe of values ​​that make the realization of the set.
- Urban Heritage to create, preserve and / or rebuild.
- Territory of all, instead of exchange, play and coexistence appropriated by neighbors.
- Set and plural efficient services.
- Memory and identity construction.
- Stage of democratic culture (expressions, forms
political participation, areas of social exchange,
festivals, etc.) and any device that builds citizenship.
- Natural and cultural environment; defense of our natural resources.
- A set of legal standards that protect the public sphere of citizens, interpreted from the universe of rights.
Culture as construction of memory, identity and claim of Argentina and Latin American history
All human life can be counted as a narrative;
Argentina and Latin American history the book where we can find is living experiences to guide

Broad Progressive Front program

our actions, memory is switched to a route
through the territory of South America.
Cultures are powerful devices to create
identity, belonging and rootedness. Places to investigate the history, know our place in the world and to preserve and take care of our cultural heritage and
environmental. A proponent of the research and
Argentina teaching of history and Latin American
for kids and youth.
The Argentina and Latin American history provides consistency over time and space to generations
They preceded us. Also a brilliant exercise on
debates and struggles that sustained our ancestors,
an example of behavior and also an image of unacceptable attitudes.
Overrides a decentralized, federal and look
once integrated into regions, creating new cultural maps related to the various territories of America
South, while interculturalidades, diversities and identities that come together in a common project.
Culture as a place of diversity and device
embraces Human Rights
How diverse it is not a note of color. The different is not someone to be tolerated. What it is to create a diverse society
where he felt "something" is finally "someone". How different groups seeking to be recognized. They foster human rights, in the end, the collectivization of
differences.
There is no love for intercultural differences.
There is no cultural decentralization without respect for differences.
There is no gender multiculturalism.
It should stimulate the rights of women, children, indigenous peoples and inclusion of people
with disabilities and all groups fighting for their right to equality of choice
and opportunities.
There is no cultural program you can forget
diversity. The purely homogeneous, the fragmentary, strictly focused can become
authoritarianism because all human action, in all
governance in culture, diversity is our environmental indicator is how we know if we are

3. 4

oriented path.
Sustaining memory, justice and truth
They make culture, without the exercise and protection, not
conceived the construction of citizenship. Marks
dictatorship, lost generations, torture and
It turns the symbolic production that leaves us the time
dark, the struggle for justice and vindication of the law,
as well as recognition for our missing and political prisoners are essential when thinking
in a democratic Argentina.
Culture and Communication
To communicate is to construct meaning. Out stereotypes, promote the system of collective symbolisations, (who
We are who we think we are, we dream and desire, passions and ideas that we hold, which are
our conflicts and paradoxes).
The frivolity with disseminated in the media all relevant concept of dignity, love and solidarity, handling the same every month
of popular emotions, seduction of a proliferation of images linked to the market and attracting
the best of art, culture and entertainment service commodification of everyday life as well as the
discredited political activity will fissuring the meaning of our actions in creating projects
life and hopes of personal and collective achievement. The
lack of future construction difficult strategic thinking.
Incorporate areas and spaces for other media stories, looks, information and debates within the framework of democratic freedom, to build
a cultural public policy relevance.

transportation and various formats. We propose to approach the
population processes based construction
matter and creativity in the service of innovation and beauty, and also the custody of knowledge
traditional and continuity. The call cultural factories, including new infrastructures through
culture with popular participation.
In turn bet on the promotion of industries calls
Culture in all its forms, systematizing support
creators, mini entrepreneurs, designers
cultural field, in the various media (CDs, books
and print, websites, audiovisual, different designs) both
at the stage of creating, editing and production, as
of movement and communication on them.
Culture as a place of transmission
For children and young people work because they are
those who know how to love. Because they are the hope of
world. Because we want them to feel like "thing
to heart". (José Martí - 1873)
One purpose of education is to transmit culture. Culture as generational passage device transmits the words, symbols, values, worldview.
The management of the areas of culture should work together with the Ministry of Education in particular and all the ministries in terms of ensuring creativity, imagination, consistency and persistence
in the transmission of culture. This is a thought
Strategic unavoidable. You think of the new generations and strengthen a world that seems to be weak,
amnesiac, no destination.

The relationship between culture and the world of work,
highlights the enormous capacity of culture to train, encourage, support, promote the
movement of goods and cultural products in the
Argentine territory.

Education and culture relationship must recreate an image
future for new generations. What this is impossible without universal policies that include children and
youth.

Culture as distribution of affect in the territory
We live in a world in which change itself, loneliness and heartbreak put us at risk of forgetting
importance of the links between people and affection
as a huge processing plant social passions.
Thinking is also passionate.
A collective project of change is always a passion

We believe in a strong differentiation industries
entertainment and the ability of the State to
providing training in arts, design, crafts, media, social

It is the task of promoting cultural management, organization
and distribution of social affection in the territory, creating
public works, volunteer networks and events that in-

Culture as training, promotion and creation of opportunities for work.
The work is action, role, participation in
transformation of a country. Confers dignity and shines as an essential right of the Argentines.

35

Broad Progressive Front program

talen utopia of self-esteem and affection, as a
passionate culture, crossing out the asymmetries and
inequalities.
Culture as a collective creation of the Argentine people
Create is to know that you can leave marks in life. The
irreducible human condition is to be a somebody
that is capable of transforming the circumstances and through
the barriers of the unchangeable. The policy creation
It imposed as a lighting device to combat poverty and indignity.
The culture thus promotes creativity in all
the public sector, creating expression systems,
communication and training to make this possible,
performing a task of rescue and promotion of artists
Argentine, folklore and handicrafts, and insisting on the
right of every inhabitant of the country to make their own
creations.
This must be done by encouraging the regions
exchange and creating projects and regional circuits, in addition to the projection of our creative in
Latin America and the world.
Consequently, promote culture and to federalize
consider the right to culture and the creation of
every man and woman of Argentina and Latin America and
the people as a whole.
PROPOSALS
Projects, activities and projects
Institutional hierarchy of the Culture, to
pursue a common, progressive, federal project,
inclusive and decentralized. Creating an Agenda
National Culture.
Promotion of a Federal Law of Cultures that ensures access to cultural goods of all
citizens, such as access to the symbolic and the achievements of sense.
Budget allocation not less than 1% of the national budget
Comprehensive project that articulates institutions and decentralized autarkic as Incaa, INT, CONABIP,
National Endowment for the Arts, etc., ensuring distribution of federal funds and to promote all forms of expression with freedom of creation, place for
innovation and heritage rescue.

Broad Progressive Front program

Creating and sustaining a truly Council
Federal Culture, able to generate regional projects, integrating the country, linked to South America
distribute the budget that was allocated to decentralized and effective approach to cultural development
provinces and regions.
According to the Ministry of Education's Office
to create a comprehensive program that promotes knowledge inside and outside of school and consider the transmission of cultures one of the most important purposes
education.
Recovery paths, agencies and programs
cultural at different educational levels: education
art, media, design, music organizations, theater, choirs, cultural itineraries, etc.
Teacher education in multiple languages ​​emphasizing the importance of representation networks
and symbolizing the educational approach, understanding
the symbolic world and its representations supporting the construction of meaning.
Distribution and use of new technologies for the
knowledge creation and coexistence.
Creation of a national training and cultural program
training in cultural management, arts, media and design.
Creating a national child policy program
and youth as universal and transversal policies
intergenerational (with children and young people for all).
This program will be integrated with educational policies,
policies related to labor, health, child development and citizen participation that cross
The first quarter century. It includes support systems and
promotion, conferences, forums, spaces linked with
the rights and life projects and forms
influence their perspectives on public policy from the perspective of the new.
Support for the creation of cultural factories, recognizing
the design and realization of the social organizations that are taking action in this regard.
Cultural factories are innovative cultural infrastructures that articulate inclusion, training for
work and popular role. True power plants
job creation and with three objectives:
- Introduce children in the selection, composition and
building processes in different materials supports: wood, glass, paper, textiles, etc.

36

- Create work cooperatives inclusive high level
with promoting the installation of mini projects
cultural and movement of products.
- Give the Ministry of Education and periodic visits
creditable in these factories paths for students
from secondary and tertiary institutes
pedagogical training.
Cultural factories have an unavoidable social mission: to bring new generations to
protagonists, are included in groups with job training, gather around the invention, the
manufacturing and imagination.
Development and strengthening of cultural industries.
Through routes and points of sale throughout the country,
fairs, exhibitions, art markets, making agreements between public-public, public-private and both
with the third sector. Creating a comprehensive system
promotion, rescue and circulation of cultural industries in the book and printed media, websites, audiovisual,
disco, various designs.
Creating an integrated promotion, organization and production system of artistic activities, getting ideas and listening to their protagonists, proposing new programs, maintaining the existing
excellence, creating enough building maintenance
for rooms, art schools, museums and infrastructures
cultural. Also provide circulation circuits
artistic productions, integration between regions
and projection in Argentina, Latin America and the world.
The same will be done with the multiplicity of languages
art audio-visual, plastic body, scenic, musical, etc. This decentralization of artistic action seeks the formation of new public spaces and achieve
social organizations, for the exhibition and assembly
of their proposals, as well as ownership of public space and urban landscape of the imagination
and development of art and culture.
Creation of a Latin American cultural integration program with particular emphasis on countries
integrated Mercosur. This device will try to overcome the
mere formal meeting of governments and cultural organizations to launch a Latin American perspective on cultural activities and programs statements.
Establishment of a network of public media specializing in the fields of education and culture, along with
private and community media to produce materials
quality, which they can access all stations and

are exponent of freedom of expression and multiculturalism. In turn facilitate such audiovisual material
it can be used in all computers
Students of the educational system, their teachers and parents.
Heritage Trails Program Development History
for the restoration and recovery of heritage buildings in the country (synagogues, churches, public buildings, railway buildings, production, etc.)
with particular attention to the restoration of buildings
heritage that provide cultural services (museums,
art education schools, archives, institutions
dedicated to the history, etc.)
Strengthening the study of history in all
levels of education, as well as campaigns and historical programming in the media. Road construction
tourism in the territory related to the history, optimizing the educational material that allows citizens access to museums and ruins can enjoy a
more accurate and more complex knowledge information.
Creating a national cultural program on memory and human rights that articulates production
theater, audiovisual, literary and initiatives
for the field of education generating projects
research, contests, scholarships, etc. to encourage the deepening of the sense of human rights.
Creating a network of parks, museums and sites of memory that were clandestine detention centers
to optimize its awareness programs and democratic awareness.
Commissioning of universities and research centers led by young people from villages
Originating offered to the entire Argentine people, a systematization of knowledge, history, languages ​​and
cultures from their traditions. Creation of
public publisher to disseminate the culture of the communities.
National Cultural Landscapes program that integrates
categories of environment, culture, production
symbolic and economic promoting legislation
protective of these enclaves. Editing educational material with the concept of cultural landscape, considering
the environmental interest as essential for cultural development

37

Broad Progressive Front program

EDUCATION
CURRENT SITUATION
Education is a prime resource for the construction of a new alliance between ethics and knowledge,
between knowledge and citizenship, between contemporary culture and
training of children and youth.

In that order, and unlike the dominant values ​​in the nineteenth century and much of the twentieth, where use
of force and territorial warlords constituted
a generalized mode of legitimation of power; the
companies begin to realize that sustainability is directly related to their ability
to foster participation and respect pluralism. For
it is essential to understand that society is how to live with all the others, in collaboration, solidarity and readiness to make between
all. Coexistence is the great challenge of the time and
It requires work environments that include the
respect, word, participation and the desire to share in an identification with the principle of "common good", to realize a project that meets plural
all residents and citizens.

In this framework, education in all its forms must
beyond mere information and move towards a space
cultural transmission and socialization within
an overcoming ethics for the new generations.
For this, the environment in which the educational process takes place and the frame material and symbolic relations
that implies, it is unavoidable. That is why both the
organization and educational environments and quality
Institutional society that frames the education system stands out as a producer and multi level
complex learning.
School education should provide the necessary resources to understand the reality with scientific capacity
and technical enough for decision-making. Each level and instance of the educational system should make it possible
the student decode and understand reality
in all its dimensions; You should provide the tools to build their own criteria in the framework of a
culture that respects the diverse directing its actions
in an ethical and humane sense for preservation
planet, species, society and himself.
AXES
Promote actions to convene to rethink the ways of teaching and learning, moving towards Mira

Broad Progressive Front program

It gives complex reality where social experience,
subjective perceptions and knowledge holders
our culture are integrated and interact in a building that accommodates senses and all future
identities.

PROPOSALS
Dignifying the teaching task and promote wellness, regaining its role as operator of the
culture and architect of the incorporation of new generations to dialogue with the contemporary.

This is a pedagogical positioning
He sees education as a powerful movement
to other ways of doing and therefore know the
to transform reality.

Improved environmental conditions and training
from ongoing training and service oriented regain autonomous and critical thinking
Based on current social demands, technical, ethical and cultural issues for the office.

A move towards an ethical and aesthetic education, which means that learning occurs and
from the action and all representations and reflections it generates, and where everyone are key players in the task of teaching and learning.
The same demand a thorough reform of thought and forms; and a change in the educational organization itself aimed at linking different
jurisdictional and bureaucratic strata and different
levels and forms of education. It is to overcome the logic of fragmentation which closes all construction of meaning and belonging and cause spaces
common to do, think and learn together putting
to education as a value and an inalienable right.
This approach work involving direct and indirect actors in the system, respecting provincial autonomy and production agreements
Federal necessary under construction
a national project; because our proposal recognizes and rescues valuable educational experiences
taken place in our country and respects the institutional memory rescuing the heritage of public education
Argentines are the starting point for
move forward.
Reformulation of relations with organizations
workers and society as a whole and a rethinking not only of programs, methodologies
and school organization, but a redesign of bureaucracy and legal, accounting, technical, technological and communication media from a new perspective. We stress the need for education
situated to help and not just be part of witnesses
events, to understand, to communicate, to solve
problems and act democratically defense
rights. Help them understand that there are no absolute truths or neutral knowledge or processes
linear, no chance of advancing alone.

38

And to promote "learning to do" as
sustenance of all learning from the beginning of life
school until the (college and university) higher levels with emphasis on the mastery of different
technologies, in an ethical framework of social solidarity and
environmental commitment.

Development plans for prevention and early intervention
for the health of teachers and students.

Strengthening the link between education and work, through the consolidation of technical education in the
middle and upper level from training programs
practice linked to the productive reality of each region, as well as job training and youth
adults for social inclusion and employability through
promotion of entrepreneurship.

Formulation of a new national law to finance the education system that supports the necessary changes.

Promoting the development of scientific thought and
attitude to research and knowledge in all forms of education.

Redefinition of educational action, placing the
and student learning in the center of the scene,
response to changing the curricula and
institutional organization.

Strengthening the learning of basic sciences
in secondary and elementary, primary schooling.

Improvement of physical spaces, which requires support and
expand the investment budget for construction,
expansion and renovation of educational buildings and a
Parallel work on community involvement in the care and improvement thereof.
Promotion actions that generate socially sustainable environments, care and self-care, exchanging the culture of conflict and violence as a value for coexistence and institutional practice in search
Media for values ​​education and academic knowledge.
Redefinition of the links in relation to life,
rights and quality of life indicators
social learning and human development and political
(Construction of a gender perspective, respect
for diversity in all its forms, assessment of what
Public and environmentally sustainable behaviors; healthy and responsible attitudes regarding food consumption, sexuality).
Recovery of cultural and social importance of the school as a place capable of articulating children and youth
the exchange with the contemporary world, giving the necessary tools so that this possibility is realized for all members of the
new generations

Progressive move towards a new form of school
secondary that includes multiple languages ​​and spaces /
collective creation time between teachers and between teachers and students.
Development of a diversified educational strategy, especially aimed at youth and adolescents who remain outside the education system as a step prior
their inclusion in formal education.
Deepening in compliance with National Law
Education and in coordination with other state agencies to reformulate spaces
confinement, in the position that the environment is everything
an educational space.
Strengthening education in rural context from a
closer links with the environment and its business potential, until the full integration into the world with the use of
technologies and its multiple possibilities.
Coordination of all policies for children and youth
in the field of education with social and labor policies,
cultural and health, giving priority coverage
the first tranche of early childhood education from 45
days of life the child and his / her family, for the people
at risk.
Promotion extended school day, flexible hours as a vehicle to generate opportunities

39

Broad Progressive Front program

Broad Progressive Front program

real ties to the masses.

SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY

Strengthening adult education, particularly literacy programs aimed at
adolescents and youth in joint work,
institutional agreements involving all
stakeholders in the development of alternative routes of access to knowledge related to the
job training.

CURRENT SITUATION
Argentina has important educational skills,
scientific and technological institutes represented in
research institutes, universities and technology centers,
distributed harmoniously not always, in all
provinces.
The creation of the Ministry of Science, Technology and Innovation meant an institutional innovation
to put in value the knowledge structure
national state for the design and management of public policies in science, technology and innovation.

Strengthening university action on the
research and reformulation of the legal scaffolding
connection with the production of intangibles, by increasing public funding and building infrastructure
equipment as well as economic incentive to the researcher's task teacher, legally preserving
intellectual production and expand the scientific dissemination for a massive social appropriation.

It increased the stock of human capital in research and development, but has not put the same emphasis on developing infrastructure to absorb
so that adequate capital. This expansion has not
prioritized harmonious development of the system and not the social appropriation of the benefits of science and
the technology.

Development of active policies for the integration of knowledge and sharing of experiences in the production and technological innovation applied to solve
common problems in health, environment, renewable energy, production of goods and services, etc.

The programs implemented in the scientific-technological and productive innovation system have
as the main source of international funding resources.

Contribution to the development of regional economies by strengthening the relationship between the university and the
production from R & D model that encourages
virtuous link between all institutions
Been engaged in research and production
science and technology (Inta, Inti, CONICET) and the sector
production, aiming to develop more and better educational skills.

The investment amounts to rave measurements,
0.45% of Gross Domestic Product (GDP). This percentage is low when compared with other countries.
This situation is aggravated by the low turnout
the productive-enterprise system activities
research, development and innovation, as well as the
lack of a regulatory framework that encourages investment and venture capital.

Continuity of policy Nesting university teacher accompanying his formative development, technical scientific production and requalification remunerative.

The absence of federal planning and management
territorial resources has accentuated inequalities
terms of opportunities and potentials of
access to knowledge resources, scientific and technological capabilities, financing. It has also
at risk the sustainability of natural resources
as the source and support of social, económicoproductivo and environmental development.

Special attention to the problem of the tertiary education system and its coordination with universities.

AXES
Reflect a long-term perspective, sustainable and inclusive
the development of our country and society Argentina,
without losing sight of the pressing problems today
They exist with respect to poverty, exclusion and distribution
inequitable resources and wealth.

40

Designing state policies on science, technology and innovation with strategic development programs
provincial / regional level.
Finance investment in science, technology and innovation
at rates not less than 1% of GDP with Naciona budget resources.
Sovereign and sustainable planning in the form of political exploitation of natural resources.
Developing harmonious and decentralized fashion
education and science and technology, promoting system
sustained increases in space, equipment and human resources.
Strengthening social and technological linkage in solving regional needs and priority issues.
Promoting local innovation systems that stimulate
regional economies, production systems and integrate their value chains in innovation activities,
development and transfer of technologies.
Develop entrepreneurial skills and funds
venture capital activities of high social impact,
economic.
Encourage public and private investment in research, development and innovation.
Promote social appropriation of the benefits of
science and technology, encouraging creativity and innovation from an early age.
PROPOSALS
Development of a strategic plan for science, technology and innovation in the project country, setting priorities at the national, provincial scale
regional, promoting the participation and involvement of national universities, institutes and centers
research, companies and governments existing in the territory integrating the other strategic plans.
Genuine financing for investment in science,
technology and innovation not less than 1% of Product
Gross Domestic to reverse the dependence
international resources.
Investment incentive of the national productive system
science, technology and innovation to achieve competitiveness in their own products or developments.

41

Broad Progressive Front program

Broad Progressive Front program

Encouragement and support to the creation in the provinces of ministerial-level agencies in return for
the allocation of federal funds, to promote
national funds to be allocated to programs
R + D + i provincial / regional.

articulation within the system and with other actors
social.
Development tools for the modernization of
equipment in colleges and universities.

tivities research, development and innovation.
Eliminating red tape, customs and tariff affecting scientific and technological production of public institutions, including universities.

Promoting innovation and associative between
companies, companies with R & D, and entreempresas, governments and R & D centers, parks and poles
scientific and technological innovation centers in the
industrial parks.

Creating new areas of work, especially
in the provinces, and development of incentives for the establishment of regional scientists working priorities.

Development of federal funding instruments
encourage and promote scientific dissemination and
technology.

Creating a National Transfer System
knowledge as an interface between the productions
science and technology and between it and the production system.

Encouraging creativity and inventiveness of children and youth.

Coordination with provincial ministries to define regional research priorities, taking social problems, health and education.
Momentum, together with provincial authorities, tools that support the filing of
scientists entering the system and mobility
Existing towards disadvantaged areas.
Establishment of transparent and efficient mechanisms for allocating, monitoring and evaluation of results and
impacts.
Survey of renewable natural resources (forests, continental shelf, biodiversity regime
wind, etc.) and non-renewable in the country (minerals,
groundwater, tourist sites and natural interest,
hydrocarbons), to characterize the situation and prioritize development and use.
Development of a strategic plan for development
sovereign and sustainable management of natural resources in harmony with the social, economic productivity and
environmental.
Support for improving the teaching of science and
technology, in order to encourage vocations in areas
keys and vacancies, and to sensitize young people about the importance of knowledge for improving the quality
of life.
Continuous support and integration of training young researchers.

Generating a system of indicators to measure
effectiveness of investments in science and technology.
Building dynamic optimization models
regional economies by networking with the system
knowledge for the development and application of new technologies.
Defining priorities for the development and consolidation of regional economies, integration
the value chain of production systems, promoting innovation in those links where
technological opportunities or weaknesses are found,
adding value to products and promoting the production of exportable products.

Supporting the production of educational materials, recreational, educational and cultural productions popularization of science and technology.
Supporting the development of regional capacities for
disclosure issues related to science and technology, through instances of training of local facilitators and promoters.
Impulse and promotion of community initiatives, social
and cultural science.
Conducting awareness activities, training
and training related to the topic, in coordination
with universities, NGOs
and governments.

Support the development of scientific, technological and productive activities involving the substitution of imported inputs and products with social impact
and economic.
Encouragement and support the development of entrepreneurial vocations to generate projects and initiatives based on
innovative technologies with high social and economic impact.
Support for the creation of technology-based companies
national and regional priority areas.

Increased specific and significant funding of science and technology within the budget
the universities.

Creation of venture capital funds with public-private partnerships to encourage the development
ideas with high growth potential and competitive insertion into the actual regional and international economy.

Expansion and improvement of existing institutions, beginning with those who demonstrate capabilities

Review of incentives and rules to
to promote business involvement in action

42

43

Broad Progressive Front program

Broad Progressive Front program

3.3 RIGHT

HAVE
RIGHTS
To stage civil society is, in reality,
only way to practice the "art of living together".
This will not be possible without a democratic state that guarantees citizenship rights and build. A State
Other ready to open, to hear opinions, voices,
identities, demands of all social sectors.
To end the scandal of poverty and secure
social protection. Accept that guarantee rights
It is more than write or announce. Exhibiting no
only political will of transformation, but a redesign of its bureaucratic apparatus to orient to effectuate
that distribution rights.

44

4. 5

Broad Progressive Front program

JOB
CURRENT SITUATION
Lack of institutionalization of a broad field of social dialogue. The Council is the only area of ​​the minimum living wage, which reduces the annual setting function
the minimum wage.
More than 7% of the population is unemployed and persists
precarious employment: high levels of job does not
registered and forms of outsourcing involving fraud
work, with a strong and unequal pay
with the absence of a policy aimed at young people
neither they study nor work.
36% of workers are not registered and job insecurity broadly reaches over the
half (53%). Unemployment is 7.6% overall,
the youth reached 18.9% and income is a juvenile
57% lower than the average total income. More of
one million young people neither work nor study.
Absence of sustained political and oriented on
vocational training, and lack of adequate preventive and restorative coverage in health and safety at work.
Persist standards inherited from the military dictatorship and
neoliberalism, and a capacity of Labour Inspection
quantitatively and qualitatively poor.
The actions taken to provide equal treatment and
opportunities are deficient.
Child labor remains a disgrace to
all of us. It has not fulfilled its obligations
inherent in the ratification of ILO
worst forms of child labor.
Inadequacy by the Argentine government to
ILO Convention 87 on freedom of association, which prevent full recognition of all organizations
including unions and the Confederation of Argentine Workers (CTA).
Maintaining tied upright union
the branch generates greater segmentation of workers
given the new forms of production.
AXES
The role of government is to guarantee the fundamental rights which are expansive force of social democratization,

Broad Progressive Front program

in that sense they should reduce disparities between
recognition and enjoyment of the same. The state must guarantee the right to have rights.
Implement broad social dialogue involving
Tripartite federal and take the necessary actions to achieve decent work exercised in conditions of freedom,
equity, security and dignity, adequate remuneration and social protection, providing guarantees for
collective action.
Ensure plurality and freedom of association in organizations representing workers who may enable new collective constructions.
Promote collective bargaining as a tool
democratization of labor relations and a factor
of worker participation.
Implement a policy of employment and income, vocational training that addresses the different stages of the
lives of people.
Promote the eradication of the different forms of work
registered and casualization, outsourcing and labor fraud.
Combat various forms of discrimination in employment and
child labor.
Promote the protection of life and health of workers. Prevention and restoration are two sides of the same
currency and should be jointly framed
within the principles of social security.
PROPOSALS
Creation of the National Labor Relations Board
Council replacing the minimum living wage,
with tripartite composition and extending it to all federal
topics that are relevant to improving
productivity, working conditions and welfare
of workers.

tions of their working path: seeking their first job, busy, unemployed and retired. The aim is to ensure the right to work (in the form of employment, or
others) and a decent income.
Strengthening employment managers, and offices
employment at the municipal level for implementing different actions according to the groups: the unemployed
longstanding (employment insurance and training), formal workers (certification of skills, promotion
the CVT), with regional criteria related to the needs of demand
production and the situation of the local labor supply.
Support for those who develop their activities in the informal sector with the aim of
help consolidate the activity by improving conditions for development and offering alternatives to the formal system of incorporation, particularly with regard to retirement and health.
Replacing the current unemployment insurance Employment Insurance and Training.
Implementation of a national policy on vocational training, that contemplates the productive and social demands.
Policy aimed at young people who neither work nor study. There is a large group and inaccessible.
One should think of curricula and own innovative developments. The focus should be put on the educational,
both with regard to and in relation to terminalidad
comprehension skills development, resolution
problems and expression.
Promotion, within the Federal Labour Council
the development of a skilled labor inspection and
enough, both in routine labor inspection (documentary) and directed to aspects of health and safety at work.

Strengthening collective bargaining as a tool for democratization of labor relations, and
its extension to other areas and themes.

Combating unregistered work: articulating the AFIP
specific policies on this issue. others will be identified
forms linked to subsistence activities, in which case
It will seek to create special conditions of execution and coverage. For small and medium enterprises,
technical assistance programs will be implemented and / or
credit to enable their regularization process.

Definition of a national policy on employment
and revenues accompanying the worker in all situations

Establishment of joint liability between lead company and contractors and / or subcontractors to

Adaptation of the labor law to ILO Convention 87 associations, since it is a human right
essential and a requirement of democracy.

46

all obligations towards their workers and social security agencies.
Promotion of a new law on health and safety at work, to replace the law on health and safety (product of a dictatorship and regulated by another) and the
occupational risks (product of neoliberalism).
Guaranteeing the right of workers to defend their health
through the creation of delegates and health committees and
job security. Creating a reference institute for health and safety at work.
Preventive sphere of this change in legislation should
It is framed within the recently ratified
155 2002 Convention and Protocol relating to health and safety at work (Law 26,693) and Convention 187 on the promotional framework for occupational safety and health at work (law
26,694). Since unregistered workers in general, those who work in the informal sector of the economy do not enjoy the benefits of occupational health, the integration of knowledge will be promoted
necessary to that in primary health care.
Promotion of work with equal treatment and opportunities:
a) gender: a review of current legislation
to create conditions of non-discrimination (nurseries, shared licenses for care
children, more extended paternity leave); promotion,
through training and dissemination of representation
Female association; b) on disability: ensure compliance of Law 22431 (System of Comprehensive Protection of the Disabled) and its regulations
by Decree 312 of entering Public Administration
National compliance with the quota of not less than 4%
for people with disabilities; law regulations
sheltered workshops, promotion opportunities
I work in the private sector; facilitation of training, according to the skills available in trades
and professions. c) regarding age: besides planned for youth incentive program the employment of the over-45s will develop. d)
Indigenous Peoples regarding: full force of ILO Convention 189; strengthening and program support
traditional forms of production and work.
Abolition of child labor. Coordination areas
relevant state, in broad dialogue with society
and political parties to formulate and implement a policy
national fight against child labor.

47

Broad Progressive Front program

SOCIAL SECURITY
CURRENT SITUATION
There is a social debt with the majority of retirees
those who earn salaries that are unrelated to
your needs.
For initial miscalculation of credit and the absence of
Updates for long periods, the Anses faces
thousands of lawsuits and does not meet on time and the
final judgments.
There are more than 900 rules that modify, supplement, regulate and interpret both the pension system and other branches of social protection.
Members and beneficiaries do not have mechanisms
participation to strive to ensure transparency and
improving services.
The copyrighted work does not negatively impact on
financing and competitiveness
companies.
The existing social security schemes remain
designs that have not adapted to the situation of the labor market, changes in society and less
even to the demographic composition of society.
AXES
Conceiving social security as a human right
key, which must be provided to all members
of society equally, without differences
status, gender, sexual orientation, ethnicity or nationality.
Under this principle the guarantee and role of government in
social rights, can not be delegated.
Universalize the social security system with high distributive justice, balance and sustainability
long term.
Strengthen public, solidarity and mandatory regime of contributory coordinating actions with care towards universal coverage.
Coordinate schemes different coverage
existing social contingencies at the national,
provincial and municipal federalism and respecting
In order to maintain the rights of citizens
avoiding duplications

Broad Progressive Front program

PROPOSALS
Features
Maintaining current benefits to current conditions regarding age parameters and computing services, with the added flexibility
entitles to proportional benefits to
contributions made either greater or lesser extent
that current requirements.
Adequacy of the number of years considered
to determine the reference wage to the characteristics of the labor market whereas the last 10 years are not generally the best income. They
progressively must consider the entire
race because so will capture flexibility
and transience of the current situation of occupation.
Review of benefits in accordance with the regulatory provisions and case law in order to install a stage of compliance with legal mandates
in effect, preventing the growing judiciality.
Policy review minimum, differentiating
full benefits proportional or obtained
with facilities or moratoria, in order to recognize
vital needs.
82% of the reference wage will be the criteria for
get the redistribution scheme requiring
supportive services. This replacement rate may
vary in relation to income levels, obviously
growing for low-income beneficiaries.
Revision of the rules on mobility retirement, conditioning them to the proper function of the provision and
right balance in order to maintain the purchasing power of benefits.

Coverage
Orientation designs systems towards greater adaptability to the characteristics of the labor market
-sumamente current dynamic-offering alternatives
to complete the requirements thereof.
Access to programs that target complete
the years of service that should be computed for
the right to full benefits of the contributory scheme, whether from the granting of credit facilities
subsidies to meet special periods.
Development of integrated care components to
tax system to realize the inclusion of quie-

48

tions have little or no "entry into the formality" and
So low amount of accumulated services.
Transfer to the general system, after review, of non-contributory schemes in force at the national pensions.
Financing
Increased transparency in the registration separating them properly, as the intended destination
for funds.
Checking of papers given type
and company size as part of a comprehensive tax reform.
Remove the decrease in revenue sharing of
15% to the provinces because they were exceeded
reasons that led to this measure.
Strict control of the necessary transfer tax system affected by the relevant agencies.
Administration and management of the Guarantee Fund Sustainability criteria of transparency, openness,
permanently demonstrating compliance
right performance objectives, social objectives and
positive impact on the economy.
Education and culture of social security
Education programs on social security
aiming to understand the importance
coverage of social contingencies while
promote the culture of prevention in health
in general and work in particular.
Maintenance of pension rights
Promote the entry into force of the Agreement 49 from the Ministry of Labor, Employment and Social Security, in the process of ratification by the provinces to the
reciprocal calculation and aggregation of all services
provided at national, provincial and municipal regimes, modernizing existing schemes.

Autonomy the body responsible for administering the Guarantee Fund with a composition Sustainability
for the address where the representation of the interests of the beneficiaries and the sectors responsible
of the national economy.
Orderly development of supplementary schemes
which they may be voluntary by third sector or nonprofit companies with a rigorous controller or supervision.
Provincial and municipal banks
Impulse agreements for coordinating the development of these systems and contain provisions that assign
equivalent parameters and balanced rights
commit to the provinces and municipalities to complete the rules established in law and fulfilling the commitments made in the Coordination Agreements to ensure both
domestic and international.
Boxes of academics
Incentives for the development and strengthening of boxes
university graduates with the dual purpose of
provide coverage of social contingencies to this
universe and strengthen the system of registration that
It involves strict adherence to ethics in the exercise
professional
Consensus to structure a system managed by stakeholders providing reasonable limits mandatory to ensure that these
provincial systems in order to meet the
they were created.
Family allowances
Modification of salary caps on the issue of family allowances, tending to universalize for all formal and converge with the AUH workers.

Boosting the signing and ratification of bilateral and multilateral agreements for the same purpose.
Administrative and management structure
Review of the structure of management bodies
with stakeholder representation.

49

Broad Progressive Front program

SOCIAL POLICY
CURRENT SITUATION
Despite having passed a period of eight years
economic growth remains a social box
painful: poverty affects 30% of the population and
indigence to 13.5%; 60% of deaths of children under one year occur from preventable causes; 6 each
20 children and adolescents are not entitled to the
universal child allowance despite its universality,
More than a million young people do not study and do not work (1
four); and 43% of our children are poor.
Growth and redistribution does not go hand in hand. Is the
not the market condition and the guarantor of the right of all
the citizens. It is an inherent function of the state to reduce and eliminate social inequities, redistribute goods
and services, and training opportunities.
The situation involving widespread need
poverty and destitution is not about only
entry, is also related to a picture more
range of hardships that involves the deterioration of various spheres of life: education, health, housing, work,
mastery of technology and languages ​​of his time.
AXES
Reformulate social policy so that it can establish itself as an essential tool that allows the
State guarantee a floor of income and rights to the entire population.
Implement a universal public intervention to integrate and coordinate plans, programs,
rules, strategies to extend to the entire population, all social security benefits and the full exercise of social rights.
Building Citizenship, a rights approach involves defining the mechanisms through which the standards of rights will be protected. It's about
overcome the logic supplier / beneficiary.
Articulate and coordinate policy with civilian actors and
social, creating an inclusive social participation,
wide, horizontal and decision-making capacity.
Promote the participation of holders of universal social benefits, as subjects of law.
Eradicate poverty, homelessness as key to creating a more egalitarian society step will be the
all key objectives of government management. For

Broad Progressive Front program

It does will be proposed to ensure an income floor and
guarantees include not only income transfers
according to the needs, but ensuring access
health, education, housing, drinking water,
to sewers and to decent work. Define this strategy
required to reach a broad social consensus which involves all stakeholders without exception.
PROPOSALS
Restructuring the Ministry of Social Development
actual levels of participation (Federal Council
representatives of the provinces and the various stakeholders involved), giving it incumbencies
on incomes policy so as to guarantee
the universality of social benefits and acting
jointly with transversal actions and / or focused on the territory, primarily aimed at
ensure access to basic goods and services (access to housing, drinking water, sewer, gas
natural).
Setup and coordination of a Social Cabinet together with the Ministries of Health, Labour, Infrastructure,
Education and Culture, which is responsible for monitoring
the program and with the responsibility of presenting a
comprehensive medium-term plan.
Creating a "Fund financing programs
social "in the Consolidated Social Public Expenditure
with specific budgetary involvement, accompanied
the improvement of fiscal covenants containing long-term commitments regarding the incremental and progressive face social spending.

Strong work involving territorial generation
spaces with the provinces and municipalities, an anchor
Local enabling act on specific areas
where people live.
Deepening the universality of combining policies with targeted programs that allow for
specific answers to specific problems
(Childhood, youth, disability issues, domestic violence, addictions, etc.).
Inclusion in all actions the gender perspective and
ensuring respect for all diversity (age,
sexual choice, Native Peoples).
Development of specific procedural rules
ensure recipients plans, transparency in the system and access requirements, and resources
available to challenge any administrative decision affecting their rights.
Coordination with active employment policies and experiences related to the social economy, understood
as the socio-economic strategy overcomes the
social interventions. Development of tools
ensuring a transition encouraging that this sector
achieve a gradual reintegration into the formal economy.

Legal institutionalization of policies being implemented. A measure such as the Universal and
Son taken by DNU remains dependent on government
shift. The same policy, implemented by law,
operation independent of the government, guaranteeing it by law, the policy becomes a law
continuing to belong.
Effective universalization of the Universal and
Son to converge with family allowances
also including the set of features provided for the latter. In addition to ensuring access
universal, would cease to be a supplement to cover
a fault (work) to become a universal law. Punitive conditionalities and deleted
(Employment, income, type of educational institution, etc.).
Access to kindergartens and pre-school for all children.

50

51

Broad Progressive Front program

Broad Progressive Front program

BLESS YOU

charges 25% of the residences of the health team.

CURRENT SITUATION
43% of children live below the poverty line,
and 14.3% under the poverty line. The infant mortality rate remains above the double digits, reaching about 12 thousand.

In the public health sector of our country, work
300,000 agents: professional, technical, administrative
and support staff. 30% of the workforce is precarized with provinces reaching 85% (San Luis) or
over 50% (Santiago del Estero, Formosa). The plan
Community Physicians, the main program of the Ministry of Health of the Nation, has 100% of its strength
precarized labor, low wages and irregular payment.

Maternal mortality has not declined in the
past two decades, reaching 4.4 per ten thousand.
In some provinces like Formosa average triples
National: 13.3 per ten thousand.
Teenage pregnancy is around 15% of total
pregnancies.
The public health system in Argentina has
1,500 hospitals, 6,000 medical units and 70,000 hospital beds (52,000 less than at the end of the management of Carrillo in 1954).
45% of the population lacks formal coverage. He
public sector serves 90% of emergencies and
responsible for 80% of the training of human resources in graduate school. Of the 12,000 residents, 10,000
They are formed in the public sector.
The health system is characterized by fragmentation,
dismantling and in the case of the public sector, on the
underfunding. The Ministry of Health of the Nation
He has resigned his role driving role has not been taken by the Federal Health Council
(COFESA).
In Argentina, the total health expenditure is 9.6% of GDP,
percentage that includes the public sector, social works, the prepaid system and spending Pocket
families. The latter has the greater weight of the total
expenditure and is aimed at drugs, tariffs, consultations, etc. The public sector invests only 1.9% of GDP
(Less than a quarter of total expenditure), the provinces and
municipalities 1.6% and the nation only 0.33% of GDP.

There is no instance of collective bargaining between the
State and its workers. To this is added the lack of
trading in many instances provincial and municipal jurisdictions, coupled with the lack of freedom of association.
There are 330 government health insurance linked to copyrighted work, much higher than number 70
branches of the economy.
AXES
Building the Unified Health System based on four
principles: universal, free, equitable, democratic participation of workers and users.
Develop health care reform that provides the basis of a
single health system with universal coverage.
Strengthen the state system as the first step towards
the Unified Health System, incorporating the provincial systems, municipal systems, social state and the Pami works.
Implemented in the state system of primary care
as an intervention strategy, building care networks and public production of drugs to use the state system itself.

The absence of a national health plan led to the privilege of focal plans financed with loans
increase the external debt and have not solved the
major health problems of the population. The outsourcing and privatization fragmented and weakened the public health system, without providing answers.

PROPOSALS
Establishment of a single authority of the national health system, with representation of different (national, provincial, municipal) jurisdictional levels
common and specific competencies, reorganizing in
this sense the Federal Health Council, and promoting
integration of the regions. Included in this process
effective approach and an inter suprajurisdiccional policy in the Buenos Aires metropolitan area that despite
concentrate about 40% of the population, leads
years of failure in health integration.

The postgraduate training system is in
crisis. The most telling symptom is not covered the

Creation of a fund to finance the public health sector (to progressively reach 3% of

52

PBI) with specific allocations for the allocation thereof from mutual commitments between
nation and the province (maintain the level of funding
provincial as a percentage of its budget,
specific accounts for the execution of the guarantee of free benefits, progressive approval of the various labor regimes).
Regulation and enforcement of the law on public production of medicines, serums and vaccines,
order to realize the development and strengthening of a
production network based research and public
a balanced exchange between all laboratories
public of the country, avoiding overlapping production, duplication of efforts, together
with universities and contemplating production
orphan drugs.
Boost interdisciplinary research systems
based health health determinants public. Promoting basic research and
clinic not linked to the pharmaceutical industry.
Completion of funded plans focus international credits that increase the foreign debt and
only exacerbate the fragmentation of the health system.
Samco repeal the laws and hospital self-management.
Development of equal opportunities and gender mainstreaming in public health policies. The
avoidable maternal deaths should be reduced in a short
term reproductive health policies.

53

Broad Progressive Front program

HOUSING AND HABITAT
CURRENT SITUATION
Access to housing and a healthy habitat has
become one of the biggest social debts
in Argentina. Decent housing is fundamental
for the development of healthy families and citizens and securely.
The housing shortage in Argentina affects 3 million
households, 47% of households do not have sewers, the
43.9% have no gas network and 16% have no running water. The causes of this emergency are several, it is not a homogeneous phenomenon, but has different facets.
Much of the housing deficit in the
we call informal developments. In the
Large cities have slums densified.
Another portion occurs in formal neighborhoods where State
It has not yet come up with infrastructure. The lack of
basic services in homes has an impact very
strong health and economy of the families and neighborhood development.
In the media sector there are difficulties in accessing
housing for non-mortgage loans. Young
meanwhile they face difficulties in access to
rents for the conditions required.
In rural areas, are very critical situations
though less conspicuous by their geographic dispersion. The
Homelessness is one of the reasons that encourages more
internal migration.
Political decision, solidarity, clear rules, transparency
and joint management with state participation
social and private sector organizations will enable
significantly reduce the housing deficit in the
next four years.
AXES
Territorial development planning, not only solving the
emergency, but taking into account the strategic plan
national. Suitable habitat, it also makes a territorial development model. It is important to think about the
sustainability of cities and the draft country
the will sustain.
Active role of the state as guarantor of access to housing. The state can not be absent from the problem of housing.

Broad Progressive Front program

Set the public utility of urban land. It's necessary
the State at different levels to have a policy of land and with instruments that enable it to provide
the development of urban land, where necessary.

through public banks, so it works as a driver of savings and investment in housing for different social sectors, either as a retail bank
or wholesaler.

Developing public-private partnerships for development
land and infrastructure. It will increase the stock of
urban land available from building
infrastructures in accordance with the goals outlined in the respective participatory plans and programs.

Construction of villas. Besides working on the causes
causing people have no other choice but
villa urbanization of villas will be promoted, where
is environmentally possible, providing them with services
basic, public space, equipment and linking
with the surrounding urban fabric, to become
in new areas of the city.

Work on the regularization: by each owner, a property title. A lot of
families live in lots bought in installments, or
they have occupied for decades, without the title
property. Informality is a social liability
that devalues ​​the investment that families have in
their neighborhoods.
To value the efforts of families
already they have a housing. Much of the deficit can be
resolve minor improvements or modifications
existing homes. Besides lower investment
necessary, adds value to what has been done for so long by families.
Participate in solutions for the slums. The villas
misery, they were a place of passenger arrival for migrant families for years, they have become
a structural reality. Are all complex cases,
legal and environmental status of their sites,
that should have urgent solutions.
Retrieve the mortgage. A society without access to credit is the result of a society without confidence. We encourage long-term savings and allow
thousands of families have access to housing.
PROPOSALS

Give institutional hierarchy within the structure
government to the problem. The aim is to give federal establishment to the problem, managing resources
they should get along all four years at 2%
GDP (currently allocates 0.7%).
Decent housing in a suitable habitat. It should also incorporate issues related to areas of work,
recreation, transport and provision of services,
environmental risks to build homes and not mere
homes.
Recovery of the role of the National Mortgage Bank

54

Social guarantees for tenants. Establishment of a
guarantee fund for tenants without formal income,
but having ability to pay.
Promotion of prior savings for housing. A system is created so that families can spend their
saving housing to maintain the purchasing power of
its capital and thereby qualify for mortgages that require a percentage of own contribution
as counterpart.

the in cases that meet minimum conditions of habitability.
Housing programs and rural habitat. Specific programs are required but articulated in a plan
concerted local development. These programs range from the regularization of the lands in
which certain settlements are located, colognes
and small towns, to the provision of basic infrastructure, housing improvements and construction
new units.
Promotion of sustainability criteria for urban development, habitat and housing. Promotion
conducts environmental awareness, working
on the efficient use of water, energy, design
bioclimatic housing, treatment of
solid waste, design of green areas and renewable energy pilot projects.

New tools that enable the mortgage, it is necessary to structure systems that take expected inflation for calculating quotas while
establish an insurance to compensate the deviations that may occur.
Creation of a land bank. Have proposed
instruments that allow the creation of banks
land and public-private partnerships with owners
that enable the creation of new urban land at reasonable prices.
Construction of social housing by the state, aimed at the most vulnerable sectors of the population.
Momentum to the recovery of public investment, avoiding
make repayable grants. Implementation of
systems to encourage public bodies and beneficiaries of public investment recovery. Articulation
NGOs and social organizations in the outsourcing of the
collection of programs to be small
solidarity funds for local development.
Constitution microcredit fund for the improvement of housing for those families who
they can not access credit.
Securitization programs of large-scale property

55

Broad Progressive Front program

Broad Progressive Front program

ECONOMY
CURRENT SITUATION
Argentina's economic history is characterized by
numerous cycles of high growth are over
in deep crisis. This shows that to achieve sustainable economic and social development, it is imperative that growth is accompanied with stability
and social equity in a context of care
natural resources thinking prospectively in intergenerational terms.
In the last decade, Argentina failed to provide a comprehensive and sustained debate on the main guidelines of the economy want to answer
the country, and about alternatives to start development
economic and social sustainable, framed in medium-term strategic project.

3.4 SOLIDARITY

THE FUTURE:
ECONOMY AND
TERRITORY
SUSTAINABLE

Sustainable development must become our priority concern. The state is the main
responsible for safeguarding the lives and health of each
Argentina and every Argentine, ensuring that
productive activities do not conflict with the
environment and natural resources.
The construction of this trail is not automatic,
It requires an integrated economic system, that is a model of greater social, territorial and productive balance. These balances mean greater equity
distributive (social integration), a geographically more harmonious development (territorial and environmental integration) and a more interconnected business network
(Production integration).
The Broad Progressive Front firmly assume
universal commitment to defend the environmental balance of the planet. We know that the country should grow
with social and territorial solidarity, caring for and respecting the environment.

56

This scenario is an opportunity to think
strategically and thoroughly discuss the economic model we want for Argentina. The international context, even with the current turmoil, continues to provide a historic opportunity to lay the foundations for
economic and social development.
The basic pillars of economic expansion this time and improving indicators led
social, are showing a high degree of exhaustion, putting constraints on the prospects for
the coming years.
The analysis of the imbalances that dominate the situation
local brand are several areas that require
immediate attention for the next administration and,
therefore they require specific answers. Among the most
pressing are: 1) inflation; 2) the degradation
real exchange rate (derived mainly from higher
prices), and their impact on local competitiveness and
the external surplus; 3) the deterioration of the fiscal front (with
inflationary financing through money creation); 4)
amesetamiento and deteriorating social indicators; Y
5) problems in the conditions and quality of public services (transport subsidies and high energy, along with key deficiencies in infrastructure).
The current government has increased substantially
transfers, current and capital, character
discretionary provinces that performed or directly
municipalities. This mechanism has become an instrument of patronage and extortion by the
that national government must be modified, replaced

Zando the bulk of discretionary transfers
automatic mechanisms.
AXES
Build trust through effective dialogue is a priority for the formulation of economic policies.
Formulation of a strategic development project
medium and long term and to identify areas
value chains increased productivity, economic and
social, that may lead the development and convert
strategic areas. Its guidelines are the result of dialogue and debate among a multiplicity of productive actors, workers and the state, in coordination
with academia.
Agree on the strategic pillars, as well as
think the fate of national savings, redefining the system
local financial, increase the incentives for investment,
promote a fairer distribution of income as a result of a fairer tax structure and policy
efficient spending, federalism coordinate system
more transparent and achieve sustainable fiscal management
of natural resources.
Expand, densify and modernize the productive apparatus
national. Reverse the current primarization
the economy, promoting the industrialization of
products in the countries of origin and enhancing the service sector.
Overcoming false dilemmas, domestic market vs. external, agro vs. Industry, small and medium enterprises vs.
big enterprises. Our idea of ​​emphasizing production
the importance of value chain systems
production.
Implementation of specific microeconomic policies which are the result of discussion and agreement between the
employers, workers and the state.
PROPOSALS
Promoting an integrated production system, with industrialization near production sites, with the protection of regional economies and
special support for small and medium producers
that can be incorporated into the production process
generating quality employment.
Implementation of promotion policies for new non-traditional export sectors as the case
services (software, tourism, health, etc.) His drive and

57

Broad Progressive Front program

Broad Progressive Front program

strategic design at the local level is key, as is
an economic sector with high potential to generate quality jobs and high added value.

financing productive development, particularly
agricultural value chains, investment in innovation and new technologies and access to housing.

Reformulation of agricultural policy. Policies of recent years has fallen livestock Stock,
They have deteriorated and many regional productions
He has greatly advanced the soybean production.

Fiscal policy
Reformulation of public spending priorities
enabling a real improvement in income distribution.

Promotion of a new mode of Federal Agricultural Council to agree on policies
medium and long term in line with the strategic project for Argentina, giving predictability in rules
game. This institutional space should bring together governors, field entities and rural workers
and the national government to define the broad lines of
agricultural policy, giving predictability to develop the activity.

Developing a more progressive tax system
it will increase the incidence of direct taxes (income, property, inheritance) over the
indirect taxation and the various forms of income
(Financial, mining, oil, etc). We do not think
more taxes, but taxes better.
Evaluation and gradual reformulation of the current system of subsidies, avoiding distortions in regional
rates are not justified by costs. Also,
contrary to what is done today in Argentina,
we need to move from a subsidy scheme to
big business for consumer subsidies for
which has to be implemented a tariff system
social, conjugated to a gradual upgrade
the fees now pay greater power sectors
economic.

Removing barriers to exports that are
discretionary and are not associated with problems
actual supply the domestic market.
Review and discussion of the issue of retention in the framework of a model of competitive exchange rate and
review of general taxation. Given the weight
they have today in the financing of public spending, especially soybeans, have to think about modifications to be made programmatically in time. Those related to regional economies (meat, milk,
fruits and vegetables) can be faster, even in the
For cereals (wheat, corn), careful to keep the domestic price according to purchasing power
domestic market.

Review of public debt in order to determine
their conditions of legality, legitimacy and transparency of public accounts.
With regard to the revenue sharing, if it is not
possible to have a new law in the short term, we aim to gradually retrace the legal "maze" of partnership tending to transparent
in principle a floor above the current 34%
for the provinces. We encourage sharing mechanisms founded on technical criteria and not discretionary
based on financial, economic and social aspects
following the principles laid down in the constitution
1994 national.

Creating a National Bank for Productive Development, publicly funded, not deposits. Your role will be financial assistance to companies
invest in priority areas in the strategic plan for productive development.
Channeling loans through direct loans and guarantees by granting
to facilitate access to credit, low interest rates and
low cost to the state. The National Bank for
Productive Development will be managed independently,
with a board of directors composed of qualified professionals appointed by competition, and with a clear mandate
defined in its charter.

Monetary and exchange rate policy
Coordination with the interventions in the exchange market to support a competitive exchange rate with
a monetary program based on indicative targets
inflation and budget management that seeks boost savings in good times and allow increased spending in the downturn.

Reorientation of the loan portfolio of the National Bank. One of our priorities for the public bank

Do not limit the competitiveness of the economy at the level of
dollar. It should increase the genuine competitiveness

58

and sustainable, based on innovation and development
I technological creating suitable conditions, with political, economic and social boost,
plan and sustain long-term investments
strategic sectors, financed by domestic savings
and complemented by foreign direct investment
that enhance the productive system.
Inflationary policy
As for inflation, we believe the main economic problem of inheritance receive the next
administration. Inflation is a hidden setting, which
main impact is seen in the lower income sectors, since it is the most regressive of
taxes, allowing the government to raise more
turn, but at the cost of punishing those who have less.
In parallel, permanent price increase in
it lives, it undermines their competitiveness step
domestic products and thus eroding
trade surplus of the economy, thus hindering job creation.
The current inflation is related to a
offer that has not kept pace with demand, mainly for lack of sufficient productive investments, generating macroeconomic imbalances
generating more inflation. Meanwhile, continuity
scenario of high inflation in recent years has led to an inertial dynamics that ended up becoming the main component of the current movement
Price, further exacerbated by the lack of a
credible index, which creates even greater expectations
actual inflation.

The proposals of the anti-inflationary plan are:
Consultation in the framework of the Economic and Social Council of the wage and price policy. Given the nature
inertial and strong expectations component
Current inflation is crucial call for dialogue
generating social trust and allow agreement
employers, workers and government in terms of the
inflation patterned targets.
Establishment of a monetary program targets
indicative of inflation agreed by the Economic Policy Council, which is consistent with budgets
sustainable fiscal, which do not provide financing through money, and an exchange policy
to contribute to sustaining competitiveness. Does not about
an orthodox inflation targeting program that
based solely on high interest rates or the fixing of the exchange rate, but an outline of goals
gradual reduction of inflation for coordinating
expectations.
Regulation and control of non-competitive markets
(Monopoly, oligopoly, etc.) so as to avoid
price makers that will serve as mechanisms of spreading inflation.

It is a fallacy to say that inflation is a consequence
obvious growth. Our neighbors grow
high and low inflation rates. That is why, contrary to what happens in Argentina, we believe that
only a context of low inflation enables an
sustained growth over time, with social inclusion,
elimination of poverty and improvements in distribution
He entered. Our plan projected annual inflation down to
a digit, gradually over governance.
Do not make adjustments or cool the economy.
Prior to an anti-inflationary plan step is necessary to recover the credibility of the statistical system
Public and end the current intervention of the INDEC,
reincorporating displaced technicians. The new Indec is a decentralized body in the orbit of the Ministry of Economy, with financial and economic autarky
legal personality.

59

Broad Progressive Front program

Broad Progressive Front program

INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT
CURRENT SITUATION
Discretionary and inequitable distribution of funds without
to consider strategic planning with governors and municipalities. As project definition
centralized without consensus. Enforceable procedures
and transparent tendering public works.
The current national energy policy can not meet the energy demands of the future. The growth rates in energy demand indicate that the
next 15 years will double the offer.
Argentina's energy matrix is ​​significantly dependent on hydrocarbons.
Predominance of road transport in transport
cargo and passengers.
The road network has low percentage of motorways, and a high proportion of poorly maintained routes ,. This insufficient road capacity
generates congestion and road safety.
Access to the river and seaports have
clear signs of saturation.
In 2010, 46% of Argentine households not
cloales has sewage connection or with gas. In
As for drinking water, still lack access 16%
of households.
The country does not have a national water authority
you can develop a water policy with all uses integrated water management.

eral and conceived from the perspective of rights
of citizens to have access to basic services
a sustainable environment with balanced development
in different regions.

Promoting an agreement programming, coordination,
regulation and oversight of public passenger services of all types of transportation, whether intraprovincial,
interprovincial, regional or national.

Prioritize projects that promote the production and
the development of the habitat and the regional economies, as well as the construction of social infrastructure: Thematic federal health plans,
education, sports and culture.

Developing a national plan of air transport and
regional, tending to the optimization of resources and
promotion of air transport, integrating the public and private sectors in order to provide a sustainable and sustainable system.

PROPOSALS
Boosting the strategic planning of the works of energy and road infrastructure, drinking water, sanitation, habitat.

Contract review initiated in April 2010
national highway concessions in corridors, on their
compliance, works, tariff updates and commissioning
fully operational with the targets set in the
solicitation.

Promoting the creation of a National Fund Services
Essential to ensure the financing of works
energy infrastructure and basic sanitation, establishing a federal commitment to the distribution of resources.

Reconsideration of the navigability of courses
inland water, not only by the large difference in cost
with rail and truck, but also
the large reduction in environmental damage.

TRANSPORT AND CONNECTIVITY

POWER

AXES
Organize road infrastructure and transportation systems (rail, air and river) and state policies invigorate regional economies, optimizadoras connectivity and road safety.

AXES
Consider energy as a human right. Thus
the State must properly plan generation
power and distribution, ensuring supply to the population and the productive sector.

Redefining the rail system both as load
Passengers considering the country we want and not what
it was. Road, rail and logistics development environments
major ports.

Diversifying the current energy matrix, which presents
a strong dependence on hydrocarbons. An energy matrix is ​​less flimsy as count
more diversity of sources of generation, where
renewable energy should achieve adequate participation.

PROPOSALS
Promotion of a federal program interconnectivity
provincial roads, reinforcement or optimization
the use of national route system. Running motorways in those traces
connect major cities and / or those that are
linked to production.

INFRASTRUCTURE

AXES
Promote planning of the national state with
provincial governments as dynamic processes of transformation and investment in infrastructure.
They imposed for both the state and for national
provincial and municipal management new challenges
creating viable solutions that allow spaces
integration with industry participation, local governments, universities and research centers, the
civil society and other institutions
interested in the question.

Promote the implementation of master plans for metropolitan transport infrastructure and cargo and
people in major cities mode
guide the implementation of works.
Strong investment in railways through a Federal Mobility Plan addressing the main flows
fillers and / or value chains, in order to absorb
the increase in traffic for greater productivity.

Define a properly planned infrastructure faith

60

Achieve energy self-sufficiency.
PROPOSALS
Institutionalization of a National Energy Authority and transform the Federal Council of Electric Power
Federal Council on Energy and fuel
representation of all provinces.
Formulation of a Strategic National Energy Plan to define the role of the national state and the private sector in the regulation and control of distribution
energy, with the active participation of different actors, including universities and science organizations
and technology.

Redefinition of the energy mix, tending to
its gradual change with enabling policies
substitution chords to the existence and availability.
Promotion of a new national law on energy resources to replace the existing since 1967.
Development of multi-year master plans in all
various energy modalities available and potential resources.
Gradual reformulation of policy on subsidies
rates.
Implementation of a national program of rationalization and energy saving. Development and implementation
an educational and cultural national program of rational use of energy.
Implementation of a national program of energy including, in order to ensure access to
electricity, gas and drinking water for vulnerable sectors.
Implementation of a plan of supply of natural gas
the productive sector in terms of certainty and
predictability.
Redesign of new energy sources and responsible, rational and efficient use of current.
Boosting bilateral and multilateral agreements export
/ Import of energy in the framework of a policy of
regional integration.
Promote programs of scientific and technological research and development of renewable energy applied to environmental, social and economic sustainability.
Reconsideration of studies major central
hydroelectric and commissioning of small hydro.
WATER RESOURCES,
WATER AND SANITATION
AXES
Develop a federal sanitation policy, conceived from the recognition of the human right
access to water services and sewage,
intimately associated with the health and quality of life
the population.

61

Broad Progressive Front program

Broad Progressive Front program

financial agent investments in water services and sanitation.

Promote with the provinces new consensus on the guiding principles of drinking water and sanitation. Defining the quality parameters associated with water quality and sewage.

Updating and standardization of quality standards, supported by regional epidemiological studies
to adjust the allowed parameters. Identification
territorial areas and populations in health risk
to implement assistance programs in the short
run jointly with provincial authorities
application.

Promote water culture, research and technology development in water and sanitation policies.
Promote an Irrigation Master Plan at the level of regions
that allows to integrate new land into production.
PROPOSALS
Bill for the creation of a single authority
Water with ministerial rank, in line with
the Guiding Principles of Water Policy, with jurisdiction over all the processes related to resources
forming a water and sanitation Secretariat with expertise in the subject of services
potable water and sewage. Creation of the Federal Council of Sanitation (COFESA) to settle
all provinces.

ENVIRONMENT
CURRENT SITUATION
Humanity faces serious environmental problems
they generate risks to health and life on the planet.
The state is still indebted to the whole of society, when to play its regulatory role
to prevail in the common interest to ensure
sustainable development and ways to control production and consumption that are not.
Climate change is the greatest environmental threat
facing the mankind and our country can not remain indifferent, both international discussion, as
to necessary internal actions to mitigate and
adaptation; and must comply with national emission inventories for the Conference of the Parties.
Regarding production, there are activities
require special attention to the environment, as in sectors of industry, mining and farming. All these activities consume significant amounts of water,
energy and chemicals that generate risks
health and the environment.

Execution of works effluent treatment
in older populations including reuse for
irrigation of treated effluent in populations with deficits of water resources-promoting programs
solidarity for the development of sewage networks
contributions from the provinces, the municipalities involved, and
beneficiaries. As for the smaller towns,
access to national and international credit lines for execution with the provinces boost
of basic sanitation works. Installation of plants
compact water treatment in the areas that they can not
It is reached by large systems potalización
and distribution.

There is tension between the original domain of the provinces over their natural resources and the constitutional power to set minimum national budgets
environmental protection.
Failure of agreements in the Federal Environment Council, Cofema and the role of the national state in the
establishing a clear environmental policy, intervention in just jurisdictional conflicts, as well as the laws and regulations in the
allocation of resources for implementation.

Evaluation and review of water systems
multiple purposes (energy production, irrigation, water supply and flood retention).

AXES
Promote sustainable development as a combination
indivisible components and equitable socio-political, economic-productive and ecological-environmental,
in the processes of transformation of the territory in
to protect health and improve quality of life
of its inhabitants, as part of a participatory democracy.

Use of water resources to boost
the development of regional productions.
Planning a National Water System in
coordination with the provinces, seeking to integrate the
water resources of the nation.
National co-financing of works of urban flood protection, always incorporating the concept of basin and sustainable development.

Promote a balanced development establishing links between society and nature, considering
that environmental degradation is not a consequence
inescapable human activity but the result of
some styles of development.

Enohsa transformation to become the

62

Deepen public policy Association
theme water, sanitation and proper disposal of waste to health and life. This will only be possible with
the active involvement of the national state in the problem with a comprehensive approach that considers the
social inclusion.
Promote environmental health criteria controlling and regulating production, trade or activities
service constitute a potential source of risk
health and life.
Preserving biodiversity and the sustainable use of renewable natural resources and goods.
Promote an appropriate policy that goes beyond conflict
hauling unplanned development in both environmental sustainability and social.
Ensuring environmental and social livelihoods of all production activities: agricultural, industrial, mining,
setting guidelines so that this financial support will translate into social development and environmental preservation.
Promote a policy of change, working on
national systems to make rational use of
energy sources and prioritize the development alternatives for
of gradually changing the energy matrix
national, in order to reduce the emission of greenhouse
emissions. The phenomena of flooding and desertification as a concrete expression of climate change,
priority must be served.
Develop a national environmental policy with character
Federal institutions and strengthening all areas
competition in this area. It is a substantive body
Cofema, interjurisdictional space to set
agreements for the effective implementation of environmental policy. The national authority should play a
open and inclusive role.
Strengthening mechanisms for participation of different sectors of society, especially those involved in the concrete and youth issues.
PROPOSALS
Systematization of the existing environmental information
in the national state and the provinces. In order
of it accessible and useful as a source of information
of new policies to promote.

63

Broad Progressive Front program

Broad Progressive Front program

local tions protect native areas, especially
in suitable areas for agricultural production.

Planning system recovery plants,
recovery and waste treatment and landfill in coordination with the provinces. Articulate
Funding for these works.

Strengthening strategies premises ratifying international agreements such as the Convention
Biodiversity, the Ramsar Convention and the recommendations of the IUCN.

Promoting the minimization and source separation
waste with effective education and communication
environment in coordination with the provinces.

Strengthening mechanisms for interaction
Management of Protected Natural Areas, prioritizing
for example the full functioning of the Federal System of Protected Natural Areas (SIFAP).

Promotion of national law packaging and support all
other legislation that address proper management of
residues.

Unification of criteria for handling and management
native flora and fauna, especially in regard to wildlife trafficking by only documentation for all jurisdictions. Advocacy
on natural resources, and the genetics of the species
native.

Addressing aquifers and watersheds
as complex systems, within the framework of strategic planning and the Environmental Land Management, in order to prevent and resolve conflict
existing.
Enforcement of glaciers, determining
priority glaciers and periglacial areas
to protect.

Argentina's position statement in defense of natural resources and biodiversity (Convention on
Biological Diversity and the United Nations Convention
Convention to Combat Desertification and Drought).

Creation of an Interministerial Committee on Environmental Health, composed of representatives of ministries
or secretariats of Health, Production, Environment and
Sustainable Development, Labor and others who have
interference, to coordinate actions of the different sectors of the national State regarding
issues that have to do with environmental health, and between them and local jurisdictions.

Improving institutions greater control and support
environmental police power of the provinces to regulate polluting processes, detecting
its officers and application of sanctions and the
corresponding remediation. Environmental costs
They should be accounted for.

Set up a system of registration, care and follow up complaints of different origin,
They are formulated linked to health effects of
the population, associated with environmental causes.

matic and environmental solutions.
Strengthening participation and involvement
dynamic sectors of society from the local to the national to achieve social prominence and
empowerment.
Inclusion of environmental education at all levels of formal and informal education system and the
training and retraining of officers and employees of the system.
Development of a National Action Plan for Prevention and disaster a long-term strategic plan that will define civil defense policy and guide
institutional activities for prevention and risk reduction.
Creating an interministerial body with participation of all areas involved in production,
consumption, public works, health, education,
the economy, energy, to design sustainable policies in all areas and comprehensive approach to
environmental issues.
Claim to international level compensation
environmental services representing biodiversity conservation for the entire planet.

Promoting good environmental practices. Coordinate with the provinces Production Programs
more clean.
Review of the regulatory framework related to plant protection products.

Establishing national standards to unify the
registration of the links between environmental factors and diseases, promoting the development of indicators
aimed at guiding national prevention policies
and remediation.

Promoting the diversification of crops, agriculture
defendendiendo and certified organic food sovereignty and security.

Promotion, through the relevant agencies
National State of a now nonexistent interaction and
joint work between the Federal Councils Middle
Environment and Health (Cofema-COFESA).

Revision of the mining code and the regulatory framework
activity and control its enforcement.
Promoting Environmental Land Management
(OTA) as a starting point in resolving environmental conflicts.

Enforcement of Native Forests 26,331. Setting
up of the National Fund for Native Forests
Cofema through the budget and the rule states. Support the political and economic jurisdiction

Development of official actions to the visibility, socialization, publication and dissemination of problems

64

65

Broad Progressive Front program

Broad Progressive Front program

4. ATTACHMENTS

66

Broad Progressive Front program

Broad Progressive Front program

EXPERIENCE
LEGISLATIVE
The Broad Progressive Front (FAP) is a young force that has history and solid roots. No promise. We do.
We built in the plural and democratic participation in Rosario and in the province of Santa Fe.
We showed from the National Congress, which
They can enact laws that improve the quality of
village life.
Because we want to govern the country to change, merge and
dialogue with each and all Argentines, the August 28, 2011 satisfied the legislative interblock
Broad Progressive Front, composed of socialists,
GEN Cordoba Civic Front, Libres del Sur, Buenos
Aires for All and Popular Unity.
From the Congress we will support what seems right and good for the people and the country, to criticize and propose what we consider wrong and always point out that what Argentina needs is complete
once and for all with the country in black and white.
MEMBERS OF FAP interblock
Senate:
Socialist Party: Rubén Giustiniani / Civic Front: Luis
Judge Norma Morandini.
Deputies:
Socialist Party: Lisandro Viale, Ciciliani Alicia, Miguel
Barrios, Monica Fein, Roy Cortina, Ricardo Cuccovilo /
Civic Front of Cordoba: Federico Alonso, Felix Martinez, Susana del Valle Mazzarella / GEN: Margarita Stolbizer, Horacio Alcuaz, Virginia Linares, Fabian Peralta,
Gerardo Milman / Free South: Victoria Donda / SI Popular Unity: Eduardo Macaluso, Veronica Benas, Nora
Graciela Iturraspe / Buenos Aires for all Claudio Lozano, Liliana stop / UCR: Sandra Rioboo.
On the site of the Center for Municipal and Provincial Studies (www.cemupro.org.ar) can access the list
updated legislative initiatives presented by
FAP representatives.

EXPERIENCE OF
MANAGEMENT ON
PROVINCE OF
SANTA FE
(2007 and continuing)

INTEGRATED TERRITORY
Integrate the territory is to generate the conditions for
all citizens of the province to develop in their place of residence, and to promote links between
different regions, towns and villages.
We organize the province into five regions with
nodes (Reconquista, Rafaela, Santa Fe, Rosario and Venado
Tuerto), in order to advance decentralization
Provincial government.
We conducted 50 Citizens Assemblies to formulate and
tracking the Provincial Strategic Plan. We have
created institutions expressing public-private cooperation, as the Board of Strategic Planning and Advice Value Chain.
To reduce the digital gap, we ensure access
Internet access in all schools in the province. we are
conducting a thorough reform and modernization to bring it closer to citizens. We incorporate new technologies for the management of proceedings.
We are working to create Santafesina Radio and Television Company of the State, which includes a channel
air, an AM and an FM guaranteeing coverage
the whole territory.
We have built more than 1,200 km. new routes
throughout the province and repaired hundreds of kilometers
rural roads and provincial routes.
We designed a set of 12 provincial aqueducts to
that access to clean water a reality for all Santa Fe.
We prioritize public works as a generator of social and territorial cohesion. We execute more than one thousand
works throughout the territory, in so far government
progressive.

We have prioritized investment in the most neglected areas of our province, making effective solidarity in the territory.

68

SOCIAL QUALITY
A province with social quality strengthen institutions and build more inclusion and participation, citizenship ultimately more.
Our society is only as good as their education. Santa Fe has a pedagogical-educational program
that revalues ​​the school as an institution
fundamental to our society. We recover the
school educational identity providing the conditions for teaching and learning and we rank the task
teacher, titularizando over twenty thousand teachers and
retaking contests postponed for decades.
We build, expand and readecuamos school buildings, ensuring pleasant and safe spaces for
teaching and learning. We create 236 new secondary schools in urban and rural areas, increasing by 45% student retention and ensuring
our young people the right to education without migrating
from their place of origin.
We created a Ministry of Innovation and Culture for
understand that create, invent, manufacture our
hands and live together is the best we can teach
our children and our youth. We multiply traveling cultural programs in our towns and cities, revaluing the public space as a field of
meeting, coexistence and popular role.
For the third year down infant mortality in the province. We set up a single system
health, integrating into 3 levels of complexity -low,
medium and highly health care of all Santa Fe. Our investment in buildings and equipment is unprecedented in the history of the province:
planned 80 primary care centers, the
57 which they are finished and the rest is in stage
construction. At the same time, hospitals are running 8: 3 medium complexity, couples,
Toscas and Ceres; and 5 high complexity in Santa Fe (New Iturraspe and Ambulatory Medical Specialties Center), Rosario, Reconquista and Venado Tuerto. We have
introduced a bill that strengthens Health
the role of the state and provides tools for better
administration and better service.
We promoted a policy on public production
drugs and have deepened the joint
between the two public laboratories that our province has also consolidating a networking
with universities.
Constitute the Social Cabinet to respond
comprehensively social problems. Move
transparency and equity in social services
through the Single citizenship card and the Register

69

Broad Progressive Front program

Broad Progressive Front program

Social quality requires a transparent and open state. That is why we have put into full effect the decree
Access to Public Information, and the first act of
our government was to remove the fences of the Government House in Santa Fe, enabling all citizens unfettered access.
ECONOMICS OF DEVELOPMENT
A development economics power capacity
of society, and generates new opportunities for
achieve an integrated environmental development,
productive and social.

Beneficiaries only. We launched a program
access light and safe water to favor
income families.
Santa Fe is the first comprehensive Plan of Youth
country. Young Cabinet has allowed the incorporation
protagonist of the young people in the management of the State
provincial.
Now we restore 1,500 hectares of land to the indigenous people of our province and deliver
more than 6000 hectares to small producers
Wooded Wedge.

We identify and drive value chains and 18 constitute its Economic Councils, with the participation
of all productive sectors and universities. We promote productive infrastructure
Santa Fe territory through updating the law
Industrial Parks, the recognition of new
areas and parks, and infrastructure investment.

Safety is approached from the causes
situations of violence, so we put emphasis on social issues such as inclusion, coexistence and conflict prevention. In particular, we launched
the only 911, we revalued police work through sustained investment in equipment and improve vocational training
police. The importance assigned to this topic
It was reflected in the creation of the Ministry of Security.

We created the Family Programme in Agribusiness
to strengthen the productive development partner
of rural areas, promoting and rooting
socio-economic integration of small and medium producers.

So that no impunity should strengthen the judicial system. We started the way towards a new system
criminal justice in the province of Santa Fe ensuring a modern, agile and impartial judicial process,
oral and public trials.

Made strategic energy works to ensure
a supply suitable for the needs of the families
and production.
We have developed a proposal for tax reform
to pay more the haves, initiative
It was not accompanied by opposition legislators.

We ended up with undue political interference in the appointment of judges. While they were before
proposed by the governor, now the judges are selected by competition in the Judicial Council,
considering technical, history and
democratic commitment.

After 14 years of failures, the province co-participates to their municipalities and communes the percentage
established by law, no withdrawals of any kind.

Between 2008 and 2011 we built an average of 2,000
homes annually and perform an unprecedented process of regularization of social housing.

For the first time the province has a Ministry of Labour for a better defense of workers' rights. They were created by law and launched the
Joint Committees of Health and Safety at Work. TO
Since 2009, admission to the Civil Service is by selection processes. We have secured the joint spaces and regained career
public employees through the restoration of
internal competitions.

The provincial pensioners over 35 years of contributions paid 82% mobile and retirement benefits are
automatically adjust with each wage increase
active workers. More than 70,000 retirees
they have fewer resources and are not only housing
charged by the property tax.

For more information: www.santafe.gob.ar

Through the law 12,867, we attach a 'pension
Honor "the Malvinas War veterans is
an example in the country. His character is a life and equivalent
the sum of three times the minimum pension balance
force in the province. It also provides health coverage, possibility of access to housing, scholarships
study for veterans and half scholarships for their children,
among other benefits.

EXPERIENCE OF
MANAGEMENT ON
CITY OF
ROSARY BEADS
(1995 and continuing)

MODERNIZATION OF THE STATE
In what constitutes the first experience of decentralization in the country, the state is organized into six
districts, so as to make it more efficient and closer
to the people.
In 1995 he began the construction of the headquarters of
each Municipal District Center (CMD), pointing
a shift towards urban character of territorial balance and a profound transformation of
public administration.
For more information:
www.rosario.gov.ar/sitio/gobierno/menudescentrayparti.jspnivel=Gestion&ult=Ge_3
TRÍPTICO CHILDREN
Is a fundamental circuit of urban educational project through the creation of three public spaces:
Children's Farm: promotes interaction between nature and culture, through integrated spaces between them where visitors can engage in activities like planting, watering, weeding and feeding
to the animals.
The Children's Garden: "The machine imagine"
combines nature with the game for all
ages. It is a recreational park that honors
imagination and creation appealing to logical and creative childhood operations and their
bodily possibilities.
The Island of Inventions: is an open place for
sciences, arts and technologies across languages, designs, media and formats. It is from 2003, a
childhood cultural center that offers performances, presentations, training paths and proposals for research.

BLESS YOU
Recognized as an example for Latin America
Pan American Health Organization, the model
Public Health implemented in the city is a
Free system comprising three levels of complexity, with many primary care centers in neighborhoods in the first instance, articulated
with effectors of medium and high complexity.
The new Emergency Hospital Clemente Alvarez
(Heca) -premiado internationally for the originality and quality of its architecture-the Ambulatory Medical Specialties Center of Rosario "M.
H. Zuasnabar "(Cemar), and the Transplant Center
Bone Marrow Hospital Vilela are some
effectors of the highlights.
For more information:
http://www.rosario.gov.ar/sitio/lugaresVisual/verHospitales.donivel=Salud&ult=S_2#salud
ROSARIO HABITAT PROGRAM
The Rosario Habitat Programme addresses since 1999
issue of the settlements from a holistic and participatory perspective. It is characterized by combining the urban and social policies: families ensures ownership and tenure
secure land, access to basic services
and habitable housing. It also works to create
opportunities for better economic performance and culturally enable better living incorporating the gender perspective.
GROW PROGRAM
The Growing Program is designed to provide comprehensive care for children between 2 and 5 years, with scope to
whole family. Currently, they work 33
centers and 15,000 families are linked to the program, through its various projects. For its neighborhood location, they constitute the first
preventive intervention level of marginality and
the effects of poverty, promoting processes
inclusion that allow the exercise of rights
citizens.
For more information:
http://www.rosario.gov.ar/sitio/desarrollo_social/crecer/introduccion.jsp

For more information:
www.rosario.gov.ar/sitio/lugaresVisual/verLugar.
do? id = 3406

70

71

Broad Progressive Front program

Broad Progressive Front program

ACTA
FOUNDATION
BROAD FRONT
PROGRESSIVE
In June 2011, just over a year after
commemorated the bicentennial of the country and coming to celebrate the two hundred years since the creation of our flag
National, constitutes the Broad Progressive Front.
We firmly believe that creative ability
of our people, their stories of struggle and hope,
its value to recover from deep crisis, are a valuable
collective experience to start building a new
National Project.
The nation's territory is collective, it is institutional and
It is common in the diversity project. It contains a multitude of ways, but articulates their energies around a
word - "we" - which also means a community.
Only a common road map, with differences but not contradictions, let us make history and memory
Concerted future will be able to secure our
fulfillment and happiness and life and opportunities
new generations.
It is participation in all its forms and ways which will ensure the Argentines a common destiny. The Frente Amplio
Progressive means that only a national movement based on the effective participation of Argentine, in creating areas of discussion and consensus, promotion
new political practices, can lead to a change
substantially in the relationship between government and society, to exercise better political representation and, ultimately, to a
true role of citizens.
For this, the Progressive Broad Front comes to make a commitment to promote a new political and social culture.
We reject the conservative definition of politics as
simple management of existing interests. We propose,
Instead, reformulate and reorient those interests based
a decided improvement of social and economic equality and
of increased popular participation.
The large size and complexity of the progressive agenda
for Argentina today requires the construction of instruments also encompassing and complex organization, able to adapt to ongoing growth
the diversity of contemporary societies. This task
urgent national recognizes significant antecedents
in the progressive governments of the city of Rosario, during

72

like the last twenty years, and the province of Santa Fe from
2007. Also in the vocation of companions
and partners involved in this Front, who worked on the creation of new social organizations and
workers, and they have called into question the old political identities. These identities nurtured history
Argentina and currently exhibit notorious difficulties
to understand and intervene in the world today.
The Broad Progressive Front is not a circumstantial response to association electoral situation. The front
Broad Progressive has the vocation to become a
effective tool for good governance and Argentina
with real competition to implement it.
It is necessary to rebuild the link between politics and society
from new and plural perspectives. In a world that
constantly changing, heavy structures of the major parties prevent them adapt and respond appropriately to
social demands. The Broad Progressive Front offers
solidarity, participatory and transparent alternative for
promote cultural change that relies on truth, not
by simple rhetoric, multiple creative skills and
filmmakers of the Argentine people.
Our Frente Amplio because it aspires to join forces
social policy and no other limit than his explicit will
accepting our programmatic bases, and provided their
path does not conflict with that will. Ours is not
occasional extent: it is based on a program.
Our Progressive Front is because it proposes to build a
Nation collective project of recreating the balance between ethics and politics. The goal is the institutional quality and
full exercise of human rights in the context of
truth, memory and justice; the way, the social inclusion
universal access to education and health, redistribution
economic, defense of the rights of workers, and
full respect for freedom and union democracy.
Progressivism is still proposing today, as proposed
the Argentine Dialogue, political reform necessary to improve our democracy. Progressivism also recovers
the essential foundations raised by the Public University
Argentina, to insist on the need for economic reform as deep as required by building a
just society.
Progressivism is urgent to intervene, sensitizing
and mobilize around the close link between a healthy environment and quality of life. Fighting
Poverty is also creating healthier environments and
urban and rural landscapes where life is strengthened
and possible live. This implies a strong defense and
responsible use of our natural resources, the recovery of the ability to decide on them,
as well as a call to build a Par Environmental Plan

ticipativo that can translate into public policy
long-winded.
The international scene, with lots of fresh developments in the economy, in finance, in
communications, conflict and reordering
the central actors, continues to show an uncertain world,
with a growing and increasingly insecure poverty. However, the crisis in the centers of world capitalism is an excellent opportunity to redefine links
between Latin America and the world to do, from our
region, that international order progress in the sense
peace and solidarity. For the Progressive Broad Front
urgently adopt a strategic perspective of insertion
based on an effective international mutual cooperation with
Brazil in the context of Mercosur, in deepening
regionalization and broad economic multilateralism,
political and institutional.
Nearly three decades of recovered democratic institutions in Argentina, its values ​​are not at issue.
However, our political democracy has yet
great limitations.
In the Argentina of the past years have accentuated the
autocratic traits that characterize the Argentine political system. This is evident in two areas of relationships: the
Executive power with the legislature and the judiciary, and the national government with subnational States. The absence of
dialogue between authorities and the deterioration of federalism front
the central power, are two sides of the same coin. Corruption, lack of transparency and cronyism structural complete this panorama.
Another important limitation of our political democracy has
It has been their failure to transform the sustained growth in recent years better distribution
wealth able to reverse the profound inequality
condemns much of our society to poverty and
even destitution. A situation that objectively demonstrates finding that eight out of ten major charge only the minimum pension being that half the
Children born in Argentina are poor and half
the poor are children. It is true that a comparison with the
happened in our country in the years 2001-2002 shows significant improvements in many aspects. But it is no less true
this Argentina is very far from that which we
and we need. Six out of ten households lack the resources to make ends meet; seven out of ten companies
comprising business leaders from Argentina are foreign; and eight out of ten young people live in Argentina
today, in precariousness.
These not only explain fundamental debt crisis
recurrent political representation affecting our democracy but also reaffirm, therefore, the
need to build an alternative for those social sectors whose needs and desires are not

73

Broad Progressive Front program

Broad Progressive Front program

played by existing political options.
The political horizon is given Broad Progressive Front
by the articulation of two inseparable values: freedom and
equality. Each is denatured if it contains
to the other. Freedom without equality is the harshness of the market;
equality without freedom is tyranny. As the foundation
the emancipation of the people, freedom and equality
They are necessary to build truly human relations in the affective, cultural, religious, political and economic level. And this is impossible without a gender perspective
that from the recognition of diversity, secure the
fair treatment and opportunities.
Special attention should be paid to young people, protagonists increasing frequency of political speeches but not
public policies. It is about young people who relapse with
stronger the disastrous consequences of exclusion.
That is why we value and encourage politicization and social and political participation of young people. However, we
It highlighted the lack, and therefore the urgent need,
universal public policy with and for youth.
The history of the last centuries is a story of gradual progress towards rights and freedoms. It is time that those freedoms are enriched with
progress of social equality that allows convert
waiting in hope and hope enjoy a
actual collective welfare.
Our Nation presents a wonderful challenge. So we take and how we work and work: that we may
be an integrated, stable, just and safe society, capable of
ensure the inclusion and development of these and future generations. We do this by combining the best of Argentina's political history and appealing to the invention of the future:
as an act of identity as the achievement of dreams
groups, such as pursuit of happiness we desire and that
our children deserve.
We call for dialogue to all Argentine and all
Argentine to form a broad national movement
ethical and programmatic basis, a move that respecting our human, moral, spiritual and material values, contains us all without excluding anyone. We call
especially young people to become protagonists today
in the construction of this proposed change.

www.binnerpresidente.com
www.hermesbinner.com.ar
www.libresdelsur.org.ar
www. partidonuevocordoba.com.ar
www.buenosairespt.org.ar
www.partidogen.com.ar
www.partidosocialista.org.ar
www.corrienteup.org
www.cemupro.com.ar

We call to build, with the joint effort, an illusion
heart in the present and look to the future.

74

75

Broad Progressive Front program
