Österreichische Post AG
Info.Mail fee paid

"Because of you. Austria. has the BZÖ the present
Election program developed with the goal of this country again
to bring forward. The Carinthian model is this
A model and a guide. "

Governor Jörg Haider
BZÖ Alliance chairman and top candidate

Index
1. Save yes, but in the right place

Page 5

2. fight against inflation

Page 6

3. Go the way social

Page 8

4. Austria Austrians

Page 10

5. Relieve the Mittelstand

Page 12

6. Justice for the older generation

Page 15

7. Every child and young people the same opportunities

Page 16

8. Creating more security

Page 17

9. protect our homeland

Page 18

10. Never again red-black

Page 19

4

1. Save yes, but in the right place
1.1. Administrative and bureaucratic reform.
The course taken by the BZÖ way of reducing bureaucracy and a comprehensive constitutional and administrative reform
must be continued. Through a simplified at all levels, streamlined and entrümpelte State
Administration, but especially by merging the 20 social security offices and a
radical reduction of bureaucracy, proportional representation and privileges in the pension insurance companies, bringing up to
Can be saved 5 billion euro of taxpayers' money. An enormous amount of money to families with low incomes and
Relieve pensioners.

1.2. No raise for politicians.
In times in which can afford the daily life through the famine fewer and fewer people who
Inflation eats incomes and pensioners with adjustments of 1.7 percent be fobbed off, there is a
smooth travesty that after the politicians Emoluments Act politicians' salaries this year by more than three percent
were raised! As the only party BZÖ was not connected to this increase in the politician salaries,
but this money donated proven social purposes. In Carinthia are salary increases for politicians
ever exposed to for years. This model is to follow the whole of Austria and renounce the increase of politicians' salaries.

1.3. Fewer and streamlined political bodies,
more political efficiency and performance.
As a small country we afford to large political bodies and too many decision-making bodies. Therefore, should
National, federal government, provincial governments and provincial assemblies halved, the Federal and Provincial School Boards
ever abolished, thus 100 million euros of taxpayers' money can be saved. Parallel are performance and efficiency
in politics by abolishing the parliamentary summer recess, more Plenartage and regulated
To increase speaking times in Parliament.

1.4. Speculation tax on financial speculation and tax penalty
for oil companies.
Save yes, but in the right place and is, not to save where it comes to completely new ways of
go equitable distribution of wealth. This includes the introduction of a penalty tax BZÖ the for
Oil companies, the so-called "Robin Hood Tax", which, following the example of Italy and Portugal
which lukrieren of these tax revenues of four billion euros, to the enormous additional profits
Oil companies comes into play when the price of crude oil exceeds a certain amount. The BZÖ
But advocates for the introduction of a tax on financial speculation speculators who by their
Earn gamers estates billion, without paying a penny tax, while the structure of the
Bring the world economy to falter.

5

2. fight against inflation
2.1. Reduction of taxes on basic food, medicines and rents.
Inflation has become an unbearable burden for all of us. Foods are more expensive than ever,
Renting become prohibitive and the cost of drugs to rise incessantly. Alone the
Inflation in food, rent or drugs makes for an average family more than 500 Euro
per year or according to the old currency nearly 7,000 Schilling from! To the Austrians
relieve the BZÖ speaks for a reduction in VAT on basic food, medicines
and rents.

2.2. Official price freeze and price system for diesel and gasoline.
He rises. And rising. And rising. The price of petrol in Austria. So strong that driving is becoming a luxury. So
fast that the oil companies did not comply with rake in the money! And what makes the
red and black government? She looks to stand by and conceded vigorously increased taxes! The BZÖ
Calls countermeasures and occurs on the model of Luxembourg and Slovenia for an official
Price freeze and price regulation with a diesel and gasoline. Legal measures for dealing this is through the
Price Act exists and needs to be exploited.

2.3. Reduction in fuel tax.
Half of the gasoline and diesel price consists solely of taxes. The tax revenue from fuel
have already risen to six billion euros! And by the SPÖ and ÖVP decided by increasing the
Fuel tax collected of Finance once again 800 million euro of motorists from. For one
Commuters who commutes daily from Vienna to Eisenstadt, which means an additional load of 800 euros. The BZÖ
Advocates for an immediate reduction of the fuel tax to help those on the car
depend.

2.4. Withdrawal of the tax increase on fuel oil.
A year ago, the filling of a 3,000-liter oil tanks (average detached house) has 1,950 Euro
cost, today costs the same filling 2,910 euros, almost twice as much, what low-income earners, families
and retired once more burdened. This tax increase must be reversed - for now
can some 300,000 households heating no longer afford!

6

2.5. Cheap Diesel filling stations after Carinthian model.
Governor Jörg Haider has opened the Carinthian provincial stations to cheap diesel to motorists
to post. Thus, every motorist will save an average of five euros per tank! The ÖAMTC
confirmed the effect of this initiative: "The opening of the country's petrol stations in Carinthia has helped
that diesel prices have fallen also to the other stations. In Carinthia average diesel cost
1,340 Euro. In total Austria you pay for an average of 1,372 euros. In Carinthia is the enhanced
Competition therefore all consumers benefit. The country's gas stations with their cheaper diesel price
clearly the pike in the carp pond and have a positive effect on the price of diesel in all of Carinthia from. "The
Model of Carinthia following, include all gas stations in the state and federal ownership for the population
opened to deliver cheap fuel.

2.6. Inflation adjustment according Carinthian model.
Governor Jörg Haider has introduced a-selecting compensation in Carinthia. Around 45,000 Carinthians
Carinthian and so much more. The federal SPÖ has this-selecting compensate Governor Jörg
Haider copied and promised its nationwide introduction! Contents they did not make it. To date, there
no-selecting compensation in Austria! Low-income, families and pensioners need but
such, which is why the BZÖ introducing a-selecting bonding in accordance with Carinthian model throughout
Austria intends amounting to 200 euros.

2.7. Agreement for price stability and price freeze in electricity and gas.
As early as October of this year is threatening the gas price to rise at least 30 percent and even stream
always more expensive because the energy companies price increases immediately pass on to the consumer, price cuts are not. The BZÖ opposes further price increases for electricity and gas. In
Carinthia's Governor Jörg Haider, the energy company of the country (KELAG) obliged the
Gas price and the current price does not increase! The other provinces should follow suit, at their
Forego profits from the energy companies, so in return gas price and electricity price for the
Population will not increase! To maintain price stability is also an agreement between
To meet energy, communities and the business in order to inhibit the steady rise in energy costs.

7

3. Go the way social
3.1. Create jobs.
The most social measure that there is work, thus creating income. It is all the more important, the
counteract impending economic slowdown and an accompanying rise in unemployment
prevent. By
- An economic stimulus package of federal and state governments to promote investment of medium-sized
Economy under condition of creation of new jobs.
- A workplace premium to 2 years for those of 110,000 one-man-companies in Austria, the new
Employees do. This could in the shortest time, tens of thousands new jobs
become.
- A practical retraining program for the care sector to work in Austria
create and at the same time to reduce the number of illegal foreign nurses
- An infrastructure package to increase the location attractiveness and creating or securing
Jobs in the construction industry. Funded by the gold reserves of the National Bank.

3.2. Minimum wage of 1,000 euros net.
Work must not impoverish and performance must be rewarded again. It is not fair that the SPÖ and ÖVP
Unemployment want to pay a guaranteed minimum income of 717 euros net, but at the same time, the minimum wage only 849
Euro net amounts. Because that means that work in Austria is worth only 132 euros! The BZÖ stands for
fair wages and that performance will be rewarded. The BZÖ calls therefore for a real minimum wage in the amount of 1,000 euros net (ie 1,300 euros gross) for all full-time employment and also for those sectors that currently do not have a collective agreement the minimum wage.

3.3. Mothers salary of 1,000 euros.
The family is the basic unit of society. It is but the Austrians always
made more difficult to start a family, to receive and to live the family at all. The BZÖ is a
Family party wants to protect, support and promote families. The BZÖ wants introduced by him
Expand child support to a maternal salary of 1,000 euros for those mothers who are fully aware of itself
Want to dedicate their children's education. The mothers content should be granted until the third year of the child
become.

8th

3.4. Abolition of the exemption limit in child benefit and tax
Deductibility of child costs.
The BZÖ says: help families, not punish, and ensure freedom of choice for women. To this
to provide is for women who wish to work in spite of family, the abolition of anti-social
Exemption limit needed childcare benefits. Families also include the tax deductibility
children costs relieved.

3.5. Secure health care.
Every Austrian has a right to the best possible medical care! It must be in the system and may
are not saved in the patient. For this is a comprehensive structural and management reform
Austrian health system is necessary. Through a merger of more than 20 social insurance institutions and the elimination of proportional representation, Postenschacher and official mismanagement and a
Tightening of fiscal structures and the reduction of bureaucracy in health care. The savings
amounts to approximately EUR 2.9 billion! Money available for the care of patients with the best medicine
would!

3.6. Increase fuel allowance and housing benefit.
Go social way also means to increase benefits, such as heating allowances and housing benefits to
To prevent poverty and to fight! The BZÖ Advocates therefore for the doubling of the heating allowances throughout Austria from by the federal government in the financing of heating allowances to 50
Participates percent. Also, strong increases in housing benefits, as Carinthia up to 170 euros already
has done, is necessary in all of Austria.

9

4. Austria Austrians
4.1. Foreign offenders deported.
Whoever comes as a guest to us, who has to behave also as a guest. Anyone who can not, who has to be
Forfeited the right of hospitality, is immediately deported. According to crime statistics around 30 percent of all
Asylum criminal, which is why the BZÖ for consistent and immediate deportation of criminal
Asylum seekers and foreign offenders entering.

4.2. Austria is not an immigration country.
Austria is and remains not an immigration country. Therefore, the chosen from BZÖ strict Foreigners Course
maintain and continue. Asylum procedures are handled by the Asylum Court and faster
Asylum seekers from safe third countries immediately deported on the basis of the Dublin Convention. The BZÖ is also
for the introduction of a "green card" with a points system according to the Canadian model, so that only the us
come, we also want. Whoever comes to us, also has to learn our language and our
Adapt culture. Measures for the integration of foreigners are increasingly setting. Who as a foreign
Citizen loses his job, he should after one year of unemployment his residence permit
lose and be deported.

4.3. Ban on building mosques and minarets.
"The mosques are our barracks, the minarets our bayonets, the domes our helmets and the
Faithful our soldiers. "This statement was made by Turkish politicians Erdogan and documented
impressively that measures against the creeping Islamisation are urgently needed and we our
Need to protect core culture. As in Carinthia is therefore an Austria-wide ban on building mosques and
Minarets are introduced.

4.4. Ban on the full body veiling.
In addition to a ban on the construction of mosques and minarets, the BZÖ urges the further step of a ban on the
Islamic full-body veiling. The liberal known as Holland found by a general Vermummungsverbot an unconstitutional way, a ban on wearing the burqa (Islamic =
Full concealment) enforce. Austria to follow this path.

10

4.5. A maximum of 30 percent proportion of foreigners in schools.
Austria Austrians called for us also, that the educational development of our children not
a high proportion of foreigners in our schools must not be hindered. The proportion of foreign
Children must therefore be a maximum of 30 percent per class. Immigrant children have before entering school
to learn our German language and verified by a compulsory language test that she had referred
also dominate.

11

5. Relieve the Mittelstand
5.1. Tax cuts now.
The BZÖ has developed an immediately actionable tax cut to the Austrians to
relieve to strengthen the purchasing power to stimulate the domestic economy and cushion the bracket creep.
Specifically, through a simple, non-bureaucratic, but very efficient adjustment of tax brackets: Already from 2009
will be increased to 15,000 euros the tax-free income of 10,000 euros, making low-income earners with
one years gross income up to 15,000 euros to pay no more income tax. Even the middle class is to be relieved by the average tax rate of 23 percent on annual gross income
to 30,000 euros (compared to up 25,000 euros) and the average tax rate of 33.5 percent
Yearly income to 56,000 euros (compared to up 51,000 euros) will be extended. Finally comes
the top rate of 50 percent in the future only from 56,000 euros in annual gross income to bear. The
Consequence: low-income earners and the middle class will be relieved by up to 2,500 euros per year!
What the tax reduction the BZÖ individuals concretely brings:

Yearly income
gross

Tax savings
per year

Tax savings
in percent

Saleswoman

14,000.00

1533.00

100%

Worker / in

21,000.00

1917.00

45%

Accountant / in

42.000,00

2,180.00

17%

Head of Department / in

63.000,00

2,500.00

11%

280.000,00

2,500.00

2%

Director / in

5.2. More of the gross net by "Fair Tax".
Medium and long term must be a fundamental transformation of our tax system in the direction of a social flat
Tax, the "Fair Tax", tackled with the aim that income tax and social security contributions combined in one fair and equitable charge and lower income by a
Tax exemption scheme are relieved.

12

5.3. "Business Tax" for SMEs.
The SME sector, which forms the backbone of our economy and its companies,
belongs relieved. The BZÖ model: A uniform corporate taxation - the "Business Tax" -
improve the tax situation of the SME sector through the complete equality of all
Corporate forms at a uniform, maximum 25 per cent taxation. For this purpose, the three
occupational categories of income (income from agriculture and forestry, self-employment and business enterprise)
pooled to form the type of income for companies. In addition to micro-enterprises with a
Annual sales to 500,000 Euro lower and simplified taxation in the form of a single
Tax liability, namely only a three percent surcharge on sales tax, take place.

5.4. Repeal of Basel II.
The EU's Basel II directive inhibits investment and destroys the economy. You heard lifted immediately to
to give the SME sector willing to invest again an investment basis.

5.5. Tax bonus.
The Minister of Finance reported tax revenues in the billions, and to them directly in the form of a
Tax bonus for each taxable wage of 200 euros + 50 euros per child return.

5.6. Abolition of compulsory membership.
The SME sector is the large number of existing forced and multiple memberships in the
Chambers tied. The BZÖ struggles continue for an end to forced membership of the Chambers and
that the anchoring of the chambers and trade unions in constitutional status falls again.

5.7. Tax exemption for overtime.
Who does more to earn more. The tax exemption of up to 20 hours of overtime per month.
764,000 Austrians who work overtime every year, with an average of 400 would
Euro per year benefit from this relief!

5.8. Tax deductibility of travel expenses.
From the explosion of fuel prices commuters are particularly hard hit. The BZÖ looks as
Relief measure for commuters, the 100 per cent tax deductibility of travel expenses to and from the
Work by a kilometer-based Pendlerabsetzbetrag with negative tax effect before.

13

5.9. Employees in the company's profit participation.
Workers and employees are at their company's success can also participate. Currently, it is exactly
conversely, the big businesses and corporations write record profits, the wages and salaries but
stagnate. Through the expansion of tax models of employee participation in corporate profits will change all that.

5.10. Equal pay for equal work.
Equality between women and men is the BZÖ a central concern. This is especially true for the
The area of ​​income, where the persistence of income differences between women and
Men over collective agreement commits, conveyor systems and degressive relief models in
wage labor costs must be reduced in the leave and labor pools for temporary workers.

5:11. Tax deductibility of donations.
The Austrians have heart and are among the world champions donations. That belongs
rewards, which is why the BZÖ pronounce for the tax deductibility of private donations.

14

6. Justice for the older generation
6.1. Accessible pension increases.
Austria's pensioners were fobbed off for 2008 of SPÖ and ÖVP a "pension increase" of only 1.7 percent, with inflation of about 3 percent a pension cut
tantamount. The BZÖ says: Accessible pensions by a legal bond of pensions to the
Pensioners price index and a compensation of inflation by a pension increase of at least four per cent
for the year 2009! The BZÖ rejects the set in red and black government program and approved in Council of Ministers automatic pension increases decisively.

6.2. Mothers board by Carinthian model.
In Austria there are 160,000 mothers over 60 years without its own board, because they are entirely dedicated to the family
and therefore have not acquired any own pension contributions. The BZÖ takes care of this "forgotten" mothers and
wants along the lines of Carinthia an Austria-wide mothers pension amounting to 300 euros (14 times a year) for
Introduce mothers over 60 years without their own pension.

6.3. Extension of heavy workers.
40 years for women and 45 years for men are enough! Anyone who has worked particularly hard and tough to even
in the future sooner and without deductions can go into the board! The BZÖ occurs reason for the extension of
Hacklerregelung, which was developed by BZÖ social ministers and introduced in Austria, a.

6.4. Promote and secure care.
About 170,000 people in the care allowance claimants are currently 360,000 older than 80 years. Due to the
demographic trends, experts from more than 500,000 patient in the coming years.
This greatly increased care needs represents society and the state faces enormous tasks. The care of the future
must be affordable, safe and humane. The BZÖ is therefore for the implementation of the developed by him
Care model that guarantees a real increase in the care allowance by 10 per cent and the annual valorisation,
financing through a private care fund ensures and private teaching nursing creates so
sufficient local professionals are available for nursing care. In addition to by a
federal regulation abolished the compensation claims to relatives of people requiring care
and the asset limit are deleted in the promotion of nursing care.

15

7. Every child and young people the same opportunities
7.1. Compulsory free kindergarten year.
Following the example of Carinthia, the last year of kindergarten before starting school is free for all children and
be mandatory in order to facilitate entry into school and to recognize existing development deficits and learning difficulties at an early stage and to confront them more effectively.

7.2. School entry fee after Carinthian model.
The new school year will cost parents in Austria every year around 225 million euros. The BZÖ wants parents and children
help with the start of school. Through a school entry fee of 50 euros for each child in compulsory education, as
it is in Carinthia under Governor Jörg Haider already long been a reality.

7.3. Joint school of six to fifteen year old.
Our education system is completely out of date and comes in its basic structures from the time Maria
Theresa. A modernization of our education system is in the interests of our children and their future
urgently needed, but without giving up the freedom of choice for parents and students. The BZÖ occurs for the
Development of a common school of six to fifteen year old or the "New Middle School" a as
has already been tested successfully in Carinthia. This type of school is for equal opportunities through
individual advancement of students, an internal differentiation without power groups and contemporary,
educational reform teaching methods such as team teaching.

7.4. Promote education and make it more attractive.
Each young person has an equal right to education, training and professional career. Also apprentices!
Hence apprentices should be able to make the Matura free after Carinthian model throughout Austria, the
Tuition fees for apprentices abolished, introduced the Blum bonus again and the offer of
technical training to be strengthened to the attractiveness of teaching and apprenticeship to
increase and so to get the shortage of skilled workers in the handle.

16

8. Creating more security
8.1. Fight against crime.
Displaying 600,000 offenses per year, or nearly 70 per hour, speak for themselves and show:
There is need for action! The fight against the exploding crime and the alarming increase
of property crimes, car theft and house and burglaries can not sugarcoated
Crime statistics will be won! In particular against drug-related crime and organized crime,
Criminal-tourism and organized begging, trafficking in human beings and smuggling of must mobilize
proceed. The BZÖ as safety Party of Austria therefore stands for more police presence by
at least 1,000 policemen, in addition, for tougher penalties for criminals and against austerity in the area
the executive and the armed forces.

8.2. Reintroduction of border control.
The rising crime proves: Schengen failed to take control of the EU's external borders in the
Eastern countries does not work! The BZÖ occurs in the sense of security of the Austrians and
Austrians for the reintroduction of border controls at Austria's borders one as during the
European Football Championship have already been practiced successfully and efficiently.

8.3. Child protection package.
The children are our greatest treasure. Child molesters are killers on the souls of our children! Yearly
are known around 1,200 cases of abuse in Austria. The real figure is almost twenty times according to experts
so tall! The recidivism rate of sex offenders is 50 to 70 percent. Numbers that alarm and a
make comprehensive child protection package required: minimum sentences of ten years for sexual offenses and
no premature release prisoners. Lifetime must remain a lifetime! In addition: Immediate implementation of a
Prohibition of sex offenders, introducing a sex offender and file a notification requirement for
Acts of violence and sexual offenses against children!

8.4. For a strong army.
The world has become more uncertain. The international Islamist terror has long since reached Europe and
take due to climate change in Austria to natural disasters such as floods. Before
This background is essential a strong national defense and a well-equipped army.
Our Armed Forces must not be broken saved, but must be financially equipped so that the
advanced equipment and the best training is ensured. The clout of the armed forces should by a
professional volunteer army raised with militia component and it will be subject to conscription.

17

9. protect our homeland
9.1. Referendum on EU treaties and accession of Turkey.
We want a Europe of citizens and not a Europe of bureaucrats. Therefore, the BZÖ advocates mandatory
Referendums on EU treaties and a compulsory referendum on EU accession
Turkey a. Because it is no longer allowed to pass, that in Carinthia won by 15,000 signatures
Referendum on the EU reform treaty by the other parliamentary parties is prevented!

9.2. For a GMO-free Austria.
Genetically modified seed should have no place on Austria's fields! The protection of the
People taking precedence over the interests of the corporations! The BZÖ wants a GMO-free Austria, a
unequivocal declaration of GM food from abroad and calls on
European level, Austria's increased commitment to the genetic engineering.

9.3. No to nuclear power.
Europe and the world are facing a renaissance of nuclear power. The BZÖ rejects such efforts
chose from and against nuclear power in Austria and Europe. Rather, at the European level more
Application for the closure of nuclear power plants near the Austrian border required. The BZÖ speaks
In this context, for a law suit against the Czech Republic because of the scrap reactor in
Temelín from.

9.4. Climate protection is Homeland Security.
Climate change is among the greatest and most difficult challenges of our time. But this challenge we must face and put effective measures for climate protection. These include a
Climate Protection Act has constitutional status, the expansion of hydropower and biomass, as well as a well-paid
Climate fund from which the switch is supported on alternative and renewable energy. And that with a
Delivery guarantee! These transition measures include a "100,000 Roofs Initiative" for the construction of
Solar systems in private households. Even in traffic the climate is through a forced migration of
Private transport to public transport modeled after the Kärnten-clock account
be worn.

9.5. Preserving the peasantry.
Our farmers and provide not only secure jobs, ensure the production of food in
the highest quality, they carry through the maintenance of cultural landscapes also crucial to the beauty and
Attractiveness of our Austrian home in! To support the farming community and to obtain therefore
Top priority. The EU but promotes agribusiness, leaves the small farmers in the lurch, thereby jeopardizing the
Austrian peasantry! We are entering a reason for a re-nationalization of agricultural agendas
and want the retrieval of the votes at Brussels competencies in the agricultural sector.

18

10. Never again red-black
SPÖ and ÖVP have failed miserably, stand for new strains, a anti-social policies and have two years
Armed chaos and stop to answer for in Austria. Therefore: Never again red-black! Never again large
Coalition! But: roll up your sleeves and tackle! The objective of the BZÖ is a renewed grand coalition
to prevent at all costs, but also to expand direct democracy. Consequently, professes
BZÖ to assume responsibility for Austria in a government and more participation of
To allow people through the expansion of direct democracy on the model of Switzerland. Approximately by
Pull petition signatures from 100,000 a mandatory referendum by itself.

Contacts and responsible for the content: Alliance for the Future of Austria (BZÖ), Dorotheergasse 7 / 19-20, 1010 Wien.

19

Alliance for the Future of Austria (BZÖ)
Dorotheergasse 7 / 19-20
A-1010 Wien
Telephone: (01) 513 28 38
Fax: (01) 513 28 38-9
Email: office@bzoe.at
