initiation

The freedom and independence of our
Homeland Austria is increasingly
limited. Always more rights
to an anonymous bureaucracy
delegated to Brussels, the democratic
Participation opportunities for citizens
Limited step by step.
Decades of immigration from Frem
the cultures causes a radical
Changes in our demographic structure.
Islam is now the second largest Glau
bensgemeinschaft in Austria and wants to
the end of the century, by far the
strongest population throughout Austria
rich set.
Our citizens and our economy WUR
the - despite its rich renewable Resource
CEN in Austria - on energy imports
from abroad, of genetically mani
pulierten organisms and certain foreign
Corporations made dependent.

We Austrians remains limited
Time to set the course before the vielzi
responsibility-oriented point of no return
tion consciously set the record straight.
Freedom policy Courage Under Fire,
stands for more cooperation, more freedom
and lived Heimatliebe. Austria has
a wealth of clever, good
educated and strong character people,
a broad pool of unique Kul
turgütern, outstanding experts and Wis
tists, capable entrepreneurs and the
Fortunately, renewable energy sources and
fertile soil in a worthy of protection
To access and healthy environment.
We no longer deny our strengths,
we sacrifice our resources not foreign
Bureaucracies. Let us proud
Our Austria and we have the courage,
our own path to tread.

Austria first
Innocent citizens from all states
the world are in Austria like SEEN
ne guests. We are pleased with performance
prepare people their in Austria
Bring skills and our Kul
ture and appreciate life. Who, however,
our social system abused or in
Austria is delinquent, has in its
Return home.
Every sixth inhabitant of Austria and
every third inhabitant of Vienna has its Wur
roots abroad. In 2007, in
Austria about 820,000 foreigners legally on
hältig. There are also some 100,000 illegals.
Austria has an obligation to deal with the
humane and consistent feedback
to deal by foreigners. This means that before
all meant those in Austria Criminal
matured, social abuse
operate, rejected their asylum request
had to be or for which there is no work
spaces or decent housing
are in the country.
People entering family members as well as in
Austria-born children of foreigners
countries have the same rules for
subject like all foreigners. If you
themselves have no income, has the
originally immigrants for their
Pay maintenance. The right of
had moved family members should
the law of the original course hiking
th depend, particularly in the back
management of an offender.
Who as a foreigner in Austria Kapi
commits talverbrechen, has his sentence

to be served in his home country and is
with a lifelong entry ban to
occupy.
Who racial, religious or political
Followers reasons, which should in
Austria granted asylum for a definite period,
provided that he does not have a safe third country
has illegally entered the Federal territory. Who
However, a criminal offense, his asylum has ver
acts. Who without reason for asylum as alleged
Asylum has entered into Austria,
shall be deported without delay. Wei
ters, it is necessary, by an innovatory
prohibition to prevent methods with
always extended new arguments
become. With all the countries of origin of asylum
seekers are readmission agreements
complete. The granting of Ent
development assistance is of cooperation
the States in the field of asylum to depend
do.
We are committed to religious communities
Communities that our proven separation
questions of church and state in question or
combat the privilege of legal
Recognition and therefore its status as Kör
abzuer perschaft governed by public law
know. We reject the installation of Sym
Bolen a strange claim to power
our home under the guise
freedom of religion and of political and reli
gious from victory sign as minarets.
Breaking our Constitution and Unse
rer law is not freedom of religion
covered and punish consistently. In
Games are here about violence against women,
the disregard of the press and expression
liberty or cruel treatment.

Children of persons without Austrian
Citizenship and German without courage
-tongue have one year before the A
Training pass a German examination. In
Failure is completed an intensive course,
to be financed by parents. In
passing the examination is the inclusion in
the public school system in Austria
and thus an excellent education
possible for the future.

Social justice
Austrian citizens are in
home against the threatening
Risks due to age, disabilities
tion, illness, accident, unemployment
and heavy blows of fate Best
be protected possible.
A basic security for all in Austria
living persons, regardless of the
Motivation of individuals finan
cial means assures, will be one of us, however,
rejected. It represents a grossly inequitable
Form of redistribution is and provoked
Immigration exclusively to our
Social interested individuals.
A major concern is the effective
Combating unemployment. she is not
only a great personal problem for the
Concerned, but also burden our
State of up to 7 billion euros annually.
Social protection and employment Fjord
need assurance measures specifically to
truly needy benefit. In
Training people are located around
nothing less unemployed and therefore recognized in the unemployment statistics also.

A high proportion of today in Austria
foreigners living is not either
working or due to a low
Education levels disproportionately from
Unemployment affected. A burden
our social system by Economic
But refugees must be prevented.
We are committed, therefore, to migrant workers
in accordance with a temporary for her
Stay custom model
warrant and for one specifically for sheep
Fende social without Fehlbe
income equalization through the public sector
set.
Foreigners have Beschäftigungsbewilli
movement and residence to lose,
If you like over extended periods or
are repeated unemployed. Moonlighting end
Aliens have returned to their homeland
return.
In areas where labor shortages
prevails (health and care sectors,
Erntehelfer, etc.), must not just after
an opening of the labor market for Off
Countries are required. Rather Easter
trian unemployed by the AMS in zielge
oriented training to qualify. It is
in this issue a long-term and forward
looking planning required.

More money
in the bag
The Austrians suffer from high
Loads and the escalating inflation
on. For staple foods such as milk
and bread is therefore the value added tax
be lowered just as for ver
signed and therefore for the patient
necessary medications.
The same applies to medical aids, for prostheses
or wheelchairs. Austria needs also
finally an extensive and Punch
strong price and competitive monitoring.
This is price fixing and Monopolbildun
gen prevent.
The FPÖ is effective for reducing taxes
Labor, which located in the reduction
Should reflect labor costs. Thereby
be the fight against unemployment
and allowing the development of purchasing power.
To curb the cold progression
the FPO itself speaks for a Inflationsanpas
measurement of levels of average tax rates
in determining the annual income
basis from. The cold Progres
sion has namely an immediate impact
on the purchasing power of the Austrians and the
Domestic demand.
A fiscal policy is a cardinal objective of the FPÖ
Humanization of the tax system in favor
of companies that create jobs.
The corporation is therefore the Human
expenses of a company to adapt.
Sensibly is an abolition of Baga
tellsteuern, which is usually a relatively high

organizational burden on the public
Constitute service. Affected would be the
Land value tax, loan fees, inventory
charges that sparkling wine tax, the fire
protection control and the advertising tax.

Europe des Etats

The FPÖ is committed to Europe
the free and independent homelands
SOUVE under a confederation
räner nation states.
The FPÖ is committed to the European Eini
supply one. However, the EU is for freedom
Licher considers many wrong priorities
points, leading to an increasing Ableh
tion through the citizens.
The FPÖ is committed to a Europeanized
rule treaty with a rights and
Mandatory catalog for Union and Member States
th. The constitutions of sovereign With
Member States must not be heard from
have the law of the Union. The sogenann
te EU Reform Treaty is of the FPÖ
rejected. He is the end of our neutralized
ity and our sovereignty. The Strategy
the creation of a European superstate
State after the US model is
failed. Recently this have Referen
the in France, the Netherlands and
Ireland shown. The European peoples leh
NEN such a course, with the last one
Lich also recently failed constitutional
sungsentwurf connecting from. A new United
Constitutional Treaty comes to the FPÖ only
for a binding referendum
in Austria in question.

For the FPÖ is a discussion about the Off
exits a European Union, to be
a central government develops and the reason
sets of subsidiarity and democracy with
Tramples a taboo. Such a decision
However, education must only under
a referendum take place.
The FPÖ granted an unrestricted From
expansion of European integration
geographically, culturally, religiously and eth
cally non-European territories of Asia and
Africa a clear rejection. This concerns the
time especially the accession requests of the door
kei. We stand therefore - with the exception of
Balkan countries - for an expansion
Stop a. Therefore, the EU Beitrittsver
stop negotiations with Turkey immediately
and it has a definition of the EU's external
limits to be made.
An accession of Turkey to the European
Union has to a referendum
Austria's withdrawal from the political
EU to lead.

Armed Forces
and neutrality
The FPÖ is understood as an advocate for
powerful and efficient German
army. We are committed to neutrality,
to comprehensive national defense
and general compulsory service in
Form of military service or in the form
a social service.
Dwindling budget shares on rising
Inflation, accompanied by costly From
Country commitment massively reduce the

for the fulfillment of inner Austrian On
gave the funds available
Armed Forces.
The FPÖ is committed to raising the Bud
done partly for our armed forces to 1% GDP
and the special financing all Zusatzaufträ
ge such as international assignments. Except
the has an immediate renewal of the
entire vehicle fleet to be made.
A "European army" under the Brussels Kom
command is rejected. The Armed Forces
needs to ensure its priority
Task homeland security exception
remain under Austrian jurisdiction. As
neutral state we reject a Member
Austria's economy in a military alliance
from. A decision on the application
our armed forces and our soldiers
applies solely Austria itself.

Security
people in
our country
In the fight against terrorism,
organized crime, perimeter and
Smuggling of, drug trafficking and
Violence against children, the state has its
To exploit opportunities resolute
and use. Lifetime Freedom
must punish as such vollzo
are gen.
In Austria the number of Woh explodes
ning and house break-ins. Ver Using
veil Direction Statistics attempting the
obvious problems wegzurechnen.

The Federal Government has demanded that
legal requirements to create,
so that the executive authority in the fight against Kri
can act minalität effective. These gehö
Ren not only adequate staffing levels,
but also a fair payment and
a first-class equipment.
Religious freedom as a fundamental right is
by religious fanatics and doctrines
increasingly to be used, fundamental
Legal interests substantially limiting. In particular
ticular the fundamental rights to personal
Freedom, freedom of movement, property, körperli
be che and mental integrity
partly massively violated. It is a Kardi
nalaufgabe of the state, the protection of
To be granted fundamental rights to individuals
afford.
Severe forms of violence against children
justify tougher sanctions.
This is especially true in connection with sexuel
lem abuse. In addition, the limitation period
tion of criminal liability for such criminal offenses
TEN to be omitted. Even premature dismissals
gen these offenders are required by law to
suppress.
We call for a sentence of life imprisonment
Miss brewing for persons minors
chen. In addition, the FPÖ calls the Anhe
ben the criminal records of all Straftatbe
Stands against life and limb, against the
Freedom or against sexual integrity
and self-determination.
In the field of drug-related crime has the -
mostly African - Organized Crime
drug trafficking in Austria taken over
men. To these murderers take effect on time
oppose, are mainly engaged in Dro
gengesetzgebung restrictive measures
implement. The Criminal lower limits for Dro

genhandel and drug possession are
increase.
Prison sentences serve the atonement. Therefore, may
our prisons did not like hotels
become. Many criminal tourists live in
our prisons more comfortable than in
homeland. The necessary Abschrek
kung effect a prison sentence is therefore kon
terkariert.

Elder care -
Life experience
appreciate
We understand the demographic
The Challenge of Change, which for the
Individual means a long life
themselves creatively and confidently füh
to reindeer.
Our social system has to meet the needs
Seniors' special consideration to neh
men. Previous governments have seniors
all too clearly treated as a supplicant, wel
che of laboring society supposedly
costly. That is precisely this
Seniors built our country and children
have raised, which is now our common
Community alive and also himself
Contributions in the Social Security system
have paid, is often forgotten.
The Pension is a well deserved reward for the
Life performance. Thus, the third Lebensab
can be cut actively designed, brewing
We Chen at the age economic security.
The contract between generations is the basis
today's pensions.

In this fund today Erwerbstä
term the current pension payments. The
FPÖ is clearly committed to the three-pillar model, to PAYG and to a
Harmonization of pension systems in
the state pillar.
What is needed is a further Bonifikation the
Parenting under the Pensions
system. Who for children responsibility
has taken over, it is also the age
benefit. Children as future contribution
payers are the basis of the current
PAYG.
In addition, it should be noted that Pensionistenklub
ask a specific cart.
But this is in a higher degree
affected by price increases than the general
my cart where cheaper expectant
Zeitgeist Article dampen inflation.
The adjustment of pensions must therefore
carried out after the pensioner price index.
What has the secluded Mindestpensioni
stin it when flat screen TV and phone always
are cheaper, basic food and
Energy but getting more expensive?
The ruling principle, after 45
Working without any reductions in pension
to be able to go, must continue to
legally obtained.
An artificial increase in the Pensionsan
occurs age is totally meaningless because the work
market sufficient alternatives
offers for Pension respect. It benefits
only the Minister of Finance, which in the future
Affected auszube lower pensions
has charged. But this path is of the
FPÖ not supported. A redeployment
potential pensioners in the age

Unemployment can not means a ver
nünftigen and oriented on humans
His policy.

Our health
system - everyone is
affected
We are proud of our health-care
sen, which is primarily due to the good
Training of our physicians and a
high willingness to perform the same
is internationally recognized.
The ostensibly led austerity debate
around the failed Gesundheitsre
form is to betrach with extreme caution
th. The Austrian healthcare
needed structural reforms and not Einspa
ments. The FPÖ calls in this co
nection more transparency. Because rising
de costs at the box office does not mean
inevitably an increase in health
care expenditures. In many cases there is
a cost shift from hospitals
to the cash register, the objectively justified
is and would benefit the patients.
The health system needs mainly
optimized financial flows. As we
know from the pension, can increased
Expenditure in some areas in
Total to quite considerable Einspa
ments lead. The IHS and health
Experts see through Effizienzsteigerun
gene is a potential saving of up to 3
Remain the same billion euros high
performance.

For this purpose, it is necessary Gesundheitsleistun
gen to focus and future of a
Ensure pot. It can not be,
that the additional burden on health insurance companies
are because patients are not in the hospital, but
under optimum conditions in the EIGE
four walls are nachversorgt. The
Cost of which is for the public sector
in reality lower.
The provision is for us a Freiheitliche Pri
märfokus healthcare. We wol
len here therefore a rethinking of medicine
cause. For enhanced prevention
can the enormous costs of curative
Medicine be curbed.
The FPÖ recognizes the increasing importance
naturopathy in the holistic
Treatment of diseases of. We sit
us therefore to ensure that natural remedies,
which are prescribed by the doctor, even
financed. Overall, the ver
multiplied use of proven Naturheilmit
stuffs contribute to the health insurance
financially relieve.
The FPÖ has spoken out clearly against a liberal hippie y
tion from on prescription. The public areas
che healthcare funded Healthy
safety and the fight against diseases
and not the destruction of life.
For nonresident own Sozialversi
to provide insurance. This should access
to medical care in Austria
finance for foreigners. This Sozialversi
insurance is also characterized by donations from in
Austria and living as migrant workers
active workers to dine.

Disabled person
and Pflegenotstand
We face the challenge,
a decent and quality
Ensure care. This we are the
elderly people of Aufbaugenerati
on and all in need of care and
disabled people in this country
guilty. We recognize this as a reason
task of the welfare state.
A good supply in the case of maintenance and /
or need for care, just as at
Illness, accident or disability is a core
task of the welfare state. The financing
of nurses and carers must solida
carried Risch.
Highest priority for the FPÖ claimed therefore
still nursing care in your own home.
Therefore, it is urgent to finally have a
Inflation compensation during care allowance durchzufüh
This reindeer has. already one-fifth of its value
forfeited. The FPÖ also committed to
social and legal protection of pfle
lowing members. In Austria there are more
400,000 persons who are nationals or
maintain close acquaintances at home. 80 percent
are the nursing and care services
provided by the relatives at home. These
should therefore also a pension
purchase.
While elderly parents children
to pay for the care and Betreuungslei
most are used, takes over for Kin
derlose the state's cost if the own
Asset is consumed. The previous Angehö
engined recourse must therefore be deleted.

Tempered
Budget-lean state
The FPÖ seeks a over the economic
Cycle balanced budget on. We
do not want future generations
burdened with debt.
Past tax reforms have the Bür
ger from his pocket any monies
taken to him generously in the other
Bags were placed. Redistribution
does not bring any real relief in the long term. We
need structural reforms.
Sustainable measures for enterprises,
Workers and the welfare state are just
financeable if the state recognizes that
he his duties to a reasonable level
has to be limited.
Based liberal budget policy is the
Discharge of the citizen. Our Arbeitneh
mer and entrepreneurs have a high
Kings extent even have their money
NEN, rather than every second euro earned
deliver to the State. By deductibles
restriction of the state at his eigentli
Chen tasks fall cost of Ver
management and control can reduce Who
the. It created more private Investitio
NEN, more jobs and more prosperity
stand for all.
Just as important as the savings in
state administration would be a signifi
te reduction in the net contribution Austria
Empire to the European Union. In addition,
, the EU in its current form
also partly antidemocratic structures
on. It is therefore a reduction of the Regu

lierungswut at EU level and a reduction
the European Union administrative level
urgently necessary.

Small &
Medium-sized enterprises - the largest
employer
The small and medium enterprises bil
the backbone of the Austrian host the
economy and provide two thirds of all labor
places. It shall apply to support it multiplies.
The benefits of small and medium
Holdings in Austria are even noticing
cheaper than the weak over the years
Economic not a Arbeitsplatzab
construction has led.
The labor costs of companies
However, to a considerable extent
influenced by wage costs. The
high tax burden on labor
represents an obstacle for employment
. This is because the tax burden on Fak
sector work is in Austria significantly
the EU average. The primary objective of
FPÖ is therefore the tax burden
the factor to reduce labor.
The Income Tax Act provides currently facing,
that investments in depreciable plant
capacity under the low limit value
(400 euros net) immediately in their acquisi
Fung made reducing profit claims
be able. Otherwise, the Anschaffungsko
to distribute costs over the useful life.
This scheme results in particular in Kleinund medium-sized enterprises to liquidity problems.

Raising the Geringfügigkeitsgrenze
to 1,000 euros this situation would ent
sharpen and an appreciable Investiti
onsanreiz offer.

public hand carry permit. This should
even the dual training system back to a
more important help. The Apprentice
training bonus is to be maintained.

In order to strengthen the equity base of
Farms are not taken threaded
ne be fiscally favored stronger.

More recently complain increasingly unselb
employed workers called Konkur
ence clauses in their employment contracts. These
Elements of the contract were originally designed for
Professionals from the fields of technology and
Management introduced to the unerwünsch
te disclosure of trade secrets to
competing companies through devaluation
to prevent advertising of professionals. Completely
such clauses are incomprehensible but in
Service contracts with workers who do not
deemed security clearance or Special
forces closely linked to the operation
Skills are provided. The FPÖ says
for a meaningful limitation of possi
probability of competition clauses in employment con
sluggish from.

The minimum corporate tax is of
the Freedom Party as an obstacle to a healthy
Economic growth assessed. These sets
especially the young entrepreneurs in stones
the way. It is therefore without compensation to strei
chen.

Workers - Partner
the economy
Freedom Politics plays entrepreneurs and
Employees not against each other. Ver
reason- able business and labor Poli
policy leads to better quality of life and more
Prosperity in our homeland.
Austria suffers not least because of
existing weaknesses in the dual Ausbil
tion to a shortage of skilled workers. How so
often is here first calls for ausländi
national workers loudly. The AMS has therefore
the task of targeted retraining and Wei
promoting training measures and
also to plan ahead. At the same time
are also skilled laborers, the Chan
ce received the ascent as a skilled worker.
Since 1990, the number of novice teachers is
nearly 50 percent dropped to around 40 percent.
As an incentive to recruit apprentices
we propose the costs of Austrian
Apprentices during vocational school of the

We are committed to the expansion of non-
taxation of overtime. The Maxime
"Achievement must be rewarded" following, should
instead of the current 5 Overtime hinkünftig 10 About
Hours are tax-exempt.
Expenditure on certain household
Services (for example, gardening, cleaning
tion, child care, repairs
House, handicrafts, etc.) to the future
deductible as business expenses from their tax
and thus be much cheaper. The control
deductibility is another Obergren
ze of 3,000 euros per person in gemeinsa
to cap household men.

Women - Men -
Partnership and
family
Only an equal cooperation
of women and men in Austria
ensures a prosperous future. This
means both equal rights as well
equal obligations, but especially Chan
Opportunities.
Through immigration mainly from außereu
European countries is these opportunities
Equality Forever more women in Austria
not rich given. Forced marriage, genital
mutilation or compulsory headscarf are
clear signals of a suppression of
Women. This can not in Austria
be accepted.
In order between a real freedom of choice for parents
rule childcare and career
To achieve commitment, must
devel also the childcare allowance
be wrapped. Today, the families receive
the childcare allowance usually only for 30
Months. The reason is that a parent
the childcare allowance only 30 months
must relate and the second parent in
many cases, the remaining six months
can not avail. Also for
Single Father is the existing model
real disadvantage. It is common in this
Case no partner is available, the more
Six months for the benefit of the child this means
could avail. This must be
change. In addition, earning limits
be deleted. The labor Karenz
should be extended to three years.

Young women and girls often find themselves
in a hopeless situation, when a
Child expect. Is correspondingly high, unfortunately,
the abortion rate. Since children a blessing
should be and not a burden, must
these young women and girls best
be possible supports. If a
can feel young pregnant sure
your life and their education with
can cope with a child, they will
more likely to be decisive for the child
to than if they allowed themselves
believes. Young mothers have even after the
Birth are cared for. A professional who
helps in the first time, in everyday zurechtzu
come, must, if necessary, by the State
be ensured. It is not always
are parents, relatives or friends true
on the spot to support the young mother.
We are committed to moving away from the Indi
vidualbesteuerung towards the family splitting
as important measures to sup
tion of our families. The family split
ting increases the purchasing power of families and
exempt them from the unjust fiskali
treat- ment of family income.
Because families are also Wirtschaftsge
munities.
We are committed to the institution of marriage
between husband and wife. she deserves
special protection. Equating
homosexual partnerships with Famili
s or the marriage between man and woman
is rejected by us. The FPÖ is also
against the adoption of children by
same-sex surrogate parents.

Although separate partners, they remain
nevertheless parents. The child's right to
joint custody of both parents in
Event of separation is legally Veran
core. Parents and especially the children must
not by divorce or separation
Livelihoods are withdrawn.
It complies with the principle of justice,
that our family benefits annually
valorized and inflation adjusted Who
the. This does not cause any additional costs,
but is merely a necessary Ver
zicht hidden and unjust Lei
stungskürzungen.

Future of youth -

Youth of the Future

Austria's future lies in the hands Unse
rer children. You to a good start
Life through good framework in
Ensure childhood and youth, the
We pay particular attention.
Meeting these challenges requires
a well-educated and hard-working
Youth. They need role models of our lived
and the special protection. Free
uniform youth policy wants physical, gei
balanced-term and mental facilities
helping to develop and be Possible
ne personalities train. As künfti
ge adults they are vigilant to any
Violation of the freedom to respond and actively
stand up for their conservation.
It is our task, especially Jugendli
che before alcohol, nicotine and drugs Miss
need to protect. They should also before

preserving those depressions that
Unemployment, lack of opportunities and exi
bring stentielle fears and hardships with them.
Youth unemployment is all about Gebo
te possible means to fight.
The goal of liberal youth policy is the
enlightened, independent and empowered
Citizen. He is with all those knowledge
sen and skills to be equipped, the
are necessary in our society
as in character settled, free person
To survive.

Not for school,
for life…
The Austrian Education System
may sociopolitically neither on the
Keep all been handed down, nor
out on the change at all costs
his sets. Rather, it is to her people
anbilden who freely about their future and
founded to decide assets.
Personality development and acquisition of knowledge
to young Austrians verset in the situation
zen, cultural, economic and political
To recognize and responsible relationships
sible to customize. Therefore it is neces
sary, the entire education system of
partisan manner to liberate.
Our public education system is
young Austrians their talents
according to best promote. Uniforme
Structures such as the Comprehensive School are
For this reason, not effective.

Among the educational goals is obtains control
Research of basic cultural techniques for the
further education building requirement.
The teaching targets in Ausbildungsbe
rich have beyond the needs
to orient. The importance of Fachar
beiterausbildung is to lift. The Voca
Denden secondary schools (BHS) to white
be oped and at least one
Baccalaureatsabschluss offer.
We are committed to free Hochschulzu
gang as an indispensable component of the
Austrian education system. The
Matura is passed as a prerequisite
sufficient for studying. Exceptions
you must have it for art or sports studies
giving, where specific equipment essential
are.

The car driver -
Cash cow of
Finance
The motorist is a mainstay
our public finances and is the
Treasury increasingly burdened.
Not everywhere in Austria are lei
mance Public Transport
available. Much of the work
contractor is therefore still on the
private car dependent.
The FPÖ calls for tax relief for
the afflicted individual transport from the Treasury
and the earmarking of petroleum.
She was decades the most important
Financial Instrument for the streets
construction and road maintenance. In 1987
was this earmarking of petroleum

tax repealed. Since then, this flow
Revenue in the general Bundesbud
Get there and percolate. ASFINAG sitting
Therefore, on a mountain of debt soon
must be paid. This will at first
Line hit motorists.
The FPÖ also committed to
complete reorientation of the replacement
Travel expenses for commuting. Even the unselb
employed persons to its travel expenses
to work in the full amount at the
Make Arbeitnehmerveranlagung contends
be able.

Volunteers in
Emergency services
The FPÖ sees a particular degree
our public safety organizations ver
agrees. Therefore, to the volunteers,
regularly particularly serious
Loads are exposed supports
become.
In Austria, there are hundreds of thousands of free
agree that no charge by firefighters and
Are rescue worked. These volunteers
make a priceless contribution to On
taining our high social
Standards. The security in Austria
could without the organizations listed
not be guaranteed to the same extent.
To volunteer in emergency services
future even with the heavy labor regulation
be taken into account and used to discount
be able to move into retirement.

Because they are particularly severe regularly
Stresses as part of its voluntary
Activities - for example, in traffic accidents
personal injury - exposed.
It is totally unacceptable if fire brigades
Rescue and relief organizations during the
Acquisition of additional equipment necessary
are reduced considerably by the value added tax.
These organizations carry out tasks
which otherwise would have to carry the public sector.
Therefore, a fair fiscal model
provide that for the purchase of the A
Set the necessary equipment by fire brigades
and emergency aid organizations a more
VAT reimbursement provides.

Environmental protection is
Homeland Security
The FPÖ is committed to the conversion of
Energy supply in Austria on Heimi
cal, renewable energy sources. We wol
len dependence on sheiks and
Oligarchs and the blackmail by
Big business once and for all terminate.
Austria has for decades in a fata
le dependence driven. Without importing oil,
Natural gas and nuclear power would our host
Community do not work today. It would
no heating our homes in winter
become. But now we are sitting in the Kostenfal
le. Fossil fuels are becoming increasingly expensive
and pollute our environment healthy.
The use of domestic, renewable energy
forms is the surest way to achieve
of greater independence and to protect
our nature. Through the expansion of solar,

Hydro, wind and bioenergy plants and
can through the use of geothermal energy
Resources. In addition,
protect the environment and beyond a
new, more productive labor market opened up.
This requires above all a efficien Austria
tes Renewable Energy Act and a
thermal rehabilitation campaign for the old building
existed. New households are
optimal insulation and renewable
To supply energy. This lowers the
Future operating costs and puts an end
with the function of corporations and multinationals.
Particular attention is our Heimi
Water's treasure, the goal of Covetous
liabilities is. In signs of emerging world
redistribution struggles must the Availability checked
supply power over our water resources from
ultimately remain in Austrian hands.

Free farmers need
the country
The fate of our country is the
Well connected our agriculture.
Our agriculture must be so strong,
that we our population Heimi
Shem land with healthy
Be able to supply food. The FPÖ
is committed to rural structured
Agriculture away from factory farms.
A free and powerful peasantry is Before
prerequisite for the preservation of natural Exi
Stenz foundations of our home. A flächenge
Thematic agricultural and forestry production
picks up the small-scale natural Equilibrium
weight consideration. At the same time it also protects our
natural resources.

The production of ecologically valuable and
healthy foods applies to our whole
attention. The FPÖ rejects the use of
genetically modified organisms in the
Agriculture, Forestry exception from. The
Impact of genetically engineered production
te in animal and human body and
throughout the ecosystem are completely unknown
and unforeseeable.
We want to go away from factory farming
a natural, respectful treatment
with our animals. This can best seen in
carried out on small farms and must
The aim of a new renationalisierten Farmer
his union policy. Therefore, domestic bäuer
Liche enterprises European agricultural factories before
pull.

Artistic freedom
and responsibility
The indispensable entitled to the free
standardize the art is generally only through the
valid legal order limited. In
a democratic society under
But is any artistic expression
form and the unrestricted freedom
the criticism.
An aesthetic sense is exclusively
the individual self and by no means a
Institution. In this sense, art is primarily
Private matter. We are committed, therefore, to a
private patronage, which had tax
Incentives to stimulate the art market.

About the state control mechanisms
the subsidy granting, arts funding
and the purchasing policy to be an artist gegän
gelt and politically exploited. this has
a specially formed out in Austria
Type of Staatskünstlertums result.
The state has its arts funding to the
Provide a framework and infra
structural facilities restrict.
This should in particular art colleges,
Conservatories and music schools, Gale
rien and exhibition spaces, public
Theaters and concert halls, workrooms and
Start-up aid for young artists include. A lei
mance Künstlersozialversicherung should
Artists the necessary social network to Ver
make available.
