fresh start!

the green program for a new start

imprint

preface

Media owner, publisher: The Greens, Roosevelt Square 4-5, 1090 Wien
Tel .: +43 1 23 63 998-0, Fax: +43 1 52 69 110
Email: bundesbuero@gruene.at
www.gruene.at

Dear voter,
dear voters!
What do we get if we vote for the Greens? Our manifesto is the
Answer to this question.

Design: Super-Fi
Release Date: September 2008
Place of publication: Vienna

Not everything that we're doing, is available in this program. Who know more
wants, how we protect the climate or guarantee care for all, as we Security
create, without restricting fundamental rights, which can in our property programs
read.

All Green tangible programs can be found on the Green site: www.gruene.at/service/teilprogramme
Our manifesto is a work program. Whether as an opposition or in an
Government - we will try as much as possible to implement them.

Please support the campaign of the Greens with your donation to the
Account 28027270404 at Erste Bank BLZ 20111 or by credit card via www.gruene.at

Printed according to the directive of the
Austrian Ecolabel
"Low-emission printing products"
Ing. Christian Janetschek · UWNr. 637

After two years of stagnation will be decided on election day, in what direction Austrian politics
will go. With this program, we are making this a substantive proposal: Energy Turnaround instead of oil crisis, equitable
Distribution instead of social division, protection of fundamental rights rather than surveillance state.
Our manifesto is a promise - for a new political culture. Only with objectivity and reliability, with honesty and respect we can make the lost trust in politics again.

Printed according to the directive of the Austrian
Eco-label "low-emission printed products"
Ing. Christian Janetschek · UWNr. 637

Alexander Van der Bellen

imprint

vo r where rt

Printed according to the directive of the Austrian eco-label
"Low-emission printing products" • Ing. Christian Janetschek · UWNr. 637

2

3

fresh start!

ten points and a signal

the green program for a new start
We live in a favorable location. In the middle of Europe, beautiful, rich and threatened by anyone, Austria may
show how to do it better. Unlike in most countries, in Austria enough for everyone: work,
Income, life chances. Much is improperly distributed, much is installed. But everywhere wait chances.
Good policy common good.

1. We help you sparen............................................................................................................................................................................ 6
2. We protect the umwelt......................................................................................................................................................................... 8th
3. We relieve the middle and fight armut..................................................................................................................... 9

The governments of the SPÖ, ÖVP and FPÖ / BZÖ have the chance not availed:
4. we strengthen frauen........................................................................................................................................................................... 12

After years without serious climate protection Austria will miss the Kyoto target.

That will cost billions Austria.

5. We promote jungen.......................................................................................................................................................................... 13


114,000 children live in Austria below the poverty line. Have 230,000 people

6. We protect the citizens and bürger.................................................................................................................................. 15

Full-time jobs - and are still caught in the poverty trap.
7. We defend the menschenrechte..............................................................................................................................................17

At Austrian schools twenty percent of children do not achieve the learning goals.

In Finland, there are six percent. The 14 percent difference are the victims of a policy that
the weaker forgets.

8. We give the EU a second chance............................................................................................................................................18
9. We provide a clean politik.................................................................................................................................................... 20


In Austria missing 80,000 childcare places.

10 and much mehr................................................................................................................................................................................ 21

The income gap between men and women is further risen.

11 new beginnen!........................................................................................................................................................................................... 23
All these problems are caused by bad policies. They can be solved by good policy.

three questions
It's not about more or less government. More State of Education and Social Justice is something else
as more State for monitoring mobile phones and e-mail, video and hidden microphones. Let there more government where people need him: his protection, his support and guarantees
for equal rights. We want more privacy, when it comes to our freedom and our private lives.
Every government are their answers to three big questions: it protects the weak and strengthens the strong man?
Protects the environment or are they price it? And: it protects our liberties or restricts it? With
our election program we present our proposals for the next five years.

4

SPÖ and ÖVP have led Austria to a dead end. Health, education, climate change - nothing works.
At the end of the impasse standing around and bitching is useless. Austria needs a way out of
Crisis. SPÖ, ÖVP and FPÖ can not or want. To show the way out will be the main task of the countryside.
The Greens determine the course? Is that our serious? The answer is quite simple: Just what we're here. We
Greens have a task: a new beginning Greens - as clearly and as soon as possible.
The others have appliances, organizations and money. We have ideas and commitment. We know from experience,
that is not always the larger and heavier wins. We have a great opportunity. 28 September 2008
we intend to use it. With your voice.

CONTENT

fresh start

determine the course

5

1. Sun instead Ö L:

we help you save

Switch-on / off:

Free public transport. Public transport is free for children, apprentices and students. Drive students
free from home to study. The annual pass for public transportation will be taken into account for tax purposes.
This also helps the commuters.

Green half-price card. Half price throughout Austria for train, bus, tram, metro. For commuters in
first year free.

Quality boost for public transport. The quality determines the demand. That is the rule for success of public transport.
200 million euros per year to guarantee the quality boost for train and local and regional public transport.
This will typically switch attractive.

Green light for the wheel. Radstraßen instead biking trails. Own ruts on the roads make the wheel for
equal transport in transport.

Without tolls as it gets. Whether foreign or national - trucks are asked to pay. The truck toll
will comprehensively levied and raised. Local bans protect people, the most to
who suffer.

That's not a successful climate policy. This has a simple reason: the high oil and gas prices. More and more people can afford less and less heating and mobility. SPÖ and ÖVP to look.
Whether we like it or not - oil and natural gas continue to be more expensive. The thirst for oil from China, India and other
new industrialized countries is enormous. The world oil production can with this growth no longer keep up.
The oil age comes to an end. Who does not want nuclear power plants, the only one alternative: the green energy revolution.
Rotschwarzblaue energy policy is shortsighted. Anyone who wants to reduce the fuel tax and subsidize gasoline today, achieved only one thing: that even more money flows into the coffers of the oil sheiks and gas oligarchs. Twelve
Billion euros a year we pay today for oil and gas supplies from Russia, Saudi Arabia, Libya,
Kazakhstan, Nigeria and Iraq. We burn billions in our tanks and furnaces, heat the Climate Change
and finance despotic regimes.

1. S o n n e t Stat Oil

There is one way out of the energy and climate crisis: We must break away from the ecologically and economically fatal oil economy and take our energy supply into their own hands. We need a
Energy Revolution: SUN instead of oil, and: SAVE instead of wasting. We can energy consumption
Halve and provide us one hundred percent renewable energy itself.
Then, the energy bill for households also decreases with rising oil prices. So we protect the climate and standard of living - and Austria is climate change champion, with new jobs in new markets.

6


The Stinker deport. Whether they come from abroad or from domestic hauliers - the old StinkLKW's may no longer drive on Austria's roads. We keep them on - at the border with truck Test locks
and by significantly more truck checks on Austria's roads.

Help when upgrading. Zero-NOVA for fuel-saving cars and electric vehicles.

Get out of oil and gas - Down with the heating bill:

Minus 90 percent. There is no statutory obligation to provide rehabilitation together in the next five years with
Subsidies for thermal insulation of 100,000 poorly insulated homes. By 2030 half
Million homes from energy wasters to passive houses. And heating costs are reduced by 90 percent.

Free boiler exchange for all. Out with the old oil-fired boiler, with the purely economical pellet or solar heating.
Without additional costs. The state has an effort before the investment costs in their entirety. The heating bill drops immediately to
(average) 1,500 euros per year. Households pay these costs saved half of the new
Heating back in installments. The other half is funded by the State. In the next five years we
300,000 homes from oil to pellets and solar energy by 2020 are 800,000 households to climate-friendly
Converted heating systems

The eco-boom:

There is another way.

save and change the green program
Austria needs affordable, secure and climate-friendly energy - in transport, in the apartments and in the
Economy. Green policy supports the people when saving and when upgrading. We promise no cheap oil.
But we guarantee: The Green Program halve your energy bill - sustainably.

 Green Electricity Act. We support the Austrian eco-energy companies through a new Green Electricity Act modeled on the German Renewable Energy Act. Clean supply of wind and solar power plants
Current, be export hit and displace nuclear power from the Austrian network.

Environmental Technology Cluster of wood to create solar high-tech jobs - from R & D to design - with
the snowplow "public demand". The small and medium enterprises in the field of environmental economics and climate technology get a research and development center. Climate technology from Austria will
the worldwide successful brand and creates 100,000 jobs in Austria eco-industry.

1. S o n n e t Stat Oil

The transition has begun. People in Austria drive less and more by public transport
and the wheel. They rehabilitate households and save on heating energy.

7

2. NATURE & ENVI LT

We protect the environment
SPÖ and ÖVP left in environmental policy a long list of sins and a lot of open construction sites: The nuclear risk
increases Austria's borders. Fine lets kids all night long cough and struggling for air. More and more people
suffer from air and road noise. Built-up rivers reinforce flood disasters. More and more waste incinerators promote waste tourism. National parks and nature reserves are by power plant plans
Road construction and hard Tourism threat. More and more animal and plant species are threatened with extinction.

3. gereç HT I G K E IT

We relieve the center
and fight poverty

The environment is not doing well thanks to the SPÖ and ÖVP in Austria.

There is another way.

the green program for more environmental protection
Consequently environmental and nature conservation is not a minority program for lovers of frogs and
Wildflowers. Environmental protection is a key driver of quality of life and health for all. The citizens
have a right to clean air, clear water, unspoiled nature and Secure Energy. Genuine environmental protection, visit
only with the Greens.

Nuclear-free Europe. Austria gets out of the Euratom Treaty and does not promote longer the nuclear industry. We forge an anti-nuclear Alliance for a nuclear-free Europe and against all nuclear construction plans. Strict compliance with the Melk Agreement Temelin.

Stop the waste transit. No new waste incinerators, instead forcing the waste prevention.

Everybody talks about the middle class. Everyone wants to do something for him. All affirm the importance of a strong center for safe
Society is. We want to relieve the middle.


Clean air for our children. Traffic restrictions in dust polluted conurbations.
The ÖVP has betrayed the middle class

Quiet life. Strict Noise Abatement Act. Noise protection plans work out, discuss it with the citizens,
finance and implement.

Water - the basis of our lives. Consequently organic farming, implementation of the Water Framework Directive and ecological flood protection.

Biodiversity instead of concrete. Nationwide uniform Nature Conservation Act. Increase in funding for nature conservation,
Expansion of National Parks.


Energy prices and cost of living

Increase fees and deductibles

bracket creep in the tax system - inflation pushes people with constant real income in
ever higher tax brackets

Tuition fees and expensive private lessons

8th


lack of kindergarten places and Pflegenotstand


Active Citizens Participation. In all matters that affect our environment.
This is true no longer just those who live at the bottom of society. "Center" is no longer "security".
Under a black and a red Chancellor have life for people in eight years ÖVP Policy
the center of society made heavier.
More than one million people living in Austria at the poverty line. These are not only long-term unemployed
and minimum pensioners. These are more often young families and people who end up despite full-time employment in the poverty trap. The middle class breaks down away.
Only a small group has benefited. In 3300 Austria's richest foundations parking tax-friendly assets
of around 60 billion euros. That which the ÖVP gave them, the middle class has to pay.

3. g e r c e g e n c y HTI

2. Nature and environment
 reform of the Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA). Lowering of thresholds. Better integration of the
Stakeholders, citizens' groups and NGOs.
9 While pleased the donors on the abolition of inheritance and gift taxes, eats the cold progression normal taxpayers every year around 300 million euros away. Since the last tax reform were the
1.2 billion.
 abolition of tuition fees. We relieve students and their families to
140 million euros annually.
 remedial classes in schools replace private lessons and saves families about 150 million euros annually.
But it's not just about money. It's also about solutions for concrete problems.
 increase of the allowance and its annual adjustment relieve the families of 120 million euros.
 Where are the high-quality nursery school places for young families and single mothers?
 Why is the access to the university to be hampered by tuition fees?
 Why Austria still does not provide adequate legal care for all who need them?
 Why are new entrepreneurs hindered and not supported?
 Why are more and more precarious employment relationships?
 Immediate rehabilitation of the health insurance avoids further deductibles of families in the amount of
450 million Euro.
 Free admission to the museums. A family with a child charged today in Vienna Museum of Ethnology 45 €.
The publicly financed cultural activities should not be a luxury for families.
 Affordable Housing. Reduce operating costs and limit the rent, thus living is affordable.
There is another way.
the green program for relief and support
Relieve and support the SME sector. Rich of their duty. Fight poverty successfully. This is the
Program of the Greens for more justice.
Redistribute to low-income - immediately
 700 Euro relief. Austrians with income below the tax threshold (currently 1,130 euros gross
per month) will be by increasing the negative control and / or reduction of social security contributions in
Or an annual average of monthly relieved 700 euros to 58 euros.
Relieve work and take empires in the duty
 reduction in payroll taxes - immediately. Incomes above 1,130 euros per month in the amount of 2.5 billion
Euro relieved. This saves an average of all those affected annually 700 euros.
 900 Euro basic security 12 x per year. Thus no one can completely slide into poverty. Until then
annual adjustment of unemployment benefits and unemployment assistance.
 7.25 euro minimum wage. No one earns less than 7.25 euros per hour. By law.
 end to bracket creep. From 2010, the tax rate levels are growing annually with the inflation rate,
so the state wegfrisst the income growth no longer automatically on the bracket creep.
Make new work worlds fair
 assets taxing reasonable. What is self-evident everywhere, should also be possible in Austria - a
Wealth tax, be occupied in assets under grant high allowances with a low tax rate. To avoid double taxation, the property tax will be abolished.
 foundations to checkout. As a first immediate measure to reduce the tax privileges for private foundations is the
Tax rate on transfers of assets doubled in the foundation from the current 2.5 to 5 percent. A capital gains tax is introduced.
 Full coverage for all employment relationships.
 Equitable distribution of paid work time by lowering the normal and maximum working hours. Working time legislation more closely geared to the needs of workers.
Relieve and promote the new companies
3. g e r c e g e n c y HTI
Support families
10
 free kindergartens for all. A legal right to high-quality and free all-day childcare for children from the age of first year of life while extending and flexible
Opening times of childcare facilities. This child care is the luxury for granted.
 reduction of income tax - immediately. The income of the new self-employed, the one-person enterprises and small and medium-sized innovative companies are on average annually
700 Euro relieved.
 control passbook. Introduction of a temporary tax-deductible reserve ("Tax savings account") for cash-based computer. Funds flowing into these reserves, reduce profits in the year of the creation of reserves and can later be used for investments and expenses or are resolved to boost profits.
 Premature 30 percent depreciation in investments in fixed assets (declining balance)
and raising the limit for low-value assets from the current 400 to 1,500 euros.
 income-dependent parental leave benefit. 80 percent of income for eight months per parent. 730 Euro
Minimum parental leave benefits for all, as long as no comprehensive basic security it regulates differently.
 extension of the assessment period for income tax for new self-employed for three years.
 Papa month. Fathers are entitled to a father month after childbirth at full income replacement.
 self-assessment of advance payments of income tax instead of early high tax prepayments.
3. g e r c e g e n c y HTI
 Full income tax from 100,000. No favoring of the 13th / 14th Salary for salary portions above 100,000 euros tax base - which meets the top 0.9 percent of wage taxpayers. Received 99.1 percent
this tax benefit as in the past.
11 4. EQUAL STE FILLING AN D SE LBSTBESTI MMUNG
We empower women
5. SC H U L E, UN I S, WE H RP F L I C HT ...
We promote young
The female unemployment decreases more slowly than that of men. More and more women in part-time jobs. Women encounter
in career advancement of the glass ceiling. Women earn a third less than men, the income gap has further risen. Does the discrimination against women in the labor market in recent years
exacerbated. Women still bear the main burden of unpaid utilities, care work. in the
Age they are most at risk of poverty.
On paper, women have equal rights with the SPÖ and ÖVP. The reality is different.
12
There is another way.
the green program for equality
Anyone who wants to avoid unemployment and poverty for the future, now has in the promotion and training of our
Minors invest. The foundations for equal opportunities in life will be immediately after
Birth asked. The results of PISA have shown for Austria, that large differences in performance
exist between pupils from disadvantaged families and children of higher levels of education. Education Poverty
is hereditary. The elimination of this injustice is a central distribution and growth question. For this reason alone must
all children are launched with an effective early intervention.
Equality needs a political thrust. We want to give priority to women.
 action plus women. 10,000 new jobs - in particular, companies in the non-profit sector and in small enterprises for women through the temporary takeover of two thirds of the annual salary costs. Would benefit
including especially women after several years of career breaks or aged 35 and over.
 Of the universities up to the supervisory boards. Top Jobs for women through quotas and consistent promotion.
Investments today decide on prosperity and quality of life of tomorrow. Those investing today in warplanes, surveillance society and highways, can the next generations in the lurch.
The key investment in the future be called education, research and infrastructure. In all key investments
Austria is back. So stagnating university budget since 2000 at around one percent of GDP,
is thus well below the OECD average of 1.4 percent. Sweden and Finland show Austria with 1.8 percent,
how it is done.
 founders funds. Thousand-interest loans to 100,000 euros each to seven years for company founders. Each Austrian over age 18 can apply - and be an entrepreneur.
There is another way.
 Publicly equal. In the salary schemes of federal and state "women's jobs" with "men's jobs" are
assimilated. Taking care of long-term care is more demanding than the disposal of waste. The geriatric nurse earns in the future more than the employees of the garbage disposal.
 Economic Development = women. No economic development without women. Those who do not women
wants to promote itself is not encouraged. So economic incentives lead to greater justice.
 Not alone. The Priority Programme for single mothers. Many of them live in the poverty trap.
Direct transfers, training and subsidized jobs to support the restart.
the green program for schools, colleges, and much more
 achieve learning objectives. Each (r) in five young people in Austria not just the learning objectives. In Finland, the only true
every (n) Seventeenth (s). A program to help it create more boy in Austria.
 ECI for all. Care highly trained and adequately remunerated kindergarten teachers
by reading difficulties, disabilities, language deficits. To school age can be much better. In order to
all children have an equal chance.
5. s h u l e, u n i s, w h e r p c fli ht ...
4. I Gle st e S e llu ngund lb stb e sti mmung
The systematic discrimination is not only unfair - it is also stupid. In business, research, culture and politics
Women show a long time what they can. Three men parties hinder still in it.
13  Joint School of 6- to 15-year-olds. A strongly anchored individual support prevents premature
Selection, creates social equality, and improved the overall results of the school system.
 legal entitlement to high-quality after-school care. Parents can choose between afternoon care or day school. This ensures the compatibility of work and family life and minimizes
the cost of private lessons.
. 6 CITIZEN / I NNENREC HTE
we protect the citizens
 promote multilingualism as a qualification for the future by promoting linguistic as well as by
native language support for all children.
 The Uni-Milliarde.100.000 students more in eight years. Receive Unis per year to 200 million euros
more, for five years. Then Austria has reached OECD levels and 28 instead of 14 per cent of 35-year-olds are up
Academics.
 space for young researchers and scientists. The current service law hinders young scientists. Career development as part of a "Tenure Track System" rewarded early independence in
Research and Teaching.
 expansion of student grants and merit scholarships. And the universities are given incentives for measures that the
Ensure compatibility of work and study, childcare and study better.
 Education Account. Who wants to pay for five years, a two per cent of income. The state pays the difference to
thousands of euros annually. Already at the beginning of the Euro 5000 may be taken for personal training services. This helps especially the self-employed.
 abolition of conscription. After the euro, it is finally clear: No one needs to open military service
Limits. The duress assistance operation steals young men half a year of life, is meaningless and human rights unconstitutional - and will be abolished. With him conscription falls.
 doubling the youth rate. A quarter of the population is younger than twenty - and no longer receives
than three percent of cultural promotion. We doubled. Six percent of new is better - and affordable.
Austria is on the way to the police state
 mobile phone and internet surveillance without judge
 video surveillance from the entrance to the workplace
 Large bugging and dragnet
 champion and Matura free. Anyone who wants can make up for the Matura or make the master's examination. Free.
14
 Glass Austrians through networking of all public databases
 access of the military intelligence services to all databases of the tax office to hospital
 fingerprints of millions of unsuspecting Austrians
 massenge tests
This is the "security policy" of ÖVP and SPÖ. While organized criminals may well protect against,
Millions of innocent and unsuspected people of the growing surveillance are defenseless.
ÖVP and SPÖ go together the way to the police state. What is technically possible, is made -
regardless of liberal civil rights and human rights. Everyone is suspicious, no one is more ago
Surveillance measures.
Simultaneously, the state shall protect its data against its citizens. "Secrecy" - anywhere in Europe
have the citizens as little right to insight and control.
6. b o r g e r / i n r e e n n c hte
5. s h u l e, u n i s, w h e r p c fli ht ...
 Federal Trojan on the hard drives of personal computers
 fair conditions for training periods. Clear regulations for internships in labor law and collective agreements. Define quality standards for training centers. Prevention of sham internships
Supporting young highly qualified people.
15 There is another way.
7. ASY L AN D E D I NWAN TION
the green program for more private and less government
We defend human rights
All people living in Austria have the right to privacy. You have the right, in front of boundless
To be protected monitoring. Who is not suspected, should also not be monitored. We want to
Crystal State - and not the transparent man.
Whether air or asylum, or school safety, care or immigration - to blame for the abuses are neither
Nationals nor foreigners. Guilt is a bad policy.
 Only with Richter. Mobile and Internet monitoring there may be only in cases of serious crime and with judicial decision.
 mobile security. Whether providers, prosecutor or police officer - who can listen to cell phones without sufficient justification, is liable to prosecution. Journalists, doctors and lawyers to be particularly protected.
Bad politicians looking for scapegoats. Once there are "unemployed". Then there are "the foreigners".
Bad politicians rely on fear and incite people. With inhuman laws have ÖVP, SPÖ and
FPÖ / BZÖ years pursuing people who disregarded human rights and harm the economy.
 No mass data storage. We all should be sure - before linking any personal information to a
personal profile.
There is another way.
 military-stop. No military access to civilian data of public administration.
the green program on human rights
And
After eight years of systematic disregard by FPÖ, BZÖ, ÖVP and SPÖ Austria returns to full
Respect for human rights back.
 The citizens' right to information. The state must disclose everything - with a few, well justified by law
Exceptions such as data protection and national security. An open society does not tolerate closed state.
 repealing secrecy. Arbitrariness and waste may no longer be able to hide behind the secrecy.
Immigration is clearly regulated. Austria needs immigrants - and clear rules, so that all benefit from immigration.
 protect asylum. No process may take longer than six months. Instead of one-third of faulty procedures
create well-appointed authorities reliable decisions. With significantly more police officers and laws,
again respect the Refugee Convention, Austria retains one of the most important human rights.
 right to stay instead of mercy. Rip Well-integrated families, qualified young people in Austria
have learned their profession, deport - which is inhumane and stupid. Who wants to stay, should have the right,
to submit an application. Due process with a clear choice - this is the alternative to
Arbitrariness of Haider and Fekter.
6. b o r g e r i e n r e n n c h te
 citizenship without harassment. From five years of legal residence all get a chance.
From seven years they have the right. This puts Austria from the edge to the center of the EU.
16
 integration rather than isolation. We do not want aggressive counter-cultures - but not aggressive
Assimilation pressure. The rights of women and children are not negotiable, but headscarf ban and
Contracted heels, we reject. Diversity is enriching for all.
 promote integration. Educational campaign for immigrants. The offer of language courses will be expanded,
further training and consultancy services tailored offered.
7. Asylum u n d e i n d e r wan shootin g
 immigration as an opportunity. Instead of arbitrary and rigid quotas decide clear criteria as to who should immigrate and
must. Education, language skills, work experience and relatives in Austria decide who immigrate
must.
17 8. EUROPE VER Ä N D ERN
we will give the EU a second chance
 Minimum social standards including minimum wage legislation.
 protection of services of general interest.
 European financial compensation as a tool in the fight against poverty.
The European Union is in a crisis. If she wants to win the trust of the people back, they must
democratic, social and ecological be.
But one thing is clear: the bad mood in our country is largely homemade. ÖVP and SPÖ abuse
"Brussels" for years as a scapegoat for their own political failure. On Sundays they present themselves as Europeans,
Monday to Friday they speculate with nationalist sentiments and stirring up fear. But nationalism and
the withdrawal into Provincial are no answers to the common challenges in the European
Union. Europe - these are not the others, that we ourselves are we ourselves have to change the European Union..
 social guarantee. Compliance with the social standards of the destination country for cross-border services.
 priority of fundamental social rights, particularly the right to strike, in front of the freedoms of the internal market.
 board without boundaries. No matter in which States - working in the EU establishes a pension entitlement.
The EU does not tolerate social-free islands.
 "full employment" and "sustainable growth" as extensions of currently exclusive objective of
Price stability of the European Central Bank. "
There is another way.
the green program for the European Union
The Europe-wide crisis of confidence is still not recognized by the national chancelleries. A second one
No Irish meant the death of the democratization and the split in the Union with a large core of Europe
States mean. A European democracy is therefore the first objective of our European policy.
The European peace order
 common foreign policy. Only on their basis, the founding principle of the European Union as a peace project be realized in the future.
The European Citizens / interior Treaty
 Not without international law. UN and Parliament. Only on the basis of international law with a clear UN mandate
and the assent of the European Parliament should the EU military operations are carried out.
In a "European Act for Democracy" only those elements of the constitutional process be anchored, the
Expand citizens' rights, strengthen democracy, and enshrine the values ​​and objectives of the Union:
The eco-Union
 the Charter of Fundamental Rights - a legally binding and enforceable;


Withdrawal from the Euratom Treaty. Austria outlet must be possible, even without leaving the Union.


European referendum;


Climate Community. The fight against climate change must be joint task.


the right to information, the right of initiative and the full co-decision with the Parliament
dual majority in legislative and budget;


Harmonization of energy taxes. Climate does not tolerate Dodger.

Kerosene tax. A Europe-wide tax on kerosene to eliminate the pollution privilege of aviation.


the election of the Commission president by the Parliament;

18

This European Citizens' contract is on the day of elections to the European Parliament in June 2009 a
Europe-wide referendum be subjected.

The European Social Union
The Union needs a common area of ​​justice, social security and solidarity are.
Only in this way the European social model can be defended against the overpowering, global financial and economic interests. This means:
 harmonization of corporate tax rates as a means to control dumping.

Europe-speculation tax (Tobin tax) to put the speculation borders.

 "GMO-free regions for agriculture be protected by EU law, the forced happiness
by the GM industry a bolt is advanced. "

8. E u r o v e r pa Su b e r n

8. E u r o v e r pa Su b e r n


the public nature of legislation in the Council, the participation rights of national parliaments and the full judicial review of all decisions.

19

9. GL ÄSERNE K ASSEN, SA UBERE PA RTE I EN, UN ABH Ä NG I GE KONTRO LLE

We provide a clean politics

10. UN NOC D H V I E L R H ME

and much more

SPÖ, ÖVP and FPÖ / BZÖ have it addressed itself.

Party donations from contractors and arms manufacturers

Donations laundering by the Industrialists' Association

Redirection of Arbeiterkammer- and Commerce contributions in party coffers

Donations to ministers

Election advertisements on Ministry costs

20

Ministers and their fellow party members do not need to be afraid of the prosecutor. Parliament is on its control
prevented. While ministers and provincial governors can break with impunity laws and constitution, they are
further put their party interests above the laws.

There is another way.

the green program for cleanliness and transparency
 funding ban. Government members and their KabinettsmitarbeiterInnnen is prohibited by law
be accepting money or other benefits of membership organizations or companies.
 transparency. All political donations over € 5,000 to the annual report of a party, stating the
Donors are declared.

From agriculture to health, from neutrality to the ICCPR by the Equality
Handicapped people are up in support of seniors, our concepts on the table. Some of them:

The GMO Prohibition in agriculture remains. The protection of GMO-free agriculture
enshrined in law. The national import bans on GM products be extended.


Forbidden party financing. Illegal financing of political parties belongs in the Criminal Code - and to justice.

Ban on donations by public contractors. Companies who accept public contracts,
to donations to political parties and policy makers are prohibited.

No Chamber funds for parties. The fractions in the legal advocacy organizations should be obliged
are spending their funds exclusively for the group work in the interest groups.

Non-governmental public prosecutors. The authority of the Ministers of Justice will be abolished.
The National Council shall elect a General prosecutor, to twelve years, irremovable. Prosecutors to
Fight against corruption gets own investigators - regardless of the interior ministers.


One hundred percent organic. Public institutions buy only organic and regional products. The organic farming
becomes the model of agricultural policy.

Animal Welfare. Ban on keeping animals in stalls as not species-appropriate attitude without
Bedding on slatted floors. Prohibition of agonizing surgery without anesthesia. Transport of live animals
only under improved standards and to close monitoring.

Animal Protection in the Constitution. And not animal rights activists to jail.

Scandinavian research. The research and development ratio will be within six years to four percent
raised.


Committee of inquiry as a minority right. The National Council should be able to control unhindered.
 official complaint. Officials have the right to appeal to an appeal body of the National Council.
The fight against abuse of power thus receives an address.


Same benefits for all. Age, income, place of residence, office or diagnosis may not have the quality
decide medical treatment.
 Nine funds are enough. Nine countries cash to replace 28 parallel cash.


Election expenses limit. The election expenses to be disclosed before the election. The Court of Auditors
verify the information after the election. Whoever exceeds by more than ten percent, gets less
Election expenses refund.


No prescription charges for Little earners and the chronically ill. Unbureaucratic help save expensive
Management of capping.

10. u n d n o c h i v e l e h r m

9. Gläs Erne kas sen, sau bere parte ia, u nab hän GigE Ko ntr o lle

The system legalizes political corruption.

21


On prescription. Psychotherapy on prescription.

Public accessibility - everything. All public buildings and transport are made accessible.
University and the labor market are open to all.

Neutral in Europe. Austria takes the initiative. The united Europe should agree: no entry
in wars; no stationing of foreign troops; not joining a military pact. Then, the
neutral Austria participate in building a European Union security and in a referendum
Make decision.

ICCPR. Common rights in a modern relationship. Tenancy law, inheritance law, inheritance and gift law, Civil Procedure - the disparities are eliminated. Same-sex partners can
Adopt children and are also in the hospital no "foreigners" more.

Signposts now. The bilingual signs in Carinthia are set up. Because the Constitution applies to all.

Weapons ban. Firearms should be the exception - only for hunters and marksmen.

11 SC H L USS W ITH T HE OLD PO L IT I.sub.K:

fresh start!
"They do what they want." That's right. Whether SPÖ with ÖVP, FPÖ with ÖVP / FPÖ or BZÖ ruled with SPÖ -
Machtwmissbrauch, proportional, party membership and corruption reign with.
"We are completely no matter where." Right. SPÖ, ÖVP and FPÖ / BZÖ speak of "the people". If they govern,
Show that the people who are just themselves.
"I believe that not a word more." Correction. Almost everything SPÖ, ÖVP and FPÖ / BZÖ in the last eight years
have promised, they have broken.
It's not just about what SPÖ, ÖVP and FPÖ / BZÖ have done everything wrong. It's also about how they
have made it. The three parties have destroyed confidence in the policy. Only a new policy can be new
Confidence reasons.


Culture of all. Instead of expensive events, the old cliches spread: Forty instead of four million euros for
the countless creative initiatives that deal with the living conditions of people apart.

Free work without fear. Minimum living subsidies for the artists.

The new beginning


Open gyms. Gymnasiums and sports facilities in schools are out of school hours for all
Available. Also in the evening, on weekends and during holidays.

Holding green concepts. We considered our proposals carefully. We promise neither the Red still
the black or blue from the sky. Much of what we want is new. Everything is real.


Grow old with dignity. With a legally enforceable right to care and support. Care and support are not
Clemency - and they are not allowed to load additional, unpaid, without social security, women
become

Green Promise apply. We have already gotten in government negotiations, because we our
Voters in the word were. Who chooses us, can rely on us.
The voters obliged. No one else. Our finances are as open as our programs.

11 n e u b e g i n s

We want a fresh political start. With sincerity, objectivity and honesty. With someone else
political style. With your support.

10. u n d n o c h i v e l e h r m


Finally 0.7 percent. Global poverty reduction through the fulfillment of the obligation to raise the funds for development cooperation to 0.7 percent of gross national income. Global Poverty Reduction
begins at home.

22

23

www.gruene.at
