www.spoe.at

Election Manifesto
the Austrian Social Democratic Party
Parliamentary elections 2008

40th Ordinary Federal Party
August 8, 2008 | Design Center Linz

?

Election manifesto of the Austrian Social Democratic Party



content



Einleitung......................................................................................................................................4

1. be able to live well from good work







Combat Arbeitslosigkeit.................................................................................................7
Quality of Arbeit.............................................................................................................................8
Combat Teuerung..............................................................................................................8
Relief of low and medium income ............................................. .......................... 9
Fair and safe Pensionen........................................................................................................10
Poverty reduction and guaranteed minimum income ............................................... .............................. 10

2. Research and Innovation

survive in international competition





Wirtschaft...........................................................................................................................................12
Science and Forschung.......................................................................................................13
Innovation...........................................................................................................................................14

3. Invest in the young generation





Opportunities for Jugend..................................................................................................................15
Bildung.................................................................................................................................................16
Art and Kultur...............................................................................................................................18

4. live in safety








Gesundheit.........................................................................................................................................20
Pflege...................................................................................................................................................21
With people Behinderung..........................................................................................................22
Wohnen................................................................................................................................................22
Konsumentenschutz........................................................................................................................23
Security and Recht.......................................................................................................................24

Election manifesto of the Austrian Social Democratic Party

?

5. realize sustainability









Umwelt.................................................................................................................................................26
Agriculture and rural areas .............................................. ........................................... 26
Air and Energie............................................................................................................................27
Tierschutz...........................................................................................................................................28
Mobilität..............................................................................................................................................28
Nutrition, Lebensmittel................................................................................................................29
Sport and Bewegung.......................................................................................................................29

6. Equal rights and

ensuring equal opportunities





Geschlechtergerechtigkeit...........................................................................................................30
Same-sex partnerships - rights .............................................. ......................... 32
Immigration and Integration......................................................................................................32

7. strengthen democracy and public




Political Kultur...............................................................................................................................34
Heads of State and Demokratiereform....................................................................................................34
Versatile and critical Öffentlichkeit......................................................................................35

8. Playing an active role in the world





For a social and citizen-friendly Europe - confidence recover ....................... 36
For an active Neutralitätspolitik...............................................................................................37
For a reformed Bundesheer................................................................................................38
Entwicklungszusammenarbeit.....................................................................................................38

?

Election manifesto of the Austrian Social Democratic Party

initiation
The SPÖ occurs in the general election
28 September 2008 with a clear
Program before the voters.
We want to make Austria more equitable. We
want to take the worries and problems of Austrians seriously
implement and political solutions. We want
the future prospects for our country and for
people clearly in our country and
sustained improvement.
With these objectives, we are also beginning the
last year in a joint
Federal government with the Austrian
People's Party have gone. As scarce winner
the elections from 1 October 2006, we were
willing to take responsibility. And it
was well aware that we have to close with the coalition partner, to which there was no realistic alternative but to compromise.
We have assumed that a
longstanding ruling party as the ÖVP
about their responsibility for our country
Clear is that it respects the democratic election result and to subsequently
the common and constructive work for
The benefit of Austria will focus.
We were wrong.
From the outset, the leadership of the ÖVP, have Wolfgang Schüssel and Wilhelm Molterer
want to represent our victory than to error of the electorate, which should be corrected as soon as possible. The ÖVP-tip
is the price for it has never been too high: you
has blocked trendsetting projects. She
has armed and irrelevant attacks on
the SPÖ sentiment against the government
stoked. And the ÖVP has ultimately politics
as such discredited with her only on one's own power and never on the welfare of Austria
directed destruction strategy. At the end

was once again the collapse of the coalition
by the ÖVP and the consequent necessary
become new elections.
We know that many hopes and
Expectation that connected to a conducted by the Social Democracy Federal Government
was, was disappointed. Neither is it us
for example, managed to abolish tuition fees, nor could we - from
contractual reasons - completely get out of the Euro Fighter contract.
Nevertheless, we have over the past one and a half
Years much fought laboriously
and achievement that makes Austria social, just and future-proof. Some
Examples:
- The good over long distances economy
was utilized and the unemployment rate
decreased to 4.1 percent (in May 2008). The
Number of employees in Austria is
between December 2006 and June 2008
increased by 150,000.
- EUR 100 million were in the fight
invested against youth unemployment, particularly in the improvement
vocational training opportunities.
- 1.5 million DienstnehmerInnen and
Employees with incomes up 1,350
Euro gross were ratified on July 1 of 2008. If a minimum wage of 1,000 euros
on the social partners to January 1, 2009
be realized.
- For independent contractors and employees, we have the social security
clearly improved.
- The next pension increase is on
the November 1, 2008 preferred the

Election manifesto of the Austrian Social Democratic Party

Pensions were increased again and the
so-called "heavy workers" by 2010
extended.
- We have the training guarantee until
18 years prevailed. The maximum class numbers have been reduced,
Today there are around 1,500 teachers and
Teachers more than at the throne. The
Afternoon care for school children
has been expanded by 40 percent, student grants and scholarships were to
the increased cost of living
adapted and with the free Berufsmatura now also get the apprentices
Opportunity to study.
- Brings the flexibility of child benefits
Parents' freedom of choice in the
Lifestyle, through financial aid from the Federal was expanding
of childcare places - in co-financing with the countries - supported.
The child-rearing periods were
revalued for pension.
- We have set the cap on prescription fees. Tens of thousands
People, including many pensioners
and pensioners and the chronically ill,
benefit from this scheme.
- Numerous measures have been in the direction
Set equality, so were the
For the professional and career prospects
improved for women in the federal civil service.
- We have in the context of a modern
Justice Politics important reforms in the field
the criminal proceedings, victims' rights, the
Sanctions system and judicial organization realized.
- We have lowered the voting age to 16th

?

- Record investment in infrastructure
were introduced. Eleven billion euros, a
Volume that it never in this form
has given, will be invested by 2010,
and in relation to a two-thirds
Thirds in favor of rail. Expanding
public transport is also driven by the funds from the Klimaschutzund Energy Fund.
- We have taken important steps in the fight
against the Black and Entrepreneurship
set against illegal employment.
Entrepreneurs are liable now for subcontractors, which they pass on jobs.
- EUR 400 million were saved in the Euro Fighter purchase.
All these decisions by the Government
Go to the initiative of the Social Democratic Party back, they
were under a black-blue government
never came about. Although much
Victims of the blockade policy of bowl and
Molterer was Austria's last in the
18 months but a good deal of social and
become more equitable.
We want to continue along this path in the future, and we have from the past
learned: compromises are in a democracy
no doubt necessary, but we are a
Cooperation with another party only
then enter when our partner ready to constructive and fair cooperation
is.
A new government led by Social Democrats is of a
new style be marked: Of course,
each party has their own goals and aspirations. Cooperation is but
only possible and useful if these

?

Election manifesto of the Austrian Social Democratic Party

different approaches not in regular bickering and personal attacks
degenerate.
We rely on the support
the social partners. It is particularly important to us
the good cooperation with the Social Democratic trade unionists and
Trade unionists when it comes to the interests
and concerns of working people in
Austria goes.
We want to take responsibility and our
Proposals that we in this manifesto
submit realize for our country and for the people in our country. In order to
spread the wealth generated justice
is so that one in Austria of good work
can live well, so that we succeed in the
Can go tomorrow!

Election manifesto of the Austrian Social Democratic Party

?

1. be able to live well from good work
Fight against unemployment
Secure income is first, to create jobs and to maintain. For us
applies: Every person has a right to a
Workplace. Gainful employment with a good
Income secures financial independence,
determined life chances and give recognition. The fair distribution of opportunities
we also want to realize the labor market.
In the last eighteen months we have
reduce unemployment perceptibly. Nevertheless,
is still every / r unemployed a / r too. We must continue on the path towards full employment, in particular
even teenagers, less well-educated,
People with health problems, elderly and long-term unemployed back
increasingly bring in working.
At national and European
Therefore level we are fighting for a growth-promoting economic and monetary policy,
for the further promotion of research
and innovation and for meaningful public
Investments.
We want to implement the youth employment package in its entirety. This includes the
inter-company training to apprenticeship and the consistent orientation of the company training promotion of their quality and usefulness
in the labor market with a. Every young
Man should complete his talents and skills in accordance with a lesson
can visit or a school. Therefore
we rely on intensive job coaching
entering the job market, to creating
inter-company training centers
as well as the solidarity finance
Teaching.

We also want to ensure that the
existing demand for skilled workers as far as
possible from the existing in Austria
Potential can be covered and that
older workers have a real chance in the labor market
have and their employability and
maintain their health remains. We want
improving access to early retirement.
When integrating long-term unemployed
and unemployed with disabilities in the
Labor market, we rely on the other
Development of socio-economic enterprises,
Employment projects and specific integrative establishments.
We stand for genuine reconciliation of
Work and family life for men and women, discrimination against women in the labor market
we fight to enable all people to have access to gainful employment. We
want to specifically promote women in the labor market,
in particular through measures for women returners, by promoting
Girl in the vocational orientation phase,
by improving the quality and the
Development of women's labor foundations.
About intensified training, education and
Education, not least in the context of
further improvement of active labor market policies and public employment services, we want to increase their chances on the labor market. We want the right to
annually 35 hours professional development
prevail in the work and achieve improvements in educational leave.
We want the EU Transitional provisions
exploit for access to the Austrian labor market, except
should be most urgently needed skilled workers. Priority will be domestically

?

Election manifesto of the Austrian Social Democratic Party

Job seekers and participants and
Have participants from training.
We strive for a better financial protection during prolonged training and want
a legal entitlement to training at
Long-term unemployment anchor. To improve the situation of those persons who
yet are unemployed, the net replacement rate is to be raised.

Quality of Work
Socialist employment policy
is not limited to the fight against
unemployment. The quality of sound
Jobs, the amount of income that
social protection of employment are
equally important.
Lack of job security, many precarious
Working conditions and increased demands on workers
unrequited step up the pressure
on the individual. Who's
Worker employed, must be remunerated for it accordingly. Work must not
sicken, but should be meaningful
and if possible bring joy.
As part of a modernization of labor law, we also want to grasp the concept of workers up to date by
not only to the personal, but also on
economic dependence is referred and so also the numerous precarious
Employment entrance into the labor
find. This precarious employment we want to better protect social and
Moreover, gaps include general there,
where there are no collective agreements.
Unfair entrepreneurship and the flight options from the Labour and Social Law
we want law and fight through further enhanced control. Unfair contract terms should be prohibited.

We want to improve the status of part-time workers further, for example with regard to their return and their access
to full-time jobs. Part-time workers
have the same opportunities in operation at
skilled jobs and training
get.

We advocate for effective measures against
Lohnvorenthaltung, for example missing
Overtime payments, a. The effective
Law Enforcement in Lohnvorenthaltung
We want, for example, by reversing the
Burden of proof or by removing
Facilitate forfeiture provisions.
The concrete working conditions are
through more workplace health promotion, by supporting employee participation models and promoting
positive corporate culture be improved.
Especially we want the widespread
Problem of bullying at work with all
its social and health consequences
to encounter.

Combating inflation
For several months, prices for rise
essential goods for daily use,
particularly for food and fuel.
The reasons are manifold: increased demand, market failure and speculation, but
Also within Austria price distortions.
Austria has over in some areas
the EU average price increases. For many Austrians and
Austrians mean the price increases
sharp cuts in their quality of life. The
Politics must do something about it.
To enhance competition, the Federal Competition Authority needs to be strengthened in their competence and their independence. In particular, it comes to the introduction
the burden of proof. Dominant market
Businesses should prove in the future,

Election manifesto of the Austrian Social Democratic Party
that they are not their dominant position
abuse. In addition to a
comprehensive and in depth range
Competition monitoring and an enhanced
Reporting obligation of the Federal Competition Authority will be introduced.
With energy and fuel costs, we occur
for an effective price control a. prices for
Material goods, food and fuel may
will not be changed several times a day, unless there is a price reduction, the
to be released immediately.
We want to reduce VAT on basic food and ensure
that the corresponding price reduction to the
Consumers will be passed.
We want a better and unbureaucratic
Regulation of the winter fuel payment and
transparent and for consumers and
Consumers traceable accounts
the heating costs obtain.
Want Given the current high inflation
we opted for maximum restraint in price increases in the public sector, such as fares or rents, use.
We want the most from inflation
hard hit commuters
further relieve and public transport
expand and make it more attractive, where
is possible. We advocate for an increase and
Reform of a commuter tax so
even people with low income
be relieved.
We sit down at European level for
Measures against inflation. These are
on the one hand measures against speculation
in energy or food commodities. Secondly, the EU countries should
together with energy providers negotiations, as in the gas sector lead, in order to obtain lower prices.

?

A close connection of course between inflation and the
Level of real income. Therefore want
we continue at the earliest opportunity the workers
relieve.

Low relief and
middle income
Burden rising cost of living
People with low and middle income especially. We want all of
their income can live well and take
for income and distributive justice
on. Therefore, we want to implement appropriate relief measures.
In Austria, the tax burden on labor is
particularly high by international standards,
the burden of capital, however, particularly
low. That is why we want to noticeable relief for workers and for pensioners with small and medium income
reach. They have of the tax reform
the black-blue government in 2005 slightly
or not at all benefited. Currently they suffer dramatically under the wave of price increases, and therefore,
we want the planned wage tax reduction
prefer to of 2009.
We want small and medium income
provide significant relief and progression stages in
Differentiate tax system more: Not only
from distribution policy point of view, but also
may from the perspective of economic policy
the middle class does not "break away".
For that we want big capital gains
and speculative profits to finance fair
use of the important tasks for the future
Close and tax loopholes and
Strictly combat tax fraud. So that everyone
according to his ways of contributing to the
General, for social security and for
ensure the future security of our country.

10

Election manifesto of the Austrian Social Democratic Party

Fair and secure pensions
The pensioners
suffer from inflation. Contrary to all the propaganda our pension system in the long run
secured. For us, the warranty is existence
and standard of living captive pensions
a fundamental responsibility of society. Austria can afford it, that the earlier
Generation after hard work and great
Performance time the board in dignity and
can spend secured. If adjustments
of the system are needed in the more distant future, they are not blind Automatic
follow, but agreed democratic and
be decided.
We advocate that the pension increase reflects the respective inflation and
is oriented on pensioners Price Index.
We strive to recipients and recipients
lower pensions in the negative tax scheme to involve and
Set aside provision that in the year of
Retiring in the following year and no
Inflation compensation is carried out.
We stick to our principles states that
- Men after 45 and women after 40 years of work at the age of 60 or 55 years
(Age limit applies to the adjustment of the
Retirement age of women to the
of men) without reductions in pension
can go and
- We want to implement a unified pension system according to the rule: Same
Performance for the same contributions.
That is why we advocate a more
Extension of the so-called "heavy workers" as well as a new medium
Heavy worker scheme. The evaluation of
Spare times, we want to continue to improve and
make the disability pension for the handicapped,
for example as regards access to
health severely impaired workers no chance
on the job market.

To spend a secure old age, but it requires not only the
Inns. We want to ensure that there
in our society there is no discrimination
are due to age. Important for us is the
Designing a living environment that meets the needs of the growing group of senior citizens: In addition to the
age-appropriate health care is
it primarily to the creation of appropriate housing options, support
maximum mobility, a high level of
Safety and Accident Prevention in everyday life, for example,
in road transport, as well as age-appropriate
Leisure opportunities.
We want the important experience potential
use of the older generation for the development of our society and
appropriate participation and involvement opportunities develop.

Poverty Alleviation
and Guaranteeing
We sit down with all his might for the improvement of living conditions of those people
one, who are excluded from wealth.
It is still well-paid employment
the best protection against poverty. That's why
we must have the promoting work ability through better qualification, on the
Support for women's employment
independent hedge and through special support of the marginalized so
bring many people as possible in work
and fight for that one on income
from this work can also live well. Too
integration into the so-called second
Labor market is in this context a
important tool because socioeconomic
Businesses often can be the lifeline,
to regain the first labor market
to.
With preparations for the demand-oriented guaranteed minimum income has the SPÖ a

Election manifesto of the Austrian Social Democratic Party
set important step towards poverty reduction. This approach must be continued, implemented a guaranteed minimum income
be and further developed. The unemployment insurance and unemployment assistance
we want to make poverty solid, reform the maintenance advance law. The
Guaranteeing must be sustainable and
therefore above the poverty threshold
lie. This is not least in any possible imputation of income to partners
consider.

11

12

Election manifesto of the Austrian Social Democratic Party

2. Research and innovation at international
Exist contest
economy
The Austrian Social Democracy is committed to a dynamic and socially
fair economy. A strong and secure
Business Location Austria, find good conditions in the company and it pays to invest forms, a
important foundation for prosperity and social
Safety. Only powerful and healthy
Companies ensure long-term growth
and employment.
The Austrian social democracy looks
a responsible State as
Support an active economic policy. Only good
Framework as a good infrastructure
and social security, allow for dynamic development for the benefit of all people.
In Austria and at European level
must play an active economic and monetary policy
the growth of economic support.
Needs during economic recessions
be targeted countermeasures. Play Here
Instruments such as public investment and
tax policy a crucial role.
The Austrian Social Democracy wants
the lively variety of Austrian
Promote economy stronger. For the great
Companies make in our country a
important contribution to innovation and research. Small and medium businesses are
the economic backbone. You deal
in all industries constitute more than half of all working people in Austria and
nearly nine out of ten apprentices. Your vital
Adaptability has a stabilizing effect on
the economy and makes them new carriers
and innovative business models.
Austria's economy will only be able to exist and provide employment,

if it is internationally competitive.
Knowledge and know-how are the location factors of the future, therefore, the restructuring process must be knowledge-intensive towards
Areas be accelerated, whilst not restricting the
traditional industrial and commercial backbone
the economy is negligible.
We want the conditions of the business location Austria fair (ie without
Make Unternehmenssteuern- and wage reduction competition), to create a climate for innovation and orientation towards the future, and thus
High employment and high welfare
to accomplish.
Jobs in businesses whose expertise
is unique, are the safest jobs. Research and Technology Development
are the basis for this, but also a
first-class education and training of
Workers.
We are committed to the development of future-oriented technology in cooperation with
leading companies - as an essential strategy to corporate headquarters
bring to Austria and in the country
keep. We are sure that the Austrian influence is to remain particularly preserved in important leading companies,
perhaps in the form of strategic property
the state. And we want under any
The sell-off of holdings in certain circumstances
Services of general interest, but a
decisive influence of the state on the
Co-operative enterprises.
We need strong, inter alia,
Municipalities, businesses
and their citizens optimal
offer and powerful infrastructures
be able. The importance of cities and
urban agglomerations is increasing worldwide

Election manifesto of the Austrian Social Democratic Party

- Also in Austria. The business location Austria needs attractive cities to
keep up in the global competition
be able. Because cities are the driving force behind
economic development. Sustainable economic and social development
both in urban centers as well
rural core is social democratic policies.
Future-oriented sectors such as
in the field of information and communication technologies, the creative industries or
biotechnology under the conditions
a humane, socially and ecologically sustainable progress, we want to selectively accelerate.
The main focal points of
We encourage innovation technology clusters.
We want a catcher and a Holding
Create a holding company for establishing promising sectors and enterprises.
We want to support the small and medium enterprises especially. We promote
Domestic investment, improving access to public and private risk capital, facilitate business start-ups,
for example by targeted advice or
Eliminating unnecessary bureaucratic hurdles,
and drive research and development in
this corporate sector ahead. We want
One-person businesses to support, for
For entrepreneurs
favor when they take a / n first / n employee.

Science and Research
Science and research should serve the society. We will ensure,
that science and research per se
this model and orient their social

13

meet economic responsibility.
Then they also bring prosperity. Know
is an important basis of the social
and economic coexistence, for the
Creation and safeguarding of jobs
and Austria's position in international
Competition.
Science and research needs all
brains! Social barriers, but also
prevent gender blockades,
that the innovation potential exhausted
becomes. We want the scientific
Youth at the universities better
Provide opportunities, and we especially want
Women at all stages of their careers and education
the same opportunities as men open
and their scientific excellence better
use.
We support the special programs and the development of legal basis for equality in the
Universities and private research firms. We also want the chances of
People with an immigrant background for higher educational and scientific
Improve careers.
Free access to the educational institutions is a core concern of the SPÖ. It may
therefore be no social or financial barriers to education. We want to
Abolish tuition fees.
Knowledge and information belong to all people. We want to ensure that all
Can partake of the population in the knowledge society and access to
have the new information technologies.
Young people are in their training
on the responsible use and
the critical use of new technologies
be well prepared.

14

Election manifesto of the Austrian Social Democratic Party

For older fellow citizens who
are restricted in their mobility, making
New technologies often an important window to
Information, communication and services to.
They bring representing an increase in quality of life. This generation needs special
Support to the use of the new
To relearning technologies.
Science and research for
Society must be in close contact
civil society and the various
social groups take place. We
want the democratic participation in
strengthen the scientific institutions
and where it was mined, again
introduce about the direct election of the Students' Union Federal representation.
We must continue to enhance our quality of location for Research and Technology and us
geared to those innovation systems
best develop. We want scientific and technological excellence. The technological competitiveness
the value-added Austrian
Industrial enterprises to be promoted and
the great potential of small enterprises with
an outstanding growth particularly
to be considered. Need excellence
a broad base. The innovation system
improving therefore means investing not only in cutting-edge research. The same applies to the
Humanities.
Science is international. Therefore, should
for coming from abroad scientists represents and their
Nationals Special rules apply what
their residence status concerns.

innovation
For the development of the company
innovation and research in all areas of central importance. Here are all
Developments in the service of people

and to provide their free development and the
Principle of sustainability.
It is estimated that almost one third of the actual economic growth in the region
attributed the innovation is. At the same time
is the return of research spending
the overall economy is still higher than for
the company carrying.
The share of research spending in the gross domestic product in 2008 to 2.63 per cent
gone up. Thus Austria is approaching its goal of a European leadership to
attain. We intend to continue along this path.
The low in the past R & D quotas requiring a particular concentration
on priorities in the Austrian innovation system. Such forward areas in any case include the areas
Information and communication technology, energy, environment and transport.
The development of cutting-edge technologies
and thus competitive innovations
are possible in all economic sectors and company sizes. So must the one hand
the high-tech industrial area special
Attention should be paid, with
the framework for the activities of international corporate headquarters and
Research institutions in Austria
must be a decisive quality.
But research and innovation need a broad on the other hand in the corporate sector
be anchored, particularly in the field of
small and medium enterprises. Too
are research collaborations between companies and between companies and universities
to support or technical colleges.
This entanglement of training with
the research system are decisive in ensuring that the social democratic
Objectives of equality of opportunity and equal opportunities can be realized.

Election manifesto of the Austrian Social Democratic Party

15

3. Invest in the young generation
Opportunities for Youth
The future belongs to the children Austria
and adolescents. Your interests, concerns
and needs, we take them seriously, because only
so is the cooperation between the generations
guaranteed in Austria in the future.
Possibilities of participation and the
political participation must guarantee
that the needs, wishes, views
and the younger generation goals in life
democratic process will be implemented.
Child and youth policy moves by itself
all policy areas, so we stand for
Politics,
- The concerns of children and youth
seriously;
- The tangible improvements for young people reached;
- The making Austria a child- and youth-friendly country;
- The jointly developed with adolescents
becomes.
The focus for us continues to be the
Fight against youth unemployment,
We intend to continue consistently.
We stand for the introduction of a youth impact assessment for political projects.
It is a great success that teenagers already can choose the age of 16. However, democratic participation means more.
Young people should therefore in future already
call from 16 years of civil initiatives launched
be able. Furthermore, we support the
Development and promotion of youth participation models such as the Democracy Workshop of Parliament.
The Austrian National Youth Council

is the statutory interest representation of more than 40 children's and youth organizations, and therefore represents the interests of
more than one million young people. We
Do you want to just reinforce how individual
Organizations in their valuable work for
future generations.
The children's rights we finally want to enshrine as fundamental rights according to the UN Children's Convention in the Constitution.
The currently different youth policy we want - in an intensive dialogue
with the provinces - on contemporary
Adjust level.
Even in a rich country like Austria
have many children and young people not
same access to optimal
Education, to health care and
to social life. Measures
must therefore strengthened against child poverty
become.
We want the tuition fees in full
abolish. We want the political education
upgrade in the schools and the desire
Young citizens for more
Information match.
An independent student-ombudsman should be institutionalized in order
to improve the participation in the schools. Child and Youth Advocate
we want to strengthen. Furthermore, we are committed to
the direct election of regional and vocational school speakers and a -sprechern. That is a
important step towards democracy virtually
experience and its value to our society
to experience.
The burden on apprentices by boarding costs we want to eliminate.

16

Election manifesto of the Austrian Social Democratic Party

For apprentices, we want moreover, analogous to those pupils who
Achieve free travel on public transport. The development of public transport
is generally the special needs
Take young people wisely.
Many young people are under the
Guise of an internship at a financial disadvantage and are in a labor and social legal gray area. A regulation of the legal framework
is necessary.
We want to help young people to start their own household first, and
therefore provide for affordable housing.
Just like adults, young people all too often fall into the debt trap
(Internet costs Handykosten etc.). Better
Counseling for young people in school,
on Contracts, financial services and
Consumer Protection Law is strengthened Remedy
create.
We recognize the valuable work that civil servants as well as military service for
Make society and want to reduce disadvantages of community service workers.
At the same time we are committed to the elimination
all grievances both in attendance as
even when a civil service as well as for strengthening the democratic rights of persons supplying services.
In the area of ​​leisure activities, in particular
in the field of children's and youth culture, are
We encourage pioneering models.

education
The Social Democracy is an educational movement. Education is a value in itself for them.
We are committed to an education society. People in Austria are to her
Can take control of life itself.

You must ensure the best possible way and formed
be formed. That is why we invest a lot
in the formation. That is why we are fighting for a
powerful and equitable chance education system. The ways of life are not to
remain traced from childhood and
the financial status of parents dependent
his. The SPÖ wants to enable all people to have free access to education, because we
is the main key for the fair
Distribution of opportunities in society
see.
More and better jobs for Austria
We can only secure in the future, if we
ensure that all citizens of our country key competences
acquire, during their entire located
Educate life continuously and thus
lie in the increasing competition
be able.
Education includes for us the diverse
Promoting creativity, reflection, aesthetics,
intercultural understanding, tolerance,
Politics and democracy as well as of social discourse. Art and culture
must play a central role in our
Taking educational system.
The Austrian education system needs
a continuation of the initiated by us
Innovation shove. The change from the regulatory and adoption culture for self-responsibility principle and to school as a learning
Organization must succeed.
The kindergarten is for educational garden.
The desire to learn has to be encouraged and supported from the outset. The nationwide expansion of a high-quality,
affordable, need-based and all-day child care is therefore a central
Concerns of social democracy.
By means of specific targets will and the offering primarily to full-day childcare places gradually in all regions

Election manifesto of the Austrian Social Democratic Party
especially for the age group of under
Three-year-olds to be extended. The cost may not be a barrier to the access of children
to care and early intervention or for the
His employment of parents. In the long term
we want to bring forward the compulsory education to
the age of 5. For ensuring the
Quality is highly qualified staff and
quality assurance through a national
Education plan necessary.
Social behavior and language training need to be especially considered in the ECI
become. The acquisition of language skills
in German and in the native language is particularly important and must be supported
become. The mandatory pre-promotion allows all children a fair
School Start. In general, the school is considered one
the most important instruments of integration
to stregthen.
We are investing in better education and smaller class sizes. This allows more attention
and individual support for each child.
More time for each individual child is our goal.
Educational standards are the best quality
guarantee in our schools.
All-day school types allow
Compatibility of child care and work for the parents,
they support the holistic development
the pupils and they are
an effective instrument for equal opportunities. A useful range of coordinated
Learn, Repeat and practice and of
Recreational pedagogical accents with movement-oriented, athletic, creative,
musical activities ensures that the
Children devoted more time and space.
The common school of 10- to 14-year-old has many positive effects: The Children
get together another four years to
to develop their skills and to develop their talents. The decision on the
further education after the 8th grade
is accompanied professionally. Demand and

17

Promotion are the key elements
this joint school. With the New
Middle School is in larger model regions
the concept of this common school from
2008/09 realized. Our aim is that from
These pilot projects in the longer term a
common school for all is.
The motivation and the competence of teachers are key factors
high quality learning outcomes. The teaching profession is a highly professional activity,
the most suitable persons to this
Take profession. It is very important to us, the teachers in this
often difficult task, even in conflicts
and educational problems, professionally
support. New Learning also requires
a new architecture and a correspondingly
contemporary standard of our schools.
Taking advantage of the strengths of the colleges of education and universities
to joint training for educational professionals with common standards
arise that the to the needs
respective age groups oriented.
With the training guarantee up to 18 years, we enable all young people
a full vocational training, either in a
vocational school, the teaching course or
in an inter-company training workshops.
Measures of professional and Bildungswegorientierung should help young people to find a training place, the
their individual skills, talents
and corresponding requirements. We provide
Ensure that all young people in Austria a
Have perspective. Rejections for lack
of places at vocational middle and
secondary schools must not it more in the future
give.
A centerpiece of social democratic education policy is the vocational baccalaureate. As early as the
2008/09 school year can apprentices parallel
for teaching free the university entrance

18

Election manifesto of the Austrian Social Democratic Party

purchase. We add value to the doctrine.
Because the apprentices as skilled workers a central part in securing
prosperity of our country. Therefore,
We optimize their chances of survival
a particular concern.
Everyone has the right to a second
Have a chance. Therefore, for example, has
the gratuitous acquisition of educational qualifications for all regardless of age and
be possible. Every young person should have a
achieve positive compulsory education.
We want to set incentives for people
come from immigrant backgrounds in the educational training. All teachers need as part of their
Education acquire intercultural skills. Integration and inclusion measures must also special needs
Promotion from the 9th school year include.
New models in adult education
to the acquisition of language skills,
Basic education and qualifications for
People with an immigrant background more support.
Young people in particular need in
Question their career choice a sound accompaniment. Guaranteed time for career guidance
they should in this important decision
support. That is why we are the educational information and guidance to the
Schools and the information and counseling of adult education more
use. Self-directed, well-considered
Career choices along the personal talents and inclinations are
the goal.

Arts and Culture
Cultural policy is social policy. She
must in addition to the financial support of
Art and culture enhance the overall social position of culture. Targets a

Socialist art and cultural policies are primarily: cultural participation and
Increase participation and cultural education,
economic importance of culture as
make visible, for example, employment and value added effects, understanding of
boost contemporary art and art in
Context of Innovation perceive. Art
is also distinguished by the fact that they
Future anticipates, creates new and
therefore the development of society
supports. Austria has a great cultural heritage which needs to maintain it. At the same time
needs of the contemporary sector, our
special attention.
The promotion of cultural diversity - in Austria and in Europe - and an open cultural climate and the special promotion
of contemporary art are
central concern of social democratic cultural policy. Afford artists
an indispensable contribution to public
Discourse and the social wealth,
does not exhaust itself in the economic,
and they constitute sources of innovation. The
Federal funding of are underway
and based on facts in the interests of art and
develop the creative community.
Transparency, respectful communication,
rapid processing and ongoing information
are us important.
That is why we want to also search the appreciative and intensive dialogue with artists and maintain, promote and
You can also enable international recognition. This is especially true for young artists. Direct subsidies,
multiannual programs, scholarships
in Austria and internationally, awards and competitions, support
the creation of international contacts
and integration into established cultural institutions are important measures. We want
international cultural exchange particularly encourage and international cultural policy
evolve.

Election manifesto of the Austrian Social Democratic Party
Again and again to contact with schools
be subject, to be partnerships
to develop. More art and culture in the must
School are brought, the only way to
the young people's enthusiasm. Also make
Cultural institutions and Bildungseinrichtigen
important contributions in mediating
Values. Art is for the conscious design
of life and also part of the indispensable
political education.
To improve access for all
Forms of art and culture, we will
special emphasis on mediation offers
all cultural institutions create. Art and
Culture should the social sectors
penetrate, so to some of Building Culture
in the design of public spaces
a high priority be given.
Public libraries and libraries
have in the field of education, culture, new media and information important, social
Functions. They are European and

Following domestic models throughout Austria and on high quality standards, in cooperation with federal, state, cities
Municipalities are placed.
The Austrian film, which enjoys the highest international reputation, also has
be promoted substantially in Austria.
This concerns the film production as well as
the film education and the promotion of
Infrastructure, such as the cinemas. Here
deserve our attention also to the innovative
Film and film talent promotion.
We want to develop the Austrian museum landscape, open the treasures of the past, they in the presence of references
set and broad sections of the Austrian
Make accessible population. In the area
the federal museums it comes to the rapid
Opening important collections
and to implement long-prepared
Investment projects to more space for the
Contemporary art and the promotion of
already excellent research. We want

19

len free admission to national museums for
Young people up to the age of 19. Museums
are social educational institutions.
Promotion of women and gender mainstreaming
must be also in the cultural sector for granted.

20

Election manifesto of the Austrian Social Democratic Party

4. live in safety
health
The ultimate goal of social democratic health policy is to ensure the
best health care for all
People in Austria, regardless of
Income, age, ethnicity, region or
Gender. With all his strength, the development towards a "two-tier health care" is to
prevent.
The starting conditions are good: The
Austrians know
that they in an international comparison of a
have the best health care systems. We
are committed to publicly organized
Healthcare and accountable
of the state in health care.
We understand health in a broader sense: health is closely
Relation to social conditions
and participation opportunities.
For the Social Democrats are in any
Structure discussion people at the center. The people of Austria have
can be confident that those responsible with tax and contribution funds
carefully and comprehensibly deal. The
Social Democracy stands for defining health goals together and they
implement according to regional needs in the self-managed system.
We need trust doctors and
GPs, the recovery process during the
guide you through the health care system and
thereby reinforcing cooperation between
Ensure providers. The Social Democrats want for new forms of organization in
Healthcare to improve
Treatment processes, the chronic
Diseases such as diabetes or
pay more attention.

An oriented to the human health system means more transparency and traceability of the system for us.
These principles must not least in the
electronic processing of health data in the sense of strict privacy criteria
get noticed. To ensure the
We need equal access sufficient
Time for comprehensive information to the patients and a transparent
Waiting time system.
We support the staff
Employees of our excellent healthcare system. We will therefore for an
improved education and training, adequate pay and for a higher
Permeability of the job profiles due
modular training a.
A good health system needs not only
the best treatment of the sick and
the courage to invest in health promotion and in the prevention, as in the
Promoting physical activity as prevention of
Diseases of civilization. Information and
Education and the collection of people in
their living environment (work, school, community) are for basic requirements, thus
Income, age, ethnicity, region or gender is not about the state of health
decide.
Health is a value in all
be taken into account other policy areas
got to. We want healthy food, a
offensive educational strategy and incentives for
the extension of WHP.
The development of the health system
need facilities that, along with international standards in the areas of quality
Public Health, Health Economics and at

Election manifesto of the Austrian Social Democratic Party

the assessment of new medical methods
afford basic research in Austria.
The SPÖ is for Equal Opportunities for
Women and men, even in the health sector. We need, therefore, easily accessible
Gender-specific.
When it comes to health, the market fails,
people have a solidary
Can rely on health care.
The financing system of the Austrian health care system is under pressure
advised. Here complicate the considerable
Arrears and the non-settled performing duties that are not part
actual activity include that
Location of insurance considerably. The
SPÖ represents an immediate debt of
Gebietskrankenkassen so that the supply
the people are not put at risk, and for
sustainable securing financing base of the health system.
We want more distributive justice
place additional burdens, further solidarity contributions, the same services
to guarantee. We stand for an increased
Control funding, such as for a
Capital gains tax or for the earmarking of tobacco tax.
Deductibles burden the sick and those with low incomes. The SPÖ is why no
further deductibles for patients and
Introduce patients. Social considerations
have to be considered fully in the levying of existing deductibles.

care
The Social Democratic Party is aware of the requirements in the coming years

21

Care system are provided. A graceful, independent living needs for
all - and thus for long-term care
- People are saved as self-evident. In the care sector were in
the last one and a half years significant
Foundations and developed a new benefit for supporting care
introduced at home.
Although the situation of dependent persons and their caregivers
has improved, it is necessary to further develop the long-term care system and to take further steps to the high level
the Austrian long-term care in
To improve the future.
Our goal is to care and support landscape that all the needs
Participants considered balanced.
Core elements include a purpose-
Care allowance and a country-wide
demand-oriented supply of affordable
outpatient, and inpatient
Services.
Around 80% of people in need of care
be maintained at home by their relatives, the so large burdens on
taking and an extremely valuable social
Make contribution. To a preponderant
Part it is women that this performance
provide. It is absolutely essential that
to support carers and
to strengthen their position. We want this
Nurses also have access to health-promoting actions of insurers
obtain.
We call for a significant increase in the care allowance, as well as better grading
of care children and young people
or dementia.

22

Election manifesto of the Austrian Social Democratic Party

We want the day-care facilities
and the mobile care for other dependents
People at home and living arrangements, such as
about assisted living, strengthen.
We support a comprehensive range of mobile counseling for relatives
dependent people and of short-term care facilities and services, the
relieve family carers.
We are striving for improved Arbeitsbedingun
gene of the nursing staff, which the Occupation
make it more attractive even after long exercise.
Currently, care is to a great extent
social assistance financed. That is the wrong
Away. We stand for a new form of financing in the care sector, which makes it possible
on asset use and Recourse to
without. We do not want new deductibles. We stand for the sustainable financing of care services via the
Taxation of capital appreciation and
Capital transactions.

People with disabilities
Our goal is the full participation of
People with disabilities in society, regardless of whether
disability from birth or present
from accidents or illnesses during the
Life results.

as well as higher permeability between
Occupational therapy and employment. Even in the use of occupational therapy has the social security
be guaranteed.
We are committed to ensuring that all essential infrastructures, such as in traffic or
are adapted for disabled guests in building projects
and that the protection against discrimination for
People with disabilities improved
becomes. Accessibility must also apply to the use of new technologies. We will
we strengthened to ensure that sites
especially in public areas wheelchair accessible
be designed. In addition, we want to
increase disability allowances.
Companies that fail to meet their recruitment obligation, should those costs
pay that for a workplace Impaired
costs. The protection against dismissal must not be dismantled.

Habitation
Housing and energy are around 50%
Share of the main causes of the increase
the rate of inflation. Also during the year
2008, housing costs will again
rise, be in addition to the index adjustment
the internationally rising energy prices continue to weigh on households.

Are a prerequisite for full participation
first inclusive education in all forms
School areas and school levels, and adequate personal assistance services from
Kindergarten to university, but also
later at work and at leisure.

The affordability of housing, and therefore a
Basic need of every human being, is so
endangered. Against this background it is necessary for social housing in Austria
to obtain in all its facets and upright
to support and especially its social role
strengthen.

Must be opened Based on a realistic possibility of integrating into the labor market, for example through the creation and
Assurance of social insurance law
Safe employment

At the private market rental rates 10-15 euros per square meter start to become normal everyday for apartment seekers, rising brokerage costs
and deposits weigh every move.

Election manifesto of the Austrian Social Democratic Party

23

The conditions for apartment seekers,
are but also for tenants
become unfair. Bargaining at the same
Eye level is possible only for those who over
sufficient financial means to
in the most expensive segment of the market for an apartment
to search. The supply of housing for small
and median income is too low.

- Improvements for tenants
in value adjustments of rents,
- The possibility of any time verify compliance with the provisions of rent,
- The consideration of today contemporary housing standards in the guideline calculation.

We want more fairness in the area
Bring living.

The road to the right in the event of a dispute should not
only be accessible to those who have sufficient financial resources. right
and obligations relating to the conservation and
Maintenance must be clearly regulated by law.

The housing subsidies and the system
remain the Wohnungsgemeinnützigkeitsgesetz than
Guarantor of affordable housing exist, their
social task is amplified. The
Housing subsidy is financed by all workers, and
therefore must you use the creation and
Obtaining serve of social housing.
Arbitrariness is the right of residence no room
have. Therefore, we want the rights to
Tenants generally improve.
Tenants may be placed in any predicaments that cause that
is dispensed with existing rights, only to
the continuation of the lease is not to
compromise. The perpetual lease must
therefore standard again.

The heat supply for households
represents a great potential for energy savings and for innovative technologies.
We therefore advocate, these potentials
to utilize and promote.

Consumer Protection
Not only must the Consumer Protection
Rights to be created and developed.
You also need to collectively or individually
can be enforced. And it must
the mature citizens about
their rights and risks to be elucidated.

The financial burden of living
must be in a reasonable relation
the income of the people are. Next
the abolition of unnecessary contractual fees
are to reduce the brokerage commissions and deposits significantly to reduce the incidental costs when moving house.
Young people we want, such as starting a family, in the search for leistbarem
Housing support especially.

We therefore want the rights of protection of the consumer protection institutions
and so that the consumers continue to strengthen. This requires
both a simplified group as
Test case. We are fighting against dishonest business practices, especially through the
Internet and telephone services dramatically
have increased.

The introduction comprehensible rent limitations in guideline rents must
be ensured by:
- The clause in the lease of a fixation taxativen catalog of increases and reductions,
- The ceiling on surcharges,

It must the rules to Haustürge
be adjusted transactions today.
In addition to more stringent checks and authorization schemes we want a uniform 14-day cooling-off period in these
Shops. Better protection against over-

24

Election manifesto of the Austrian Social Democratic Party

pre-scores is also a right of withdrawal in
Fairs, markets and insurance at
Bring mediation by brokers. About that
, we want to strengthen the rights for leisure travelers.
Our goal is to accelerate consumer education in schools. Young people should be so
mature, be critical consumers,
the rights and duties and their moral responsibility when consuming
Communication know. Finally, we want the
Strengthen consumer research.

Security and Justice
For us it is a central task of the
State to protect the freedom and security of its citizens. The
Austrians have a
Fundamental right to security.
First For this fundamental right social conditions in Austria, but also in
its neighbors decisive. For
us is the area of ​​prevention of
special importance. It depends on each
Offense of which can be prevented in advance
can. In fact, a good social policy,
social solidarity and social peace decisive factors for a successful
Security Policy.
We want the everyday violence in the family
and fight within their social circle. Protection Against Violence in the sense of special protection
of women, children and young people and
of elderly people and combating
of sexual offenses we want to continue strengthened.
Besides the legal improvements
Violence scope, we are committed to
a dense network of support and advice
of women and children to make sure.
Women must be sure in our country
feel, and this both in terms of

physical as well as their social security.
This requires a fact which the
Total a longer-lasting violent relationship detected, an expansion of injunctions for the protection against violence,
better relapse predictions and a judicial supervision after release from
Sex offenders.
We also want to effectively combat juvenile delinquency. Here we have in the
Prevention with counseling and social work schedule, in particular, must also at schools
to prevent violent behavior is practiced.
Among other things, teachers
qualify as trusted third parties,
to counteract the violence in schools.
Pupils should as "peers"
are trained to this issue in the
To address school and to raise awareness.
Young offenders to a second
Get chance. This requires a
specialized juvenile justice and
again a modern Juvenile Court.
In the area of ​​executive it is necessary,
that the police officers mainly in the field actively and visibly
act for the population. The police and
the population should a security unit
form.
The executive needs for its tasks, and
for the fight against international
Terrorism or global criminal
Structures, personnel strengthened and adequately
be equipped as well as the most modern means
obtained their lawful use
by an independent legal protection officer who will be responsible to the Parliament
should be kept under constant review. Special

Election manifesto of the Austrian Social Democratic Party
Attention should be paid to the appropriate privacy.
We wish to commit ourselves to a new corporate culture in the executive branch. Transfer courses must be documented in writing
be, any unlawful publication
is pursuing, facilities that without
act suitable legal basis, as the
Bureau for Internal Affairs, are immediately
dissolve.
We stand on the side of victims of crime. The most important right is the victim
Right to seek justice. This means,
that the perpetrators brought to justice
is and that it is the victim possible, the
Bring injustice to language and as a victim
To find recognition and support.
Professional help for victims must then ensure
ensure that the victims of their old security
regain.
For us it is crucial that access
be affordable to the law and justice and all
Should people in Austria are open.
The same, reliable and barrier-free access to justice is a fundamental condition of
developed law. Important as well is,
that the duration of proceedings where they today
is not acceptable, is decreased.
By class actions are similar
More related claims while respecting the Klagsansprüche Single easier
will be enforced.
The cost of the search and recovery of
Bombs and other dangerous war relics are when the general safety
is to take over from the federal government.

25

26

Election manifesto of the Austrian Social Democratic Party

5. realize sustainability
Sustainability means using social, environmental
and economic resources to deal so,
that future generations in the fashion
How we claim that today for us,
be able to live. These resources are therefore in
to use the degree to which they can be replaced or procured again.
The aim of a sustainable policy is a balanced balance between the needs of the present generation and the life prospects
future generations. This is sustainability
more than environmental policy.
Sustainability runs through a thread
all areas of our social reform policies.
The idea of ​​sustainability is enormous
Innovation potential for economic, environmental
and society that developed consistently
must become.

Environmental
A healthy environment is the basis of life
present and future generations. In many
Cases ranging national regulation
not to the nature and the citizens
and sufficient to protect citizens. To protect the environment does not work with voluntary commitments, but needs
concrete measures and subsidies, about
testable and verifiable laws and
strict liability provisions.
We will therefore for a world trade system
a, in the social, environmental and human rights have just such a role as
Economic interests. As part of the reform of
UN to the UN Environment Programme to
own UN Environment Organisation to be.
We want effective protection of air, water,
Soil and biodiversity with clear guarantees

and without passing on the costs of environmental damage through profitable yields the environment
have emerged on the public.
The current legal situation always offers
no complete securing of important water resources for the general public. About
to secure water resources for those who want
We ensure through legislative measures,
that a sale to private individuals is not possible.

Agriculture and
rural area
The SPÖ wants rural sustainable habitat with high quality of life
obtain. This means designing work and life prospects of individuals to actively promote.
Improving transport infrastructure
Creation of communication infrastructure
(Broadband) and the supply of rural
Room and facilities and services
of general interest are our special
Concern. We focus on cooperative solutions between all authorities and
strengthen small and medium-sized centers as
Bases of regional supply.
We stand for a strong regional policy,
the chance justice promotes, building on
Compensation, cooperation and coordination of planning basics and promotions both on
Federal level, between federal and state governments as
sets at European level. Especially
the needs of people in border
Regions we want to take full account.
It continues to apply to the field of tourism,
the creation of model regions in which
will find regional identities and regional
Develop value chains to promote.
The agents of rural development, it applies in

Election manifesto of the Austrian Social Democratic Party

Future not only as a pure agricultural subsidies
to see, but also as conveying that
to improve regional infrastructure of any kind, as well as the protection of biodiversity
serve.
Inter-company services such as landscape management are to suffer for inter-company damage effects such as groundwater injury, causation are in accordance
imputable.

In agriculture it is the funding
fairly allocated and the actual amount of work at the center of promotion
deliver. Especially the current wave of price increases
makes a funding policy required that the
Use of land for food production
aims. The SPÖ committed to promoting
smallholder and regional structures
and the ecological and natural
Habitat protected agriculture.
Peasant income ratios have
are available for just and fair.
At European level we advocate
Eliminate export subsidies for agricultural products to developing countries
to allow better market access.

Climate and Energy
There is global warming, which the Austrians worried
prepares. The energy consumption increases worldwide
as well as in Austria dramatically. Without
drastic saving energy and
significant increase in energy efficiency
we will not stop climate change.
There is great potential, not with
must be accompanied by the restriction of quality of life: Thus, for example through effective
Insulation, energy consumption, and

27

therefore the financial burden in order to
be reduced to 40 percent.
The sustainable use of resources is also a sustainable energy supply,
both in electricity production and in the
Provision of other forms of energy, such as
district heating or cooling produced of.
With regard to the security of energy supply for future generations and the
future-proof connection of Austria to
international supply networks is the need-based expansion of the Austrian electricity grid to ensure. Both the needs of the
Economic as well as legitimate concerns of the
Population are to be considered.
It is essential, both to finance
renewable energy and socially responsible conduct of energy efficiency measures, as
ecological and economic criteria for
note. Energy efficiency, environmental criteria
and renewable energy and transport infrastructure, particularly in relation to public
Transport, must reach the Regional Planning
are increasingly involved.
We call for the coordination of all measures
at global, European and Austrian level to stop global warming. The funds required for this are socially
justice apply.
We promote research into the market for
Agrofuels, where no food,
but waste will be recovered. We advocate
against blending targets of agrarian
Fuels a, not when the raw materials for
without negative effects on the environment, social security and safeguard the sustainability
to be produced.
We want to make a tangible contribution in Austria

28

Election manifesto of the Austrian Social Democratic Party

for an ambitious and globally spanning
Afford post-Kyoto Protocol, which also
corresponding domestic contributions to
Reduction of emissions are included.
An Energy Efficiency Act is a strong
provide legal framework for the economical use of energy.
Create mitigation actions domestically
Jobs and added value, sustainably reduce greenhouse gas emissions and are
Investment abroad preferable.
We reject the peaceful use of nuclear
energy from. The now widespread again
Theories about the positive contribution of nuclear technology to combat climate change
and for energy security are short-sighted and
endangering the necessary technological
and economic stimulus for renewable
Energies.

Animal welfare
Animal welfare is an important challenge,
which is responsibly perceive in the most diverse areas. Pet trade,
private animal husbandry, animal transport, food production and livestock farming are
the areas in which we to compliance
the law must pay.
With the adaptation of the Animal Transport Act
the live animal transport has been instrumental
improved. Important is the Austria-wide
Use of dedicated enforcement
for animal transport. We advocate for the creation
an Austria-wide Animal Health Service a. This would be a substantial
Factor for the improvement of livestock and the
Animal health in Austria.
At the European level we set ourselves
for the strengthening of animal protection a. That
End export refunds for live animal transports we very much welcome.

mobility
Environmentally friendly mobility can make a
important contribution to achieving the climate goals provide. Much of the CO2 emissions in the transport sector is by truck,
and especially by transit journeys,
caused. That's why we want comprehensive
Measures to shift transports
from road to rail, and on the
Take waterway. Internalization
external costs in road freight transport
this represents an important step, which
by amending the
EU Eurovignette Directive further improved
must become.
Of particular importance is the continued strong
Promotion of public transport, which
Construction and attractiveness. On the one hand the need
Route network will be further expanded, the other part of the switch from the car needs to
public transport more attractive, by improving the quality of facilities. Public transport needs
be further strengthened. In the conurbations
have the inner-city traffic and the
Transport integrated as one to be planned and
be seen to be financed entirety.
In rural areas need the public
Traffic access to the facilities of
Ensure general interest.
Of course, this must always be borne in mind that it also for people with low
Income must be possible, but the offer
use of public transport. But also
for commuters who are not
Have opportunity, public transport
to operate, it must be ensured that
the way to the workplace remains manageable financially.
For eco-friendly mobility include
Alternative drives for motor vehicles.
New technologies in the drive research
and also in the development of fuel
must meet sustainability criteria and

Election manifesto of the Austrian Social Democratic Party

29

must not compete with food production.

Ben or their genes by means of the right to
intellectual property or patents from.

Food and Drink

Sport and Exercise

The SPÖ advocates affordable, high-quality and healthy food.
Even the consciousness of people for
a healthy, balanced diet should
be promoted by appropriate information and education work. Just the
Show food price increases
the particular need for an active
Pricing policy.

We recognize sport and physical activity as a
an essential aspect of the company
in Austria. Has access to sport
democratized in all age groups continues
become. The partners for this process is
and remains an autonomous and self-governing
Sports.

The SPÖ advocates an effective food law and considers that
the company, and not only the employees, be considered in violation of the law to account
be able. Regulatory Activities for the Protection
of consumers at
serious administrative offenses are also making note of the company name
and the determination results may be called.
The vast majority of the population rejects
by genetic engineering manipulated food
from. Although some states have developed their own legal regulations, lack
the federal law expertise. We want
no release of genetically modified plants
and no use of genetic engineering in the
domestic agriculture. Therefore, should the
existing import bans remain upright.
And we call for gapless liability rules for ecological, economic and
damage to health by genetic engineering
on. The indications of
Food, we want to continue to improve
and for a systematic review and
Control worry.
We disclaim in this context,
Privatization or acquisition of Life
Dersel- form of plants or animals, parts

With the broadening of the financial base of the
Sports, the networking of existing institutions in Sport and the continuation of the reform process in the federal sports funding must succeed, the proportion of
lifting movement active population and
thus long-term health promotion
strengthen and broaden the basis for the success and performance-oriented professional sports.
There will also be necessary to develop a comprehensive sports facility concept,
by Austria's planned sports venues
be supplied and a wide use
(Health sports, recreation, recreational sports, professional sports). The realization
a daily movement unit in the course of
Full-day care of children and youth or apprentices remains an essential
Goal. There is necessary to develop any further co-operation models.
The SPÖ committed to the importance of major international events in sports in Austria
and to continue the consistently since 2007
converted, based on zero tolerance
Anti-doping policy.
We will work to ensure that the
Importance of sport in the fields
Tourism and leisure industry, gender mainstreaming, disability policy, health economics, integration, social cohesion
and promotion of capacity will be strengthened.

30

Election manifesto of the Austrian Social Democratic Party

6. Equal rights and ensuring equal opportunities
Gender equality
The balanced representation of both
Gender in the social decision-making processes is a prerequisite
for a just and democratic society. As before, women are in many
Areas underrepresented. Structural and
social hurdles are a de facto equality of women in the way.
Basis for any efforts in the sense
gender equality must be,
Women self-determined and independent
Life allow. The object of the policy
to establish conditions so
Women can achieve this goal.
In the area of ​​gender equality is a twofold strategy to pursue.
Gender mainstreaming on the one hand and the
specific promotion of women on the other side. Gender mainstreaming means
in this context, any measure
To check it out, what impact it has on the gender and the sex ratio. The achievement of
Gender justice must in the sense of
Cross-cutting issue to be understood.
It is necessary to eliminate the barriers to women's employment, the situation
improving women's labor market
and gender inequalities
to eliminate.
Specific discrimination
there are already entering the job market, and they
sit down on the career breaks
continued due to care responsibilities to
toward the glass ceiling, the women in the
Climb up the career ladder encounter.
In Austria there are around 275 different

Apprenticeships. Despite this huge selection choose almost half of all female apprentices
still only three different apprenticeships
- Namely saleswoman, a hairdresser and an office clerk. Apprenticeships with a high proportion of girls have a lower payment on
as apprenticeships, in which the proportion of boys is very high. The difference in
Apprenticeship remuneration shall be permanent
the teaching continues and is also reflected in the
Starting salaries of completed by teaching
noticeable.
To expand the career options for girls and women, are in the
occupational apprenticeship funding incentives
put to the setting behavior of
Changing establishments.
Paving the way for girls in non-traditional education, we want the whole
Education support - not only in
apprenticeship training, but also in the vocational schools, technical colleges
and the universities.
In the field of management positions,
in the management and supervisory boards,
are still greatly underrepresented women. It is clear that we by
gender equality in the
Working world are still far away and here
urgent action is required.
The wage gap between women and
Men remains high. The middle
Gross annual income of year-round full-time men are 2006 25.3
Percent higher than those of women.
Given the favorable development of
Employment at the same time persisting inequalities the chances of
Women and men, it is more important and

Election manifesto of the Austrian Social Democratic Party

easier to strengthen the strategy in the direction of equality. These measures must
be taken, aimed at the
gender gaps in
to eliminate the labor market, to close the income gap, the better reconciliation of work and family
Promoting care and support work
and at the same time equitable distribution of
to support unpaid labor between the sexes.
We demand and therefore encourage the increase
the employment rate and strengthening
Full-time employment of women, promoting
Conditions, qualification and control of gender segregation in the
Labor market, elimination of discrimination in the labor market and stereotyping
in the job evaluation; better chances
for women in management positions, for example by targets for increasing
the proportion of women on supervisory boards. By
Women's advancement plans, and the coupling of
Economic Development and the award of public contracts with equality to more
Women the opportunity for leadership positions
get.
Very important to us also targeted training and support services for women,
who want to get back into the profession.
We are committed to full implementation
of gender mainstreaming as a political strategy for action. "Gender Budgeting" sees the
Review of public budgets from the
Gender perspective before. Anchoring
this important approach in the Austrian Federal Constitution is only the
first step. We must ensure that there are noticeable changes in the
Budgets to a more gender equitable
Handling will be provided with control means.

31

For us count all life models. Partnership is all-encompassing understanding.
In addition to the classic marriage increasingly occur
other realities. These must be in
Measures to promote partnership, as do an traditional
Life models. This requires a modern family law that the variety of shapes
family life note
takes and about the legal equality
non-cohabitation completed or in blended families also
Stepparents confers rights.
The role of men in the care and supervision of kin is just as new
to define as in the distribution of other unpaid work. Just because
care work are women with the
diverse disadvantages not least
faced in the labor market. Currently there
it in Austria for fathers are not entitled to
a paid sabbatical directly
after the birth of the child. The undertaking seeks to remedy.
Work and family life must not
Representing more contradiction. Here are
for us to strengthen the participation of fathers
and the development of child care in the foreground. With the flexible
Child support, the government has a first
Step towards set to more participation of fathers.
With 800 Euro, it is easier for fathers (as
with 436 euros), a few months in the child
to stay. The second step towards
more participation of fathers is now the
Papa month on a voluntary basis with job protection for all working fathers
consequences. Also want the child benefit itself
We further flexibility and about the
Expand opportunity, while additional income
also a working time instead of money limit
to choose.

32

Election manifesto of the Austrian Social Democratic Party

We want to limit who can take care exemption in claim enlarge.
So are the new forms of coexistence, such as in blended families,
be taken into account.
At the self-determination of women over
their bodies and to the regulation of terms allowed
not be shaken. We will continue to
to ensure that in all provinces
Abortions can be carried out and that information campaigns
be enforced accordingly.

Same-sex
Partnership - Rights
Given social developments
and it must be changed views
make an active policy aimed the applicable law of social reality
equalize. It must for disposal
the same sex discrimination
oriented people are worried. Of the
first step is to target the Civil Partnership Act full social recognition of homosexual
Couples. The partnership is in front of the
Registry office can be closed.
No one is allowed because of an incoming
Civil partnership are discriminated against.
Life pair is essentially the
same rights and obligations as
married persons. In order to discrimination both opposite-sex relationships as well
homosexual people avoided
become.
In each of the eligible federal and
State laws to the position of a pair of position of a married life
Pair are equalized. This concerns the
Survivorship at a partner's death, the tenancy law and numerous other
Areas of law.

Immigration and Integration
We stand for responsible immigration and integration policies which the
People who come to our country, clear
Rights and obligations conferred. Such
Politics has the interest of Austria - including the situation of the domestic labor market - have in mind and at the same time
provide the opportunity to integrate into Austrian society. Only in this way can the
social cohesion and economic
Austria's success in the interests of all those who here
live, be sustainably secured.
This requires clear rules. We
require all immigrant and
Immigrants a clear commitment
to fundamental European values ​​and to
Austrian legal system. Those who
illegally present in Austria, must
expect deportation.

We want criteria for immigration
integration and defining concepts and
ensure that even changing
Environment, about the labor market,
can be considered accordingly.
All persons legally residing in Austria, foreigners are in any case the
Have access to the labor market. Seasonal jobs should remain the exception.
The successful integration of migrants
and migrants, their participation in political,
cultural and economic life in
Austria is our goal. Mastering
the German language is an essential prerequisite for it. Affordable German Courses in sufficient numbers and increased
Language training before starting school and in
the school needed.
We want to adopt measures to encourage dialogue and the
mutual respect regardless of
promote each origin. The diversity
should also be more strongly perceived as an opportunity: about multilingualism is an election manifesto of the Austrian Social Democratic Party
important location advantage in international
Competition.
We are committed to the right of asylum as a human right. The institution of asylum is not allowed
be devoid of substance. By
Have creation of the Asylum Court
we significantly speed up the procedures and compliance with the rule of law
Contributed warranties. Our goal is the
Reducing the backlog of open asylum procedures. At European level we want
us for a solidary distribution of
Insert asylum.
33 34
Election manifesto of the Austrian Social Democratic Party
7. strengthen democracy and public
Political Culture
A democratic country such as Austria
also needs a developed democratic culture. The rampant apathy or indifference to the
Politics, the parties and their actors
and actors is a danger to all democratic polity.
It is also a contribution to the SPO
must provide that the interest and commitment to the policy and grow again
the reputation of the policy will be improved. We
want a new style of working a next social democratic government, but also in general
in dealing with political opponents.
Under Personal attacks and smear campaigns selling citizens
from politics. We therefore reject such
Methods from.
In political discussion processes and decisions all socially relevant and concerned groups are possible
be included.
State and Democracy Reform
The SPÖ is beyond the tools of our democracy and our
State develop. From the point of view of
SPÖ has the structure of our state
basically proven, but it requires the
continuous development. Every
State reform has the task of the position
improve the people, be it in terms of participation in the welfare state, it was
in terms of legal protection.
We want the legislative powers
distribute meaningful between the federal and state governments to make our state more efficient
to design. The asset conflict between federal and state governments to
from further disposals of assets
be solved.
We want the general interest of the public, particularly the local authorities,
Intrastate secure.
We want to anchor children's rights in the Federal Constitution and the participation rights of pupils and
strengthen students.
We want the legal measures
Expand protection against discrimination, a catalog of fundamental rights with enforceable
provide basic social rights, strengthen the Human Rights Advisory Board and the legal protection generally closer to its citizens and more quickly
shape.
We want to strengthen the role of Parliament
and us for more transparency and stronger
Insert minority rights. Furthermore
we want to deepen cooperation with the European Parliament on. We
be the distance between citizens
degrade and the administration, including through the increased use of new
Technologies. All inquiries and errands are continuously electronically
can be handled. Especially the
Expansion of so-called one-stop procedure should be promoted.
We want to initiate a broad debate on the institutions of democracy and more election manifesto of the Austrian Social Democratic Party
Say for the citizens
ensure. Set on a European level
we and for the extension of participation rights for European citizens
Citizens a.
Versatile and
critical public
We will help you to develop a diverse and critical public. This
are the media a central element.
We want the freedom of journalists
protect and journalists, to expand freedom of expression to a general freedom of information and the press subsidies
evolve.
We want to share with the media
Measures develop that of the protection
Personal rights and privacy
in reporting about victims of crime or accused person to effectively
guarantee.
The ORF has the access of government
and party politics remain deprived and as
supports public-sector body
be that as regards their orders
objective information and education and
Be able to meet culture.
35 36
Election manifesto of the Austrian Social Democratic Party
8. Playing an active role in the world
For a social and
People's Europe -
Regain confidence
The SPÖ is fully committed to
European integration. The European
Union is the most successful peace project in the
History of our continent. Austria is and
remains a reliable partner for its European
Neighbors. Austria's membership in the
European Union has proven to be valuable and
positive factor in the successful development
our country proved.
Europe must continue to evolve but: The
European Union needs to strengthen and
Contribute further development of the foundations of the European social model, by the
Employment, the rights of workers, the sustainable
Infrastructure development, education, research and
Development and the old-age security and combating age discrimination reinforced
Priority will be given.
The tax and wage dumping must be put a stop. We therefore advocate
for harmonizing corporate and capital taxes. In the longer term we want
greater EU self-financing by
a financial transaction tax at the same time lowering the national contributions. We
advocated a European financial compensation
one which makes it possible to meet regional and structural problems in time.
But even with its traditional objectives, the EU is now put to the test: You
has against its ability to act in the fight
inflation and counter the effects of
Prove financial market crisis.
Without this political priorities
can European integration project no
genuine political and social union and be
in the interests of European citizens and
Acting citizens. Liberalization are neither
Goals per se, nor can economic
Constitute a panacea. You must be oriented towards the common good.
The debates surrounding the Treaty of Lisbon
have shown that across the European Union, skepticism towards politics
the - mostly conservative-governed - EU
grows. This applies both to the course in the
Economic and social policies as well as the as
to quickly perceived, pace of enlargement.
This warning the population to serious
take, is an order to the policy to the
Project of European integration as such
not to compromise.
The widespread skepticism about the EU
in Austria must by consistent involvement of the population in the European
Policy are met. Continuous
Information that should begin at school,
the intensive open and committed discourse
with the Austrians
and the ability to more strongly in the shaping
Intervene EU policy should contribute
to address the concerns and uncertainty among people.
Therefore, the SPÖ advocates
future treaty changes affecting the fundamental interests of Austria,
a referendum to undergo. This
shall also apply in the event that the already approved by the Austrian Parliament Lisbon Reform Treaty again substantial
changes ratification prescription.
We want to promote the democratization of the European Union. The role of
European Parliament has further strengthened
become. Election manifesto of the Austrian Social Democratic Party
The SPÖ believes that the inclusion of Croatia and the prospect of a
Accession for the other states of the Western Balkans into the EU an important contribution to prosperity and stability in our immediate
Neighborhood will make.
The SPÖ supports and confirms the in
Government agreement agreed procedure, the possible accession of Turkey
a referendum to undergo. From
our view would be a candidate Turkey
current EU economic, social and political capacities, and their structures
overwhelm.
The loudest advocates of a rapid and
want unlimited enlargement of the EU
a weak Union which does not go very far beyond a free trade area.
That is not our idea of ​​Europe:
We want a strong Europe, one
Response to the negative effects of
Represents globalization.
An active role of Europe in world politics
is today more than ever. Especially in
Middle East conflict, one of the main roots
the global terrorist threat, Europe has
Obligation avenues for a peaceful solution
to develop the field and not just the United States
leave to.
For an active policy of neutrality
The Austrian Social Democracy professes
up to constitutionally specified permanent neutrality and sits down on this
Basis for a comprehensive peace policy
on.
The central elements of the Austrian
Neutrality - no membership Austria
37
foreign military alliances, no establishment
Bases on our territory, no
Participation in wars - are still valid.
The successful and proven for decades
Neutrality policy offers Austria - as
Member of the European Union - the opportunity to make a special contribution to international peace policy. As the site
the UN, the OSCE and many other
international organizations to Austria as
Location of international dialogue and balancing
be strengthened.
Austria is aware of its international responsibilities. The use of more than
70,000 servicemen and women and a
large number of executive powers and civil
Experts in international
Peace operations underlines this commitment. Austria's army enjoys rightly in
Austria and world high level of trust and
Look at. In military operations must not
be attended without a UN mandate.
The development of civilian foreign deployment capacities and the interagency cooperation of all ministries, including
NGOs, the
SPÖ pay special attention.
Austria's foreign policy is based on a clear
Commitment to neutrality and solidarity.
In an ever-closer
World we stand for strengthening international
Organizations that to resolve the major
global issues of the future a real contribution
can afford.
International relations must take place on the basis of the law and may not in already come times believed the bare
Power politics fall. This applies to government
as well as economic power. We use 38
Election manifesto of the Austrian Social Democratic Party
We therefore also for international institutions
a, waking the fact that the global economy is not as indicated by the recent financial crisis
is plunged into severe turbulence. We
want therefore the reform process of the
make global institutions actively and
support Austria's application as
Member of the UN Security Council for the
Years 2009/2010.
We stand for a democratic foreign policy in which the interests of the people
are the focus. Democracy, human rights, law and justice are
the foundations of this policy. On this
Basis we want the interests of Austria and its citizens
within the European Union together with our European partners in
the world represented.
For a reformed
Armed Forces
The Social Democratic Party is committed to the Austrian army - an army,
which is based on compulsory military service, militia and occupation components.
the international solidarity disaster relief particularly important. A modern army is also at all levels
have a higher percentage of women.
The promotion of professional sport in the Army Sports Centres is for us an important contribution to future success of Austrian
Athletes with an appropriate role model.
Development Cooperation
A fair and equitable world order needs
fair agreements between North and South
on access to markets with social and
ecological standards. We are committed to
a co-development policy,
relevant in all Politikbreichen coherent, intelligent bundled and actively pursued
becomes. We are committed to international
Obligation by 2015 for Development policy
0.7 per cent of gross national income
also apply to debt relief measures.
Austria is in the foreseeable future no
military threat suspended. The reduction of the legally shortened conscription
at six months and halving
Mobilization starch were therefore right
Steps and are maintained.
But development policy is not only based on
the financing of projects and budgets,
Coherence in all policy areas is necessary - from agriculture on the education policy to the international world trade rules. In addition to the
Partner countries initiated reform processes
be, the economic boost their
and social performance contribute.
To meet the current and future demands, we advocate the
Implementation and development of the Armed Forces reform a. There are capacities
for the protection of the Austrian population
be developed in a general government approach continues, the regional base of the army of special importance
remains. Simultaneously, the internationalization of the armed forces comes for peace and
Protection missions under UN mandate and
With the strengthening of agricultural self-sufficiency for the elimination of hunger,
combating HIV / AIDS, the transfer of technology for recovering energy from about
renewable resources, an offensive in
Education and health sectors, the promotion of sustainable use of resources,
the implementation of core labor standards
the International Labour Organisation, the
Peacekeeping and debt relief initiatives, the fight against money laundering and election manifesto of the Austrian Social Democratic Party
Corruption, the reduction of trade-distorting
Agricultural subsidies, the special promotion
of women who support Armutsreduktions- and employment measures
If globalization is more equitable
become.
We advocate the development and implementation
innovative financing instruments such as
a currency transaction tax or charges
for the use of global public goods, to
the spiral of poverty in many parts of the world
break through.
39 40
Election manifesto of the Austrian Social Democratic Party
EHV: SPÖ Federal office, 1014 Vienna, Löwelstraße 18
Pressure: Danube Forum Print, 1230 Wien
