General Program
Regional elections, federal and European of May 25, 2014

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Economic recovery
A. TAXATION
- Background and objectives of an overall tax reform
- Effective management skills and new tax revenue transferred
regions
- Reform the tax on individuals: making the purchasing power and fight against
the unemployment traps
- Reforming the corporate tax: lighter and easier especially for SMEs
- Reform the estate and gift tax: towards more tax justice
- Protect savings, labor fruit
- Modernize property taxation encouraging access to clean
- Modernize and alleviate regional taxation
- To fight against tax fraud

13
15
18
20
21
22
25

B. MEETING THE CHALLENGE OF EMPLOYMENT

27

Our proposals for the Federal

29

- Reduce social charges on companies
- Continue the control of wage costs
- To increase participation in the labor market
- Rewarding work
- Modernising labor law
Our proposals for Brussels and Wallonia
- Invest heavily in training
- Give all young people a job, training or internship
- Promote the employment of older workers

10
10
12

29
30
31
32
32
33
34
35
36
1

- Provide individualized support for jobseekers
- Simplify employment aid
- Developing entrepreneurship
- Flexibility and well-being at work

37
38
39
40

C. ECONOMY-COMPETITIVENESS
- Research and development
- At the Federal
- In Regions
- Lower labor costs
- Lower energy costs
- Have competitive infrastructure

43
44
45
46
50
51
53

D. SUPPORT FOR SMEs
- SMEs
- Trade
- Freelance
- Administrative simplification
- Corporate governance
- Foreign trade
- The business parks

54
54
66
69
71
75
76
79

E. AGRICULTURE
- Providing access to production tools
- Agriculture as a basis for economic development
- Agriculture contributes to the preservation of our environment
-L'agriculture: A challenge at European and global level (for the European program)

88
92
93
94
96

Education-Education
A. EDUCATION: BUILDING THE FUTURE. PATHS FOR THE 21st CENTURY SCHOOL
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.

All students have the same right to expect their full learning potential
Meet society's challenges
All students have equal access to highly qualified teachers
Motivation also involves learning conditions
Teaching is a collective responsibility
A modern flight, objective, efficient and pragmatic
A higher education that preserves its excellence and autonomy

100
100
104
109
111
116
117
121

2

B. CULTURE

125

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.

126
128
130
131
134
135

Refinancing culture
Public
The governance of culture
Employment status and Artists
The audiovisual sector
Fighting against illegal downloading

Family
A. CHILDREN

137

B. YOUTH / YOUTH ASSISTANCE

140

Youth
Youth Support
Family

140
141
148

C. YOUTH AND SOCIAL MEDIA

151

The risks facing young people online
Social networks as tools for communication and exchange between youth
and authorities

152
155

D. VALUES OF SPORT UNIVERSAL VALUES

157

Promote access to sport for all
Strengthen sport at school
Supporting professional sport
Improve the organization of sport in Wallonia-Brussels

160
162
164
166

Security-Justice
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.

Fire Services
Prevention - Rudeness - Security in transport
Improving security and independent traders
Police
For quick and fair justice - for a modernized criminal procedure and could efficiently
For diversification of penalties and adaptation of our Penal Code

169
171
174
176
179
181
3

7. For a responsible and credible prison policy
8. For a court to listen to the victims
9. For a suitable reaction but firm against juvenile delinquency
10.Lutter against terrorism
11.Cybersécurité
12.Lutter against arms trafficking
Judicial 13.Organisation
A modern and efficient justice
Eliminating the backlog
Es promote alternatives to trial
14.Accès to justice
Help middle class
Strengthen local justice
Revalue legal aid
15.A law and justice for families
16.A business-friendly justice
17. Protection of consumption

184
187
190
192
196
199
201
203
204
205
205
207
207
208
209
211
213

Solidarity
A. HEALTH CARE

221

1. Patients:
- Aging population
- Chronic diseases
- Food, sport and lifestyle
- The development of research; Advanced Therapies
- Prevention
- The development of organ donation and, in particular, that of living
- The addiction
- Environmental conditions

221
221
227
230
234
235
238
239
244

2. Health care providers:
- Doctors
- Pharmacists
- Physiotherapists
- Nurses
- Psychologists and psychotherapists
- Unconventional practices
- Reform Orders
- Hospital Institutions
- Drugs
- The mutual societies

247
248
252
254
257
258
259
260
261
266
268

4

B. BOARD

- Better value work
- Encourage the participation rate, also for seniors
- Enhancing and pensions
- Harmonize plans
- Ensuring the future pension payments
- Adapting pension systems to the company's developments
- Information on the rights to pension
C. HOUSING - Encourage the property, restore social mobility public housing

271
274
278
280
282
284
285
286
287

improve the quality
- Private Housing
- Public housing
- Intermediate Housing
- Competency Transfers
- The social public housing
- Social-oriented private accommodation
- The average housing
- Student housing
- The emergency accommodation, transit and destination

291
294
296
297
300
305
306
308
308

D. POVERTY - Prevent and hope to the weakest and the poorest

310

- Prevention
- Preventing over-indebtedness
- Access to housing
- Assistance to persons
- The health and right to health
- Education and training
- Employment and Employability
- Align the best means of social action: reform of the sector
social integration
- The Precarious self-employed

313
314
315
316
318
319
319
321
323

5

Ecology responsibility and quality of life
A. ENERGY

325

1. Energy policy

325

Towards a sustainable energy model
Safety sustainable supply - of the energy available at any time

326
331

2. Streamline and modernize the energy landscape

342

B. MOBILITY

344

- Develop public transport
- Make the heart of sustainable mobility rail
- Improve road infrastructure
- Improving safety on roads in Wallonia and Brussels
- Streamline traffic and facilitate parking
- Two motorized wheels
- Promoting sustainable mobility
- The waterway
- Airports
C. ENVIRONMENT

- Water
- Biodiversity
- Floors
- Air
- Waste
- Noise pollution
- Gmo
- Electric car
- Territory Development
D. ANIMAL WELFARE

345
347
349
352
353
355
356
357
359
361
362
367
370
372
374
376
377
377
379
397

6

The state fair
A. BUDGET - FINANCIAL Health improvement

400

B. BANKING REGULATION AND PARTICIPATION

406

C. GOOD GOVERNANCE

409

Good governance as a public policy management mode
Good governance as a rule of conduct for political appointees
Public enterprises

409
411
415

D. PUBLIC SERVICE

419

E. EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES

426

IMMIGRATION AND ASYLUM F.

444

G. INTERCUTURALITE

472

- The dangers of communitarian withdrawal
- The right to be different but not unlike rights
- The impartiality of the State
- The fight against radicalism
- Interculturalism and State

472
474
474
475
477

H. FEDERALISM A SUCCESSFUL FUTURE FOR BELGIUM D

484

I. BELGIAN FOREIGN

488

J. DIRECT DEMOCRACY

490

GERMAN-SPEAKING COMMUNITY K.

497

Europe - International - Defense
TO.
1.
2.
3.
4.

EUROPE CHALLENGES
Growth that creates sustainable employment
A social Europe
Civil liberties
Quality of Life: Health, consumer, agriculture, environment
A Europe conscious of your health
Respectful of the Earth Europe
5. Europe in the world

500
501
509
512
517
517
518
519
7

B. BELGIUM IN THE WORLD

526

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.

Belgium and the EU
Belgium and the reform of international institutions
Belgium Solidarity: Development cooperation
Belgium and Africa
Francophonie
International relations
7. European Structural Funds

527
528
529
531
535
538
548

C. DEFENCE

551

8

ECONOMIC RECOVERY
Since 2011, under the leadership of MR in the federal government, our country has
attached to redress public finances. Rigorous work good money management
public has been achieved. Today, we come to the point: have accounts in balance.
This consolidation effort of more than 20 billion euros, is the indispensable foundation
for the successful revival of our economy. Now we can devote more
means for lowering taxes on labor to boost employment and to increase
competitiveness of our companies.
The MR calls for a serious approach. We can not promise everything. You have to make
clear choices and assume them.
Our proposals for economic recovery is encrypted. They are an effective plan
entirely turned to the rising purchasing power, job creation and
development of our businesses.
This plan goes beyond the institutional divisions. All levels of government are involved.
Since the town, to the European level, through the Region and the federal, we
advocate a single roadmap. A project based on trust in
contractors towards independent, a project that values ​​those who work.
For example, we want to remove the charges on the first three jobs created in
SMEs. We want one that works still earns more than that does not work
not, and we want our companies to not suffer a tax system that penalizes the face
to their foreign competitors.
You understood, the MR, we have clear ideas about the reforms needed.
We know that after these reforms, there is dynamism, employment and taxation
right.
It is through this project, which is our first priority for our program begins
regional, federal and European elections in May 2014.

9

A. TAXATION

1

Background and objectives of an overall tax reform

Despite the recent tax reforms, carried by the RM of 1999-2009, which had allowed
make citizens more than 10 billion euros, Belgium remains one of the countries in the world where
compulsory levies are highest:
-

Globale1 The tax burden (ie the total amount of taxes and social contributions) differ
greatly from one Member State to another. Belgium is among the three countries with the highest rates
High: Denmark (47.7%), Sweden (44.3%), Belgium (44.1%).

-

The average maximum rate for the personal income tax (PIT) stood in the Union
European to 38.7% in 2013. Belgium is once again among the three countries with the highest rates
High: Sweden (56.6%), Denmark (55.6%), Belgium (53.7%).

-

The average maximum rate for corporate tax (ISOC) is established in the European Union
25.7% in 2013. With the exception of France (36.1%) 2, Belgium has the highest rate.

Maximum statutory tax rates on incomes and standard VAT rate in%
Taxes on labor
2000 2012 2013
EU27
44.8 38.1 38.7
Euro Zone 47.1 43.1 44.3
Belgium 60.6 53.7 53.7

Corporate Tax
2000 2012 2013
31.9
23
23
34.4
25.4 25.7
40.2
34.0 34.0

VAT
2000
19.2
18.1
21

2012
21
20
21

2013
21.3
20.4
21

Belgium remains one of the countries where the fiscal and parafiscal pressure is highest in
Europe and around the world. Our handicap is particularly marked for loads
on the job.
Today, having cleaned up our public finances, the MR calls for reform
Tax depth, a "fiscal shock" that will participate in the creation of several
tens of thousands of jobs in the next Parliament by significantly decreasing
tax burden.
For MR, this reform must meet four principles:
1. Simplification: The bureaucracy creates costs and deters
investment. Coordination and simplification of tax legislation must
1

Eurostat, "Taxation trends in the European Union" (April 2013)

2

For completeness, the corporate income tax in Malta is 35% - slightly more than in Belgium - but this is a tax
advance tax of the shareholder who is no longer taxed on dividends distributed by the Maltese society. For a
Maltese shareholder of a Maltese company, so the overall tax burden is 35%, while it currently stands at
(33.99 + (25% x 66.01)) = 50.49% for the Belgian shareholder of a Belgian company.

10

ensure adequate transparency and clarity of rules for all players
economic, big and small.
2. Prudence and discernment must balance any motivation
compulsory levy and freedom of choice of individuals, taking into account the
specifics of each situation.

3. Efficiency: The tax should be levied in the most effective way possible, that is to say by causing the least possible negative impact on the proper allocation of
resources. It should be taken from a broad base (with some exemptions) and
the lowest rate possible.
Do not overlook the costs of tax collection, fraud and tax evasion,
or red tape or poor choices in the selection of files
control who can make the establishment of inefficient taxes.
4. Stability and predictability of rules: Legal certainty and non-retroactivity is
the key points of the tax system.
For MR, the objectives of the reform are clear:
1. Lowering of income tax down to fight against employment traps and to
before "work value" at the heart of fiscal policy. Overall taxation (contributions
Social included) on labor remains too heavy in our country. This situation,
combined with various advantages conferred provided that it does not work, generates
a series of traps to employment and low wages.
2. Make the purchasing power to average incomes in ensuring greater
progressive taxation. Currently, it is taxed too much too fast. Beyond 1030
EUR per month, we are already taxed at 40%!
3. Simplify and lower the nominal rate of corporation tax, to the mean
European, particularly for SMEs.
4. Sustaining economic recovery for employment: Belgium is a small
open economy, where exports account for two thirds of GDP and where
Foreign investment is essential. Taxation plays an essential role in
our companies' competitiveness and attractiveness of our country. The goal is to reach
the creation of tens of thousands of new jobs.

11

2

Effectively manage skills and new tax revenue
transferred to the regions

The sixth state reform incorporates a significant tax component, mainly relating to PPI.
Certainly marked and encadrée3, regional autonomy in the matter (in the form
expanded to additional) will nevertheless be important. Calculated from tax "State"
autonomy covers no less than 12 billion euros!
The additional fixed but can be differentiated tariffs for each of the tax are allowed
time that the principle of progressive compliance is met (unless exemption is set at
€ 1,000 max.).
The exercise of autonomy is however not limited in terms of total value, the former
limitation of 6.75% disappearing.
Furthermore, the sixth state reform provides that the Regions will have the competence
exclusive for a series of tax cuts as essential that related to housing,
the service vouchers, etc.
The Regions will have therefore from 1 July 2014 a margin of maneuver that they
will implement clear socio-economic choices.
In addition, regional choices on IPP will impact directly revenues
local authorities. Indeed, the additional council will now be calculated based on
the remaining federal tax and the amount of additional regional. This results in a more
accountability of tax elections to local authorities.
For MR, it is clear that this new lever may in no circumstances be used for
increase the tax burden on citizens and / or discriminate against labor income. To
Rather, it should be used to support and implement major regional
principles we have outlined above. Concretely, this means in particular that
would be intolerable that an increase in additional compensation come to the tax shock
level IPP.

3

The additional tax is a tax (no split rate so ...), the tax base and items
Essential calculating federal taxes remain and the tax department, the discounts for haircuts
exempt and replacement incomes remain federal, provisions to avoid
unfair tax competition were introduced in the RSA and the Constitution, breach of the principle of
progressivity is strictly controlled, etc ....

12

3

Reforming the tax of individuals: making the purchasing power and
fight against unemployment traps

FINDING
In Belgium, thanks to the action of the MR since 2009, many measures have resulted
through targeted expense reductions on low wages: increased exempt portion
and lump sum fee in IPP; bonus to employment; flat-rate reductions of contributions
employers, etc. These measures have helped to significantly reduce the unemployment traps.
A PPI, Belgium still has three main problems:
1) A high level of overall tax: Belgium remains the OECD countries where
difference between wage costs and pocket income is highest. This very high level
of taxes on labor is found at all income levels.
2) Too high level of taxation on low wages traps creating situations
Employment: Too little difference between the income replacement and income
earning potential can be a barrier to seeking employment. Indeed, exercise
a job may generate additional costs (childcare, costs
movement ...) more important than the existing financial difference between a salary and
replacement income. Today, according to the Federation of Wallonia CPAS (2012)
when comparing the income / expenditure of low-income lone worker with
dependent child to a person receiving the RIS (social integration income) with a
dependent child, the latter sees its higher purchasing power of more than 150 euros.
3) Too few progressive taxation:
If one analyzes the tax rates in many countries of the world, one could
infer that the Belgian system is experiencing normal progressivity with slices of 25%
30%, 40%, 45% and a final installment of 50%. However, these slices are too narrow.
There is therefore no real progressive taxation in Belgium.
In addition, the progressive tax begins from the first euro earned that is taxable
25%. Since the basic amount of the tax exempt portion applicable to
the 2015 tax year (income of 2014) is equal to 7.070 euros, it
amount is increased to 7,350 euros if the income does not exceed 26,280 euros and that these
amounts may be increased according to the number of dependent children, the first
tax levels to 25% and 30% are more fictitious than real.

13

Slices of taxation for the financial year 2015 (income of 2014):
current regime (indexed amounts in euros)
Income

to

0.01
8680
12360
20600
More 37,750

8680
12360
20600
37750

narrow slices
subject to tax
8680
3680
8240
17150

% Tax on the
slice
25%
30%
40%
45%
50%

So we reached a marginal tax rate to 40% from an annual taxable income
12,360 euros or 1,030 euros gross per month, sometimes below the integration income
Social which nevertheless it is not taxed.
45% and 50% rates apply too much faster than in other
countries. In France, the progressivity is real. In Belgium, we reached the maximum rate of 50%
tax from 37 750 euros gross. In France the maximum rate is reached soon 145.000
euros!
PROPOSALS
1) Creation of a "0%" until 13,000 euros
Today, in Belgium when one receives 1100 euros each month CPAS, it pays
no tax, why should we pay when we receive the same amount in
working, it makes no sense. We want to change that.
This measure is wages up to 50,000 euros with increase depending on the
family situation (such increases already exist in the current system of proportion
exempt).
Today tax on low incomes will diverge it comes to labor income or
revenue allocation.
The MR calls for a fundamental simplification of the system by creating a new
"0%" until 13,000 euros per year for every 50,000 paid less
euros.
The aim is to make the purchasing power for low income and gradually reduce
the differences in tax treatment between earned income and income allocation and
So eliminate unemployment traps. This measure aims low and medium wage earners.
2) Increase the threshold from which a 2 euro gained from tax.
Today, spent 3,000 euros gross, every euro earned is taxed at 50%. We want
increase that threshold to 4,000 euros gross per month. Or € 50,000 / year.
14

3) Review and reducing the number of slices to make the purchasing power to
average income
The MR proposes that the tax brackets of 30% and 45% are removed.
4) Introduction of a peace tax in Belgium.
Engaging Regions not to undermine federal tax reforms
PPI material, by increasing the new regional additional.
5) Rationalization of tax loopholes and tax creation of thematic baskets
There are many niches that represent billions of tax expenditures
(all else equal). The MR proposes rationalizing by bringing to
within thematic baskets tax: a basket "Investments & housing" and a
Basket "Family". This system must be simple and transparent to all.

4

Reforming corporate taxes: lighter and simpler in particular
for SMEs

FINDINGS
A competitive position in trouble
Belgium is a small open economy, we depend largely Trade
International for economic recovery. A medium to long term, we must
The primary concern of our competitive position and our ability
innovation. Our country ranks only 150th place (out of a total of 183 economies
international) the classification of the tax attractiveness globally.

Excessive taxation to corporate tax, particularly for SMEs
The total tax burden on business is in Belgium, 57.5% (ISOC and charges
Employers included) is well above the world average of 43.1% and
EU average 40.9%. Among our neighbors, Germany, the Netherlands and
UK do, with respectively 49.4%, 39.3% and 34%, significantly better.
15

The nominal rate of ISOC is 33.99%, well above the average European rate
is 23%. After various deductions and the use of notional interest, the ISOC rates
Belgian median is 26%, but still above the European average, which is +/- 20%.
For MR, many reasons argue for reducing taxes on businesses,
especially SMEs:
1) The revival will inevitably and primarily by improving the situation
corporate, creative activity, jobs and wealth for the country. The objective
is, in the medium term, to identify the margins that will improve the situation
our citizens and ensure the sustainability of our social security system.
2) The corporate income tax is +/- 12% of tax revenues of the state. It is therefore
can act in depth on this one, with a low cost for public finances
and with a significant leverage effect in terms of national wealth creation.
Streamline the various aids or subsidies to businesses would also
to go even further in lowering the corporate tax rate.
3) A lighter tax optimization rates makes less useful and significantly reduces
tax fraud.
4) elimination of certain tax loopholes, in parallel with the lower rate, allows
greatly simplify corporate taxes.
5) A simpler and lighter tax rates are by far the best incentives for
attract foreign investment and to give the desire to undertake all
young people who want to start.

PROPOSALS
1) Lower the nominal rate of ISOC to 23%
The MR wants a commitment to a progressive decrease in the corporate income tax up 23%
is the European average. The aim is to ensure that tax is paid by the
vast majority of companies, where the gradual reduction of several niches
tax.
2) Commit to maintain the rate of 23% for at least 10 years
Belgium is not renowned for its stable tax legislation, undermining
considerably to its attractiveness. Lowering the tax rates of the companies to 23%
should therefore be accompanied by a commitment to maintain the rate unchanged for at
least 10 years.

16

3) Secure a reduced rate of 20% for SMEs
Today, the reduced rates for SMEs are complexes4. The MR proposes to replace
current scale of the reduced rate with a 20% rate applicable to the first tranche of 100,000
euros and the normal rate would apply to the additional taxable benefit.
4) Progressively Reforming notional interest deductions and improving SMEs
for investments.
The notional interest was beneficial to the Belgian economy. They have maintained and strengthened
Belgium easily relocated some activities attracted new businesses
our regions by strengthening international tax attractiveness of our economy. The director
AWEX (Walloon Regional Agency for Export) recognized that the interests
notional is an important argument in its contacts with investors
potentiels5 foreigners. They also reinforced the solvency of Belgian companies. Indeed, in
times of crisis, many companies have difficulty obtaining credit. The fact that
notional interest have prompted these companies to increase their capital allowed
to reduce the risk to their lenders and make them less dependent and
vulnerable.
Larger companies were able to benefit from the notional interest system to
recapitalize. SMEs have benefited to a lesser extent and are less capitalized.
Today, to revive the economy, especially important to stimulate investment
productive and particularly our small and medium enterprises.
The MR proposes to redirect some notional interest at the same rate as
the gradual decline of ISOC to new SMEs deductions for investments,
are effective in terms of tax relief. In addition, the MR proposes to increase the
prime notional interest for the sole benefit of SMEs.
5) Promote research and development
The MR wants fiscally promote R & D, in particular by further improving the taxation
patents and payment of the withholding tax exemption for researchers.
6) Streamline tax loopholes and create thematic baskets tax
The MR proposes to create thematic baskets tax deductions such as "Basket
R & D "
Cart
Employment "
etc.
It
offer
the
advantages
for
the
entrepreneurs / investors to be a clear signal, transparent, and comprehensible to all
for the state to avoid a proliferation of tax loopholes to create budgetary margins
in favor of a linear decrease of ISOC, having to make fewer controls. The MR
4

0 to 25 000 EUR: 24.25%; from 25,000 to 90,000 euros: 31.93%; between 90,000 and 322,500 euros: 35.54%; from
of € 322,500: normal rate of 34%.
5
Suinen Philippe, Director of AWEX, House of Representatives, 9/03/2010

17

proposes that certain tax baskets are more favorable to SMEs and large
businesses.
The MR wants fiscally promote R & D, in particular by further improving the taxation
patents and payment of the withholding tax exemption for researchers.

7) Establishment of a platform to attract international investment flows

8) Liability for ISOC intercommunal that compete with the private,
which will eliminate certain distortions of competition.

5

Reform the estate and gift tax: towards more tax justice

FINDINGS
The rates of inheritance tax are the responsibility of the regions. They differ depending on whether
the deceased had his fiscal domicile in the Walloon Region, Brussels-Capital Region or
Flemish Region. These rates are progressive. That is to say they increase according to the
tax brackets that vary from one region to another. They also vary depending on the
relationship between the deceased and his heirs.
Current situation in Wallonia
The three Belgian regions, Wallonia is undoubtedly the most convenient rates
prohibitive. It counts 4 categories of heirs ("hotline", "brothers and sisters"
"Uncles and aunts / nieces and nephews," "others"). A number of share slices
ranging from: 9 for the direct line (spouse, cohabitant, child, ...) and 5 for the other three
categories. According to the edge on both the category of heirs, rates can vary between 0
80%.
Evolution of total revenues in inheritance tax in Wallonia
2002 made

2013 made

Evolution

Wallonia

€ 285,179,000

€ 743 million

+ 160%

Index

132.74

165.99

+ 25%

18

Current situation in the Brussels-Capital Region
At its 2002 reform, the Brussels-Capital Region has reviewed its inheritance tax.
Brussels, unlike Flanders, has maintained the four existing categories but proceeded
simplification of tariffs and changes in tax brackets. However
for classes, "between uncles or aunts and nephews or nieces" and "among all the others," the
globalization system was introduced (the fee is applied to all shares
heirs and only after that the distribution takes place).
Evolution of total revenues in inheritance and gift taxes in Brussels
2002 Adjusted budget

2013 Adjusted budget
Evolution

Brussels

€ 212,639,000

€ 490,484,000

+ 120%

Index

132.74

165.99

+ 25%

The increase in inheritance tax and gift tax is 5 times greater than the rise
the health index of 11 years.
PROPOSALS
1) Delete the full inheritance tax on the family home between spouses
or cohabitants
2) Apply discounted rates during the transmission of the family building children
or grandchildren.
3) Reduce the number of slice and reduce all rates
Inheritance tax brackets were no longer suitable since 19776 when prices
are growing by the simple fact of inflation, which has caused significant
higher tax revenues resulting from the transfer of assets.
-

simplify creating four tranches: € 0-150000 / € 150,000 € 250,000 / € 250,000 € -1000,000
/ 1000.000 € more ... In Wallonia, there are now 9 slices in a direct line;
strengthen the low rate on small estates;
review all rates down based on changes in consumer prices;
remove rate of 65%, 70% and 80%;
merge the categories "between brothers and sisters" and "uncles / aunts and
nephews / nieces "(evolution of families);
attaching a flexible rule adaptation of inheritance tax rates depending on
changes in the consumer price index with a fix applied every five
years, beginning in legislature to monitor the prices of residential real estate
average.

6 with the exception of the first tranche of 3% in direct line was increased from 12,500 to 50,000 euros in Region
Brussels.

19

4) Apply a reduced rate in case of investment in the real economy
especially for SMEs.
This will encourage those who can to give up part of their
heritage for the benefit of their families and friends who wish to undertake or fund
their professional activity. The reduced rates will be 0% direct line, 3% Online
and 5% indirect family "among others".
5) To apply reduced rates to purchase a first home.
This is to help beneficiaries acquire a first property. Rates
are reduced to personal property 0%, 3% or 5% and real property, similar to
new transmission rates of a family building in the direct line.

6) Allow the social parent as stepfather to bequeath his property to conditions
support the child he helped raise.

6

Protect savings, labor fruit

FINDING
A quick comparison of tax rates on capital income, real estate and
labor income can give the impression of very important differences. On this basis,
some would (re) globalize capital income with other sources of income
labor, or a marginal rate of 50%. This will ignore the one hand the tax burden
real which are already subject these movable and immovable income and secondly that
these are the fruit of labor, which is already overtaxed in Belgium.
PROPOSALS
1) Opposing the globalization of savings income and labor.

2) Maintaining the tax benefits related to pension savings
Some voices to eliminate tax benefits of pension savings in
because they cost too much to the state. The MR hand, considers that the second and
third pillars are an important complement to strengthening the first pillar and
they must be maintained in the context of an aging population. He will defend
So without any ambiguity maintaining tax benefits in place for the épargnepension. Indeed it is vital that everyone can be a pension supplement in
addition to the state pension.

20

3) Protect the exemption Savings Book
For MR, the current exemption, up to an amount of 1880 euros in interest in 2013,
must be maintained to protect small investors, interested in safety
legal and liquidity of the investment. For MR, we must above all continue to fight against
economic insecurity that encourages this type of decline in savings.

7

Modernising real estate taxation encouraging home ownership

FINDING
Contrary to what some claim, situated property owners
Belgium already paying heavy impôts7 when added all the taxes that are
levied on property assets by both federal authorities and the regions,
municipalities and provinces.
Real estate taxation and weighs 3.2% of GDP.8 in Belgium against 0.9% in Germany and 1.1
% In the Netherlands. The Eurozone Europe (17 countries) known for its taxation
average of 1.3% of GDP, less than half of our country. Undeniably, it is
especially the registration fees and estate taxes, for which revenues
amounted to more than 5 billion, which are responsible for the ranking of Belgium in the lead
countries which tax the most real estate.
PROPOSALS
1) Do not discourage investment real estate in Belgium
Currently real incomes are already globalized with all
income (either via actual rents or via indexed cadastral income and multiplied by 1.4)
and are directly taxed at the highest rates without the benefit of a withholding tax
discharge.
Also, the MR intends to maintain the taxation of rental income by reference to income
cadastral for reasons of administrative simplification. On the one hand, the stress of having
hold an evidentiary accounting vis-à-vis the administration and finance on the other,
the introduction of a tax on rents at the federal level with retention of withholding taxes
Real Estate in regional, provincial and municipal level, cause, disaffection
mass among the 400,000 non-professional private landlords (mostly
pensioners and active people from the middle class who intends to be
pension savings).

7
8

Eurostat Report 2013
Study "EU taxation trends 2013"

21

2) temporarily reduce the VAT rate to 6% for new construction
housing
The current rate of 21% for new construction of housing activity slows
a sector that is carrying jobs and future tax revenue. In addition, the best
way to limit the rise in property prices is to stimulate new investment
and hence the supply of housing.
We therefore propose setting a VAT rate of 6% throughout Wallonia (and not
in some communes) in case of demolition / construction, including when
Construction is carried out via a developer.
We also wish the application of a VAT rate of 6% for the construction for a
period determined to revive the construction and meet the demand for housing.
3) Reduce registration fees on the purchase of its first housing
Outgoing regional majorities did nothing for recording rights
real estate sales. Rising property prices could have a
adaptation of the taxation that is among the highest in the world (12.5% ​​on the price and
the charges).
4) Encouraging mobility through the registration fees portability
Rates from registration fees applied in Wallonia (12.5% ​​and 6% reduced rate) and
Brussels (12.5% ​​with the possibility of an abatement) are among the highest in Europe
(eg average price: Switzerland (3%), Germany (3.5%), France (5.09%), the Netherlands (6%),
Luxembourg (7%), Spain (0%), ...
The MR offers for several years that the household pays only once rights
Registration due for the acquisition of a principal residence. Any acquisition that
would a new home to change residence would deduction
made registration fees paid upon the purchase of their first home or his
first apartment ("rucksack" system).
5) Keep the "housing bonus" for the purchase of his first home
The MR will require not to change the tax reduction in personal income tax
("Housing bonus") when the skill will be regionalised following the 6th
State reform.

8

Modernize and ease the regional taxation

The policy of the MR the federal government is beginning to bear fruit. It
unfortunately, has not inspired the regional government which is not part MR.

22

FINDINGS AND BALANCE IN REGION BRUSSELS-CAPITAL
This government led by PS-Ecolo-Cdh Ministers has still not taken the measure of
gravity of the situation believing that it is possible to borrow to infinity and thus avoid
reforms necessary for the proper functioning of our institutions.
This majority has not undertaken reforms to reduce the administrative burden
Brussels, dozing while waiting for money from others to fill gaps.
Meanwhile, the debt has doubled in 7 years from 1.7 billion in 2005 to 3.3 billion in
2013. Added to this is a cash credit that the government wants to triple in Brussels
2014 !
Brussels needs the RM to the regional government to work for reforms
reducing administrative totally or largely useless expenditures to
keep the budget cap imposed by European solidarity while making taxation
Regional fairer and more stimulating for work, investment and savings.
PROPOSALS
1) Reduce the tax burden on labor
The MR proposes to delete the agglomeration tax of one percent on such income,
to increase the net salary of Brussels available workers.
2) Reduce corporate taxation to avoid their exodus from Brussels
Regardless of the municipal tax per m² of professional surfaces, the
Region is also experiencing a tax professional surfaces. This tax is
charged to companies which is a barrier to investment and employment.
As this type of taxation does not exist in urban periphery, it is proposed
remove the regional tax so as to help maintain the investment
Economic in Brussels and thus prevent the departure of businesses looking for
areas less taxed.
3) Reduce tax Brussels households
The old tax collection of refuse was called "regional tax
loads of Brussels households. " After many exemptions and reductions
50% made in 2008, the annual tax reports € 38.687 million on budget
Adjusted 2013. As a revival of consumer spending, and by measure
savings in administrative costs, it is proposed to abolish the tax.

FINDINGS AND ASSESSMENT IN WALLONIA
It is clear that the significant tax jurisdiction in the region has hardly been
used to reduce the tax burden on taxpayers ... On the contrary, it
23

mainly used to fill budget holes without questioning whether or
the efficiency of certain expenses.
It is rather telling that the first real draft decree submitted by Olivier
focused on taxation and immediately pointed the way that the government intended to follow.
Indeed, the first steps have brought the denial of election promises in
Concerning the TV license fee and an impressive increase in the tax burden
under the pretext of "tax fairness" .... Funny perception of fairness when one list
Quickly measures:
-

tightening access to discounted registration fees;
hardening of the conditions of access to the proportional reduction in the area of
property tax (unproductive, modest houses, single dwelling, ..);
considerable increase in various taxes (PLCs, devices
entertainment);
reduction of Eco-bonus coupled with an increase in eco-claims.

Given the continued deterioration of public finances Walloon, the Olivier
quickly added to these initial steps a series of other:
-

introduction of a fee "gas highway";
increased environmental taxes;
rate increase for donation of personal property;
without preferential tariff for the registration fee (in case of loans
"Social");
virtual elimination of the Eco-Bonus and further tightening of the Eco-Malus.
The development of Eco-bonus / malus Eco-mechanism is illustrative of vision
government: the incentive was quickly replaced by the punitive!

In addition, many "quirks" that have taken Administrative Region can not be ignored
Wallonne on taxes it collects itself as illustrated quasicaricaturale so many adventures on téléredevance .... The recent report
the Court of Auditors (25th Observation Cahiers), part of which is devoted to the management
so-called tax "entertainment" (games and paris, PLCs, etc ..) is also not
reassuring about the ability of the Region to ensure effective tax service when
transferred to it.
It must however acknowledge some progress. Although of limited scope, it deserves to
some to be relieved. Thus, besides the numerous provisions aimed at
the Walloon tax law compliance with several European rules, it will report
easing (recent) limitations on access to reduced rate for donations
personal property (usufruct); the flexibility regarding access to reduced rate for
private foundations, changing the assessment regime in the value of securities
for estates and the removal of the access time and costs for direct online
legal cohabitants of succession.

24

PROPOSALS
1) Establish an effective tax administration and Walloon modern
2) Establish a true "fiscal pact" with municipalities to prevent use
misuse of anti-economic tax by some.
3) Remove the TV license. The Walloon Region is the only one of the three regions
Belgian to receive this outdated tax, anti-social, difficult to perceive and unfair to
... many Walloon Flanders was deleted and substituted a Brussels tax
Regional lump (+/- 90 EUR). Should we also recall that the Region has no
expertise in audiovisual policy?

9

Fight against tax fraud

FINDING
The tax is the contribution of every citizen to the community to which he belongs to
that it can ensure the functional and social missions impossible to cover
individually. The fair and balanced tax is therefore a necessity. It is reflected by a frame
Legal which every citizen must submit, no more, no less.
In a difficult economic environment, good collection of public funds is essential.
It is in this context that the debate on tax fraud takes place. Evaluated by the BNB 6.5
billion, the efforts of the past decade have helped to contain
substantially.

PROPOSALS
1) Use modern techniques of data analysis to target controls
within a framework responding to specific rules on protection of privacy
2) Continue to strengthen the instruments at the disposal of the inspection services and
control, and this both in terms of operation of that means.
3) Create administration of fight against tax and social fraud
4) Supervise strictly the new digital means available to the tax authorities
to define the data to be collected, the specific purposes for which they
can be harvested and finally treatment can be performed thereon.
5) Promote the ethics of fiscal controls

25

Many taxpayers is regularly outraged behavior
some tax officials during an inspection. The role of the controller should remain that of a
referee who verifies the proper application of rules and sanctions where appropriate. It owes
this effect remain neutral in its behavior.

26

B. MEETING THE CHALLENGE OF EMPLOYMENT
Report and Review
The European Union, through the Europe 2020 Strategy has set a target for
Belgium, that of achieving in 2020 an employment rate of 75% compared to the population
aged 20 to 64 years. In this context, Belgium has committed itself to reach a rate
Job 73.2%. The goal is ambitious, it is still far from being achieved. In 2012, the
employment rate was 67.2% for 20-64 years.
If the unemployment rate in Belgium (8.4%) is lower than the average rate in the Union
European (10.9%), it still remains a concern in Brussels and Wallonia. Whereas
the unemployment rate was 5.0% in Flanders, it is 11.4% in Wallonia and 19.4% in
Bruxelles.9 Among young people under 25, the unemployment rate takes proportions
alarming: for 2013 years, the rate was 23.5% for Belgium but with
very large variations between regions: 16.6% in Flanders, 32% in Wallonia and 39.6%
in Brussels !
This reflects the utter failure of the majority "Olivier" (PS-CDH-Ecolo), which both
Brussels and Wallonia, has been unable, after 10 years of government,
set up an employment policy and effective and consistent training.
During the two legislatures, while the unemployment rate increased steadily,
we flourished a considerable number of subsidized jobs. Meanwhile, as
the lack of qualifications of a large number of job seekers is obvious in view
available jobs, the sector of vocational training, which should be
compensate for the deficiencies of a failing education has meanwhile been completely
helpless.
The Liberals, however, achieved significant progress to boost employment in the
under various stimulus packages that have been adopted by the Federal Government in
which seat the MR:
Loads of reductions have been agreed to improve
competitiveness of enterprises: reductions in social contributions in the first five
jobs on low wages for young workers and older workers,
as in the Horeca sector.
As part of the competitiveness pact adopted in December 2013, further advances
were obtained by the MR: It has indeed been decided to allocate an amount
additional € 1.350 billion to reduce employer costs and reduce the
VAT rate on electricity at 6%.

9

Eurostat figures report + NBB 2013

27

An agreement was also reached to establish "free zones" allowing
a reduction in the withholding tax on SMEs that settled there. The idea is to offer a
economic development perspective for vulnerable territories by closures
business or an unemployment rate of young people than the national average.
At the fiscal level, a specific exemption from withholding tax, up to
€ 50 million was obtained for SMEs. The withholding tax exemption
for teamwork and night and for the continuous work was strengthened
24 million €. Under the 2014 budget, € 22 million are still expected
to increase the tax deduction for investment.
Combined with wage moderation and revising the basket of goods and services subject to
the index, these cost reductions help to reduce the wage handicap of Belgium
compared to neighboring countries.
By strengthening the employment bonus, the Government also reduced the tax burden
on the lowest wages (less than € 2,385.41). The objective is to increase the gap between
net pay and unemployment benefit to which the worker may claim.
Several measures have also been taken to halt the spread of unemployment. This is
as well as the initiative of the Federal Government, a new cooperation agreement to
strengthen support for the unemployed was concluded with the Regions. These are themselves
committed, with additional funding from the Federal to
accompany faster unemployed youth and broaden the target audience for the unemployed
over 50 years, as the Flemish Region had already taken the initiative.
These measures have enabled Belgium to withstand the crisis better than most
in other European countries. It remains that the renewed growth has not allowed up
Now, to create a sufficient number of jobs to reverse the unemployment curve.
The next Government will continue its efforts to strengthen the competitiveness of
our country, including resorbing completely wage handicap against our
main neighbors and pursuing reductions burdens on businesses.
SMEs will be the subject of special attention. A Commission study
stresses that European SMEs are responsible for 85% of newly created jobs
in Europe.
It is essential to continue at the federal level, efforts to create an environment
more dynamic economy, which encourages firms to create new jobs.
But the effort will also come from regions that will have in the next
Legislature skills and new ways for employment: reductions
social contributions "target groups", activation of unemployment benefits programs
and social integration income, check the availability of the unemployed, conventions
"First Job" service vouchers and ALE checks, paid educational leave, learning
industrial, outplacement, ...
28

The MR wants to transfer these skills an opportunity for succeeding in the
employment in Brussels and Wallonia.
The Regions will have indeed the full autonomy to use budgets
correspondents, whether it measures on cost reductions to
training, support for job seekers or making programs
employment.
Given the importance of budgets transferred (€ 4.66 billion), the Regions will be able to put
up strong and innovative policies in employment and training related
the specific needs of Wallonia and Brussels.
This is why the MR wants the Regions define a recovery plan for employment
one of whose first priorities will be to offer all young people under 25 who are
registered for four months at Actiris or Forem, employment, training or an internship.
The MR wants to work for all. Regardless of gender, regardless of age, without
skin color distinction. We want to work that empowers and values. Us
want the new jobs that will be created to ensure a professional future
that will occupy. We refuse unemployment some see as inevitable.

Our proposals for the Federal
1. Reduce social charges on companies
The reduction of social charges involved in improving the competitiveness of our
businesses. The Federal Government, under the current legislature, provided reductions
large loads but the base rate of employer contributions is extremely
high. For a worker earning a gross annual salary of about € 45,000, the employer
not pay less than € 14,800 in employer contributions. After France, Belgium is the
European country that requires companies the heaviest social charges.
The MR wants a significant reduction in social charges in the next legislature
so as to create a shock that will create competitiveness tens of
thousands of jobs.
That is why we propose:
•

To completely remove the loads, until the average wage for the first 3
jobs.

•

Gradually reduce the base rate of employer contributions (now
to 33%) throughout the legislature (2014-2019) incorporating the reductions are
structural contributions, including those decided in the pact
29

competitiveness. Only the structural reduction on low wages would be maintained
separately.
•

Streamline hiring plans and eliminate the requirement of having to prove
Minimum limits for unemployment benefit from employment aid. Requiring a
job seeker to be unemployed for some time to benefit
assistance in hiring is nonsense that favors installation in unemployment
and leads to the exclusion of people from the labor market. The rationalization of these
hiring plans is also a necessity. Over 100 planes coexist
now to support employment at federal level. We must take advantage of
transfer skills to harmonize the various aid schemes but
also simplify: ACS, APE, various Social Security cuts, activation
unemployment benefits, Activa, PRP, etc.

2. Continue the control of wage costs
The gross hourly wages in the private sector rose 3% in 2012, against 2.6%
in 2011. For all these years, wage increases is almost
exclusively attributable to the effect of indexation, which stood at 5.5%.
One hour of work costs from us € 38 against € 34.3 in France, € 33.2 in the Netherlands and
€ 31.3 in Germany.
As indicated by the report of the expert group "Competitiveness and Employment", established in
July 2013 at the request of the Federal Government, control of labor costs
essential if we are to restore our competitiveness with neighboring countries
create new jobs, particularly in the industrial sectors.
We also want to fight more effectively against social dumping resulting in
oust the Belgian employers of important markets, particularly in areas
as essential as construction or transport, and destroy many
jobs.
That is why we propose:
•

to pursue wage moderation policy decided by the Government to
absorb the wage handicap of Belgium compared with its main neighbors;

•

amending the law of 26 July 1996 on the safeguarding of competitiveness for
ensure that objective;

•

invite the social partners to examine the possibility of valuing a share of
the salary increase resulting from the automatic indexation of wages in
Strengthening the second pillar pensions;

30

•

remove paper meal vouchers and replace them with meal vouchers
e. This allows a reduction of administrative burdens
important for both employers and workers and traders;

•

to fight more effectively against social dumping. The arsenal of sanctions was
strengthened to stop the abusive posting of workers, which
penalize employers respecting Belgian social legislation. It will
However, in the next parliamentary term, increase the number of checks but
also encourage the European authorities to set a minimum wage applicable to
all EU countries. (see Chapter Immigration and Asylum)

3. To increase participation in the labor market
In Belgium, 67.2% of people aged 20-64 years were employed in 2012. The
Belgium remains far from the target of 75% in 2020. The breakdown by region
shows that Flanders is closest to that goal with a percentage of 71.5%.
Wallonia and Brussels post employment rate of respectively 62.5% and 58.2%.
Certainly the structural measures taken by the Federal Government in matters of employment and
Pension helped to raise significantly over the last two years, the rate
employment of people aged 55-64 years. While it was only 38.7% in the third
quarter of 2011, it is 41.6% in the third quarter 2013 (Eurostat figures).
Take further structural measures, however, is still needed to increase
participation in the labor market.
The MR wants to raise the employment rate of disabled people is still very low
in our country. The poverty rate of disabled people is 70% higher in
average, in part because their access to employment is limited.
Finally, it is essential to tackle the unemployment traps that discourage certain
categories of benefit recipients to initiate or continue working.
That is why we propose:
•

to continue the efforts of the Federal Government to restrict the use of schemes
early retirement (unemployment with company supplement). The minimum age of the regime
General early retirement (CCT No. 17) will be increased to 62 years, while that provided for
distressed enterprises and restructuring will be raised to 58 years;

•

adaptations to link the welfare social benefits (unemployment benefit, income
Currently, allowances
Social benefit not only from automatic indexing but also
an adaptation of the well-being calculated based on flat-rate percentages. This
mechanism enhances employment traps as results in an increase of
social benefits faster than wages;
social welfare and integration) to the evolution of wages.

31

•

to completely remove the limit of work allowed, on recipients
a retirement pension when they can justify of a professional career
42 years at least;

•

enable people widows aged over 45 years, to choose allocation
transitional, fully combined with professional income, rather than
survivor's pension, which often leads them to abandon the pursuit of an activity
professional, considering the income limits provided for by regulation;

•

to enable people with disabilities to retain their full allocation
integration in cases of overlapping with professional income, whatever
the significance thereof;

•

to ensure effective compliance with the 3% quota of jobs reserved recruiting
people with disabilities in the public sector. Faulty Administrations
be unable to complete their part to the number of reserved jobs to
disabled workers who will not be awarded;

•

to control more strictly the entries in the work incapacity regime and
strengthen procedures facilitating faster reinstatement of the market
work.

4. Rewarding work
Gainful employment often means exposing a number of fees
(childcare, travel, clothing, ...), and some people are found all
just not their account. People who work can not be penalized with the
solely because they have a job. It is necessary to put forward the value of work.
It should also increase the worker's salary-pocket by reducing the tax burden and
Social order to widen the gap between earned income and replacement income.
Certain expenses related to professional activity should also lead to a
increased intervention of government.
That is why we propose:
•

Create a "0%" until 13,000 euros (tax cf.Réforme)

•

strengthen the employment bonus, which involves exempting lowest salaries of
retaining personal social security contributions (13.07%).

5. Modernising labor law
The modernization of labor law should allow more flexibility in the organization of
work, as is the case with our neighbors. This flexibility is necessary if we want
enable our companies to adapt more easily to changes in economic conditions
Economic. It is also useful to workers who are demanding more flexible rules
enabling them to better reconcile private and professional life.

32

A first step was taken by the social partners in March 2013, entered into a
agreement that facilitates the annualization of working time and increases
temporarily work benefits during peak periods, without raising
average working time and without touching the daily and weekly working hours
authorized.
In general, it should exceed certain ideological barriers
modernizing labor. To enhance the attractiveness of our country with
Foreign investors, we need a modern and dynamic labor market,
that supports growth and employment.

That is why we propose:
•

invite the social partners to review the agreement on teleworking to
to develop this mode of work that Belgium lags behind
compared to several European countries. Besides the fact that telework allows
better balance between private and professional life, it also brings
solution to the problems of mobility;

•

allow the spreading of the hours of work over a longer period than
year and set an additional credit or lower benefits may be
transferred to a subsequent period;

•

to review the law "Renault" on collective redundancies to shorten the
too long negotiation periods;

•

to introduce derogating notice periods for companies undergoing restructuring.
Due to the harmonization of notice between workers and employees, the cost
restructuring has increased dramatically. Failing to provide
derogations to finance restructuring, bankruptcy
may become the only solution;

•

expanding the temporary work sector in the public service, in accordance with Directive
European 2008/104 / EC on temporary agency work. Currently, only the
Greece and Belgium also prohibit the engagement of temporary staff in the function
Public. The lifting of this restriction would allow more dynamic management
public function.

Our proposals for Brussels and Wallonia
The unemployment rate was 5.0% in Flanders, 11.4% in Wallonia and 19.4% in
Brussels. These figures alone illustrate the difficult situation in employment, experienced by our
citizens in Brussels and Wallonia.
The management of the competence of the Employment by majorities "Olivier" in Wallonia and
Brussels, for over 10 years, proves to be a bitter failure.

33

This failure takes a dramatic turn as regards young people: The rate of
unemployment under 25 is 39.6% in Brussels and 32% in Wallonia while
is 16.6% in Flanders.
We want to use the new skills and resources to be transferred to
Regions to define a recovery plan that will finally allow the use of reverse
trend and succeed in the next legislature, the challenge of employment.
The priorities of the recovery plan for employment are:
1. Invest heavily in training
We do not consider unemployment as inevitable. It results mainly from a
lack of skills of our young people and a mismatch between the training offered
view of business needs.
Nearly 45% of young job seekers do not have a high school certificate
higher (CESS) and are therefore deemed low-skilled. This structural problem takes
root at school since two young doubles during his school career.
The MR wants to offer young people training that lead to real jobs
allowing them to develop professionally. We want to encourage training
alternating training in the trades shortage and in chains
scientific and technical. We want, as soon as possible, to confront the young
world of work and encourage the emergence of schools working in partnership with
businesses.
The training sector, in the broad sense, must be refinanced
massive structural order to increase the supply and quality of training.
That is why we propose:
•

to upgrade technical and vocational education in the Federation WallonieBruxelles whose chains are carriers of the future seen many manual trades
shortage;

•

strengthen links between schools and businesses by establishing a
true culture of alternation and learning. We support the
establishment of "business schools", as in Germany: practical training
takes place in the business, during which most often occurs in a
school partner;

•

to emphasize partnerships between training centers, schools
educational and professional sectors to allow access to equipment
and advanced technologies;

•

integrating representatives of the business world in the powers
organizers of schools (and not only in technical education and

34

professional) in order to anticipate developments. Each school should have his or her
enterprise (s) partner (s);
•

to undertake a rationalization of the sector of vocational training. He is
sometimes very difficult to find it given the number of actors, tools and places
seem uncoordinated;

•

to impose a logical result of the various training operators. The
financing granted to operators of the socio-professional integration must be
conditioning the results obtained;

•

to ensure that training is regularly updated in order to be linked
Live with the trades shortage on the job market: construction,
butchers, pastry and bakery, IT, logistics, electronics, metal and
metal construction, nursing, child care, sales, accounting, drawing
... architecture;

•

improve the information given to young people about the opportunities and conditions
Salary offered in these sectors;

•

closely involve the professional sectors in the definition and implementation
up training but also in hiring young people who have followed
these formations;

•

standardize the training plans (acculturation internship, internship completion
business, professional immersion agreement (CIP), insertion internship contract
learning, individual vocational training (FPI), training
Integration into professional individual enterprise (FPI-E), ...) and the benefits
thereto to provide greater clarity and more flexibility. The complexity of
different types of courses and their legal status is a real problem for
businesses and job seekers;

•

to boost the skills validation process, including for
Job seekers whose foreign diploma has no legal recognition
Belgium and the recovery of the qualifications awarded by companies.

2. Give all young people a job, training or internship
Too often, young people who register as jobseekers, are the same
observation: once the registration completed, the wait can be very long before a
support is offered, whether to define an action plan, to consider
internship or training.
The absence of any professional perspective engenders doubt and sometimes despair.
Unfortunately, it also leads when idleness continues, the excesses of the
most regrettable.
Thus we supported the Federal Government's decision to limit to 3 years
benefit of insertion allowances granted by the NEO for young people who have completed
their studies. We consider that public authorities have an obligation to offer,
35

well before the expiry of this period, all young people who register as asylum
employment, quality support allowing them to obtain a job,
training or an internship.
That is why we propose:
•

to ensure compliance with the Cooperation Agreement concluded between the Federal and
Regions, which provides that the minimum time to offer support to
youth under 25 years will be reduced by 6 to 4 months;

•

to implement the European program "Youth Guarantee" which stipulates that
all young people under 25 are offered a job, training or
a course within 4 months after the loss of their jobs or output
teaching. Since this plan is co-financed by the European Union and the regions,
it will clear the regional budget necessary for the purpose of the plan is reached
before the end of the legislature;

•

use as part of the "youth guarantee" the 3900 integration courses planned
for Wallonia and 1,650 insertion courses planned for the Brussels Region, the
devices being funded entirely by the Federal. On January 31, 2014, 200 courses
were organized in Brussels and 84 in Wallonia ...

•

provide a targeted reduction of social security contributions for employers who, after
training or a work placement in the framework of the "Warranty
youth "engage the young in the context of a term contract
unknown (see below point 5 "Simplifying employment aid");

3. Promote the employment of older workers
The age of early retirement has declined, employment of over 50 years is more than ever a
crucial issue. Older workers are often the first victims of
collective redundancies. Only 2.5% of the unemployed over 55 years found the
way to work.
For MR, there is no reason why professional life stops 50 or 55 years.
The experience and know-how seniors are essential to the working world. Therefore it
the need to encourage companies to keep more than 50 workers
work.
That is why we propose:
•

strengthen the reductions in social contributions "target groups", transferred to
Regions, for workers 54 years and older. Currently, the reduction varies
€ 400 to € 1,500 per quarter depending on the age of the worker. (see below point 5
"Simplifying employment aid").

•

promote the transmission of knowledge by inviting the social partners to define
the conditions for retaining older workers by reducing their
daily activities complementing or even replacing their activities

36

by ordinary tutoring services within their enterprise or in
approved training organizations.
•

develop partnerships between regional employment services and the sector
deprived the interim, through calls for proposals, to delegate to it some
Employment up missions. Temporary work is a useful way to find
a job but it is also an opportunity to redirect a career for
Many older workers who wish to change sector.

•

to guarantee the right to an outplacement in case of dismissal after 45 years. The
Regional employment service fund outplacement in case of failure
the employer.

4. Provide individualized support for jobseekers
Dysfunctions and poor management of regional public bodies employment
do not provide a favorable environment for job seekers. We wish
refocus the activities of Forem Actiris and on their "core business", namely
support for job seekers in their search efforts for a
employment.
The MR wants the establishment of a true individual coaching applicants
Job.
The Region will be entrusted with monitoring the availability of unemployed on the market
employment, which notably involve being able to determine, independently,
what studies and professional training an unemployed person can undertake
retaining its benefits and what categories of unemployed can benefit from this
measurement.
It is therefore necessary, especially in Brussels, to strengthen synergies between the
Skills for Employment and Training. Increase the resources to accompany
Job seekers in administrative procedures is a good thing but the
towards training or internship that will enable them to get a job is better.
That is why we propose:
•

to ensure effective implementation of the cooperation agreement concluded in 2013
between the regions and the Fed, which provides that the regional services of Employment are
required to offer every unemployed person a support in the form of a plan
individual action, in seeking employment or training. This plan
action must be proposed before the 4th month of unemployment if the unemployed fewer
25 or before the 9th month of unemployment for other unemployed;

•

to set up a "systematic language activation." Any applicant
Employment will be invited to freely test their language skills and, according to
achievements and professional goals defined in consultation with the
Employment advisor, he will receive appropriate training;
37

•

to establish an "integration contract and civic responsibility" of the applicant
Job. After 24 consecutive months of unemployment compensation, the job seeker
under 50 years may be imposed by its adviser employment, according to its
situation from providing a certain number of hours per week strictly limited
as part of activities of public interest. These activities at the community benefit
whole carry a complementary hourly compensation. These activities
the benefit of the entire community are subject to a compensation schedule
complementary. This is to restore the confidence of people. The MR wants
also assess in this context the device on "checks FTA."

•

to strengthen cooperation with Flanders to promote trade between
regional employment services, offers of employment and individual trainings
business ;

•

upgrading and operation of Forem Actiris, including tools
IT, to optimize the match between jobs and
profiles of candidates;

•

to end the dysfunctions resulting from the lack of synergy between the
sectors of Employment and Training: this involves the establishment of a window
Unique to prevent the job seeker is confronted with a maze
Administrative. It should also formalize an integrated course "Employment Training"
that allows, depending on qualifications and job seeker's wishes
but also in terms of the reality of the labor market, to direct the
the most efficient way, to training, internship, job or towards creation
business;

•

to designate, in Brussels, only one minister to handle both of Training
Vocational, Training of the middle class and Employment. It is
ensure better coordination of these policies;

•

encourage public-private partnerships based on flexibility, with a view
performance and optimization of resources. This includes strengthening
partnerships between the regional services of Employment and the private sector in the interim.
The compartmentalization wanted by the majority "Olivier" between the regional service
Employment and the private sector in the interim is difficult to understand given the
significant employment opportunities offered by this sector.

5. Simplify employment aid
He will return to the Regions to determine the targeted reductions in employer contributions
certain categories of workers ("reductions target groups"). Currently, these
premium reductions are so varied and complex that they are often
unknown employers and ultimately they have no real impact on employment.
The Regions also will manage the activation programs and unemployment benefits
the integration income, the system of service vouchers, the system of ALE, the bonus

38

startup and training for trainees from teaching, "first conventions
employment "and social economy programs.
The implementation of these new skills must be the occasion to conduct a
simplification and greater efficiency of employment support schemes.
That is why we propose:
•

To remove the obligation of having to demonstrate minimum unemployment possible so
to benefit from the employment aid: require a job applicant to be at
unemployed for some time to receive assistance in hiring is a
nonsense that favors installation in unemployment and excluded people from
the labor market.

•

reserve reductions in social contributions "target groups" for commitment
three categories of workers:
o youth that followed, under the "Youth Guarantee" program,
training or an internship with the same employer;
where young workers employed by SMEs located in areas of
economic development implemented by the Federal Government
("Free zones");
o workers aged 54 years and older.
• maintain the service voucher system and extend it to childcare;
•

to establish a common activation device for long-term unemployed
time (at least 24 months) and for the beneficiaries of the integration income:
The employer may deduct the net remuneration paid to the employee, all or
Part of the amount of unemployment allowance or social integration income.
This activation must be accompanied by skills training to win
a non-subsidized employment;

•

enable job seekers who want to start an activity like
Contractor to retain their benefits during nine months (6 months now)
(see point 6 below "Developing entrepreneurship")

•

to establish a land registry and transparency of jobs EPA / ACS. We must define
objectify new criteria and the procedure for awarding of those jobs. The
New agreements must be granted for a limited period with
the possibility of renewal in priority sectors, such as that
education, childcare, accompaniment for Elderly
of disability.

6. Developing entrepreneurship
At the initiative of MR, several measures (lower burdens on SMEs,
improving the social status of self, ...) have been decided by the Government
Federal encourage those willing to take risks.
39

However, at regional level, few initiatives have been taken to stimulate the mind
to undertake. Yet, more and more job seekers, especially among
young immigrant, show the desire to embark on the experience
entrepreneurial. Should be encouraged to take the step.
Promote the employment of tomorrow is support today's entrepreneurs.
That is why we propose:
•

to integrate, as part of support for job seekers with Actiris
and Forem, systematic information on entrepreneurship, making the state
places, opportunities and support available and, upon registration as
job seeker.

•

to promote and financially support organizations offering
administrative support (eg creation of a business plan) or
financial (eg granting of micro-credit) to start an experiment
entrepreneurial, and set a framework for cooperation that structure their activities
direct link with institutional stakeholders;

•

to strengthen support to activity cooperatives whose mission is to enable
each undertaking and create your own job in an environment
secure that facilitates start-up and learning of the operation of a
business ;

•

financial support offered by the accompaniment of activity cooperatives
to beneficiaries of social integration income in the framework of an agreement
Cooperation spent with CPAS;

•

enable job seekers who are starting a business as
Contractor to retain their benefits during nine months (6 months now);

•

to boost cross-partnerships between education and the world of
Companies: awareness days, contacts with contractors and
independent, company visits, ...

7. Flexibility and well-being at work
The rapid evolution of technologies, the growing demand for flexibility on the part of
employers as well as workers, research productivity and profitability
impose ever greater labor market constant adaptation to changes
encountered.
In addition, the economic crisis we have known for several years, all sectors
confused, had a considerable impact: business closures, restructuring
staff, reduced consumption, fiscal restraint creating a situation ...
in which companies are struggling to project medium and long term and
which it is difficult to predict the required labor. For workers, the future
40

Equally uncertain. It must always be more productive, more flexible, while ...
juggling her privacy.
The evolution of society and the labor market must aim at better
reconciling work and family life. It is important that consultation with
the employer, the worker can optimize the development of his career to suit
the evolution of his private and family life and that these adaptations can be integrated
harmoniously in the organization of work within the company.
We want to go further and provide more opportunities for conciliation between life
work and family and tend to more flexibility.

That is why we propose:
•

allow the spreading of the hours of work over a longer period than
year and set an additional credit or lower benefits may be
transferred to a subsequent period;

•

invite the social partners to review the agreement on teleworking to
to develop this mode of work that Belgium lags behind
compared to several European countries. Besides the fact that telework allows
better balance between private and professional life, it also brings
solution to the problems of mobility;

•

To reform and streamline the thematic leave system: thematic holidays
contribute to ensure a balance between private life and professional life and
serve as a hinge to the meeting between the social well-being and performance
Economic. It is therefore necessary to develop measures to enable the
Worker better combine family care and work while ensuring
ensure the organization of work within the company.
o The reasons and the terms of existing holidays are complex, it
should reinforce the information provided to workers and the
employers.
o Evaluate and disseminate good practices of employers for
help to reconcile work and family life.
At level of maternity leave, taking greater account of the
situation of women giving birth to several children should be performed. The
maternity leave for multiple births should be extended.
o The measures taken in the various leave schemes should aim at
an approach based more on the life cycle with regard to the work instead
responding piecemeal to needs. The introduction of a system
career-account must be studied.

•

Educate and train more physicians, general practitioners
or other professional of the sector to work stress issues;
To create a data sheet or questionnaire, which would analyze symptoms
worker and help to diagnose quickly. This test would be made
provision of occupational physicians, general practitioners or other

•

41

•

professional sector;
Raise awareness and encourage business leaders to assess the functioning and
the organization of their business and encourage them to make the changes
necessary for the proper functioning of the company but also to the welfare of their
workers.

42

C. ECONOMY - COMPETITIVENESS

Report and review
It should boost competitiveness and sustained economic growth alone will allow the
job creation for prosperity of our country. This growth must be based
mainly on strengthening our market economy and therefore on a
improving our competitiveness.
Indeed, Belgium is a small open economy where exports represent two
third of GDP and where foreign investment is essential. Many factors
determine the competitiveness of an economy. Without being exhaustive, stress the
productivity, innovation, labor costs and the labor market, the cost of capital and
accessibility, cost of energy, the framework in which our businesses (infrastructure
and regulatory framework) or the quality of the workforce. Obviously a Master
public finances and the sustainability of these are also crucial.
As recently demonstrated the Planning Bureau and the NBB, the deterioration of the
competitiveness is reflected, among other things, a loss of commercially market share
World and relocation / closure of whole swathes of industry. An answer
vigorous and adapted to be given. It must incorporate elements of short, medium and
long term.
First, Belgium remains one of the countries where the fiscal and parafiscal pressure is the
high in Europe and the world. Our handicap is particularly marked for
loads on the job. It is therefore essential to give priority to the reduction
wage costs and reform the taxation and incidental taxation on labor. There
reduction of labor cost gap with our competitors is essential.
Then, if the Belgian productivity is among the best in Europe, we note however a
breathlessness. This deterioration is due to the weakness of several factors. One can
pin the innovative capacity and efficiency of the economy but also problems
such as structural specialization of the economy in insufficiently activities
innovative and quality of public infrastructure. To restore productivity
to improve our competitiveness, structural reforms and,
should focus on the innovation strategy, human capital, the reorganization of
markets, the price of energy.
So that our country continues to offer all the prosperity and dynamism to its citizens, a
set of reforms are essential and urgent structural reform we only
will emerge stronger from the current crisis.

43

- Research and Development
Of productivity gains could be more easily achieved through innovation
products or processes. Belgium remains specialized in medium products
technology, easily replaceable and therefore more exposed to competition from countries with low
costs. The share of high-technology goods remains, meanwhile, less than 20%.
The human factor is fundamental in research and technological innovation. There
youth training must, more than it currently does, lead them to move towards
technical and scientific professions. The technical courses have a little picture
valued in the secondary. The major challenges of science are not sufficiently explicit.
The technical curiosity fades while many technical subjects are carriers
jobs. In our country, enrollment for science and technology studies
in universities and high schools are declining and insufficient to
meet the needs of the labor market.
In the National Reform Programme adopted by Belgium in 2011 as part of the
Europe 2020, Belgium has committed to reaching R & D expenses equal to
3% of GDP in 2020 (Government of Belgium, 2011).
To realize this commitment, the federal government mainly uses tax measures
and incidental that stimulate research and development indirectly, such
that the partial exemption from withholding tax for salary
scientists and deduction on income from patents. The exemption
Tax 13.5% in the form of an investment allowance was granted for
friendly investment environment in R & D. In parafiscal matters,
Researchers have a wage moderation contribution exemption and the
Maribel scientists and a reduction in social security contributions for research
scientific.
The MR believes it is important to identify the strengths and weaknesses of Belgium
innovation in order to understand why Belgium does not take advantage of all
benefits of innovation as its level is still close to that of the country
advanced on the matter.
Belgium has many strengths, we have a skilled workforce with
a number of researchers constantly growing and exceeding growth
and total active population in Belgium. In addition, we have a set
of universities with laboratories and researchers high level of excellence. Finally,
Private investment research are important.
However, weaknesses undermine our competitiveness include low level and
concentration of expenditure in research and development: More than 75% of expenditure
private in research and development has been made by the manufacturing sector
(especially pharmaceutical and chemical). To accelerate its transition to a more
Knowledge-intensive and thus optimally exploit the strengths of its

44

search system, Belgium must broaden its base and accelerate innovation
renewal of its economy.
The imbalance between demand and supply of labor is another negative for
our country. The skilled labor shortage is an obstacle to innovation.
Too few secondary school students are turning to technical courses.
Finally, the entrepreneurial spirit is insufficient to ensure the renewal of
productive fabric and the development of spin-off too slow and limited existing. We aknowledge
also a medium-sized growth companies deficit.
Proposals
The Federal

Optimize the transition between the academic sector and the labor sector not
university for doctoral students.
To consolidate or improve its status in the field of scientific research, it is
essential to complete the training of researchers by combining knowledge
other scientific knowledge to develop properly in the sector
Non-university (financial management, knowledge patents, ...)
Harmonize supply and demand for innovation through better information
Too often innovative projects lead to results that do not meet the
business expectations. The result is an oversupply situation in the next
developers while the shortage persists on the part of businesses. It is essential that
develop innovative projects with the objective of meeting demand good
says.
Increase the number of graduates in the disciplines called "STEM10"
The share of graduates in the STEM subjects in the 20-29 age group graduates
Belgium fell from 14 to 12.7% while in the EU this share increased from 12.5 to 15.2%
and that the labor market has a shortage in the area. This is all the more
damaging as to control markets and thus strengthen its economy, it is at
Currently, crucial to master the technology. Young people must be held
informed of job opportunities this sector offers when choosing their
studies. It is necessary that these materials are exempted earlier short curriculum
educational and study opportunities alternating with companies should be
developed.

10

Acronym for "Science, technology, engineering and mathematics."

45

Improve the marketing of innovative products and improve recovery
economic R & D
By investing in non-technological innovation, design and marketing who
inherent part of innovation and promote their encounter with the market,
essential to their success.

Streamline and synergize aid schemes
In the French speaking part of the country, public funding of research is done by
Federal resources (inter-university attraction poles, driven projects Belspo, ...), by
regions (aid to companies, universities, colleges, funding centers
regional scientific institutes, ...) by the Federation Wallonia-Brussels (FNRS allocation
based universities, special funds research, ...), and by European funds
International as well as various other resources. It is important to achieve a
simplification and harmonization of systems of public support and funding for
applied research. While the current system may be attractive, it nevertheless remains
least very complex which is an obstacle to potential foreign investment.

In Regions
In the Walloon Region, there is a shortage of 3,000 engineers, IT 4000, more
11,000 scientists and technicians so that innovative firms export
more than those who do not innovate and create more value added per employee job.
Spending on R & D as well as innovation in the total expenditure
granted, reaching 2.4% in firms with less than 10 employees to 17%
50 companies and 250 workers. This ratio reached 55% for production units
more than 1000 employees. However, the translation of R & D in economic performance
remains poor.
Indeed, research and development can have an impact on economic progress and
Social unless the results are disseminated and highlighted through the creation of activities.
Wallonia seen grow many "spin offs". However, it is facing a
paradox: despite its high quality, the research sector in southern barely countries
develop creative innovative activities jobs.
It is therefore not surprising to learn that our industrial high-tech activities
represent only 9.6% of the value added and the rate is stagnant for several
years. It is too little and lower than the European average was 11.0%.
In addition, there is also a certain reluctance of the academic world in the area
craft technology incubation must also be pinned.

46

Walloon universities too reluctant to transfer the intellectual property of the
Search for "spin-offs" that they finance and too often ignore good
standardized practices of the international capital market at risk.
Moreover, they are reluctant to transfer information on their valuation work of the
Research in the Walloon Region (via AST), while they receive subsidies
significant for research. This lack of transparency is worrying.
Therefore, private investors are reluctant to invest and enter the capital such
businesses.
ROI university valuers therefore remain globally
limited
We must therefore better articulate R & D, innovation and training with industry because too
often our products and services are located in the midrange. Where certain
difficulties to export because the competition then concentrates almost exclusively on
price. More sophisticated products reduce the price of our exhibition
Products handicapped in particular by high labor and energy costs.
In addition, the current policy R & D has several inconsistencies:
o It is split between different levels of power,
o It exploded in the Walloon region only between the Minister of
research and the new technologies,
o Structures are overstaffed, tangled and redundant:
21 cells valuation of educational institutions
superior ;
22 accredited research centers;
10 provincial development agencies;
25 Forem skill centers;
6 competitiveness clusters;
Etc.
It is funded through an arsenal of aids which unfortunately are addressed, in fact,
a limited number of companies.
A substantive discussion on the future of research centers baxtérisés by 75%
European funds yet to be born in the south.
Finally, the legislature "Olivier" was not particularly supported the budget of R & D despite
the Marshall Plan.

47

As stated above the European target is for each Member State dedicates resources
for R & D up to 3% of GDP. We are located just 2.22% currently.
Proposals
-

Together expertise related to R & D to increase the coherence and effectiveness.
In other words, we must do the opposite of the current distribution,

-

Remove Duplicates in the research conducted and coordinate them in
more rigorously by building bridges between universities,

-

Sanctuariser the entire budget for R & D and make the increase by 5% each
year

-

Extend aid to non-technological innovation activities: marketing, process ...

-

Strengthen cooperation between large companies and subcontractors,

-

Sustaining competitiveness clusters (think of networking) through the development of a
Decree

-

Improve the social status of the researcher. Extend the notion of benefiting researcher
tax assistance,

-

Evaluate production research centers not based publications
but depending on the number of patents and farms

-

Further simplify taxation to stimulate innovation in SMEs:
tax deduction for patent revenues should be simplified and extended to
non-technological innovations,

More expertise and professionalism. Instill a pedagogical management
innovative businesses. Many are spin offs from universities whose culture
entrepreneurship is different, even far from the economic world. It's important to
percolating entrepreneurship by including specificity of good practice
management in the world of research.
Examples of good practice likely to attract investors:
Opening boards of spin-offs to private and public funds;
•
designation by the investor (public or private) of a managing director;
•
involvement of the public or private investor in the daily management by recruiting
an experienced manager for the spin-off that enjoys public support or
investment;
•
very narrow view of law in the management of the spin-off (via veto rights
the public or private investor);
•

48

total transmission, and the first day of the intellectual property portfolio to
spin-off;
•
Culture of continuous assessment of the scientific and economic performance,
This evaluation culture must be exercised a priori and a posteriori;
•
setting investment objectives and clearly defined requirement for a business plan;
•
limitation of investments over time.
•

Furthermore, in Wallonia, economic development will inevitably
by taking into account the principles of permanently sustainable development. Oppose
environment and economy makes no sense. On the contrary, they complement one
allow our "Blue Planet" provide the living environment suitable for development
individual development. Call to the emergence of a "green economy" is not a
slogan but a duty and an opportunity.
Brussels economy, meanwhile, is currently based mainly on the activities of
service. We must expand its development levers to maintain its level of
growth and competitiveness. This inevitably pass through the support
reindustrialization, Limited (balance of functions within the urban redeployment) but
intensive, with the objectives in sight, promoting the quality and
product innovation (the ramparts against dumping of emerging countries) and the
creating non-relocatable jobs. A number of flagships currently enjoy
their game, based on a 'Brussels' know-how', particularly in the area
automotive, food, chocolate and leather. We must go much
further and establish, as soon as the next legislature, a true recovery strategy
the industry with a mobilization of all public tools:
•
•
•
•
•

•

Support for the support and development, including on markets
export, small and medium businesses whose activities are conducted in targeted areas
(technological and non-technological) with high growth potential;
Encourage partnerships between large and small companies in the
pursuit of economic activities;
Facilitate relocation to Brussels Region of traders who
zonings are installed in the periphery;
Support the acquisition by SMEs and TPE of innovative technologies for
beef up the conduct of their activities, and strengthen measures to record
patents;
Evaluation of public investments carried out in the recent green industries
years and promoting other sectors bearing activities, including
activities of the creative economy (including industrial design and start-ups
specializing in digital projects);
Develop a dashboard of the regional reindustrialisation process
ensure proper monitoring of the strategy implemented by the government (indicators
monitoring and implementation, targets and independent external evaluation).

49

The new information and communications technology
-

We want to facilitate the installation of new generation networks (Next
Generation Access / NGA), adapting admission standards (waves) to
ensure both the protection of health and the environment and deploy
effective, long-term, mobile technologies and not to apply taxes
regional, municipal and provincial to maintain a favorable climate for
investments.

-

We want an urgent and strategic thinking concerning the class
Future in primary and secondary schools is undertaken, integrating
learning new technologies not only in terms of its use,
but also the development of his knowledge.

-

We hope that as the development of cloud computing ("cloud")
big data and mobile applications as the creation of jobs linked to it
among the objectives of the public authorities fully supporting the
European digital strategy and giving itself the example by making
significant progress towards cloud computing, Big Data and
mobile applications in their own operation.

-

A real security policy must be in place at all
levels. We ask boost security investments
Computer by subsidies, or appropriate taxes, which support training
largely addresses the issue of information security, to require
consistently high level of IT security in all notebooks
load from the different levels of power ("Lead by example"), and
support technological innovation programs by including approaches "
-privacy by design 'and' security-by-design "to support research and
developing systematically putting the issue of information security
and information center stage.

-

We advocate the establishment of a master plan for systems
Intelligent Transportation (ITS) including regional ITS action plans and
urban expansion, pioneering and giving a concrete interpretation to the
European ITS Directive.

- Lower labor costs
If the labor cost is not the only handicap our businesses, nor even always the
First, however, it often constitutes a very important obstacle to the extension of
capacity or simply to maintain the activity.
If the salary-pocket is often home, far from exorbitant wage costs at
Employer's burden is among the highest in Europe. Achieving high productivity in
the manufacturing industry, in particular, does not / more than offset this
high cost.

50

Furthermore, the Walloon pay, although slightly below average
Belgian, are not enough to compensate for the differential
Productivity detriment of Wallonia.
This therefore causes weakness of our price competitiveness, which is illustrated by a cost
Working above the national average.
The transfer of skills as part of the sixth reform of the State will
One consequence of drag regions targeted reductions
social contributions.
This is an opportunity but also a huge challenge.
- A significant reduction of employer charges in the concentrate market sector
30% of the poorest wage is a first signal to
"Boost" employment, to avoid the pitfalls of unemployment and improve partly
our competitiveness.
Such a measure complemented by a recruitment subsidy (as a
fixed allocation of work) for youth with little education and applicants
long-term unemployed could reduce some labor costs and
to boost the labor market in the south. This implies that
slides are operated within the casing to be transferred to the sector
" trader ".
-

An alternative path would be to target these reductions by companies
particularly exposed to international competition.

-

Nevertheless, improving the competitiveness of our economic fabric
also induced a reduction in labor costs. This implies that one
must devote resources even if they are particularly counted, to
linear measurements compression employers' contributions (social security contributions).
This jurisdiction is federal sphere.
Recall that our handicap in terms of labor costs at the point of our neighbors and
main competitors amounts to 16.4% in the industry!

-

We must also continue the exemption for the payroll tax
researchers, expanding the notion of researchers benefiting from a tax assistance but
also cess (federal jurisdiction).

- Lower energy costs
The energy competitiveness of Walloon and Brussels companies currently
put to the test. The dropout Wallonia vis-à-vis its closest competitors
proved. A March 2013 study commissioned by Deloitte shows that Febeliec
the price of electricity for industrial consumers is consistently
high in Wallonia. Electricity is paid on average 45% more expensive than the neighbors.
(see Chapter X)

51

It should therefore also ensure the security and stability of supply
energy at a lower cost. This implies:
-

Adopt a production development strategy
Walloon tick to promote balanced production Walloon park.

énergé-

-

Refocus and to objectify the regional aid on the most energy systems
efficient and ensuring stability of supply. What the industry more
Efficient wins!

-

To ensure an energy mix without taboos or ideological constraints (nuclear,
coal, biomass and gas) and keep confidence in the development of
powerful new technologies for optimizing the use of
various energy sources.

-

To limit itself to respect the European green energy quota (20.9% green energy
Against 37.9% in 2020: Walloon objective).

-

To ensure the security and stability of supply not to impede
investment (as Agoria, a blackout an hour would result in a loss of 50
million € to the industry).

-

To reject the plans in the event of blackout, is to temporarily suspend
electricity supply several industries called "inefficient."

-

Simplify and ensure transparency in electricity and gas bills.

-

Redirect green certificates towards sectors more creators
Job: agricultural biomass or agroforestry.

52

- Have competitive infrastructure
-

Establish a development strategy of the Walloon transmission network in order to define
prioritize and focus on certain sections. Eg in the river system, the axis
Paris-Amsterdam.

-

To find alternative funding such as public-private partnerships.

-

To invest in the maintenance of the waterway network and create zonings "wet".

-

Professionalize the management of regional airports.

-

To differentiate the activities of the two Walloon airports.

-

To develop the pipeline transport (high voltage gas, chemical,
liquid air, etc.) by administrative simplification and by dedicating areas
transport-specific underground. Currently, 150 authorizations required
170 km of pipelines.

53

D. Support for SMEs
We must support our SMEs. Indeed, they represent 99% of our economic fabric, 52.9%
of employment and 42% of the value added, or 73 billion euros. These SMEs are the source
First of job creation: when a multinational creates jobs, SMEs create
4. They will be driving the European recovery. It is therefore essential to allow
SMEs to operate in an economic and regulatory environment that suits them.
But the economic crisis has severely affected SMEs. The bankruptcy rate of fight
records and statistics show that 95% of bankruptcies concern businesses
less than 10 employees. For companies that survive the crisis, the situation is not
necessarily more simple: many SMEs have drawn deeply into their funds
own to offset the loss of turnover or defects of their customers and / or
providers.
The companies, both multinationals and SMEs, face a
environment increasingly difficult: Belgian competitive handicap, charges on
work, inadequate fiscal policy, access to finance, high administrative burdens.
Finally, paradoxically, while 99% of our businesses are SMEs, our country has a
Low entrepreneurship rate, with only 11% of Belgians who have an intention
Entrepreneurial and 30% who have a preference for self-employment.
Fostering entrepreneurship in Belgium therefore passes both through concrete measures,
favorable to companies that are already active or starting up, but also by
measures that stimulate the entrepreneurial spirit.
1. SMEs
Report and review
Under this last Parliament, the Minister for SMEs, the Self and Agriculture
made support for the creation and development of businesses priorities. We can cite
the following achievements:
- The adoption of the bill to balance the relationship between banks and SMEs and end
certain practices. This law notably contains:
•
•
•
•

A limitation of reinvestment allowance to 6 months for the lower credits 1
million;
An information obligation in case of refusal;
The obligation to indemnify the contractor where the bank ends so
Unilateral credit while the contractor complies with its obligations.
The obligation to provide the form best suited credit

The law is supplemented by a code of conduct, made mandatory by Royal Decree, which states

54

•
•
•

The calculation methods of reinvestment allowances for senior credits 1
million euros
The disclosures in the bank by the entrepreneur
The contents of the leaflet to be remitted to the contractor on its rights
and obligations and the nature of the credit agreement

- The transposition of the European Directive on payment delays that can
safeguard jobs in SMEs by offering companies with payment deadlines
and sanctions harmonized as between private operators that when companies
deal with the public sector
- Improving SPRL Starter: Initially limited to 5 years and 5 workers, the regime
the SPRLS was reviewed and simplified to facilitate access. Since 2010, nearly 2,300
SPRLS were created.
- The ability to exercise in society: to ensure legal certainty for
independent, many professionals were already exercised in society, as
architects, accountants and chartered accountants. Now, surveyors,
veterinarians and notaries have the same possibility.
- Strengthening the seizure of the residence: protection of
residence cheaply and extended to the self as
complementary and active pensioners.
- The reform of employers grouping system to allow SMEs
particularly TPE to hire a worker together by extending the system
all workers, and not only the difficult to place jobseekers
and all functions and not only trades in shortage.
- Creating a legal definition of the craftsman:
• This definition is: "A craftsman is an active freelancer
or a company active in the production, processing, repairing,
restoration of objects, providing services whose activities are
essentially manual aspects and develop a knowledge-oriented
Quality, tradition and creation. ".
• On the basis of this future legislation it will be possible to develop actions for implementation
specific value or artisans to set the terms of a recognition of
craft professions as such.
Unfortunately, the situation is not as positive in Wallonia and Brussels. Indeed, in
Wallonia, marked by the crisis and plans for restructuring or closure
Many companies (ArcelorMittal and Caterpillar are probably the most prominent)
this legislature will have done little to sustainably strengthen our economic fabric.
Certainly some positive elements (reducing the growth differential with Flanders,
development of competitiveness clusters, ...) can be pointed, but it is far from
sustainable recovery that we were told. This is especially true as developments
relatively positive so far, such as foreign trade, seem to mark the
55
no. The Brussels government, meanwhile, appears to have been limited to assess, for the use
frequent and expensive to consultancy studies, the issues raised by stakeholders
ground ... and is often limited to that.
The MR great emphasis on the importance of changing attitudes on the second
luck. In fact, bankruptcy is not in itself a sign of incompetence or dishonesty
as it is sometimes heard but is actually closely linked to the process of
economic development and can result from circumstances beyond contest
quality management, as in the case of the failure of a customer, a supplier or
a difficult economic situation like the one currently facing our
economy.
Proposals
A. In the Federal
- Access to entrepreneurship
• Encourage spin: this entrepreneurial form allows employees to
develop their own entrepreneurial project within the company that employs them,
then embarking on their own. The parent company has an interest are eg
because it can in this way solve a supply problem or
Contractor. The company that launches finds interest because it is
accompanied in his efforts. The survival rate at 5 years companies
"Spin-off" are well above average, brushing 90%.
• Complete company: The MR proposes streamlining the existing tools and
improve the regulatory framework for the transmission, in particular by simplifying the
legislation goodwill of recovery, and offering
potential buyers certain tax benefits, such as lower expenses
in cases of intra-family transmission or young buyer. Finally, candidatsrepreneurs should also be supported, for example by the creation of a
specific credit mechanism to facilitate the financing of the takeover by
Bank credit by reducing the repayment burden of the acquisition debt
over the first two years following the transfer, the most sensitive period.
Finally, public-private synergies should be put in place, including
by supporting the creation of private funds specifically oriented transmission
business.
• Encourage mentoring: Many emerging entrepreneurs have both the
time and skills to support the starters entrepreneurs. what
whether through business angel networks in the course of their transmission
own business or through support programs without investment
Financial.
• alternating training: Valuing dual training as a share
knowledge and not as an exercise of work and regularly assess the quality
alternating training courses.
• Promote second chance: Bankruptcy is indeed not in itself a sign
incompetence or dishonesty as it is sometimes heard but is actually
intimately linked to the process of economic development and can result from
56

•

competition circumstances beyond quality management, circumstances
External as the failure of a customer, a supplier or a situation
difficult economic like the one currently facing our economy.
o Review the joint protection mechanism, former spouses and cohabitants of
failed to better protect them;
o Remove aggravated liability for directors
companies, which equates including corporate director involved in
several bankruptcies that resulted in unpaid debts vis-à-vis the Social Security at
individuals convicted of laundering;
Establish summarily order for payment: This procedure
will speed up the recovery of uncontested claims. It is noted that
it is mainly SMEs that are victims of exaggerated arrears. Costs
recovery weigh heavily on their cash flow. Customers who do not pay
their bills late or do hinder SME growth and threaten
their chances of survival. Therefore, the MR wants to set up a
procedure to quickly obtain an enforceable title for the recovery
debts that are not subject to challenge. Summary procedure
Payment Order shall apply in civil and commercial matters, with certain
exceptions (revenue, property consequences of the marriage and relationships
similar, inheritance, donations and wills, bankruptcies, concordats,
collective debt settlements etc.). In this type of procedure, the application is
introduced by unilateral request to the competent court, depending on the nature of
the debt and the limit of 1860 euros disappear: it is a Belgian specificity
removes any interest in this procedure for uncontested claims. The summation
pay beforehand is held in turn. Finally, the representation by means
a lawyer is optional. Thus, the procedure should see its reduced cost and
Shortcuts possible.

- Access to finance
• Strengthening of alternative financing: enable SMEs to diversify
Funding is also better ensuring competition for
banking sector. Several options exist for alternative financing,
but not all are suitable for all types of businesses. Thus for
Traditional starters or do not have a high potential for growth is
approaching near the need to focus:
o 3F (Family, Friends and Fools) to encourage them to invest, we
proposing to open up the possibility for non-professionals credit providers
take a pledge on business. This would have the added advantage of
not to force the independent to abandon the seizure at his home
Contracting a mortgage registration.
o Crowdfunding: to provide security for those who invest, we
propose to create, in consultation with the Regions, a legal minimum framework
to regulate the practice of crowdfunding.

57

Innovative SMEs or growth phase should benefit from a
better access to venture capital and stock markets specifically dedicated to
SMEs.
•
•

Perpetuate the existence of the Credit Ombudsman
Set up a document summarizing all the items the contractor must
take into account when he is preparing to apply for funding and that in
to improve the quality of the applications.

B. Walloon Region
- Encourage SMEs and independent
- Facilitate the financing: combining additional resources and expertise:
Many aids are used to encourage those who want to create
their business. It is to be welcomed. Anyway one of the main difficulties
the "starters", as confirmed entrepreneurs lies in financing
at the launch of their activities or the development of their activities. The
lack of guarantee, own contribution, the lack of historical data or
the existence of prejudice are all elements that make them cautious banks.
To meet this challenge of aid funding, and SOWALFIN Fund
including participation offer a comprehensive range of interventions. Us
however can still expand the range of substantially increasing aid
the guarantees provided by mutual guarantee companies and thus combining expertise, proximity and additional resources.

-

Orienting local savings towards the needs of SMEs
Increasing fiscal autonomy that results from the sixth state reform
seems conducive to the adoption of tax measures to channel savings
local to the needs of SMEs. The adoption of such "Aunt Agathe" mechanisms
(which aims to mobilize the "family" savings for the benefit of all new entrepreneurs
minimizing from risks may constitute support for an
debutante activity) encouraging individuals to invest in SMEs is a track
favor. It is also necessary to consider the advisability of launching government bonds
themes that would encourage people to re-inject some of their
Savings in the real economy.
Our reform of inheritance and gift tax also goes in this direction:
apply, under certain conditions, a reduced rate of succession in case
Investment in the real economy to revitalize industrial activity and
tertiary.

58

-

Adopt an economic policy centered on SMEs (First SMEs).
This could be for example:
reserving part of public procurement to SMEs (This should their
possible to amplify their activities like the "Small Business Act" for
USA) and improving their transparency.
By streamlining the various existing support instruments,
In making an ongoing assessment of animation steps
Economic as well as the impact of any draft decree (and
arrested) deposited by the Government (SME test);
Simplifying regulations and administrative procedures;

-

Walloon companies provide the necessary financial means to
to overcome the financial crisis.
By coordinating and consolidating substantial financial resources and action
different government agencies (SRIW, SOGEPA, SOWALFIN, Invests, deposits
mutuals.) to pilot actions where needs are felt while
respecting the specificities of each, so as to strengthen, eliminate
weaknesses and streamline costs.

-

Strengthen financial monitoring in the first years of business.
Indeed, 30% of companies go out of business within the first five years
of existence. It should streamline the supply of aid to accounting / editorial
business plan, etc .. through the establishment of a single system (currently check
training, pre-activity grant, IFAPME aids ...)

-

Simplify the public offer businesses and creative candidates.
A simpler, more transparent and there should be clear for
solicitation government measures. That is why we propose
establishing a contractor's guidance system and the candidate
entrepreneur.
This project could take the form of a "GREEN NUMBER" Single (line
Phone + Internet addresses) that will allow every entrepreneur / candidate
entrepreneur with a question, a project, etc. some kind of
have in maximum 48 hours all the information necessary (who to contact,
what did it right, etc. ?). Monitor the file would be made to ensure that this
final results. Active collaboration with the Federal, Europe and the private sector
will strive to maximize the quality of service offered.

-

Reduce registration fees "normal" and reduction for
Independent moving into city centers.

59

-

Compensate traders put in difficulty due to public works
The MR submitted a proposed order, inspired by the law passed at the initiative of
the Minister for SMEs, the Self and Agriculture, to bridge the
Franchise 14 days imposed on the Federal and can have serious consequences
for some marketers.

-

Extending aid for training for the unemployed, the self-failed /
stopped their business.

-

Increasing security in shops (see Safety section).

- Engage workers to the company, enabling social dialogue
constructive.
Within the next ten years, nearly one in three SMEs will experience a problem
transmission. While several public tools were put in place in the front row
which the Sowacess (subsidiary of Sowalfin) whose purpose is to allow the meeting
Applicants between buyers and sellers of their businesses.
We also want to allow workers to collectively regain their
business through a mechanism to enable redundancy payments
to which workers would be entitled in case of closure provided that the
reinvest in buying their company.
This proposal is an alternative variation of the idea of ​​profit sharing
workers through employee shareholding system.

- Delete certain regulatory constraints to development
the company when it crosses certain thresholds staff.
One must also consider whether the addition of regulatory constraints when
now crosses certain thresholds staff is not likely to hinder expansion
some companies. The aim is not only to create new
companies but also and perhaps even more, allowing them to grow. This
ramping often goes hand in hand with the ability for the company to turn
to foreign markets, having invested in product innovation, and so
to increase their added value produced per employee.
Having a brand image.
Establish and promote in Belgium and abroad (through international channels
Information) a type of branding "Wallonia loves Business" by raising
play the strengths of the region which is a pole with a lot of investment
potential (gate multilingual access in Europe, labor productivity node

60

transport, quality of life, diversity of economic sectors, network
quality economic and commercial attachés, etc.).

C. At the Brussels region
- A "Small Business Act" for unlocking the potential of businesses
Adoption and implementation of a "Small Business Act" (a framework of strategic guidelines
in favor of SMEs and independent, as recommended in instances
European) whose priorities are:
•
•
•

•
•
•
•
•

•
•
•

Back to "business friendly" spirit to the table of government as
foundation of economic growth;
Introduction of a mandatory assessment of the impact of any proposed order
(and the implementing decrees) introduced by the government, in terms of activities
enterprises ("SME test");
Strengthening, systematization and standardization of simplification efforts
Administrative (shortening of responses, of décomplexification
forms, documents dematerialization and generalization of the statement
on honor) for all regional public services;
Drastic reduction of payment delays by the regional utilities
amounts owed to companies under penalty of increase in payables
(default interest);
Promoting a dynamic SME in drafting and visibility of specifications
loads of procurement established by the regional contracting authorities;
Like the Walloon Region and the WB Federation, is an online portal
created in the Brussels Region for indexing and promote public markets but
also provide information and business advice;
Strengthening support and project financing tools
economic, with a clear SME dimension-TPE and particular attention
reserved for innovative sectors;
Facilitate by all measures necessary implementing programs
cost reductions insiders undertaken by the federal government,
including better information for economic operators on
established access conditions;
General strengthening of regional business support tools in
difficulty (preventive diagnosis and assistance);
Appointment of a "small charge" within the regional administration to
coordinating all efforts made within the framework of the "Small Business Act
Brussels "and that, on the basis of a multi-year agenda;
Annual organization of an "SME Forum" between the regional authorities
and representatives of the Brussels economic fabric, to facilitate dialogue
needs assessment and implementation of policies
conquering of businesses;

61

- Streamlining and performance support economic tools
•

Public business support systems are both numerous and their
very diversified activities (SDRB, SRIB, ABE, IBE, Brussels Guarantee Fund,
Administration of Economy and Employment, business centers, ATMs
local economy Cooperatives business, ATRIUM, Innoviris, VisitBrussels,
Research in Brussels, etc.). Considering the cramped territory of our City-Region
and the limited resources that are his, he raises the question of whether to
maintain a complex institutional architecture and thereby maintain
a major breakdown of missions. This question is all the more
legitimate use of Community funds must obey a logic of
results, and that in a competitive Belgian and international economic environment,
the first things companies need, are clarity, visibility and
the accessibility of their public partners.

Today, what bears an American or Brazilian company should it occur
for information on the financial incentives? With EBA advisers
(1819 service), Brussels Invest & Export (Unit Investment) or service that handles
aid for economic expansion (Brussels Regional Ministry)?
How useful aid to maintain a service to candidates-entrepreneurs EBA then
that within five kilometers, there are three wickets local economy? Via
SFAR its subsidiary, should the SRIB really deal with social issues?
The evaluation process of all the Brussels economic tools to be a
priority at the start of the next parliamentary term to make strategic choices
(merger or amalgamation of some organisms) that combine both performance
results and optimizing the use of public budgets.
Streamlining and supporting the economic performance of the tools will be Brussels
priorities at the start of the next Parliament. It is proposed to:
o group part of regional economic services under one
fronton, in order to gain efficiency in the implementation of policies
public;
o impose regional operators better collaboration agreements
on their respective tasks to ensure better complementarity of
actions.
•

Significantly improve corporate financing mechanisms:
o Establishment of a general assessment of the aid scheme for expansion
economic;
o Strengthening of resources mobilized in the context of the various subsidiaries
SRIB, including BRUSOC and Second Chance Fund;
o Promotion of private capital investment in projects
via economic, including the new innovative mechanisms such as
62

the "crowfunding" (crowdfunding through savings
individuals);
o Boosting the accompanying measures for their contractors
facilitate access to private venture capital funds to Belgian levels
International;
o Support to the establishment of private financial operators specialized in granting
microcredits favoring coverage of the regional territory
complementarity BRUSOC device;
o Increased visibility among economic actors
platform "Ecosibru" which offers a comprehensive view of grants available
by the Brussels Region and other levels of government, in terms of
grants and support;
•

The priority of economic reform process also concerns tools
the significant improvement in corporate financing mechanisms:
o The establishment of a general assessment of the aid scheme for expansion
Economic followed by a systematic redirection of resources towards
the most efficient incentives. Aid having low impact
are phased out to clear new margins
direct financial support to entrepreneurs;
o Following the sixth state reform which provided for the transfer of a number
aid schemes for employment, including in particular the premium reductions
Security for the target groups, there will be a general evaluation about
the opportunity to streamline some of these measures to gain
performance, simplicity, readability, visibility and efficiency. In this
respect, particular attention will be paid to reduced charges that
help to fight against staff recruitment difficulties in
SMBs, with recruitment in sectors in short supply and integration of
the labor market for low-skilled or older profiles.
o The strengthening of resources mobilized in the context of the various subsidiaries
the BRIC, including BRUSOC the Second Chance Fund and the Fund
Brussels Guarantee;
o Promotion of private capital investment in projects
Economic, notably through innovative new mechanisms such as the
"Crowfunding" (crowdfunding through savings
individuals);
o The emphasis of support measures for entrepreneurs
facilitate their access to private venture capital funds to Belgian levels
International;
o Support for the establishment of private financial operators specialized in
the granting of micro-credits and, by favoring territorial coverage
Regional complement the BRUSOC device;
o Increased visibility among economic actors
platform "Ecosibru" which offers a comprehensive view of grants available
by the Brussels Region and other levels of government, in terms of
grants and support;
63

o Create a platform for dialogue with local authorities to
to standardize as far as possible communal taxation,
raise their awareness on the impact assessment of the new taxes in the light of
business activities.
•

Liberalize the activities of business centers and saving wickets
which are local primary levers for promoting entrepreneurship and
accompany the project leaders:
o abolition of boundaries in the pursuit of activities and
need to involve business centers and saving wickets
local;
o opening of approvals for structures whose capital is majority
held by the private sector and not the public initiative ASBL.
The aim would be to support such centers "coworking" (spaces
work sharing) which are complementary to business centers, in
targeting among other startups and independent specialized in
areas of new technologies;
o objectify the granting of subsidies with a logic of results related to the creation
effective new micro-projects and TPE and their performance;
o impose a multi-year assessment of the implementation of the order with
a panel of structural recommendations communicated to the Government
and parliament.

- Support the regional reindustrialisation process
If the Brussels economy today rests largely on service activities,
will expand its development levers if we are to maintain its level of
growth and competitiveness. This inevitably pass through the support
reindustrialization, Limited (balance of functions within the urban redeployment) but
intensive, with the objectives in sight, promoting the quality and
product innovation (the ramparts against dumping of emerging countries) and the
creating non-relocatable jobs. A number of flagships currently enjoy
their game, based on a 'Brussels' know-how', particularly in the area
automotive, food, chocolate and leather. We must go much
further and establish, as soon as the next legislature, a true recovery strategy
the industry with a mobilization of all public tools:
•
•
•
Support for the support and development, including on markets
export, small and medium businesses whose activities are conducted in targeted areas
(technological and non-technological) with high growth potential;
Encourage partnerships between large and small companies in the
pursuit of economic activities;
Strengthening synergies between the sector of scientific research in the
universities and the business community (transfer, use and development of
innovative technologies);

64

•
•
•

•

Facilitate relocation to Brussels Region of traders who
zonings are installed in the periphery;
Support the acquisition by SMEs and TPE of innovative technologies for
beef up the conduct of their activities, and strengthen measures to record
patents;
Evaluation of public investments carried out in the recent green industries
years and promoting other sectors bearing activities, including
activities of the creative economy (including industrial design and start-ups
specializing in digital projects);
Develop a dashboard of the regional reindustrialisation process
ensure proper monitoring of the strategy implemented by the government (indicators
monitoring and implementation, targets and independent external evaluation).

- Promote the Brussels economy by actors of excellence
The Brussels Region is fortunate to have a large number of unique businesses
that reconcile tradition and innovation, know-how and creation, heritage and
In future, the local and the international. These SMEs and TPE contribute to regional heritage
thanks to their product or service excellence and this in very diverse sectors (brewery
leather goods, soap, armory, etc.). Whatever their size, reputation or
specialty, these traders also have the distinction of being attached to a
"Brussels 'know-how'. It is important to recognize them, particularly by
creation of a label, and to facilitate their visibility (promotion in Belgium and abroad
through the Service VisitBrussels of ATRIUM and Brussels Invest & Export), as they forge
the Brussels economic and cultural identity. By using the expertise of a
labeled company, customers and prescribers support the maintenance and
development of economic activities prestige in the Brussels Region, and hence
will help maintain the sustainable local employment. The "Made in Brussels" is a lever
economical to use.
- Better protect entrepreneurs against abuse and fraud
In a highly competitive economic environment, it is appropriate to protect the holders of
economic projects fighting against forms of unfair competition made by
some unscrupulous entrepreneurs (work permits, use of subsidies Agreement
parity, etc.). We propose to strengthen and optimize the checks implemented
especially by the Departments of Economic and inspection of Economy and
the Plural Economy. Priority should also be given to joint operations
with federal and communal services, including AFSCA and FPS Economy and Business
social.
- Stimulate the desire to undertake
Support for the Brussels economy inevitably involves stimulating the creation or
the sustainability of economic projects, especially to young entrepreneurs
potential. That is why we propose:
•

Strengthen and thus better integrate the various outreach programs and
entrepreneurship education in schools but also
with job seekers;
65

•
•

Improving the visibility of public tools made available to the public, including
business centers, Brusoc, activities and cooperative center
companies in difficulty;
Boost measures to facilitate the transfer of businesses but also
counseling tools and assistance for starters (management mentoring).

2. Trade
Report and review
The MR wants to work with good articulation between small trade and distribution,
proper integration of trade in the context of life, and finally to the good relations between the
merchant and the consumer.
Trade is a key sector of our economy. In Belgium, trade shows
11.2% of GNP. Households spend on average 40% of their budgets in the sector
commerce. Every day traders attracted some two million customers
their stores.
Trade in figures:
- In Wallonia
• 120,000 jobs (90,000 employees and 30,000 independent)
• 25,900 outlets
• A total turnover of over 17 billion retail
• 9.4% of GDP Walloon
- In Brussels
• 59,000 jobs (48,000 employees and 11,000 independent)
• 9871 points of sale
• A total turnover of more than 15.8 billion for retail
• 9.6% of GDP in Brussels
This Legislature has seen an improvement in the fight against fraud through
securing the itinerant merchant card which now must be electronic.

Proposals
A. In the Federal
- Access to the profession
• Following the sixth reform of the State, the Regions will be responsible for setting
rules on access to the profession, the general rules or requirements
own capacities to the exercise of certain professions and the possibility of
protect professional titles. The intellectual professions providers
66

services, health care professionals and the public service are not
concerned.
The MR is careful to show that existing conditions are not hardened
without justification. In addition, and in compliance with the European principle of free
movement of workers, we will ensure the strict application of the principle of
mutual recognition.
•

Adopt a more practical approach than theoretical when teaching courses
related to business management.

•

Developing continuous training to upgrade skills
management

- Opening hours shops and weekly holiday
• The current system of mandatory closing hours is no longer adapted to the reality
social by increasing flexibility in the labor market, the diversity of forms
employment, household composition, increasing the number of households
two incomes. The MR therefore proposes to amend the Act of November 10, 2006
on opening hours in commerce, crafts and services to
allow traders wishing to arrange the opening hours
their shops to remain open until 22h or 23h. This change does
alter the fact that a closing day remains mandatory.
•

In order to register under the Prevention of beverage consumption
alcoholic for better road safety, the MR wants to adapt
specific exemption to gas stations and to institutions located units
on the area highways. We propose to redefine alcoholic beverages
admitted for sale in these establishments. This is all the beer and wine
having an actual alcoholic strength not exceeding 15 °. These drinks
may be sold between twenty-two hours in the evening and six in the morning. By
against, sales of distilled alcoholic beverages and wines with an
actual alcoholic strength by volume greater than 15 ° will be prohibited at any time
of the day.

- The dance halls are not currently included in the 2006 law on hours
Opening in trade, handicrafts and services and are therefore not included
in regard to possible derogations closing hours in shops,
which creates legal uncertainty as to the possibility of regulating the hours
closure. Yet some dance halls can cause nuisance,
disturbing public order and any legal measure possible to impose a closure
to find a peaceful atmosphere. That is why the MR proposes to allow
to impose common rules on closing dance halls that disrupt
public order.

67

- Delivery
The bulk of deliveries is carried by road, causing congestion axes
road and blocking of streets where parking is not possible outside the store. TO
this is added the prohibition to supply the cities in which clogs the peak hours
city ​​centers during rush hour.

Accordingly, the MR offers:
•

•

Allowing deliveries outside peak hours. This system would include
several advantages such as lower noise and pollution levels
in the air for residents; a decline in accidents on the roads or a
decrease traffic congestion.
Promote the use of trucks and silent and ecological Clarks.

- Access to retailers
Ensuring better access for small and micro businesses to large distribution by establishing, for
example, a mediation structure to provide a means of negotiation
weakest link, lighten opaque relationships deemed by some, and
therefore promote the integration of small producers in supermarkets.
- Security (see section "Security-Justice)
B. Joint Base Walloon and Brussels Region
- Sales offices
Currently, the College of Mayors and Aldermen decides independently in matters
commercial settlements. For areas larger than 400 m², the College must
request an opinion from the Committee for socio-economic distribution. This notice must be
obligatorily requested but is not binding. When the surface reaches 2,000 m²,
municipalities affected by the catchment area of ​​the commercial establishment must
preventable.
The sixth State Reform regionalize the jurisdiction over settlements
commercial. Now, the region will necessarily consult with
towns that can be found within an area of ​​20 km of the commercial establishment
with a net sales area exceeds 20,000 sqm. The outcome of this consultation is
not binding for the Region.
The MR believes that local authorities must continue to play an active role in the process
commercial implantation, because they are the most competent to define whether a surface
commercial desirability or otherwise on their territory.
- Compensate traders put in difficulty due to public works
- Develop the design of shop windows and commercial spaces: In Brussels-Capital Region and Wallonia are high quality schools, student designers
68

looking to prove themselves and established designers. Work together and
do Wallonia and Brussels metropolitan cities of commercial design.
• Organize collaboration between marketers and designers to work the
quality and originality shops as much as commercial spaces.
• Publicize and promote this dimension of regional trade
Brussels with Brussels, Walloons, tourists and
conventioneers.
- Develop crafts route: downtown Brussels and cores
very old business major Walloon cities are the guarantors of a story
vibrant shopping. These gatherings of small specialty shops
must be supported and encouraged. That is why it is necessary:
•
•
•
•

promote the skills of our craftsmen in all areas:
supply, design, expertise, ...
they ensure the promotion and visibility needed.
create and embellish "course craft shops" in the city.
impose the presence of apprentices on restoration projects of
heritage.

3. Freelance
Finding
If since 2003, the accession of RM to the portfolio of SMEs and Independents, the
number of independent only increased (from 850,599 in 2003 to 988.567en 2012), that
is not a coincidence. Indeed, the Minister for SMEs, the Self and Agriculture has
every effort not only to give a status worthy of the name to workers
independent but also to help and support the creation of SMEs.
In terms of social status of self-employed workers, the last Parliament had
major advances:
- The payment of social security contributions has been reviewed for the independent no longer pays its
contributions based on amounts earned three years ago but its turnover of
the current year.
- The amount of family allowances will, upon transfer of skills, increased
to achieve the same amount as family allowances for salaried workers.
- Much progress has also been made in terms of pension, such as equalization
the total household rate of pension independent of that of employees; There
abolition of penalties for early pension; perpetuation of the bonus;
increase and removal, for those who have a full career, the limits
authorized work pensioners; taking into account the latest business quarters;
limitation of the effects related to career unity and reform of the pension for survival
young widows / widowers.
- Coverage of bankruptcy insurance has been expanded and improved application procedures.
- The duration of treatment of contributions of exemption applications was reduced to less
six months.
69

In societal and economic circumstances changing, professionals
need to be given a regulatory framework in line with their specificities and
that allows them to operate in optimum conditions, both for them and for their
customers. In this context, several measures have been taken to strengthen the orders and
existing or newly created ethical institutes. Real estate agents and
Surveyors saw their modernized regulatory framework, auto-experts have
today an institute, psychologists are subject to a mandatory code of conduct,
the accountants diplomas recognition system was adapted.
Proposals
- Ethical Orders
The MR will support the division of the Orders who wish. We strongly advocate
this notion of desire. Should in fact be divided as wishing and Orders
not those who want to stay together, either for reasons of goodwill or because
there would be no value to split because the rules that govern them are
mostly European rules, as for the accounting and tax professions,
for example.
We hear that at present two professions want to split. The College
architects is also well advanced in these discussions, so much that we wanted
helping in turn by filing a law to endorse their split. This text
provides:
• The establishment of two autonomous orders: one Francophone and German-speaking and
the other Flemish;
• Maintaining a Federal Bureau who takes binding decisions on
ethics, access to the profession, relations with the federal authorities and the
European legislation;
• The creation of an independent Brussels Council that takes decisions
binding under the Brussels materials and manages relationships
Brussels regional authorities;
• Removal of Provincial Councils and establishment of local secretariats
filing complaints, etc.
- Pensions
Finish the job of catching up to the amount of the minimum pension for workers
independent within single rate on the amounts granted to employees at the same rate.
We also want to give the right to contribute to the second pillar for the self
individual assets. We believe in fact a genuine second vehicle
pension pillar must be created for independent as individuals as is
already the case for certain employees and independent (in society). Independent
'individual' should therefore, in addition to free additional pension,
to subscribe such a commitment in the tax 80% limit.

70

- Additional Freelance
To reflect on whether to open rights in the social status of
self-employed to self-employed as a complement, including
regarding pensions.
- Family Plan
• Increasing the amount of the weekly maternity fee 500 euros;
• Exemption from payment of social contributions in the quarter after
Childbirth: Even if the problem is partly regulated by the reform
calculation of social contributions which will take account of the decline immediately
revenues related to maternity leave, this exemption will be favorable towards mothers
who have difficulties to face the payment of the minimum contribution;
• The introduction of a parental leave: this proposal is to assimilate a quarter
for parents who wish to temporarily stop working to care
their children under 18;
• The granting of additional securities services (105-210) and the possibility of use
for child care;
• In terms of child care: increased tax reduction for
Parents (11.20 euros to 25 euros per day per child under 3 years in a
authorized environment);
• The legalization of nannies (via service vouchers or activity authorized pensioners);
• The revaluation of welcoming independent status through better
Information on the social status of self-employed. The possibility
Association 3 or 4 cozy. The granting of compensation for infrastructure
and furniture, and the equalization of the tax deductibility of autonomous welcoming
compared to approved welcoming;
• The granting of service vouchers in case of adoption.

4. Administrative Simplification
Finding
Administrative costs are a nightmare for businesses and
independent. The complexity of regulations and multiple applications of powers
Public are time and entail significant costs. These costs
Supported by independent companies and are an obstacle to their deployment and good
development of our economy.
It appears from the investigation of the Office of Plan11 to companies, their loads
administrative for 2012 reached 5.13 billion euros, or 1.37% of GDP,
most of the responsibility for small businesses.

11

Administrative costs in Belgium for 2012, Federal Planning Bureau, October 2013, www.plan.be

71

In 2011, federal administrative burdens on citizens, businesses and
associations had registered a total decrease of approximately 66.3 million euros.
For 2012, the Federal Agency for Administrative Simplification has evaluated the
overall reduction in the administrative burden to 260,686,871 euros, almost
quadruple.
Progress has been achieved under the leadership of Minister for SMEs, the Self and
of Agriculture and the Minister of Bugdet and Administrative Simplification whose
goal of reducing costs for freelancers and companies. Missions
"one stop shops" have been strengthened and the principle "Only once" was widespread.
Now before the adoption of the draft law or royal decree, the federal government is
they must make a prior and integrated impact assessment which includes a component on
the impact on SMEs and to consider alternative or compensatory measures if
necessary.
The MR was the initiative of the widespread use of electronic invoicing. There
electronic invoice constitutes a real tool for economic dynamism thanks to the
reduction of administrative burdens and simplification of work processes it
generates.
The simplification also applies to public procurement, by greater use statement
on honor, tendering companies will be exempt from transmission of a
series of certificates during their participation in a procurement procedure. Since
early 2014, the principle of the affidavit will be mandatory for
All procurement procedures that take place in one phase.
The recent passage of the law to generalize the principle of "ONLY ONCE" to all
Services under the federal authority is a culmination of size. Henceforth,
federal public services can no longer claim to citizens and businesses
data already available to the authorities. Too often citizens or companies
had to pass several times the same information to different public services
federal. Duplication that is generated now removed the benefit of
businesses and citizens.
Finally, we supported the electronic meal vouchers mechanism. Thanks to this
electronic, administrative expenses related to the meal voucher system
nevertheless fell sharply for employers (especially SMEs), employees
and traders.

Proposals
Administrative Simplification is an opportunity to evaluate the actions that are run from
years, but also to challenge and create new ways of
operate within the public authorities in the strict respect of the principles of protection
private life.
72

- Encouragement for electronic invoicing
The MR is convinced that electronic invoicing is a competitive advantage
substantial for our companies internationally. This is why the MR wishes
further increase its use.
Particularly with regard to public authorities, there will be generalized
the pilot project so that different departments are able to receive and
process electronic invoices sent by their suppliers. To simplify life
companies must ensure that the parallel public authorities suppliers
have the opportunity to send their invoices via the same electronic platform that
the recipient public authority is federal, regional, local view.
- Removal of multiple deposits acts
It regularly happens that companies must, at the completion of a
legal formality, file a report in several copies with different
services.
The MR provides that independent and SMEs are required to file only one
copy of acts whose advertising is mandatory, paid by the State to circulate these
documents from other jurisdictions.
The annual accounts are transmitted electronically, the MR offers a discount
publication costs.

- Tell SMEs to launch public procurement
The MR wants to ensure that small and medium enterprises easier access to markets
public.
The MR proposes to set up a portal containing the specifications for
various public procurement by the various levels of power.
SMEs are rarely aware of the opening of public procurement. Beyond the portal
legal notices, the MR offers a proactive approach to allow heads
Company to mark their interest in some type of public procurement and to receive
specifications relating thereto.
The MR also believes that systematic dissemination of notices on portals
existing e-procurement should be encouraged.
- Establishing an information portal for SMEs
Aid reserved for companies under the jurisdiction of all levels
Power: European, federal, regional, provincial and communal, and procedures for granting
73

are often complex. The MR therefore calls for the establishment of a portal
information aimed at bringing together the different companies and help available
for any material - environmental, economic, social ... - within each level
to be able to.
- Simplification of accounting firms
Without désharmoniser the annual accounts, the MR advocates that accounting
takes into account the constraints of SMEs and integrated, including the principles of "only
once ", particularly aspects relating to the social balance in the annexes. This is
Therefore, we suggest simplification of the annexes of the annual accounts by removing
in the abbreviated format superfluous states rarely used in small businesses.

- Refocus and streamline the multitude of economic aid
Channel, refocus and streamline the multitude of economic and technological aid (over
220 different aids) on the priorities in the fight against deadweight
too common. This is also true in employment where there is a proliferation
various types of aid. The transfer of competence in this field is a real
opportunity.
- Simplify and streamline the economic and financial tools.
We observe that there is a plethora, a proliferation of agencies, organizations
various, public or semi-public structures to support economic activity
and research.
We note that the legal and administrative complexity of these tools mobilizes
a lot of money and energy both at government level that actors
private who use them.
We therefore propose:
-

To merge and streamline economic and financial tools (cfr. "Operation Open
Wallonia "):
to. Avoid the proliferation of actors and redundancies,
b. Towards a single reference for businesses,
c. Create economies of scale and efficiency gains resulting from a structure
simplified.

Creating a true "Innovation Agency and Enterprise" really merging 3
existing agencies.

- Making an administration vector of economic development
Everything must be done to clarify, reduce time, standardize procedures.
This is a major objective for all governments, all governments.
74

No agency, no agency should be created without another structure is
deleted. The various executive should also engage in the presentation
their government declaration not to change a number of devices
clearly marked "ex ante".
We recommend:
-

Simplifying the main laws and procedures which are exposed
citizens and companies in the most diverse fields,

-

Substantially reduce or even half the time for instructing a folder
(environmental permit, town planning, the granting of investment grants, etc.)

-

Reducing payment delays to 30 days and require the administration to encode
bills at the time of receipt,

-

Establish late penalties to sanction defaulting authorities,

-

Generalize the principle of trust (It is indeed urgent to reverse the burden of
the proof. Our businesses must be presumed good faith in their relations
with public authorities)

-

Systematise internships for officials

-

Implement full traceability of computerized records by the individual
in real time via electronic tools,

-

Apply and generalize the principle of "only once" (implying that the company or
furnish the citizen once all personal data
administration, burden on all other administrative services in the future
to seek this information themselves in ad hoc databases).

5. Corporate governance
Report and review
The environment in which companies move has experienced changes
profound; these changes are both the cause and the resulting developments
science and technology that affect all areas of activities and the overall
social field. The ability to seize the opportunities presented by these changes,
as the need to control their risks, are conditioned,
including through the development in companies of a governance system
efficient and successful.
Following the financial scandals of recent years, the incomes of top managers have
been scrutinized and disseminated in the media. Public opinion is moved, which
prompted the Government to limit to 290,000 euros executive pay
75

public enterprises. This is a first step in the right direction, but the MR
would go further.

Proposals
- Establish an incentive mechanism for workers in listed companies
The incentive is nevertheless an original way which will both increase the
purchasing power of workers, strengthen corporate governance, support
economic activity and growth and create sustainable jobs, that is to say a project
authentically liberal. Unfortunately employee shareholding, neither the favor of
employers nor those of workers in Belgium because of difficulties linked to its
application.
Therefore, the Reformer Movement proposes that if the variable remuneration
the CEO exceeds twelve times the fixed monthly salary, the company must
distributed among the company's employees a bonus, according to different categories
workers.
- Establish an observatory corporate governance code
The Reformer Movement offers installation, like the Batavian system, a
Observation and Monitoring Committee of the Belgian Code of Corporate Governance, charged
general of the finding, monitoring and possible changes in
provisions of the Code. In an international convergence of concern, it will also
required to take knowledge of international practices. It will make an annual report
the competent ministers. Through its general role of objective observer, it may, according
the needs of the practice she will note, flexibly ensure the correct application
of the Code.
- Highlight companies that follow the Code
The MR is unfortunate that only companies that comment vis-à-vis the mistakes
Corporate Governance Code are put forward to the public. Accordingly,
we propose to make known and eventually reward companies that
follow the recommendations of the Code.
- Continue to promote the role of the laboratory "ethics" of public enterprises
particularly regarding the place of women in top management.

6. Foreign Trade
Report and review
As highlighted in the National Bank of Belgium in his article of June 2013, published
in the Economic Review, "structural foreign trade dynamics
Belgium ", despite their relatively small number, the multinationals in Belgium
represent nearly 45% of value added and 36% of jobs in the private sector,
excluding banks and insurance companies. Similarly, they heavily influence the
76

foreign trade of Belgium, since they arrogate nearly 73% of exports and
Imports of goods and services. These elements illustrate the importance of competitiveness
External companies for the Belgian economy.
Regarding SMEs, the situation is different because it is clear from various studies
SMEs badly apprehend European and non-European markets, which the
often prevents them develop their activities. Yet in the next few years,
growth should be stronger in emerging economies than in say
developed.
It is therefore important to increase the awareness of SMEs in neighboring markets but
also more distant, expansion opportunities they offer, but also arm our
companies in order to be attractive to these new market.
To this end, we can only welcome the princely economic missions that allow
to open many doors, both large and small businesses.
Proposals
A. In the Federal
- Develop adequate training and greater use of appropriate financial tools
the needs of exporting companies: SOFINEX - DUCROIRE;
- Develop an SME dimension in FINEXPO: The intervention of FINEXPO concerns
companies that export capital goods and related services. She wears
on the conditions of credit financing which accompanies the provision of
equipment and services: it can either reduce or stabilize costs
financing provided by the banks. FINEXPO studying the dossiers submitted by
companies that solicit public support on export credit. The
FINEXPO possibilities of intervention depends on the country of export. Accordingly, the MR
believes we might consider adapting policy to SMEs including FINEXPO
on the following aspects: interest stabilization, interest subsidies, gifts; indeed
SMEs create a specific product to guarantee the exchange risks.
- The initiatives developed by the European Commission, such as the Erasmus project
for young entrepreneurs, should receive appropriate support and attention
Belgian authorities.

B. Walloon Region
-

Review the entire map of the positions in the world and resources
assigned, depending on the actual capacity of exporters to achieve Walloon
sustainable and efficient way some markets.

77

-

Support the presence of economic and commercial attachés markets
that best correspond to regional characteristics and develop
synergies with Brussels and Flanders in other countries.

-

Consolidate geographically close and if necessary offices whose interest
is limited to release additional margins.

-

Implement a proactive and objective evaluation policy attached
economic and trade, taking account of a logic of results on
plans for aid to SME internationalization and foreign investments
Walloon and Brussels regions.

-

Create an export training program for SME managers and
New TPE exporters, theoretical and field, through "starter Days"
on neighboring markets. We need to develop entrepreneurship at
Export the example of German economic fabric and, in particular,
its small businesses. This objective should be implemented in partnership with
other government assets services to companies whose AEI.

-

Support the expansion of export subsidies to sectors not
covered and high potential, like the promotion of expertise and
Francophone talent architects in international competitions
architecture and urbanism.

-

Increase efforts mobilized for the organization of missions and princely
Royal, whose high value-added contribute directly to
development of activities of Walloon and Brussels companies.

-

Develop a multi-year assessment of trade policy
Outside, commissioned to an independent body like the
universities and high schools to measure the performance of shares
the objectives and facilitate the development and adoption of measures
corrective (geographical priorities, sectoral concentrations premiums
financial, etc.).

-

Strengthening the role of Regions in organizations such as the National Board
Ducroire to FINEXPO, the Belgian Corporation for International Investment and
the Agency for Foreign Trade as provided under the
State reform. This should reinforce dialogue and
additional synergies between regional programs and levers
federal level, notably with regard to budget support
exporting companies, the provision of financial guarantees and organization
economic missions.

78

C. At the Brussels region
- Despite the trade reform initiated in 2010, the exercise of jurisdiction
is still fragmented between different public operators with obvious loss
visibility, consistency and efficiency. Therefore it is proposed to streamline the
Public Landscape:
•

Repatriating under the single banner of Brussels Invest & Export Management
all regional export aid programs, including the
premiums of Administration for the Economy and Employment and ExportBru program
the SRIB;
Confirming the pivotal role and coordination of Brussels Invest & Export in
promotion missions of Brussels companies abroad, whatever the
sectors and markets. Cooperation protocols must be strictly
respected among other government agencies (including EBA, the House of
Fashion and Design Turning and Brussels), to ensure better distribution and
complementarity of present and future missions;
Evaluating from the start of the legislature opportunities for reconciliation or
merger of regional economic tools, including Brussels Invest & Export, and this in
considering all possible scenarios in which a merger with the Brussels Agency
for the Company and the creation of a "Brussels Agency for the Economy"
which could bring under one pediment much active utilities
in the economic (trade, financial incentives, etc.).

•

•

7. economic activity zones
I.

Background - report

"One of the strengths of Wallonia is undoubtedly its territory," it said in various
summary reports on the state of Wallonia. An old campaign of
Region on the subject headlined "The beautiful space to undertake."
On analysis, the situation does not reflect this abundance.
In addition to periodic accounts of businesses indicating that it is increasingly difficult
to find common ground with economic responsibilities, several studies quantify rates
saturation different zonings. The figures are alarming in some sub regions. TO
Charleroi, for example, the rate approaches 100% occupancy.
We come to create lists or even denied for lack of space companies.
This Walloon SMEs as key investors.

Underrepresentation of economic activity to the sector plan
The current sector allocation plans shows that economic activity is
a small part of the occupation of the Walloon territory, 25,500 hectares:

79

Allocation to the sector plan as% of Wallonia
Agricultural area
49.5%
Forest area
29.1%
Residential zone
10.7%
Greenspace area
4.9%
Area of ​​economic activity
1.5%
Public service area
1.5%
ZACC and ZACCI
1.4%
Extraction
0.9%
Leisure
0.5%
Source: DGATLP (Directorate General of Land, Housing, Heritage and Energy)
For comparison, Flanders has decided to grant priority to areas of activity
Economic. Figures show that will. The sector plans in Flanders offer
Business almost double the Walloon capabilities. The numbers of neighboring countries
Wallonia bring up the rear.

Flanders
Lux
Areas of economic activity 38 043
7241
the sector plan (hectares)
Areas of economic activity 2.8%
2.8%
the sector plan (% of
Territory)
Source: DGATLP, VOKA, UWE, www.statistiques.public.lu.

Netherlands
94,600

Wallonia
25,500

2.3%

1.5%

Moreover, in recent years, the area of ​​economic land uses grew faster
- Via changes in sector plans - in Flanders and Wallonia.
Growth areas of economic activity to the sector plan
(between 1985 and 2005)
Flanders
Wallonia
+ 49.8%
30%
Source: CESR (Economic and Social Council of the Walloon Region)

Inadequate sector plans
The figures for the rate of actual occupation of areas of economic activity
show that economic activity in the strict sense only occupies 35% of the area
available.

80

Actual occupation of the area dedicated to economic activity in the area plan
Economic activities
35%
Agriculture
26%
Idle lands and waves
18%
Equipment and Transportation
14%
Wood
4%
Residence
3%
Source: UWE (Union Wallonne des Entreprises)
Furthermore, 50% of economic activities are located either in habitat area (38%) or
non-urbanized areas (12%).
Cadastral assignment of economic activities
In area of ​​economic activity
50%
In habitat area
38%
In non-urbanized area
12%
Source: CPDT
These figures demonstrate the inadequacy of the sectoral plans in relation to the reality of
ground.
Few immediately available reserves
For lack of statistics and cadastre on the scale of Wallonia, reserves
Immediately available are vaguely estimated.
According CPDT, reserves amounted to 1,500 hectares. According Wallonia Development, the
Current availability is in the order of 1,000 hectares.
By comparison, Flanders is more active. The reserves in Flanders form more than double
Walloon reservations:
Immediately available land (hectares)
Flanders
Wallonia
2290
± 1.000
Source: CPDT, UWE, Wallonia Development, VOKA
The UWE is sounding the alarm and states:
"We can see that Wallonia suffers from a deficit of economic space (and
Therefore economic activities) (_). If we applied the same ratio Flemish
Wallonia (number of hectares devoted to economic activity / 1,000 population) should be
Walloon economic activity that occupies 4953 hectares. This space
Extra is one of the indispensable elements for us to fill a
part of our backwardness in terms of GDP, knowing that Flanders continues to increase
surfaces for economic activity. "
81

Poor use of available land
Record the presence of important areas that in principle do not correspond to the
original purpose of the area of ​​economic activity especially in zonings to vocation
Industrial, where we find the following sectors: retail business, center
training, health center and social actions, etc.
The following figures reflect this trend. Only 20% of established companies
in zonings have an industrial activity.
Sector allocation within business parks
Industry
20%
Wholesale
17%
Building
13%
Services
11%
Motor trade
8%
Transport network
4%
R & D
1%
Health, Social Action
1%
Other sectors
25%
Source: UWE

Deficit of qualitative Attractions Walloon zonings
The zonings are often designed with a purely functional perspective in the unique
purpose of hosting companies without considering the integration of these areas
the surrounding environment, management, cleanliness, proximity services for
employees (shops, kindergartens, ...) of the mobility and accessibility of services and
public facilities.
Companies are however other asylum attractiveness factors (quality of life and
environment, mobility, public facilities nearby.)
They point the finger at particular:
•
•
•

public transport;
the proximity of skilled labor;
accessibility of goods by rail and inland waterways.

Mobility and transport must occupy a place in the reception policy
economic activities.
Heavy stress
moving and unreadable:

Regulatory

and

Societal

Legislation

82

Since 1984 and its codification, the CWATUPE (Walloon Code for Spatial Planning,
Town Planning, Heritage and Energy) has been the subject of dozens of changes
decrees and even more regulatory changes.
Since July 2004, no fewer than 13 decrees came to change the rules.
Multiple changes CWATUPE generate an illegible text and a
misunderstanding by users and actors supposed to carry out the provisions. According to
latest annual reports of DGATLP "even town planning officials do it
find more. "
•

Too complex legislation:

The multiplicity of concepts and tools is complexity factor. For example, it
are 7 different ways to create a zone of economic activity.
Another example, a sector plan amendment takes place in less than 14 steps
successive.

•

NIMBY:

The societal phenomenon "NIMBY" (Not In My Back Yard) remains strong.
It is particularly important to anticipate conflicts through better integration of
comments and opinions from local residents.
•

Duality "habitat-zoning"

Given the shortage of housing in some subregions, policymakers are reluctant to expand
a new area of ​​economic activity and prefer to develop new subdivisions,
often very profitable tax.
As an illustration, the municipalities have the leisure to activate a ZACC (development zone
Concerted Communal) for any purpose they deem appropriate. However, according to analysis
CPDT of the ZACC zoning that could accommodate up less than 500 hectares
on the scale of Wallonia. The first ZACC activated from the 2005 reform shows
very little inclination common to activate ZACC to host an activity
Economic. Only a few hectares are planned, the balance will habitat.

II.

Directions - Proposals

Densify the Walloon productive fabric, structure it and make it more robust requires
bring together a number of conditions.
How not to insist on a fundamental element of economic development:
territory planning. This can sometimes prove to be a formidable lever
development by ensuring legal stability and predictability, sometimes prove to be a "
padlock "or a lock, braking all socio-economic development. As

83

of unfortunate illustration, it is conceivable that at present a revision procedure
area plan lasts seven years?
For the future we must make the implementation of any policy with the need to
maintain or even increase the economic attractiveness of a given territory. It is necessary
combat the current trend to place the Walloon region in a bell
glass or to reduce the attractiveness.

Simplification and urban planning reforms

•

Time rigor and acceleration of procedures

Face future socioeconomic challenges, the major investment consists of accelerating
and modernization of procedures for obtaining permits for the emergence of
business projects.
•

A stable legal framework

In addition, the unstable legal framework of the Walloon right to land
is a real problem. However, it is a basic need for the assessment of risk
investment. The saga around the implementation of the project logistics FEDEX in La Hulpe
(with nearly 1,000 jobs to the key) is an unfortunate example: after much
politico-legal twists and lack of predictability, the investor ended up throwing
sponge, thus depriving the region of promising job prospects and
wealth creation.
Therefore, it is imperative to reassure investors by giving them the legal elements
enabling them to anticipate and calmly translate policy decisions.
To strengthen its attractiveness and Walloons to ensure a competitive and territory
quality, Wallonia must develop a clear and stable legal framework. Such a framework
regulatory already in itself an administrative simplification. For exemple,
Inflation changes the Walloon Code of spatial planning, urban planning
and Energy (CWATUPE) conducted between 2004 and 2009 made the text unreadable and unstable
while laudable goal of these reforms was precisely ... administrative simplification.

•

Refresh the development scheme of the regional area (SDER) that date
1999 to create clear goals over 20 years.

The project of Wallonia in territorial development is unclear. The Scheme
Development of Space Territorial12 (SDER) does not know where the major
12

This is a living document and transverse. It directs the revisions sector and serves as reference planes
for decisions on housing, the living environment, travel, locations of activities
economic ...

84

infrastructure investment projects should be located as a priority. A
SDER new reformed to become a reference tool for translating policy strategy
territorial development. The new SDER must be leveraged to strengthen
the socio-economic attractiveness of the territory.

•

Sector reform plans

It is essential to go through a real administrative simplification
territory planning. Not just with some renumbering of CWATUPE
cosmetic relief. It should also conduct a general review of plans
sector and thawing of Wallonia paralyzed by old plans more sectors
30 years. We must end the blockades and administrative obstacles to development
economic development of the Region. Administrative simplification requires measures such as
traceability of cases filed, the generalization of strict deadlines and the decrease
delays.
•
•

Restructure the legal tools available, too many now
Manage, via such an analytical framework, the policy of "offsets"
the currently prone to subjectivity sector plan. The establishment of
objective criteria for alternative compensation (not planologiques) is a
significant administrative simplification source.
Create a land cadastre supply immediately available

In order to respond directly and specifically to investors, a single cadastre
centralized and available supply must be put in place at the Walloon level.
This register must be completed reliable statistics and updates to
better control the business demands. Ideally, the land registry should be
related aids and subsidies granted by the Region as well as an indicative price per m2.
Currently, no accurate and updated statistics exist and no centralized Maps
is maintained.
Better use of available land
Given the NIMBY phenomenon, the host priority in the zonings must be given to
industry-oriented businesses; activities reluctant to be "accepted" by local residents
in urban areas.
Accurate and objective management tool must be put in place to meet this
better use of the land.
A "quality" approach in zonings
Besides a better consideration of the living environment in the zonings, policy
Proactive must be conducted in the implementation of:

85

transportation and staff mobility;
•
transport of goods by rail, inland waterways (alternatives
"Everything for the Road");
•
nurseries and other local services;
•
ICT connections (Phone and Computer Connection), fiber optic, and broadband
infrastructure energy supplies.
•

Have priority economic activity zones
Available at all times to priority areas economic activities is an asset
incontestable in our Region. However, this stock of land is being eroded. The
observation has long been known: it lacks several thousand hectares of land
to accommodate new economic activity. The fault lies in the complexity
CWATUPE of administrative and political obstacles.
Land Use in the economic activity actually takes lot of time,
average 10 years.
Per 1,000 inhabitants, real economic activity occupies 7.8 ha in Flanders against 6.8 ha
Wallonia despite a much higher population density in the North and South. He
would release 3,500 hectares of economic activities and more to achieve in Wallonia
the flamand13 ratio.
Dedicate areas with major investments
It is also needed by County of reserve land
directly available and equipped, and also to establish the scale of Wallonia,
one or two areas of priority autographed developments in investments
(very) large.
It is proposed to create areas that can accommodate new activities likely
substantially modify the economy of Wallonia. These areas will be made provisions
companies directly via the regional authority.
One thinks of the great capabilities enterprises that can contribute to a
diversification of the economic structure of the region. Such a policy exists
eg in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg and collects some success.
Furthermore, the strategy of "competitiveness clusters" (registered in the Marshall Plan) should
be supplemented by a planning component of the territory. Zonings of Regional Interest
specialized must be made available to businesses in the sectors concerned.

Securing zonings
The focus will be on securing and monitoring zonings order to fight more
effectively against nuisance flights material and any level of intrusions
generate significant damage to established companies.
13

Walloon dynamism - August-September 2012 - No. 238

86

Rehabilitate brownfields to economic sector
Currently, brownfield rehabilitation policy is based on the notion of
"Visual sanitation".
The only strategy is to "make up the numbers."
A radical change must be made in this area by setting up a strategy
based in particular on the following concepts:
To prioritize land that can be fed back into the sector
Walloon economy. The figure CESW the potential to more than 2,000 hectares;
•
"PPP": activate partnerships with the private and therefore initiate the sponsor
deprived the "new life" of the former industrial wasteland.
•

87

E. AGRICULTURE
1. Vision
To use a formula usually associated with water, agriculture is "source
life "because in our modern societies, this is from what provided the Agriculture
food we need to live.
The globalization of trade that is the or not is a fact but considers that the MR
trade liberalization should not jeopardize our agricultural model that responds
eating habits of our citizens and ensures the management of our territories. Our
farms must also be preserved economic and health risks
the opening of borders.
The MR has no exclusive as to the mode of production or marketing of
food products. Each mode will naturally find its place according to
Potential markets for its products, natural production potential of the place, the
human resources available, personal choices of the farmer, capacity of
processing and distribution channels and consumer aspirations
terms of diet and lifestyle. Agricultural products must be
processed at other scales that small-scale or local production and above all, continue to
be sold beyond Wallonia if we want to ensure the place of agriculture in
the regional economy and the development of rural areas.
Wallonia must believe in the quality of its products and focus more on investment
productive generator of added value in the framework of organized networks, by being
offensive also on foreign markets.
For MR, the operating model to promote must meet the following objectives:
1. enable agriculture to provide a basis for compensation and prosperity
farmers;
2. actually produce agricultural products that is to say, ensuring the operation of a
biological cycle in the animal or plant kingdom, in the context of a management
sustainable natural resources, in particular by promoting complementarity
crop / livestock at regional level;
3. enable the farmer to develop its activities with a freedom and
Total independence in its choice of speculations and technical management
(technical route crop, livestock management), as well as at the
marketing of its products;
4. have production facilities in viable conditions ensuring
operational safety, especially on land issues and infrastructure;
5. keep firm on a human scale and enabling people involved in
operation, to have social recognition they deserve and lifestyle
compatible with the standards of the 21st century in terms of leisure and
entertainment and relationships with other components of society
88

2. Finding - report
2.1.

Finding

In Europe, agriculture ensures a steady supply of quality food to 500
million consumers. His activity spread over more than 180 million ha shapes
largely rural areas, 90% of the territory and 60% of the European population.
Agriculture and agribusiness account for 17 million jobs or 7% of total employment,
and contribute about 3.5% to the wealth created at European level.
Although in our country agriculture represents only 1.4% of the workforce
and 0.5% of our GDP, it is nevertheless a source of supply
essential for food industry generates 43.7 billion in revenue and
some 90,000 jobs, thanks largely to the sale of food products deemed
within and outside our borders. Nearly 50% of food production is indeed
for export.
In the coming years, agriculture will be led to new challenges. All in
ensuring access to food for the poor, should be taken one hand
active global food challenge looming in 2050 for which a doubling
agricultural production will be imperative. Meanwhile, agriculture will bring
significant contribution to the fight against climate change. Development
Production will also be effected by ensuring sustainable management of the
basic resources such as water and soil.
The MR is convinced that agriculture has a future.
2.2.

Balance sheet

2.2.1. European and international policy
After over 2 years of negotiations, a legal and budgetary framework has been defined for
the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) until 2020
While we regret reducing significantly the financial resources which will benefit
Belgian farmers (reduction of the EU budget, external convergence which puts Belgium
strongly contribution).
The complexity of certain provisions also goes against the objectives of simplification and
transparency, such as the new architecture of direct payments
lasagna, or the many flexibilities in the 1st pillar generating
policy becoming less common and could threaten the future of the reason
the 1st pillar (not co-financed joint measures).

89

Nevertheless, some elements of interest can however be identified as by
eg the concept of active farmer that Member States may refine, aid
additional young farmers, payment of redistribution in the first ha, the
maintaining coupled aid or the establishment of a reasonable convergence and a
pragmatic greening.
In response to very disappointing initial Commission proposals on
market regulation, however, Belgium was able to get through its Minister
Federal Agriculture the possibility for producer organizations in the sector
beef, cereals and certain other crops, to negotiate
collective contracts, subject of course to certain conditions and guarantees
defined by the European Commission. In the sugar sector, in addition to maintaining
sugar quotas until 2017, the standard provisions governing agreements between
companies and producers (purchase conditions, interbranch organizations)
been preserved for after quotas to ensure the bargaining power of farmers.

2.2.2. Federal Policy
During the legislature, through its Federal Ministry of Agriculture, the MR has
continued to strive for price transparency and balanced relations between the
various players in the food chain. The Observatory of Prices and Margins set
up in 2009 by the Federal Government produced detailed analyzes of the development
prices and costs in the various stages of the food chain for sectors
beef, dairy and pork. Since then, each quarterly report of the Observatory, following
also prices of other consumer goods, also devotes attention
in particular price developments in the food chain. Early 2013, the Public Service
Federal Economics, in a role of neutral and objective partner, oversaw the establishment
of an agreement in the beef sector to take into account the
significant fluctuations in the prices of animal feed in the purchase price of cattle to
farm.
The legislature was also marked by the recognition of climate conditions
spring 2011 as agricultural disaster. To repair the damage caused by the
drought, the Federal Minister of Agriculture received the mobilization of an envelope
€ 4.9 million so that compensation for Justice in uncontested cases,
be paid to the victims for early 2014.
Finally, the MR has worked to convince the Minister of Finance and CD & V partners
the majority of the validity of the extension of tax measures on aid from
CAP measures that the Federal Government has finally extended for a period of 2
years.
In health and food safety, the MR has given policy direction
based on some principles that he considers essential:

90

Maintaining or even improving, our top of the food chain safety level
current. This policy has made it possible in recent years to avoid crises
Major, to ensure the health of our citizens regarding food and give them
confidence in our products.
It also allowed the companies involved in the "farm to fork" to evolve
in a favorable health context, an essential condition to qualify for this
confidence of our consumers and enable them also to ensure that the
markets, all of which are essential for economic prosperity whose importance
already been mentioned.
They ensured export, in particular as regards the speculations
swine and poultry, and recently, you can create a new market for doses
insemination of our Belgian Blue.
The use of pesticides and bee health have also been
with thoughtful gestures and concrete actions.
The MR also wanted to simplify the life of companies, with particular attention
for the smallest of them and those entered in a diversification process
Agricultural.
This policy, for which the obligation of results must take precedence whenever possible on
the obligation of means according to the MR, is based on an important dialogue between the
governments, professional sectors, consumer organizations
and is supported by scientific advice. It is registered in a very strict European framework.
Ethics has also been the center of the MR policy in the matter. The fight against
eg food waste has not been forgotten. Under the leadership of Minister
Agriculture, cooperation between the FASFC and other food chain actors
was organized to permit the optimization of returns while avoiding
two speed food security. Simplifying constraints traceability
and training have also been put in place for players involved in
distribution of food to the poor.
Finally, support services to the export of the Food Agency were strengthened in
to facilitate the sale of our agricultural products, high quality, to all
Europe and to third countries.
2.2.3. Regional policy
The most striking fact at the end of this Parliament is certainly pessimism
ambient in the Walloon agricultural world, particularly in the dairy and
Bovine meat.
Since being invested with important skills in agriculture, the Region
Walloon suffered from lack of a framework for the development of its
agriculture. Unfortunately, the project proposed by Oliver and enshrined in the Code
Walloon Agriculture based on a development model that leaves out a large
91

part of his target audience, whether farmer, processor of agricultural products or
consumer.
As if the situation allowed, Wallonia has also voluntarily deprived of
European funding, as evidenced by the first distribution of early 2013
European budget of € 35.7 million as part of a program to
promote agricultural products in the European Union and third countries, where only
Flanders introduced a record for Belgium.
Finally, after a milk crisis has deeply undermined the foundations of
Walloon agriculture, the Walloon Olivier proved unable to place the entire sector
Agricultural likely in a position to meet the challenges of the 21st century, since its
eyes, only 7% of Walloon farms (note: =% organic farms RW)
have focused all his attention, leaving to their fate the other 93% of farmers.
But Wallonia has yet need an efficient agriculture and farmers
conditions for the exercise of their profession dignified and purposeful.
3. Proposals
3.1.

Providing access to production tools

Access to productive assets (land, buildings, equipment, livestock) and possible
administrative references (references or production rights to receive aid
direct) gradually becomes an insurmountable obstacle for the young person who wishes
settle in agriculture, whether in family transmission or outside the family. In
Walloon Region, the average amount of capital employed in operations was 1.2
€ million and continues to grow over the years, notably because of land and
proportions increasingly disproportionate it reaches in some regions, sometimes because
competition among farmers themselves.
Under the crucial problem of generation change, the challenge is to preserve or
to create viable and competitive farms. But in our modes of
transmission or return based on the market value of the property, the tool is transformed into
money then it would be appropriate to inject more money into the tool or at least
maintain family capital into the operation. Farmers who retire
rely heavily on income from their own investments to complete
their pensions. In family occasions also remain the interests of others
children. Results, even at a progressive installation, the young buyer must
into debt (heavily) for many years for the purchase of assets. This
consequences to mobilize the financial capacity to operate and compromise
potential investment projects needed for its development, its competitiveness and
thus its viability.
The MR wants to reduce the cost of installation by acting on the corrective actions to
so that the charges borne by the buyer young are more in line with the
income accruing to its activity. In this context, financial investment
92

agriculture carried out or planned by people outside of agriculture are
real development opportunities to seize. The reduction of the value of recovery can
be made by the provision of in-kind capital (infrastructure, land, livestock,
equipment) or cash belonging to the family (parents, siblings) or third parties
(landowners, investors / savers), through a partnership
taking into account the legal, financial, tax and where the relational and
trust will be central.
In this perspective, the MR has the following proposals:
- Back to the forefront the interests of the agricultural society (company founded in shape
1979 specifically for farms) as a model of organization
legal exploitation;
- To overhaul the Walloon legislation on the installation and
investments in the agricultural sector (ISA) by integrating more procedures
ensuring simple and consider the opportunities offered by the framework
European regulatory. The MR will pay special attention to supporting and
promotion of tools to facilitate the pooling of resources
production and the establishment of partnerships between (young) buyers, parents and
brothers & sisters (or sellers) and third-investors (landowners,
investors / savers);
- To overhaul the legislation on farm lease for a new search
Operating balance between security for the farmer and for financial performance
the landowner;
- Provide the administration with sufficient means to ensure rapid processing
applications submitted, including those which were the subject of a negative decision
and for which an appeal has been lodged;
- Simplify the grant (or maintenance) of environmental permits, which are often
means, when a youth returns to the farm, to allow its installation.
- Make parents aware of the interest of preparing their estate to avoid
heavy tax and financial burdens for their heirs;
- Encouraging the use of financial advisors and legal experts to
address issues related to family heritage;
- Develop training, management tools and structure the offer
technical supervision.
3.2.

Agriculture as a basis for economic development

Because of its history and the result of the work of previous generations, Wallonia has a
capital base of great interest for the production of food: races
specific, availability of raw materials such as grass, cereals or byproducts of agribusiness can make to the Belgian level a response to the deficit
vegetable protein, ...
On the other hand, the food industry generally employs a relatively large number of
little or medium-skilled workers, which is precisely one of the characteristics
Unemployment in Wallonia. For that public, the food industry can fill the role

93

shock absorber against unemployment in times of crisis and turn into large
provider of employment in the event of favorable market conditions.
For MR, it is essential that the Walloon Region grasp this lever
promote and develop the agri-food sector. It is also essential to
reconnect agriculture and the economy is lacking in Wallonia.
In this perspective, the MR has the following proposals:
- Define and implement a reinvestment plan in the pipeline
food in consultation with professional organizations in the sector
food (FEVIA Wallonia, ...);
- Mobilize regional financial tools (SRIW, Wagralim, Invests, ...);
- Using direct support of the 1st pillar and the Walloon Development Program
Rural leverage to the economic redeployment of the Walloon agriculture;
Finally, to sell its products, it should also be able to rely on tools
efficient and effective promotion. Unfortunately, although the sympathies than attractive
public, the concept of the tablet "Agriculture Wallonia" offers an image without
content mastery. For MR, the promotion policy should be significantly
ambitious and also exploit the excellent reputation of Belgian products outside
(eg Belgian chocolates). The European Commission plans to reform the
information policy and promotion of European agricultural and food products.
The new promotion policy will have a stronger budget and is intended to be a
real market tool of conquest. Wallonia must seize this important
opportunity.
In this perspective, the MR has the following proposals:
- Develop pathways, based on a range of specific finished products to our
Walloon production patterns, with the support of a promotion professionalized the
all in a setting where producers can invest;
- Define a promotion policy through labels also linking
readable and credible between product-specific qualities and concerns
consumers about health plans, environmental and social aspects;
- Implement the promotion actions involving all actors in the chain
food by also call for European resources available
Member States.

3.3.

Agriculture contributes to the preservation of our environment

Often criticized for its negative effects on natural resources and its role in
climate change, agriculture has made tremendous progress in the last
decades. The latest report on the State of the Environment reports Walloon reduction
net nitrogen and phosphorus fertilizer inputs over the past 15 years (- 16
% For the total N and - 70% for P). This decrease was also marked at the main
input and output parameters of the nitrogen balance of agricultural soils, which presents by
94

Furthermore a negative balance in the last 10 years and suggesting a destocking
progressive yet the surplus nitrogen in the soil (45 kg / N / ha on average in
2010). The report also notes a downward trend in total quantities
plant protection products consumed particularly marked between 2005 and
2010 (-50%) and a decrease in agricultural atmospheric pollutant emissions (-13%
for greenhouse gas and - 11% for acidifying substances between 1990 and 2010).
Another example in the dairy sector, the carbon footprint reduced by 20% in 10 years. In
2000, it amounted to 1.28 kg CO2 / kg milk. In 2010 it was reduced to 1.02 kg
CO2 / kg milk.
Sustainable land management and agriculture that respects the environment are
priority objectives. Agriculture will also contribute to the reduction
Greenhouse gases and climate protection.
In parallel, increasing energy efficiency should be encouraged, including
with the objective of reducing consumption of fossil fuels in the operation. There
fuel consumption by agricultural machinery should deserve any attention
particular. The fuel item represents 30-40% of the total cost of Use
tractor. The choice of the tractor (size adapted to the real needs of the operation), its
use (methods of cultivation, timely intervention in the fields) and its
maintenance (80% of the energy used in passing emissions, cooling) are
important parameters on which it is possible to act.
In this perspective, the MR has the following proposals:
- Define, in consultation with industry, environmental standards based
sufficient legitimacy, objective criteria and taking into account their
feasibility on the ground, both for the authorities responsible for their implementation
as for the economic operators concerned (APL, in the management plan
context of the Water Framework Directive);
- Develop and promote, through agrienvironnentales measures,
cultivation techniques may limit the drying and erosion of soils,
store carbon in soils and reduce the passages in the fields (crops
stolen, no-till planting, ...);
- Optimize the management of grasslands to promote carbon storage by extending
season grazing (reduced droppings issued building and therefore
N2O and CH4) and maintaining an optimal density of livestock meadow view
increase grass production;
- Developing livestock breeds based on ensuring respect "quantity
of greenhouse gas produced / kg product animal product "as the lowest
is the case for the Blue for the meat;
- Reasoning the choice in hardware investments based on tips
independent;
- Make farmers aware of the need to properly maintain and adjust so
optimal tools.

95

- Encouraging bioenergy production while ensuring that surfaces
productive farming are used primarily to produce food
food and feed.
4. Agriculture: a challenge at European and global level (for the European program)
In a globalized world, supranational concerns, whether at
European or global, should deserve our attention. Indeed, good
number of decisions taken at these levels can affect our daily lives and define
room for maneuver of national / regional authorities have to ensure
development of their farming or manage crises.
In terms of world trade, agriculture has been integrated into the WTO
(World Trade Organization) by the Agreement on Agriculture of the Uruguay Round
(URAA) in 1994. The long-term goal was "to establish a trading system
agricultural fair and market-oriented ", and significantly reducing
gradually "support and protection in the area of ​​domestic support", and
and allow "to overcome the restrictions and distortions in agricultural markets
global and prevent. "By its own characteristics (productions related to
natural cycles, activities shaping the landscape, ...), agriculture can not be considered
like other sectors. Based on this argument, some argue to remove
WTO agriculture negotiations. However, if the internal market with its 500 million
consumer is an important marketing space for our
productions, the EU is also a leading player in terms of
trade in agricultural products in the world (23% of exports and 20% of
imports). The MR has always been attentive to what the outcome of discussions based on
a balance between the concessions to be made by the partners on the one hand and
secondly, industrial products or services are not privileged to the detriment of
agricultural products.
In trade negotiations, our interests are defended by the Commission
European. The MR estimates that trade between countries should be governed by rules
multilateral advantageous for all and not on the basis of bilateral agreements that might
unravel one by one the different sectors of European agriculture. Thus, the opening of
agricultural markets must be categorically taking into consideration our specificities. The Union
Europe must get its partners the opportunity to keep protection to
borders to maintaining our agricultural model and considered speculation
as strategic in terms of land management. It is clear that the
non-trade concerns such as environmental protection, welfare
animal or habits of European consumers have not yet been incorporated into
internationally. Thus, alongside the potential risks to health, products such as
hormone-treated beef and chicken disinfected with chlorine can not access the market
Inside, the fact that these products do not meet the standards of Food
European citizens. The food and health security, environmental preservation
and landscapes, regional balance and farm diversity are all
European public goods that citizens are attached. These applications have a cost
farmers can take their single charge. We must therefore also ensure that
96

products imported into Europe adhere well all our standards and that our farmers
can benefit from direct aid to offset the distortions of competition they
experience compared to production from third countries.
In this perspective, the MR has the following proposals:
- Defend the principle "no less but better to WTO WTO" as part of
negotiations on international trade and firmly oppose any agreement
which seriously prejudice the interests of agriculture;
- To demand the inclusion of non-trade concerns
(environment, animal welfare, consumer habits) in
discussions;
- To keep a minimum of border protection for activities
filling crucial civic functions can not be endangered by
massive imports of products from third countries (beef, milk, sugar, ...);
- Require a balance between reductions imposed on support
exports (refunds) and the level of other forms of distortion (monopolies
State, disguised food aid);
- To oppose any temporal limit for income support instruments
(direct payments) and defend the need to keep management tools
markets to ensure farm income stabilization;
- To enable the poorest countries can protect their markets to
promote the development of local self-sufficient agricultural production;

At European level, the reform of the CAP recently adopted the fixed frame of reference
agricultural policy until 2020. However, given the volatility of prices unlikely
and health risks arising from the globalization of trade, the MR is of the opinion that
CAP, in a Europe where production conditions are as diverse, must ensure
ensure a fair standard of living for all European farmers. This is an element
first class for the sustainability of food production and balance of
rural areas. That is why the MR will be extremely attentive to rendezvous set by the abolition of quotas in the dairy sector (2015) and in the sector
beet (2017), and the management of potential crises that could provide
during the legislature.
European health policy must ensure food safety
Food placed on the market, but at the same time constitute a lever for
promote the quality of our agricultural products and the development of our sector
agribusiness. In 2013, the European Commission has put on the table of the Council of
Ministers and Parliament an important legislative package to reform provisions
Regulatory regarding animal health, plant health, seed and
official controls. The MR Belgium fully intends to involve in discussions
to exploit the opportunities to adapt the European reference framework on the plan
the simplification of rules and the reduction of food security for costs
our economic operators, whether farmers or companies in the sector
transformation.
97

In this perspective, the MR has the following proposals:
- Set up a European Market Observatory giving a vision
monthly or quarterly market especially for the dairy, the
meat and cereals. This observatory will be supplied on the basis of a new
data collection system that will provide analyzes on the situation
dies in time much shorter and data to
sectors;
- Provide a rapid response to crises by acting in an immediate way
on the causes and using effectively the crisis reserve in the budget
Agricultural. In case of insufficient resources, financial resources should be
mobilized in other sections of the EU budget, in accordance with the principle
planned flexibility in the MFF 2014-2020;
- Actively participate in the specialized working groups of the Council and the
Management Committees at Commission level to defend the interests of the
Belgium.

98

EDUCATION - EDUCATION

The improvement of education for all students is a prerequisite
for economic and social recovery of Brussels and Wallonia.
We are all witnessing profound and constant changes of economies and
companies, caused by the rapid evolution of technology and by free access
Previous to information and creation. To succeed in today's world, young
need to develop skills and superior skills that will help them
adapt to an environment, and a social environment in constant evolution. But
Education can not be limited to this single aspect, and we also expect the school to
sustenance and transmit the values ​​of respect, work, freedom and solidarity.
The school, it is not enough to go to succeed. Successful schooling, it requires above all
will, work and effort. These are also the values ​​embodied by sport, and
our humanist and progressive culture.
Raise the level of education not only involves increasing the level of
each student, but also reduce the gap between the strongest students and students the
lower. Such is the condition of true equality of opportunity. In this respect, the freedom
parental choice should be complete.
We want an education that equips young people with modern skills and
skills essential to daily life to succeed in a changing world. Us
want to offer our young people learning that stimulate the intellect and creativity.
The MR trusts pedagogical expertise of teachers and in a
enhanced autonomy of schools in Wallonia and Brussels.

99

EDUCATION
A. "Education: building the future. Trajectories for school
21st century "

I. All students have the same right to achieve their full learning potential

1. Strengthen the knowledge base for all students
At 15, a Francophone in five students ranked at level 2 of the PISA scale
Writing comprehension. Level 2 is considered "the competence threshold at
which students begin to show they possess skills
reading literacy that will enable them to participate effectively and productively
to life in society.14 ". Nearly 1 student in 4 (23.3%) does not reach this level.
The first years of schooling and are necessarily essential to ensure
all students mastering the language of instruction, regardless of differences
Start facing the tongue. This control conditions access to other learning, while
as fundamental.
Clear and specific programs:
evaluate 10 years of application of the decree Missions take stock of knowledge,
content, programs related skills;
clarify the standards and programs clearly identifying what needs to be
learned when schooling (structuring, planning and escalation
learning).
Independent educational tools, and quality;
Learn French :
strengthen fundamental: analysis, memory, grammar, spelling, phrases
Oral and written with regular evaluations and immediate remediation;
more involved in the school support the school's work;
encourage parents to learn the language in which their child receives its
education.
Math, science, history and geography:
strengthen basic numeracy with drill, regular assessments and
immediate remediation;
develop mathematical rigor, reasoning and attention of evidence;
develop critical thinking of the student;
strengthen fundamental in history and geography and develop practical
innovative science teaching to encourage scientific vocations.
Knowing and practicing foreign languages:
14

OECD PISA 2009.

100

encourage schools to organize an early language learning;
promote and develop the teaching immersion in schools;
negotiate the exchange of teachers and students between schools in different
Linguistic communities and abroad.

2. An immediate and ongoing support
The immediate remediation
The statistics reiterate the need to intervene immediately before the failure
installs and do lose confidence to the student. The best educational systems
also made the public to intervene directly with the student confronted with a
difficulty.
Proposals:
generalize the immediate and individualized remediation in basic skills;
allow to add in the students' timetable that need 1 hour per week
work method or remediation.

Children with special needs
Children with special needs (dyslexia, dyscalculia, dysgraphia, high potential ...)
concern a large number of students in our classrooms, but some field workers do
are not sufficiently trained to detect and manage these difficulties, and this may cause
in children deep distress.
The initial teacher training must be improved in order to better help these
children.
Proposals:
organize a systematic test (dyscalculia, dyslexia, dysgraphia, ADD / ADHD top
potential ...) at the most appropriate time of schooling to detect as early as possible
children with special needs, allow them immediate care in
school and with the actors necessary outside the school;
developing specific educational tools by type of difficulty and exploit
possibilities offered by new technologies;
restart action research and support program for children at high
potential;
encourage and support educational projects for children integration dimension
high potential.

101

3. Special education:
Special education covers the realities, challenges and very different handicaps.
The number of children enrolled therein is increasing year by year. But this concerns
especially children with learning difficulties and types 1 (mental retardation
light), 3 (personality disorders) and 8 (learning disabilities). The General Education,
in some cases, the temptation to send the most difficult students to manage it. Which is not the
first mission of special education, which is to meet the educational needs
of specific pupils and aim at their personal development and their
social integration and / or professional.
This is a sector for which teachers should be trained
specific, which is not currently the case. Especially since the public of their classes
is often very heterogeneous: some children have multiple pathologies, or even
disability, but to varying degrees. Now there are very few courses in this type
institutions during the initial training.
Our special education is quality, but the supply is insufficient to meet the
needs. Schools can be quite far from the home of the parents, and
issue of school transport, especially for children, is a glaring problem.
The integration of children (who wish) with special needs is now favored
in mainstream education and in higher education. This process must be
encouraged.
Proposals:
rebalance the supply of training in special education;
improve the situation for school transport;
improve initial and continuing training of teachers in teaching
specialized;
support integration initiatives into mainstream education.

4. relevant assessments, appropriate and timely
Homework
Homework is one element of the link between school and parents. Above all, they
allow the child to ensure that the concepts are acquired in reworking its
pace.
Suitable duties throughout schooling:
enhance the homework that allow students to progress at their own pace;
consider the need for storing the time, repetition and drill
outside the classroom group;
correct class homework to constantly check if learning is
mastered by all students, and operate remediation if necessary.
Evaluations
The evaluation is useful both to students at teacher, both, measure the work
accomplished and what remains to be done. Ideally, each student will be systematically informed
of the average of his class in order to be among his peers.
102

Properly calibrated, the common external tests are also useful for the
driving instruction, which also need to know, at certain milestones
educational background, the level of all schools and students. In this respect, the differences
between the results of the CEB and CE1D raise the question of the adequacy of the CEB with
necessary prerequisite for successful first stage of secondary education.
A "CEB truth":
bring to 60% the minimum result to be achieved to get the CEB;
continuously adjust the level of the prerequisite tests for the secondary in
agreement with the teachers of this level.

Assessment test and guidance
All schools and all courses do not prepare students in the same way
face the demands of a course in higher education. The TESS15 should evolve
to an evaluation test and orientation, compulsory and organized annually for all
students, to make a tool to the student to make an informed choice with respect
the prerequisites of the sector it wishes to enter. The results of this test have a value
indicative and do not condition the success of the student.
Placement test and orientation to the end of high school:
TESS evolve towards an assessment test and guidance built to confront
the student to the higher prerequisite for all students with the tests for
access to this teaching.

5. The choice of school is free
Since 2007, successive decrees registrations place every year more and more
families in anguish. Its effects are in addition to the population boom that make the
Brussels region most affected by these difficulties, even if it is not the only one. These
mechanisms that limit the freedom of choice of school also relegate appearance
teaching of school choice at the lowest priority, and ensure the less than before
Primary / secondary educational continuum.
It is time to return to a simple, understandable by all and puts the
teaching and the relationship between school, children and parents at the heart of the process.
The scars left by five years to make various ideological experiments
however, not a simple return to the pre-2007 provisions of the repeal
current mechanism must necessarily be accompanied by measures to limit
the difficulties that cause a return to registration "as before."
Registration: return to the "Missions" decree in secondary education:
Test of upper secondary education, which focuses on mastering a part of certain disciplines. The TESS
is optional (it is the education authorities which decide to participate or not), but the procurement guidelines,
the questions and the marking criteria are common for all students with the test.

15

103

repealed successive registrations and their effects decrees to return to the fundamentals
Decree "Missions" of July 24, 1997: free choice of parents, support the project
educational and special relationship between the school, students and parents. Accompany
the repeal of measures to avoid difficulties arising from psychosis created by the
successive decrees entries;
support secondary schools neglected to (re) make places
friendly learning.
Voices are also heard to extend the regulation of enrollment
basic education, especially in the Brussels Region. Combined with the explosion
population, the implementation of such a mechanism would be catastrophic for
children. The MR will oppose with all its strength: it will not respond to the shortage of seats
by restricting the free choice of parents, but by rapidly increasing the number of classes.
Not in the regulation of enrollment in basic education:
quantitatively and geographically deploy the basic education offer
Brussels to meet the needs of each municipality.

2. Meeting the challenges of society

1. The school, a social staircase
Orientation
Students must be at the center of an orientation process built with school stakeholders,
higher education and economic sectors. Fight against the negative spiral
from relegation and redo the choice of a real project involves each sector
industry has its own requirements and the success requires certain skills and
skills to be developed.
It is also not correct and honest to suggest that all our young graduates
secondary have equal opportunities at the entrance of the upper. All secondary courses
are not equal: each of the streams meet specific needs, they constitute
not all a unique way to the different aspects of higher education.
Stop relegation: Student engine orientation:
rehabilitate the values ​​of effort, work and merit in all stages of
learning, at all stages of guidance and feedback;
confront, from primary education projects and the student with the skills
requirements and opportunities of different types of education to build
with her school project and life;
facilitate positive reorientation for those who make mistakes in their choices.

104

Differentiated guidance
In place since the late 80's, priority education policies have
never been a true assessment, even as their budgets were
multiplied by 35. The starting problems are still more acute 25 years
later: challenges remain concentrated in certain neighborhoods, and therefore in the
schools established there and the number of children involved in that
priority education policies is increasing. Our school system remains
inegalitarian.
More than ever, let alone in a constrained budgetary environment, an assessment of this
device is required. The evaluation will offer coaching improvement tracks
differentiated in particular analyze the conditions of operationalization funding
differentiated accompanying the student regardless of the school of his choice. In
other words, it will assess the conditions for that, on the student
rather than the school, the financing of differentiation better meets its objectives.
Robin Hood portability:
completely repeal the mechanism "Robin Hood," which is profoundly unjust and
whose enforcement is suspended only today;
evaluate, external and independent manner, effectiveness, efficiency, effectiveness and
relevance of the current system of differentiated supervision;
determine the minimum conditions needed to organize portability
financing (that is to say that the funding covers the student who benefits, not
not the establishment that hosts) and launch a pilot halfway legislature.
2. Learn a trade at school
Young people are not prepared for the job market. According to a survey conducted in 2010
Tempo-Team, 42% of young workers feel they do not need
the education received for the work performed. Youth unemployment, which reached 25% in
Wallonia and 35% Bruxelles16 (2011) takes alarming proportions in both volume
and duration in Belgium and Europe. The shortage occupation list is growing year
to year.
In addition to ensuring access to modern equipment, skills training must
accommodate the needs of companies which, in return, must be willing to invest
more in the training of young people. The link between school and the business must be strengthened.
We want to develop an advanced partnership experience between schools and enterprises
the same sector, based on a share with the school of technical and human resources, and
on the integration of business representatives in the school's organizing body
to better mesh practical training to industry needs. It would aim to
facilitate youth employment after their education and give them, with
the success of a management module, access to the profession.

16 'The Brussels labor market: statistics - Participation rate, employment rate and unemployment rate, "Actiris,
October 2012

105

School and business: a win-win partnership:
implement an advanced partnership experience involving more closely
now in training young people to facilitate their employment at the end of the
education;
grant access to the profession to all young graduates who dies qualifying
got their management certificate;
carry out an exchange pilot experience: the teacher makes a dip in
the company to absorb the latest techniques and requirements of the mid
work in order to pass on to his students, and the company ensures its
replacement by sending a member of its staff in the school.
Alongside this work on the quality of the training received, it is essential to boost the image
dies. From basic education, the child must gradually discover and
develop technical intelligence, although he then continued his career in
general education.
Develop child's technical intelligence:
from primary, to confront the student to the different techniques to mobilize its
abstract and concrete intelligences;
develop technical intelligence from basic education.

3. Develop citizenship and transmit values
There was never much question of "living together". Education for citizenship is a
centerpiece of education in a democratic state. It must allow
emancipation from some community pressures for reasons
social, cultural, economic, linguistic or religious.
Citizenship can not be decreed by texts of abstract laws. It must be reflected in the
educational content, especially in the initiation to build the great
Thought movements that have marked the history of civilization, and in the
discover the differences between cultures. There is no philosophy course
Compulsory courses and philosophical, in their present form (moral / religious), separate
students during the only courses that address existential questions. Cultures and
religions, however, are universal wealth: there is no reason to refuse the
share and develop them in isolation. A minimum of luggage and not doctrinaire
great philosophical and religious currents has its place in school and teaching must be
taught to all students together regardless of their beliefs; this is the best
prevention against racism and isolationism of tomorrow.
Build togetherness:
promote cultural diversity and making every school a place of learning
differences and fight against all forms of racism, xenophobia,
antisemitism or isolationism;
organize a joint course in philosophy and comparative history of religions in the
third stage of secondary education.
106

Also, the official school and staff that composes must ensure compliance with the
principle of neutrality of public services and to refrain from any political or proselytizing
religious. Besides the so-called over "philosophical", the transmission of knowledge
must be free from any influence and any religious interference. Similarly,
the obligation to attend school of any kind can not suffer any derogation
based on religious or sexual discrimination. These principles are not
negotiable.
Guarantee the neutrality of formal education:
legislate to guarantee the neutrality of formal education;
immediately penalize non-compliance proven neutrality of teaching
Official;
enforce compulsory attendance of all courses;
remind students and parents the objective and scientific transmission
knowledge.

4. Youth Health
Nearly 10% of adolescents are obese and one child in five is 10-12 situation
overweight. If it is not incumbent on the school to take care of all problems
société17, the fact that young people spend most of their time making it a tool
special awareness.
It is in this perspective that must evolve for example during physical education.
Beyond the development of motor skills, their goal is particularly
to make the young a taste for sport and its virtues, and move towards an activity
most intense sports outside the school gate, which should also ideally
group by group of at least two periods of physical education in order to have
the time required for the activity itself.
It is in this context also that special attention will be paid to the balance
food in the meals offered by the school.
School sports:
consolidate periods of physical education in groups of at least 2;
bring in the school of top athletes to attract students to the sport
optimize infrastructure sharing between schools and sports centers;
associate with the physical education of hygiene and dietary elements;
proposed by the school care sports infrastructure
subsidized by the French Community.
Healthy eating :
Evaluate, in conjunction with health care professionals, different experiences
courses and spread good practice.

See in this our reflection on the optimization of school time.

107

5. The cost of schooling
If free access to education is enshrined in the Constitution, go to school
including a cost in terms of school supplies. These costs are partially covered
through family allowances, but these, even supplemented by the premium back, do
not always possible to cover all of these costs. Earlier this year, these
can be relatively high depending on the level of education and industry
followed by the child.
In some cases, assistance may be needed. We propose the creation of a fund
for school supplies, modeled on the fund for textbooks,
which schools would have access. In our view, the school shall, within a framework set by
Decree of the distribution of amounts obtained and is free to partner with other schools
to constitute one or more central purchasing. Amounts may thus be
is distributed throughout the school population that has the facility or on the
school population of a school year and / or a level of education or on certain
categories of students.
Funds for school supplies:
create a fund for the purchase of school supplies by institutions
to basic and secondary education of the French Community.
Regarding higher education, many devices have been set up
to improve democratization. Indeed, it welcomes and a diploma
tiny proportion of young people from low socioeconomic backgrounds. But the
situation has not changed for almost 20 years, despite measures taken.
The causes are multiple (low rate of supervision, self-censorship of some young people,
structures of our secondary education ...).
We believe that the amounts intended to improve access to our higher education
must be invested in the study grants system. It is the most average
adapted to contact all affected students and their families. The young will thus have the
freedom to devote this amount to expenditures that are priorities for itself (choice
which may be different from one individual to another).
Accessibility of our higher education:
Study grants: take into account the actual situation of the youth and his family
(changes in family situations or economic) by reducing the time
(introduction of records, treatment thereof, payment of allowances).

108

3. All students have equal access to highly qualified teachers

1. Initial teacher training
The training of our teachers has been debated for years.
The current structure of the training was installed in the early years 2000.18 But there
unanimity on the fact that it is not satisfactory. Or for teachers and regents or
aggregated for upper secondary education, or for trainers
teachers.
Some data challenge as the number of dropouts in young teachers
early career, with shortcomings in French, or the great heterogeneity of classes
current and the number of young people leaving compulsory education without a diploma.
For us, the priority is to strengthen High School the first learning cycle:
improve the mastery of the language of teaching, better distribution and alleviate grids
schedules, refocus on core competencies. Without this additional years
would be built on sand and a possible extension would be unnecessary.
We believe there is an alternative to pure and simple extension of the training 5
years, starting with the organization of a 4th year internship during which the future
teacher could already confront the realities of the profession. This would be a 4th year
year of the situation and professional practice. The young bachelor is to rub
the reality on the ground. This one-year internship is paid and supervised by a tutor.
After this the fourth year, the young successful becomes a full-fledged teacher, but
it can go further and continue with fifth year. It can then specialize, forming
to more advanced topics.
Proposals:
strengthen the first cycle of initial training (prune the schedule, consolidate
command of French, quickly confront the young professional practice);
establish a knowledge test compulsory French, indicative and non-selective with
the entry of studies. Organize, for those who have gaps, activities
strengthening of the language of instruction.
introduce a fourth-year internship in the field, to be successful before the young
could begin his professional career;
enhancing the attractiveness of teaching master at the University
provide educational support for young teachers formulas, including in the
higher for those who want to train in new technologies and for the one who
through serious difficulties.

109

2. Fighting against scarcity: attract and retain teachers
36% of new teachers in secondary schools leave the profession within five years (
more than half during the first year). Also, currently, the pace of registrations
and graduations in educational sectors does not raise any fears
on replacing retiring personnel. Add to this that,
31.08.2012, about 1,000 "full time equivalent" enjoyed a detachment
educational, including 730 are in charge of the education budget. These are all
personnel who are recognized as teachers and not to classes.
In the field, this means that in 2006-2007, just for the Brussels area, the
functions shortage in basic education numbered 3.
the year 2011-2012, 12 functions are affected by the shortage. The trend is similar
for secondary education (8 functions involved in 2006-2007 against over 30 in
2011-2012) 19. Schools must therefore increasingly resort to staff without
teaching qualifications to teach. These personal today account
15% and 20% of the faculty.
Retain teachers request priority serene working conditions in all
the classes. Restore the attractiveness of the profession to upgrade our educational system
implies that efforts focus on both education and socioeconomic status
the teacher. Indeed, the socio-economic-cultural index School staff influence
results more significantly than the socio-economic index of students, and
the most efficient systems tend to prioritize teachers' pay and not
the reduction of the size classes.
Class size is often mentioned as a solution. We think we need
integrate the notion of hardship in the profession of teachers. This is a problem that is
did not meet or soon there are 15 or 25 years. Young people are less disciplined, they must
to face new learning challenges. Teachers must face all
these difficulties without being prepared by their training. Under these conditions, the issue of
class size is important, but it is not causing the problem.
Finally, do not underestimate the number of additional teachers loads
(around 1700) it will take to frame the 43,000 students and more expected by 2020
Brussels.
Mentor new teachers:
organizing mentoring for all new teachers who so wish;
Help staff Untitled:
leaving full autonomy to managers and prefects to assess skills
linguistic, educational (in substance and form) and skills to be

19 Sources: Decrees of the Government of the French Community establishing the list of functions affected by
shortage for the school years 2006-2007, 2007-2008, 2008-2009, 2010-2011 and 2011-2012.

110

respect above all personal commitment does not have title to
teach;
support teachers untitled and support them in their training
for them; consider an alternate mechanism combining benefits and
learning.
Educational Support Service:
provide educational support for young teachers formulas, including in the
higher for those who want to train in new technologies and for the one who
through serious difficulties.
Allow voluntary overtime:
allow the teacher who so wishes from providing a number of hours
Additional to ensure remediation or short-term replacements.
Modern, simplified statutes organizing personal mobility:
simplify and bring the status of teachers of different networks (including
the level of seniority and qualifications required) to enable the mobility of
personnel;
ensure transparency of designations and appointments by allowing each
agent to follow its evolution in the rankings and know the job offers
with his qualifications.
Bring teachers in classrooms:
decrease by 1/3 teaching load detachments of the education budget;
alleviate the classroom benefits particularly for teachers nearing retirement,
to enable them to perform other tasks within the school;
authorize the teacher who wishes to extend his career beyond 65 years.

4. Motivation also involves learning conditions

1. Adequate supervision and quality
Besides the management and teachers, the school is also composed of nurses,
educators, special teachers, administrative staff and workers, etc. Whether
administrative functions (Secretariat), management or logistics (bursar), the
increasing complexity of occupations requiring a staff of more and more formed.
Regarding -éducateurs educational staff, nurses, ... - the needs are
particularly important in basic education and become a
increasing number of secondary schools. However, this framework is still based too much on
complementary means type PTP / EPA / ACS. It is necessary to stabilize and to include
these resources in the ordinary means of institutions and improving training
basis of recruited staff.

111

The school needs are not uniform and can change over time. A
balance is thus to be sought between scalability needs and the stabilization of these
personal.
Stabilize and professionalize coaching:
professionalise the administrative functions with training continued to
modern techniques and features such as open a recruitment logic;
stabilizing auxiliary education personnel and integrate these resources in
ordinary means of the institutions;
strengthen the presence of auxiliary education staff in schools;
establish the conditions to have several common technical staffs
institutions.

2. Healthy and friendly infrastructures
The management of school buildings and educational management are separated and he
The result is a lack of school infrastructure land policy. Furthermore,
investment projects dependent staffing with obvious disproportion visà-vis the resources allocated to the endowment to the point that 32 years would be staffing
actuels20 necessary to meet the needs! Added to this is the coexistence of several
funds and programs which complicates the submission of applications.
This slowness in processing applications also results aging
faster the housing stock, lack of renewal in due time, and impacts
considerably on operating costs of some institutions which are
real energy cannibals.
In addition, alongside the necessary renovations of existing buildings, it is now
essential to increase rapidly the number of places available. Indeed, the boom
population will mean the arrival, in 2020, approximately 43,000 students
Additional Brussels alone. This will require initially opening
14,000 seats in basic education. We will not respond to the shortage of space
by limitations to enrollment: you must complete the undertaken effort and adjust to
besoins21.
Accelerate renovation:
seek alternative and complementary funding;
10 years back to the time needed to meet current needs;
develop less energy-intensive infrastructure and dispose of
too energy-intensive buildings and / or in too poor condition;
assess the potential for technical and vocational courses to participate in the
infrastructure renovation.
Anticipate future needs:
20 "The management of the fund for school buildings for teaching the French Community", Report of the Court of
Accounts April 2012
21 motion for a resolution creating a A.I.S. School, filed by F. Bertieaux (November 2011).

112

finalize the land registry (EDIFICF) for programming and monitoring of
school facilities;
consider future educational needs, if necessary in formalizing the
rental options in the medium term public or private infrastructures;
streamline surfaces: the land registry must be able to distinguish the surfaces to be renovated
and those to yield.
Demographic boom: tickets for all new students:
finalize the land registry of infrastructure and available land;
establish and make public a precise timetable for the opening of new spaces
consistent with the gradual spread of needs;
create a "school estate agency" to allow the extension of existing schools
in nearby buildings.

3. From the hardware and appropriate and modern tools
New technologies
The "blackboard" becomes gradually but very slowly, interactive and probably the future
Is not that far where the child will go to school with his tablet in his backpack. The pionneers
agree: child learning using these new technologies is more motivated
and thus learns best. These technologies also facilitate the updating and
individualization of learning, especially for children "dys".
It is time to put an end to years of wanderings in new
technologies. There must be a plan of equipping schools and training
Teachers with a priority on community facilities and must stick to it.
New technologies at the heart of the class and learning:
program the gradual equipment of all schools in numerical tables, and
associated equipment to training for teachers;
encourage the use of new technologies to help students overcome
their learning difficulties.

Advanced equipment
The triangle "high cost of equipment - sometimes multiplication of identical dies
geographically close - scarcity of resources "resulting in obsolescence
equipment that compromises the future of young people who follow these sectors, since the means
learning they have less correspond to what is expected
of them in companies. Solving this equation requires working together
the means and the dispersion of sectors.
On the question of how a taboo should definitely be raised: it is time to consider
how and under what conditions companies could participate directly in the
equipment financing for schools and students, without sliding towards the
113

privatization of education. This is a win-win: by allowing the school to train
students on the latest equipment, the company can hire them much more easily
when they leave school.
It should also address the difficulties faced by a number
institutions to assume financial and logistical transport and surveillance
students to advanced technology centers (CTA). The question of the adequacy of
these centers with the needs of all qualifying schools worth asking.
Learn about advanced equipment:
widespread access to advanced equipment for all students: accentuate
partnerships with businesses, encourage the pooling and sharing of tools,
etc. ;
conduct a pilot specialization of a technical school by integrating
sectors involved in the organizing authority, in return for investments
teaching.

4. addiction, incivility, extortion, harassment, violence: zero tolerance
Provide a calm atmosphere in every class is the first of the conditions to make
possible learning.
The school can not manage everything internally, and sometimes not has no choice but to resort to
exclusion. If the exclusion can restore calm in the school, it only leads
Besides exporting the problem without solving it. Indeed, at the present time, no device
no evidence to back these young in hand before they commit a crime
that directs them to the youth welfare sector. More than ever, it is necessary to
reintroduce a structure that is the school's boundaries and assistance to youth and
who, when the school is unable to help, can save the young before it loses
any mark. This structure is the center of re-socialization and re-schooling, which
has three objectives: the young out of the criminogenic environment to which it slides, return the



In






related to social networks. It is not to live against his time by banning
114

new technologies in school. We are in a transition period that school
can afford to boycott. Instead, it must become an educational actor
foreground. It is up to him to create the operating environment of these technologies in
the school premises, to set limits, to prevent abuses and to punish
abuse. It's the same for other forms of violence such as harassment. Such forms
violence raises the question of the field of school violence, which must now
get along outside the strict framework of the school grounds.
In terms of addiction, the focus will be on communication between school and parents.
Too often parents informed of the problem prefer to hide it at school to avoid
Additional setbacks to their child, and when the school finds out, she also meets
too often by outright exclusion of the young.
To guard and protect:
rely on the agenda victimization surveys to finely measure
actual or perceived incivility;
evaluate the device to fight against early school leaving; optimize the strengthening
the synergies between the different actors (schools, PMS centers, mobile teams, contracts
security and prevention, SAS, etc.);
ensure all staff against all risks related to the exercise of
their job;
evaluate and strengthen support for victims of violence;
encourage victims of extortion and harassment to come forward and take
immediately load;
extend the issue of school violence with consequences outside the school premises
acts committed in it (social networks, harassment, extortion ...).
Sanction in time and effectively:
impose any sanction of an educational and reparative dimension;
build, in collaboration with various stakeholders, an educational response
restorative and empowering new forms of violence are
harassment and misuse of social networks;
develop contracts between school, parents and the young skidding, empowering
all parties in the resolution of the problem.
Frame the most serious cases:
accompany the student excluded until reintegration into another school;
open a center for re-socialization and re-schooling support
Complete the minor deviant and a structure based on an educational project
and customized teaching, with the aim reintegration into the school curriculum.

115

5. Education is a collective responsibility
1. Going to school is an obligation
Nursery education is preparing to primary education. Currently frequented by
over 90% of children aged 3 to 6 years, it must become the gateway to school:
compulsory education should be lowered to 5 years.
Once in school, begins another fight: the one for student retention.
The punctual chronic absenteeism and dropout then are regularly identified
as the beginning of a path which leads the young to social exclusion and crime.
The legitimate reasons for absences are already sufficiently numerous to more
necessary to provide a half-day absences quota that must not be justified.
This allowed to leave without cause should be removed.
Attendance of pre-primary education:
Sign in ONE missions to sensitize parents on the importance of registering
their children in nursery education;
lowering the age to 5 years of compulsory education.
Commit to staying in school:
remove the possibility to be absent without justification;
establish a permanent statistical measure of dropout and evaluate the effectiveness
and efficiency of the systems in place;
primarily developing PMS antenna in each school who knows a rate of
significant school dropout;
evaluate the correlation between the teacher shortage as manifested by a number
increasing hours of fork and dropping out;
assess the feasibility of a financial penalty (administrative penalty, allowances
Family) failure to comply with compulsory education.

2. The school is not alone
The two pillars of the education of our children are the family and the school must be able to
rely on other players, let alone when one of them is
sadly lacking. It is necessary to better mesh the school and the fabric of actors,
institutions or associations, which surrounds it.
The parents :
encourage the development of associations of parents in all schools and
allow to organize activities to strengthen parental involvement in the life of
School: discussion tables, information on the education system modules for
Parents "newcomers", etc. ;
immediately mobilize various actors when parents do not meet
over 2 school convocations and consider implementing measures
binding.

116

PMS centers:
assess the springs of PMS centers and strengthened to better match
school populations in their area of ​​intervention;
priority strengthen PMS centers in areas where the most were identified
problems (solar dropout, violence, etc.).
The school care:
redeploy school care in two dimensions: support
Learning and replace day care time by more than sports and
cultural synergy with homework schools, libraries, academies,
sports centers, etc.

3. The school's mission: be careful, the boat will capsize
Applications of the vis-a-vis the school board are all larger days while
number of days dedicated to learning was significantly reduced to $ + / 182 days a year, which seems no longer sufficient to provide all students with the
mastery of basic learning. The school should do more, faster, better,
a more heterogeneous audience. A reflection on school time is needed, otherwise force
to fill, the school will eventually capsized boat.
Optimising school time:
full use of the annual 182 days of class for learning taking
the pace of each school (that is to say without imposing unique dates
examinations);
to use the periods between the end of exams and report cards are for
organize or are strengthening some activities within the framework of the objectives of
school, other than purely cognitive.
mobilize actors around the school:
rethinking the moments before / after school in connection with the reflection on the school;
organize the links between schools and other sectors subsidized by the Community
French and other public authorities (libraries, academies, sports clubs, Red Cross, etc.);
evaluate the functioning of "welfare cells."

6. A modern flight, objective, efficient and pragmatic
1. Governance: stop the politicization and ideological drifts room for freedom and
efficiency
To make the breath in school governance should be reviewed at all levels:
the level of control and organization, in the relationship between schools and the level
from school :
•

the size of the evaluation, too few present, makes it more difficult
pilotage;
117

•
•
•

the dual role of the Minister in charge of education is not ideal,
encourages the politicization of certain functions;
administrative management and control provided by the Ministry of Education
must stand equidistant from the various networks;
education organized by the French community suffers from the lack of a
intermediate level between the school and its founder.

Moreover, a number of recent decisions reflect the suspicion that some
feed vis-à-vis schools that perform well, while
more decisions than others aim to interfere in the daily life of schools that
define, with respect for the autonomy of schools, the general objectives of the system and
ensure the collective interest.
These decisions, inspired by fear or distrust, deteriorating relations between
various players in education and undermine the overall quality of the system.
Improve the overall performance of the system implies greater cooperation between
schools, whose directions must have time to fulfill their
teaching assignments and leadership, and whose administrative staff should be trained
to cope with the increasing complexity of their tasks.

Rearrange official networks:
depoliticise functions (promotion and selection in particular) and place
Administration equidistant from different educational operators;
consolidate networks of official teachings into a federation, independent of
Government and the Minister for Education, and the Ministry which is not intended to
play an organizing role of power;
organize organizing powers by "zone" (to be defined) to provide support
Close to schools that are lacking today;
accelerate the stabilization and encourage personal mobility.
Driving from the results:
restoring trust between the players by placing them in their respective roles;
defined jointly the perimeter and how to use the autonomy
Organizational given to institutions and the power of injunction of the authority of
guardianship;
sit piloting institutions with multiannual plans with targets
meet jointly determined by the guardianship, the PO and the school.
Cooperation and shared responsibility of schools:
foster reconciliation or partnerships between education providers for
allow the pooling of some equipment and / or infrastructure and
empower schools in the monitoring and support of pupils or
leaving;
developing indicators for monitoring cooperation implemented;
achieve a sharing of responsibilities between pilot PO volunteers.
118

Better use of operating grants:
perform a general audit of the operating costs of schools;
preserve the amounts of operating grants regardless of the economy
conducted by the school, on condition that it reinvest the amounts recovered in the
implementation of new initiatives.
En route to efficiency:
ensure stability of the Flemish Parliament and regulatory framework to enable
institutions to develop multi-year action plans;
introducing an evaluation clause in all new reforms or new
policies implemented and reserve budgets necessary for the exercise of this
evaluation;
load the mediation service, throughout its operations, an inventory of
unnecessary measures and redundancies and join its annual report;
help basic directions of gradually granting them aid
administrative per 500 students.

2. Organization and secondary education structure
Successive amendments and close the first grade of instruction
Secondary, in addition to having made illegible, do not seem to lead to a revaluation
Learning. Even today, this degree negatively directs most students
low to qualifying education which prepares not otherwise.
The present organization of the 2nd and 3rd degrees blurs the message about the purpose of
various sectors. The students therefore be more difficult to steer it, while
others use this situation to organize a route that avoids the difficulties.
The sometimes misuse orientation certificates 'B' (AOB) gives today
secondary education this aspect of a waterfall with general education at the top and
vocational education down. This way for general education to build
students is neither tolerable nor inevitable. It is time to assess the relevance of certificates
"B", the certificate should be much framed today.
First degree :
simplify the entire organization of the first degree in secondary education and
restore in his first role as observer with the different degree courses
2nd and 3rd degrees without compromising on the requirements.
Clarification of sectors:
simplify the 2nd and 3rd stages of secondary education by organizing courses to 3
Specific purposes for the selection carried by the student is always a positive choice
based on a project;
assess the adequacy of guidance certificates "B" and empower schools
in the supervision of school shifts.

119

3. Better coordination between vocational training and the promotion of education
social
If vocational training is a regional competence, teaching depends on the
Wallonia-Brussels Federation.
In Wallonia-Brussels Federation, over 30% of young people leave school before
end of high school without a diploma, mortgaging their social and professional integration.
Structures and skills for vocational training exist, but they are
scattered among various training operators and therefore very difficult to read.
Besides the clarification of work, strengthening the content of some training
professional, we can ask ourselves about the fact that they do not lead to a
diploma officially recognized by all.
These young people need access to a diploma issued by the Federation Wallonia-Brussels by
example social promotion, which is precisely one of the strengths of being modular.
One of the objectives of social advancement education is precisely to meet the
training needs and requests from businesses, governments,
education and general socio-economic and cultural backgrounds, it is
ie the needs of society. Indeed, one of modes of organization of this sector is
establishing partnerships, agreements with governments, institutions,
companies etc. to optimize the match between education provision and the needs of
working world.
The division of the instruction into modules allows each, depending on their profile,
and its objectives, to find training that allows him to go back to school, or
make a personal or professional project.
But some data are lacking to clearly define the path in students
education and social promotion it would be useful to set up a real
Steering the educational sector, both for mandatory teaching
Higher Education.
Proposals:
enjoy the advantages of channels present to allow everyone to realize their
personal or professional project
make a real management of social advancement education.
Inform future teachers on the specifics of adult education.
Take advantage of the complementarity of different training providers for adults and
avoid duplication

120

7. A higher education that preserves its excellence and autonomy

1. Review and improve the financing of higher education
Over the years, successive reforms, the issue of financing of our
Higher education has become increasingly sensitive.
Half of our students are enrolled in non-university courses whose cost
(per student funding) is less than the university ... The vast majority of them
are enrolled in a short type education (3 years).
Since 2004, our higher education is organized around three comprehensive universities
(UCL, ULg and ULB), Academies in academics.
Since then, many developments have taken place which have profoundly changed the number
institutions, their relationships with each other and the criteria used for the
funding. We are experiencing a turning point: the current legislation is
become inadequate compared to the current situation (mergers, integrations ...).
Our higher education is underfunded, it is a fact that is now
unanimously. While there is evidence that the return on investment of public funds in
higher education is very high.
A major reform of the landscape of our higher education was passed
Federation Wallonia-Brussels. It was necessary, but we are not in agreement
with some choice of the government majority.
For us, this reform is credible if reflection was conducted in parallel
an overhaul and improved our financing higher education:
adapting the current system of closed envelope at the end of the sterile competition between
institutions (running to the student), taking account of sectors joining the University
and adoption of relevant funding criteria ... It is nevertheless essential file
postponed to the next legislature.
This teaching was définancé for too many years. We must think without
taboos, to restore a balanced budget that would allow our institutions to maintain
their reputation for quality and to better support our students. This will be one of the yards
the most important of the legislature in Wallonia-Brussels.
We want that teaching and scientific research are higher again managed
in parallel, as they are intrinsically linked. The FNRS has a reputation for excellence
widely known. As our educational institutions, this is due to its
management autonomy. It will also better support research in Hautes
Schools, diverse and engaged with its socioeconomic environment.

121

Proposals:
to overhaul and improve current financing systems present in
our legislation to adapt it to the new realities of the sector;
primarily kept a public financing institution, but does not rule
for dogmatic reasons possible partnerships with the private sector;
rebind higher education and scientific research and make it a
political priority
better support research in High School

2. A new landscape of higher education
The new configuration of our higher education is based on several levels
power: an academy of research and higher education, 5 geographic poles
and 3 zones "Interpôles". All sectors are involved: Universities, High Schools
Higher Schools of Arts and higher education for social advancement.
Such a reform to be viable in the long term should be paid by all
field players in a dynamic general improvement. The bitter discussions
culminated in this decree will leave traces in the sector. All establishments
now expect the financing component to better measure all the consequences
the measures adopted.
The short type higher education is next to the university, but there are claims
not integration. It offers significant employability rate and has an essential role
employability. Some sectors should be able to establish more contacts with
the socio-economic world around them and, if necessary, have more flexibility
compared to market needs in employment in their region.
Long-type higher education partially joined our universities. Since 2004,
we regret that this integration process will be done case by case and dies
institutions.
Higher education for social advancement, he is the public who are not
same as the full-sectors.
We denounced the general philosophy of the reform: an attack on freedom
educational and autonomy of our institutions, sub-regionalist vision,
creation of an Academy that is more like a gas plant.
But there is another very important component in the reform that has just taken place: he reorganized
completely the practical organization of studies. Certain aspects thereof let us
more than skeptical: bad signal given by the success rating lowered to 10/20;
the abandonment of the year of study in its current form for a modularization
education, leaving schools with the necessary time to implement
this important reform; the probable removal of the entrance examination in Polytechnique,
etc.
122

Proposals:
restore confidence in the sector, help to address the many current challenges,
let her managerial autonomy
promote better anchor short type education in the region,
collaboration with its socio-economic environment;
clarify the landscape of higher education and promote social promotion
complementarity between the sectors.
Establish a one-year moratorium to allow institutions time to digest
the abandonment of the grade in its current form.
Keep the entrance exam for future civil engineers

3. The reform of nursing education
Since 1957, there is a dual nursing education chain. This two-track,
in professional practice, leads to similar benefits, but does not
access to the same functions or the same pay.
The issue of the disappearance the sector in vocational secondary education
regularly mentioned. A reform is awaited for years by sector and
Reflection is already successful in representative organizations. The objective is
to improve the quality of our nursing.

A single title?
establish a single title in nursing in higher education (a Master
3 + 1);
maintain quality training in secondary school for a profession
intermediate, with improved gateways to higher education.

4. The reform of medical education and dentistry
It is at the federal level that are trading quotas for access to the profession or the duration of the
training. This is also where prepares the land registry of health professions we
asking for years. But it is at the Communities that is organized
training.
Since 1997, the year of the introduction of quotas by the federal government, Flanders
passed an entrance examination. In Wallonia-Brussels, successive ministers
Higher Education changed repeatedly the legislation on access
to medical studies.
Currently, the continued increase in enrollment in these sectors threatens
quality of teaching and risks leaving many students in the lurch if
federal quotas are maintained.
123

Neither the students nor the academic authorities are pleased with the introduction of the new
system that establishes without saying a filter during the January session in the first year.

Proposal:
establishing a review of suitability for studies and one year of entry if propédeutique
too important deficiencies are identified, so that the young can be restored
level.
6. More flexibility in the student's course:
Bridges between the different higher education courses, but they
must be reflected depending on the student's interest. It should also be better
take into consideration the atypical professional and personal journey many
students.
Proposals:
focus gateways on the student;
improve structural funding valuation units gained experience
(VAE) within our institutions. The throughout life must take a training
more prominent than today.

7. Improve collaboration between higher education and public partners
Regions, provinces and municipalities are still only casual partners
for higher education institutions. Yet higher education is
an important economic actor, an employer and a service user.
Indirectly, the activity of our institutions of higher education has an impact on
the local economy: Horeca, housing, mobility, infrastructure use ...
For higher education of short type, the partnership with the socio-economic fabric
Local is vital.
Proposals:
create a permanent consultation platform of local actors and authorities
public concerned in the management and growth of educational institutions
superior ;
establish a register of student accommodation;
launch a Student Pass, at a moderate fixed price, which would give students access
some cultural infrastructure, sports, as well as public transport.

124

B. CULTURE

Artistic creation is not a simple subject among others. Here we come to the essence of
human being. Consequently, for our society based on human values
-at first and foremost, freedom - artistic creation symbolizes embodies authenticates
the entire project.
Liberal reformers emphasize the freedom to think, speak,
to undertake, to create, to work, to travel, to debate, to gather,
to teach, to demonstrate. But every work of creation symbolizes these freedoms!
When we talk about creating a kind of misplaced modesty tends to obscure the question
money. Yet always, artistic creation requires the means
the importance varies by discipline and subject: a philharmonic orchestra
expensive, and a monumental sculpture and filmmaking.
If they are needed, state aid should never be an opportunity or afford
"rights-pass" nor politically guide the work of an artist or an operator
cultural. In addition, they are largely inadequate. The reformers favor
developing the contribution of private funds, for example through the extension of the system taxshelter they have already implemented for the cinema, but also providing a form
secure legal patronage: it brings new funding and the artistic sector
Cultural, companies are better known and the public has a greater supply
Cultural at more affordable prices.
Cultural policy must aim the creation and dissemination. It is a condition
essential to personal development and a harmonious life together. She is
Moreover, particularly through the cultural industries, generating business
Economic.
The Federation Wallonia-Brussels benefits from the presence and activity of many
talents, some of which are known far beyond the borders. Many institutions
There are cultural dynamic and prestigious. An impressive number of artists,
producers, technicians, contributes every day to generate cultural offer
extremely dense. From all this, the Wallonia-Brussels Federation is proud to reason.
However, the sector remains precarious and highly dependent on public authorities and
policy. And this, to an audience that looks good ... more missing. This apparent
Chronic underfunding is partly explained by the fact that the Belgian government
deprive themselves of new sources of additional financing, mainly for
ideological reasons. At the end of two Community legislatures conducted without
Reform Movement, it is clear that the state of cultural management did
not improved. Virtually no progress has been achieved.

125

This lethargy slice painfully with the period where large
achievements were accomplished for the benefit of art and artists! Include, among other things,
the tax shelter mechanism to support the cinema copyright to 15%, the Theatre
Doms in Avignon for the export of theatrical creation, the revitalization of the Academy
Royale, the decree on subsidized arts to objectify this
subsidizing and ensure stability in the sector for the benefit of artists and the public,
creation of Wallimage, the organization of Francofolies in Belgium, increased
means for growing the benefit of artists and the public, the creation of offices
shoot (film commissions) increased presence in festivals and decision-making places,
cultural quotas for local artists to the RTBF, the Belgian Book Fair in Uccle, etc.
After ten years, we are entitled to ask the current majority: what did you do? The
sector was refinanced massively but nothing significant has contributed to increased
radiation artists. The budget for continuing education has increased
40% but there shall be no increase in the employment rate artists.
The art world is subservient to politics. The MR intends to release the artist and guarantee him
working conditions and creation worthy of the essential issues related to the
culture.
Proposals
Refinancing culture

The MR has always been a strong advocate of the cultural exception, that is to say taking
account in international trade negotiations and in the definition of
European policy, the specific nature of cultural works. These are not
simple commercial products and can therefore benefit from public aid. The MR
offers some additional features to the classic public aid.
1. Create a "Foundation for the Arts" encouraging individual donations
The "Foundation for the Arts" would aim to encourage cultural philanthropy and
support artistic creation (grants to authors, directors, musicians, visual artists,
dancers, choreographers, etc.). The Foundation will act as an intermediary between donors
(individuals) and artists / artistic projects. To avoid the question of choice
Redistribution, donors can directly select the artist / artistic project
beneficiary. This type of operation can usefully draw on the "Project accounts"
existing at the King Baudouin Foundation.
2. Develop sponsorship by public funding complements
This is to promote cultural philanthropy and encourage cultural operators
their sponsorship search efforts by granting a financial supplement. The
basic principle for € 1 obtained from a philanthropist, public authorities give 2
or 3; the part of the response, however, decreases with increasing amounts of the bearings
harvested. About the existing incentive mechanism in Quebec, "Patronage
126

Placements Culture ", see the presentation of the device and the positive results of the first six
years22: http://www.calq.gouv.qc.ca/publications/constats_22.pdf
3. Lift the cap on tax-deductible amounts in the sponsorship sector
The French Law of 1 August 2003 (Jean-Jacques Aillagon law, named after the Minister of
Culture under Chirac) has revolutionized the patronage: following the increase of the ceilings, the number
foundations in France has doubled and the amount invested is spent, around € 90 million
(2004) to € 494 million (2012), a factor 5. It should adopt a similar decree
Belgium.
4. Encourage the crowdfunding / by the crowd (crowdfunding)
This complementary financing system should take off thanks to the Internet and
social networks. It is a donation collection system and also a system that allows
to develop peer-to-peer lending. It should support and develop creative
Such platforms.
5. Develop a microcredit service
In Flanders, a microcredit service is available to artists. This device is
for natural persons, it is not accessible to legal entities (non-profit organization, sprl,
scrl, etc.). From 500 € to 7500 € These microloans are repayable in a period of 4 years. A
microcredit service could be implemented within the Start funds.
6. Reduce the VAT on digital books
Currently 21% VAT on the "digital" book should, according to the rules
European, be reduced to 6%, effective rate for the "paper" book (this alignment
rates exist in France and Luxembourg).
7. Extend the tax shelter
It is important to broaden the tax shelter in the entertainment sector. In this sense, there is a proposal
law amending the Tax Code on income 1992 on the extension of tax
shelter. February 27, 2013, DOC 53 2674/001.
We must resume while determining carefully the budget minimum required to avoid
not put out of scope for most of the sector's artistic activity
concerned.
It would be appropriate to broaden the tax shelter in the book industry as explained in the
following document: "Development of the digital book chain - Report to the
Minister of Culture, "in May 2012.23
22

See also: http://www.finances.gouv.qc.ca/documents/autres/fr/AUTFR_PhilanthropiqueCulturelle.pdf

23http://www.lettresetlivre.cfwb.be/fileadmin/sites/sgll/upload/sgll_super_editor/sgll_editor/documents/Analyse

_prospective_du_developpement_numerique_de_la_chaine_du_livre_Rapport_gr_experts_juin_2012.pdf

127

8. uncap the tax shelter
In this sense, there is a proposal to amend the Income Tax Code
1992 aimed at introducing various fiscal measures in favor of artistic activities,
28/3/2011, Senate, doc No. 5-988 / 1.
9. Develop modes of support for cultural and creative industries
Consider an intermediate mode between the support microcredit (max. € 7,500) and
aid from the Fund St'art (min. € 50,000). We propose to amend the statutes of the Fund St'art
to finance the average financing records.
10. Encourage public / private partnerships
PPP must be developed especially in the area of ​​digital and digitization
artistic creation and heritage. To this end, we advocate cooperation
with Sonuma (subsidiary of RTBF).
11. Support the international dissemination of artistic creations
Help public and private agencies to support international dissemination to
to increase the export of products and promote the influence of the FWB. He
need to streamline the various public agencies at work in the field
export and empower them an ambitious disclosure policy: WBTD,
WBM, WBDM, WBI, WBA ...
12. Devote dedicated tax in the tax return in order to allow the
taxpayer who wishes to use part of the amount he pays in
financing of culture.
13. Streamline greater cultural offer living subsidies so as to make
economies of scale

Public

14. Investing in education to arts and culture
Promote arts education returns in the medium term to increase the cultural demand.
In addition to the goals of emancipation through culture, develop education and the arts
Culture may, in the medium and long term, work to refinance culture.24 If various
action programs have links with young audiences and schools (the theater

24

cf. Ginsburgh, Champarnaud and Michel. "Can public arts education puts arts subsidization?"
http://www.ecares.org/ecare/personal/ginsburgh/papers/156.champarnaud.pdf

128

for Children and Youth, museobus the program "show at school," the operation
"Opening my daily life," etc.), the special department "Culture-Education» available in
2012 a budget of € 721,000, or 0.093% of the cultural budget. The goal should be worn
significantly increase the amount "Education-Culture" in order to give real
currently some extent ad hoc programs and develop new
initiatives.
For example, a program "Artist- 1 1 Work". Each class, from kindergarten to
secondary, could make a movie around it is an artistic work
literary, plastic, theatrical, musical, audiovisual, etc. These activities will be carried out
through collaborations between schools, cultural centers, academies, schools
Superior arts, etc.
15. Support democratically cultural demand of the public through the map
culture
It is possible to use part of the existing budget of this project to make the
culture more accessible to the public. Such a system must determine at least three parameters:
the target audience, the purpose of the benefit, hardware support. The culture card can contact
the entire population of a territory or to certain specific segments, eg
school populations. The subject can vary from one benefit (reduction for rooms
theater, a credit for the purchase of a book, etc.) or a more or less large panel
benefits (a checkbook-cultivation taking several discounts and free places). In
Actually, there are two types of device: the "culture vouchers" and "card culture". The
Culture cards require a larger investment (making cards ...) but
this system allows to track more precisely the use and to ensure that the
benefits are used by people to whom they are attributed.
The Ministry of FWB has recently developed several "benefits cards," destined
teachers and officials. This could possibly be a springboard
to develop a culture card intended initially to school populations.

Examples:
• In Brussels, the VGC has set up a free-pass time, the paspartoe, which awards
benefits for a set of cultural, sports or youth-related.
This card replaces the old check crop (Cultuurwaardebon) .25
• The Region Rhone-Alpes has established a culture that combines card and places offered
réductions.26
16. Ensure the free admission to museums for schoolchildren at the time of the year called for
"White days" in order to allow parents associations to take the
Students visit them.
25

http://www.vgc.be/Cultuur/AlgemeenCultuurbeleidKunstenEnErfgoed/Paspartoe

26http: //www.rhonealpes.fr/TPL_CODE/TPL_AIDE/PAR_TPL_IDENTIFIANT/173/18-les-aides-de-la-region-

Rhone-alpes.htm The platform dedicated to M'RA card: http://www.rhonealpes.fr/675-accueil-mra.htm

129

17. Support the cultural and creative economy is a new incubator
jobs.
The governance of culture

Artists and cultural operators are the key partners of public authorities in the
implementation of cultural policies. This partnership must be based on trust
Mutual excluding fussy and time control impulses. Cultural operators
should enjoy greater autonomy of action linked to greater responsibility
management subject to possible sanctions for non-compliance (confer
remarks of the Court of Auditors in its 25th book).
18. Remove subsidization of power from the hands of the minister and report instances
sovereign opinion by creating a "Council for the Arts."
In 2012, some 7800 grants were awarded to almost 3000 cultural operators
totaling € 285 million. We need an alternative system where the decision is to subsidize
removed from Minister to be placed in the hands of an independent body
who decides independently. It is the Quebec system. It is widespread in the world
Anglo-Saxon and is now available in France (but in a form that is not yet
completely free from administration). The Board of Directors would be appointed
Under key cultural pact and experts would be selected under criteria
equivalent to those scientific committees. Such a system allows to increase
artistic autonomy, reduce the influence of politics, trade associations
and other industry lobbies in the artistic choices. In addition, staff
the administration could no longer influence the choice. The administration of the Department of
Culture could take care to promote other policies rather than monitor
30 commissions.
19. Improving the operation of major cultural institutions
The MR can tolerate major cultural actors, equally talented as they are, are
outrageously favored over smaller cultural actors. Thus, the MR
recommends the following measures:
•
•
•
•

pass legislation capping large institutions responsible for the wages
cultural subsidized (which today sometimes rise to amounts much
too high).
Promote greater mobility to the head of the institutions by limiting in time
mandates in the management of major cultural institutions (max. two terms
Successive).
Ensure transparency of appointment procedures at the head of large
institutions (public call for applications, the jury composed of international experts, etc.)
Fostering artistic employment and compensation of artistic creators (authors,
etc.), including the registration of reporting obligations in contratsprogrammes
130

•
•

Appoint directors in proportion to the investments they make in
the institution concerned and thus open the doors to the CA private stakeholders and
businesses.
In choosing presiding renewal of subsidy, distinguish a fixed share (linked
compliance with the program) and a variable component (depending on income).

20. Fight against the instrumentalization of culture by politics
The continuing education sector picks up too large a share means for
the creation. It should ensure a more equitable distribution between culture professionals
and artists.
21. Increase the transparency of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation about the data
figures communicated in cultural policy (including the
budget allocated to continuing education).
22. Go Digital
The twenty-first century, many records management is too often on media
Paper (fifteen copies files, etc.), resulting in costs, delays and
harassment in the administrative monitoring of files. We must put in place procedures
simplified application by internet: Electronic form, etc.
23. Speeding up procedures
The pace of artistic creation often lies in the urgency and resents the
rivers procedures a year or two ... Such delays border on the absurd when it comes
to grant aid from 2000 or 3000 €. Decisions, positive or negative, must be
taken within a maximum period of three months (at least for the aid of EUR 7500
Maximum €).
24. Provide cultural operators of new management tools
The Mr proposes to provide to cultural operators of online benchmarking tools
management control material (particularly concerning management fees, energy,
maintenance services, printing, communications, etc.). This service should allow
operators to better and more quickly identify the budget items that may be
subject to economies.

Employment status and Artists

25. Making a cadastre of cultural employment and promote artistic employment within
subsidized cultural institutions
The latest study by the FWB on cultural employment was in 1994. It is
FWB essential that carries a register of artistic jobs, based on need
on the recent work on the matter at the ULB and the ULG. It is necessary to have a
131

accurate picture of the job created by cultural subsidies to ensure that the
artistic professions are not the have-account cultural policies. It is necessary
ensure that the development of professional support to artistic activities
not turn into cultural bureaucracy by issuing bonds of artistic jobs
for mainly financed by government operators.
26. Maintain / Increase reducing employer contributions for engagement
Artists
Since 200327, reduced employer contributions for specific sector
applied to "artists" workers. Following the agreement on the State reform in 2011, this
reduction will be regionalized. Care must be taken when transferring to maintain or even increase
this reduction cotisations.28
27. Access to unemployment benefits
A facilitation approach is to reduce the number of days required for the granting of
allowances as it exists already for particular workers: 216 instead of 312, etc. A
good example is the proposed law amending the Royal Decree of 25 November 1991
unemployment regulations regarding artists (R. Miller, G. and J. Deprez
Brotchi), 28/1/2011, Senate, doc No. 5-743 / 1. Furthermore, it is appropriate that technicians
artistic sector enjoy the benefit calculation rule work benefits
open the right to unemployment benefits enjoyed by workers performing
artistic performances.

28. Access to the protection of intermittent concerning the right to allowances
unemployment
Determine a reasonable number of mandatory annual benefits for accèsau
intermittent status. In consultation with the social partners and professionals, the MR
considers it necessary to find a reasonable middle ground between the anterior position (there
enough three services per year, which, in the same part of Associations
Professional is absurd) and regulations established by the Minister De Coninck
setting this to 156 services.
29. Adapting the concept of "inappropriate use"
The inappropriate notion of employment is currently modeled on access to protection
the intermittent, ie on achieving delivery 156 days per year. In order to
ensure greater coherence, the required number of days for which the artist is not
subject to the disappearance of the concept of non-suitable employment is expected to decline to stay

27 AR 2005 July 3 Royal Decree amending the Royal Decree of 23 June 2003 on measures concerning
reduction in social security contributions for the artist.
28 In 2011, according to the worker's home, the amount of the reductions amounted for the Brussels Region
€ 5,965,816.5, and for the Walloon Region € 3,003,359.

132

same as allowing to escape the full degression of allowances
unemployment (see previous point).

Various

30. Exploiting new skills "bicultural" of the Brussels Region
The sixth state reform grants the Brussels Region cultural skills
subjects "of regional interest bicultural" (excluding government institutions). One must use
this new power to co-finance EU institutions - Wiels, Flagey,
etc. - To develop aid for cultural and creative industries, to renovate
CRB buildings, etc.
31. Promote more open to culture and Flemish communities
German by developing cultural cooperation agreements beyond
linguistic borders, to ensure solidarity between the three Regions and
also reduce the administrative burden of the launch of
inter-cultural projects.
32. Develop an access to arts education system based system
French with entrance exams demanding to strive for excellence and
professionalism through quality supervision.
33. Create a high school dance. This item appears in the decree creating
Higher Education Arts but was never implemented.

34. Ensure the cultural promotion of the image of Brussels, with real visibility
(both physically and through electronic and social networks) for both
tourists and Brussels, to emphasize the dynamic aspects,
diverse, innovative and promising of the Brussels Region.
This happens, for example, by attempts to recognize Brussels as capital
European cultural and promoting a quality contemporary architecture
especially for iconic locations and finally create a contemporary art museum
worthy of Brussels.

133

The press
35. Ensuring Freedom of the press. It is essential to ensure pluralism of opinions and
the independence of journalists. We must avoid excessive concentration or
a monopoly, media actors.
The audiovisual sector
The MR intends to guarantee access to audiovisual services quality. The attention of authorities
Government will focus on the interests of consumers. This can be assured that
by maintaining or restoring fair competition between operators, a
balance between private and public operators and an ad hoc regulation. Furthermore,
RTBF must be the showcase of artistic productions.
Proposals:
36. Remove "radio and TV fee" tax in the Walloon Region, which is tax
now entitled in a broader ("lump regional tax ').
37. Establish terrestrial digital radio (DAB), which implies assistance
for the cost of public issuers center and assistance to their radios
help manage the transition to this technology model (DAB +). As to
small structures, they could benefit amounts from the "Fund
help to create Radiophonique ".
38. Review the status of the RTBF company, today inadequate, to make it more
performance through technological developments while ensuring the
employment protection.
39. Submit advertising RTBF to the following limits:
• return to a ceiling of 25% from commercial advertising in
RTBF annual resources;
• strict control of scheduling limitations of time devoted to advertising;
• Markup internet advertising;
• prohibition on sponsorship of programs viewed by children.
40. Fight against waste by streamlining certain structures of the RTBF.
The flowchart of RTBF is excessive complexity: it possesses sites
Brussels, Liège, Charleroi, Namur and Mons. Many services are too
complex (too many cells, chiefs and sub-chiefs).
41. Strengthen collaboration of local television WallonieBruxelles Federation with RTBF. They are complementary: local television have
great social utility and can deliver content while RTBF can
provide technical and logistical support. Ultimately, we must encourage the development
local television on the Flemish model (profitability, modernization,

134
Streamlining the television offer, outsourcing of technical teams to
private firms, etc.).
42. At the will of the RTBF to attract and capture all the public (via the three
TV channels and radio stations 5), substitute the will to produce content
unique, singular, unparalleled in the world. The increasing diversification
the offer is not tenable in the long term. This market is undergoing a revolution and will
diversifying constantly (it was only because it is increasingly subject to the
international competition and that the non-linear media consumption (via
computers, tablets, pda, etc.) increases permanently).
43. Focus on quality and create eg a weekly political talk show in
evening like "The Words and Acts or" Crosswords "or" Villa Politica "
released in Flanders on Canvas chain. It would take place during the week and would
only political scene (one or a very few faces a
incisive journalist). In support of this idea:
• that is replicable in Belgium. The proof: it is a reality in Flanders
it works well;
• it would allow political reporters that account RTBF exercise
their talents not only in radio but also television;
• it is likely to give a taste of the political debate to Belgian citizens.
The Belgians are crazy about French policy in particular because of its
theatricality;
• Belgium is changing. According to surveys, the protest vote will
significant in the next election. A program of this nature
would lie to those who believe that the "system" (in which the parties
traditional and RTBF itself are similar) is locked and
unable to challenge.
Fighting against illegal downloading
Currently are appearing on the Net a whole new business model revolutionizing
the area. This explains the nervousness of cultural Major that are not yet adapted to
this inevitable development. They are missing a huge financial windfall as the offer
streaming products and fast download sorely lacking. Rather
kissing change and adapt to the music and film industries
begin to back their customers. In the long term, the market always wins, which presages a
doom for these big players if they do not change their minds in the industry ...
musical, significant changes have already taken place: one can buy or listen online
via iTunes, Spotify or Deezer. These sites correspond to a liberal logic win-win:
•
•

The consumer (user) pays cultural cheaper and has access to a diversity
phenomenal cultural products
The artist can disseminate their work and at the global scale may be better paid
that now.

135

Copyright exists and the legislative arsenal in the different European states proves
normally sufficient to fight against piracy. The problem is when the server
is hosted in countries outside of Europe, it is difficult to enforce the
law. A change is needed. This can be done attentively to
technological change and without favoring outrageously industry at the expense of
artists. We must beware of too repressive and draconian approach to this matter because
otherwise, the same logic, one would come to import a police logic in
social networks and violate the right to privacy.
Proposal:
44. Introduce a flat tax on ISPs. Indeed, it has become
impossible, unless an intrusion into private life, know what that downloads
and when. This tax would compensate artists. She would be
comparable to the tax introduced on blank DVD in the 90 Currently,
Auvibel is responsible for collecting and distributing the remuneration for
private copying in the audiovisual field on physical media. For its part,
Reprobel, allows the removal of a comparable tax on photocopies. There
download technology is now sufficiently developed enough
used and widespread as to adopt a tax of this kind aimed files
audiovisual immaterial. We must modernize the applicable policy to the economy
digital:
- By providing more legal certainty for citizens when they use the
creative content online,
- Allowing the expansion of new legitimate online services within a framework
safer and
- Ensuring a proper remuneration of right holders for the use of
their works in the digital age.

136

Family
Findings
The family is the true basis of our society. It has evolved over the last
decades; new and varied forms of union, and parenting
"Intergenerational" grew but the challenge remains to provide support to each
and everyone in his life choices.
A family policy that listens and responds to the needs of families, must be put in
work with its center in an effective and strong Childhood Policy, which takes account of
needs of each child and where outweigh his interest and welfare. Should be strengthened
support for parenthood and the fight against child abuse and the protection of rights
of the child. We must also better support and mentor young people in their activities but
also promote reconciliation initiatives between generations.
As such, we are particularly pleased with the forthcoming establishment of the Tribunal
Family and Youth, historical change in our legal landscape. This
court will have to know the entire litigation related to the family and was
long overdue. It will nevertheless we remain attentive to its implementation
effective and implementation within it of the International Convention on Children's Rights,
including his right to be heard.
A. Childhood
Findings
An offer to host early childhood strengthened qualitatively and quantitatively must
be a political priority, which is not the case today. It should allow
better reconcile family and professional life: no solution
Home is one of the main pitfalls to employment and vocational training,
especially for women. The search for a home site became a real
source of stress for parents, even before the birth of the child!
The different programming creation of childcare places for children from 0 to 2.5
years, called Stork Plans, launched in 2003 by the current Minister of Early Childhood
have not met the objectives in the creation of places: still missing
Today more than 8,500 places to achieve the original goal of a room for 3
children and the gap between sub-regions is widening more and more. For MR, the objective can not
be to simply join this European standard of 33% coverage rate

137

but to aim for 100% possibility of childcare places in order to give the choice to all
parents and all children.
The 3rd Plan Stork has just been launched, not far from the end of the legislature,
proposing the creation of 16,000 places by 2022 but the majority of these new places are
is provided at the end of the period as it is today the need is acute. In
especially if one takes into account the population boom in the Brussels-Capital Region. All subsidizing is not possible; it is necessary to rush out of the frame
putting priority to ideological funded that does not allow for more formulas
flexible and faster operational flourish. The MR is therefore convinced that
look for diversity, innovative solutions and facilitate as much as possible
partnerships with businesses.
Furthermore, the MR is fighting for years for the establishment of a complete status
under agreement welcoming which dragged for a long time but negotiations
now seem to touch their end: they are indeed at the negotiating stage,
mainly budgetary, between the federal government and the social partners and
federations. This will represent a crucial step for the area to which it should be
stay alert.
Finally, we must also know that the vast majority of parents are in favor of hours
crèche opening from 6am to 22h and the demand for point guards, the
weekend or evening grows, it was only to meet the shift schedule to jobs,
breaks or at night in some areas. Financial solutions must be found
for the inflexible childcare subsidies.
The MR is also convinced that frequent a host environment and class
maternal allows socialization and helps to improve the chances of success
children, particularly for small whom French is not the language spoken at home.
That is why we advocate also, in parallel, to a lowering
the age of compulsory education. The hospitality industry of children during their free time,
especially schools of duties must also be urgently upgraded for the same
reasons.

Proposals:
1. Modify any regulations for early childhood home environments
to allow more flexibility, flexibility and innovation:
- Maximize the reception capacity by allowing a higher enrollment rate to 100%
to avoid empty seats in case of illness or other absences children
- Harmonize supervisory standards and required training, particularly between
Home environments subsidized and unsubsidized
138

- Create flying nursery teams to replace the (co) welcoming sick,
training or leave and make childcare
- Authorize the association of more than 2 conventionnées welcoming or autonomous if they
want to reduce their costs / operating costs
- Enable the opening hours broader and more flexible
- Encourage childcare facilities that meet specific needs of parents such as
drop-in centers, night guards or daycare for sick children
- Allow the staff of host communities to exercise after age 65 if desired
- Supervise nanny service at home and formulas to babysitting
develop safe and ensuring quality
- Allow the work of volunteers in host communities as in other
services of ONE
2. Increase the supply of childcare places, through the employers and businesses:
- Revise the SEMA Plan (Employers Synergy - Home environments) to make the last
attractive and less costly for the employer
- Encourage the creation of "real" enterprise nurseries where the seats can be
reserved for employees
- Support the creation of intercompany crèches managed by a company which is the core
business
- Provide the possibility for companies to book seats in different environments
Home, depending on the employees' homes
- Encourage public-private partnerships
3. Better support parents and help them in their research:
Establish, in each municipality or association of municipalities, a wicket
unique local childcare where parents can find all the information on
host environments available in the area.

139

B. Children / Youth Support
d. Youth
Findings
Often demonized or infantilized, the world of young people generally behind the vehicle
it a negative image. We are interested in teenagers or more broadly to 12-25 years
in the event of delinquency, abuse of alcohol / drugs or are victims of
abuse more often than to know their opinion on a particular theme. And yet,
is to render a disservice to these future adults than locking them into a
or classes where they are told what he must think, do, say. On the contrary, the
time to give them all the best weapons to make citizens
officials and critics. To give them a future, richer than just duty
fight against poverty or seek employment. A society where young people can do
no future plan, is not an acceptable society.
Among these young fortunately, many would agree, whether in
youth organizations and other associations, who speak, who go to
discover the world. It is the duty of public authorities to encourage them to the
support at all levels in their transition to adulthood, involve them as much
as possible in decision-making, listening to their ideas and grievances, empower.
This is, after all, the future of our democracy soil ... Young people are a source of
creativity, critical porters, social change, new technologies and
dynamism.
Regarding the results of this legislature, we are bleak. Indeed,
Youth organizations are represented on the Youth Council which
composition and organization are to be reviewed by decree by the Minister of
Youth without much respect for freedom of association nor the cultural pact. It
also spoke throughout the legislature of an ambitious 'Youth Plan' which does
summarizes currently only support for cross-cutting projects, intersectoral and
interdepartmental, for which the first study to be launched in 2014 and which looks
therefore more a slogan on a beautiful empty shell in spite of the allocated budgets. The stable budget
throughout the legislature allowed, admittedly, renovate and secure
certain infrastructure OJ.
Proposals:
- Take into account the youth in all policies: housing, employment, mobility,
safety, health, etc. ;
- Encourage young people, including young newcomers, to engage, either
in youth and other organizations, to speak, from seeing the world
140

rather than contain about themselves; encourage them, including young primoarrivants, to join the associative fabric, be it youth, cultural, sporting or otherwise,
ensuring that they have good easy access to all the information on it and
therefore support all these youth associations in the long term;
- Simplify and ensure the transparency of the administrative steps vis-à-vis the
Youth Service and other levels of government, including review of the system
extraordinary subsidies (eg the submission of applications is carried out according
train times, responses arrive associations all too often after the
realization of the activity);
- Increase support, including the French Community - Wallonia
Brussels, actions and infrastructure of youth organizations, homes and centers
Young, who perform educational work background and affect tens of
thousands of young people every day, every weekend and during school holidays + find
Finally, a lasting solution to the lack of tents which these young people need every summer
to their camps;
- Support also collective projects of non-organized young people and ensure that
it is integrated in the political-youth dialogue;
- Encourage projects bridges between the worlds of education and organizations
Youth in terms of provision of infrastructure outside of school hours
and / or during school holidays;

e. Youth Support
Findings
According to the latest figures available, 40,234 young people have been supported at least one day
by the services of the youth welfare in 2011. The very large majority (38 219 young people is
95% of those affected) are youth at risk or in danger. Of the 95% of young
in difficulty: 60% are taken care of in the middle of life, 40% in accommodation.
The main achievement of the legislature was the modification of the decree on assistance to the
youth that provides for strengthening prevention through the creation of structures
consultation between the youth with industry and the education sector.
The aim of the various measures proposed by the MR is to lay the foundations for
global policy for Children with a capital "E" to better prevent situations of
suffering, either neglect or abuse it physical, psychological, sexual
or institutional.

141

The various proposals are articulated around three axes: prevention and
accompanying the child from an early age, the various departments
relevant for young people at risk and a comprehensive, multisectoral
assistance to youth.

Focus 1: Prevention and support
Today, a child can grow up in a vacuum until the age of 6 years, the age requirement
school. If the child is not enrolled in an early childhood home environment nothing
obliges parents that the child be seen by a physician or a specialist
childhood, a TMS, for example.
The child may be abused or neglected without nobody can
detect before arriving at school. From that moment, the school becomes a relay, teachers,
educators, PMS centers can detect an abusive situation. But 6 years
it's already late for a child who has suffered, the work to be done to help rebuild
is considerable.
Acting at birth could prevent a child evolves in an adverse environment for
and develop its fulfillment. It must accompany a child or his family
difficulty, to ensure that children can grow as smoothly as possible and
become responsible adults.
Improving prevention concretely through coaching from the youngest
age, the goal is also to reduce the number of young offenders and thus Spaces
IPPJ. Acting on the cause and not deal with the consequences. More sooner we act, the less
damage will be significant.
Prevention from an early age is not sufficient in itself. For young people in danger,
it must also be accompanied by any monitoring measures throughout the development of
the child to better understand his "trajectory".
For them, the MR advocates the creation of a "red thread", a unique record of the child
follow up its majority. The child's book NEB could play that role, history
Medical child from birth is indicated and can be accessed by services
specialist if necessary. It is a living book that should follow the development of the child and
allow each stage of its growth adequate support. This will
to act sooner in case of family difficulties, prevent abuse through a
support for parents, families and, most serious fact that would require
placement.
142

To avoid fragmentation and the potential danger associated with it, the MR proposes to organize
one or more systematic consultations for children up to the age of the obligation
school to ensure the quality of support and care for the child. It
ensure the harmonious development of the child while respecting freedom of choice
parents about their care provider (general practitioner, pediatrician, ONE ...).
In the same way that all children stay in a middle class home
4 undergo compulsory medical examinations (at the entrance, around 9 and 18 months and out), it
should be possible to consider this type of medical examination for all children, even if they
not attending a host environment.
Today, all moms who return home after childbirth do not
necessarily had contact with the NEB to maternity or taking a visit
home. From birth, visit the NEB must be organized either motherhood (in
depending on agreements with hospitals), or the homes of relatives. A follow-up should be
made.
Although risk zero does not exist, some tragedies could be avoided with a minimum
support families and child monitoring. By making some consultations
systematic, we make a tour of MSD and a possibility of intervention
Quick.
Proposals:
- Preventing situations of abuse from an early age in order to identify children and
struggling families and provide the necessary assistance to ensure development
serene child. Up to six years of compulsory schooling age, a child can live in mud
closed, without contact with the outside and be a victim of abuse or neglect without
nobody can detect it. We must therefore strengthen the prevention and detection of
abuse from an early age;
- Create a single folder, a "red thread" of the young in danger who follow him until his
majority while respecting the rights and privacy, in order to better know its "
trajectory ". This will ensure that the child has been seen by a person
external to the family;
- Organize one or more systematic consultations for children to ensure
quality of support and care for the child and thereby ensure its
harmonious development. This must be done while respecting the freedom of choice
parents about their care provider (general practitioner, pediatrician, ONE, ...);

143

Axis 2: Intervention for youth at risk.
1. Each child his notebook and its reference TMS
Each child should have a medical social worker (TMS) as reference. Today,
TMS role of the NEB is clearly defined for children aged 0-6 years, there is a
real parenting support.
This reference TMS must be alerted by any person who suspects a situation
danger. To facilitate dialogue between these people, we must rely on the concept of
"Shared professional secrecy" that is to say the ability to share professional secrecy
with people who are themselves bound by professional secrecy and pursue
the same objectives, namely, the welfare of the child.
The reference TMS must be able to create a relationship of trust with the family. After a
first contact, it must be able to establish with the support required
family and then bring in the most appropriate service (SIIF, ESIS, etc.) if necessary.
It must be both the obvious link to the child and his family and the link with other services
assistance to youth, foster families, institutions if necessary. It is the one and
single reference for the child, the person from whom the child in danger can count all
Throughout his career, until adulthood.
It is therefore essential to rethink the place of the ONE and medical social workers in the
early care of children at risk and increase field staff to ONE.
2. Strengthen the role of SOS Children
The SOS Children teams must be at the forefront because it is the only service that is
possible to contact bypassing the SAJ or SPJ to denounce a situation of
suspected abuse.
Their effectiveness is proven, their fundamental role, these structures should be better used
before taking in charge by the youth assistance.
The role of the ONE SOS Children teams must be strengthened. They must have an
antenatal throughout Wallonia-Brussels (today only in Liege
and Brussels).
They must be able to constitute a relay for the reference TMS.

144

We must therefore further support SOS Children teams in their action by evaluation
their situation and greater deployment (budget, number, coordination with the
SAJ, multidisciplinary and medical aspects, ...).

3. Strengthen training to people facing situations
abuse
Anyone who might be faced with an abusive situation in
specialist circles child is to be formed adequately to better
assess risk, danger and to better respond to the family concerned.
The reference TMS must remain the trusted person who will supervise the child until
the situation is considered normal. It must be the link between family and
other services of the AJ, the contact must remain!
To enable it to perform this vital mission for the future of the child, it must
enhance their status, enhance training. Today, TMS holds a degree
nurse, midwife or social worker. Upon taking office, he receives
Also theoretical training (medical concepts, legal and related knowledge
child development) and benefits from the support of a tutor for
transmission of a certain know-how.
Furthermore, it is essential to step up training for the "good treatment" (benevolence) to
the prevention and detection of abuse including for public contacting
with youth (teachers, professors, educators, staff of PES / PMS, monitors
youth organizations, educators, ...).
4. accommodation or assistance in living environment
The spirit of the 1991 Decree on youth assistance, strengthened by the declaration of
Community Policy 2009, gives priority to help live.
This choice deserves at least a reflection. If the choice of maintaining the living environment
seems obvious to any child in difficulty rather than an investment, we must
however, be aware of dangers that this can pose to children (risk
physical, psychological, ...)
News revealed various atrocious facts about young children. Babies beaten
even within the family unit and which in many cases lose their lives in
unspeakable conditions. The cases of children placed in institutions by the judge or family
145

Home who are abused again when they return to their biological parents
exist, we must not close our eyes.
A balance between the investment at any price and maintaining family at all costs must be
find. We must accept the fact that the behavior of some parents is harmful and that
safety and well-being of the child are threatened.
The institutions should be reviewed to ensure that the accommodation is open to those
who really need and that a child can not be returned to the family for one and
sole reason that there is more room.
The development and professionalization of the non-residential sector should be encouraged
as well as the development of foster families and sponsorship, including,
on a qualitative and quantitative in order to improve the care and offer
location and optimal conditions to help the child to build. Priority should be given
foster families rather than institutions and enhance their status.
Proposals:
- Strengthen the role of SOS Children teams of ONE particular prevention
abuse. They must have a prenatal service anywhere Federation
Wallonia-Brussels (now only in Liège and Brussels). This reinforcement is
all the more essential that at present we are facing a demographic boom,
particularly in Brussels, which requires an increase in destinations Services
children;
- Strengthen training in the prevention and detection of abuse including
for public in contact with young people. We must give them the tools to identify
dangerous situations for youth and to contact the appropriate services. This requires
including through the establishment of a dialogue between the various stakeholders;
- The child to remain in the family should not be systematic. We must ensure that the
safety and well-being of the child are ensured by maintaining the child within the
family. Some families are harmful to the development of the child, maintaining
the child in it can not be envisaged. The child's interest must prevail at all
decision.
- Encourage vocation to become foster families, for example through the granting of status
for them, in particular to allow children to be placed with families,
rather than in institutions when the behavior of the child's family is deemed harmful
for its development.

146

Axis 3: Global Approach to the youth assistance
In backdrop of these proposals appears the need to rethink
the approach to youth welfare. During its development, the child will be
led to different worlds rub shoulders, be it education, the sports world,
NEB and sometimes also of the youth assistance without there being a necessity
dialogue between these different sectors.
Unfortunately, we see too often that children at risk are already known
services but that the difficulties of coordination between different actors have failed
to prevent the facts of abuse. These actors must talk. It is necessary
exceed the institutional logic.
Collaboration between child including areas of youth welfare and
teaching should be encouraged. This requires better coordination between
stakeholders and simplifying procedures. We must ensure that the different
services complement while respecting each other's work.
Today we lack a real continuity between the various supported and
absolute will to ensure that the future of the child takes precedence over the type of institution or
intervener who at one point involved.
At present, there are including cooperation protocols between the SAJ and the NEB,
between SAJ - SPJ and SOS Children teams but also between the CPAS and counselors and
Directors of the youth assistance but this remains insufficient.
We therefore need a thread around the child and stakeholders must become the
obvious partners of it and his parents. This is not through the creation of
new structures but rather by removing barriers between different services
to create conditions for a dialogue can be established between the different actors,
and in the child's interest. Institutional barriers should not be an obstacle to
development and well-being of a child!
Proposals:
- Strengthen training in the prevention and detection of abuse including
for public in contact with young people. We must give them the tools to identify
dangerous situations for youth and to contact the appropriate services. This requires
including through the establishment of a dialogue between the various stakeholders;
- Strengthen partnerships with different sectors that are in contact with
including children in child sectors, assistance to youth and education.
This requires better coordination between stakeholders and simplification of
147

procedures. We must break down barriers these sectors, facilitating dialogue between
different stakeholders. It simply must talk to these people. Health and
safety of a child may be endangered by a lack of dialogue between
actors!

2. Family
to. Social parenthood
The increased role of close relatives, such as grandparents, and bonds of affection which
may develop if stepfamilies must open a reflection on
social parenthood. This concept covers cases where a social role, but also educational and
Protection is exercised in relation to the child without the person has for him no
legal existence.
Proposal:
- Open a reflection on the concept of social parenthood and consider allocating a
person who is involved or is involved in a parenting function some of the effects
side of a legal relationship of filiation, as visiting rights, without touching the
parentage of the child as such;
- Allow the social parent to bequeath his property also favorable conditions
it helps the child to raise.
b. Parenting support
The parenting support should not be understood only in a financial sense and in
natalist a goal. Nowadays, it also means support parents in their
new role and put everything in place and available to them for the purpose of welfare
the child. Without of course interfering in family life. It is also to do everything to
allow parents to better reconcile family and professional life.
Proposals:
- Expanding relationships and meeting places between parents eg. meeting places
parent-child / children's homes and the NEB set up a listening network, support
and support to parents, via the ONE for all families
- Develop awareness raising and training to
volunteers or professional speakers
- Support and develop paternity leave and upgrade the role of fathers
family organization

148

- Helping young girls who, despite being Education for Sexual Life, and relational
affective in school, become pregnant as teenagers, voluntarily or not. The
Many of these teenage mothers (1400) has unfortunately increased in recent
years, but the devices at their disposal are often not sufficient: a study on
needs for social housing or home environment for young parents of 16-20 years;
support hangouts parent-child is aimed primarily at young parents;
promote distance education during pregnancy of the girl and her first
month mom.

c. Family allowances
The sixth state reform has now dragged this matter in the lap of the entities
federated. It is therefore an amount as it rises to 2013 for example 6.8
billion. Reform inserts family allowances in the list of contents
Customizable protected by the Constitution (art. 23) and transfers the jurisdiction over the
matter at the earliest on 1 January 2016 and no later than 31 December 2019. During this
time, the Federal Government will continue to provide the administrative burden and payment.
Although transferred the family allowance scheme must ensure the continuity of the system
Current and imperatively continue to cover the basic needs of children.
Proposals:
- Ensure the payment of family allowances. Whatever the level of power
now grants the benefit, it is essential that they be paid in time and
hours. It is therefore necessary to ensure the correct functioning and liquidation of
family allowances to the beneficiaries and ensure the most similar conduct policies
possible on the matter in Wallonia and Brussels.
- Strive for equality gradually the amount of the allowance granted to each
child: the difference in the amount of the allowance according to the place of the child among siblings
(rank) is not justified. That is why in the budget available, the MR
supports the equal amount of the allowance granted to each child regardless
the composition of the family. These new amounts will not, however, apply only
births following the entry into force of new legal provisions and excluding
children receiving an increased allocation plan (children with a disability,
orphans, etc.).

d. Adoption
Adoption is a rich and serious family project. A reform has been implemented
at the Wallonia-Brussels Federation to respond to changing situations
Adoption: decreasing number of young children and healthy compared to
number of adopters especially international adoption, lack of offers for children
149

special needs (disabilities in siblings or older), children's growing research
adopted on their origins, etc. It helped put forward the basic principle
which allows the adoption to find a family to a child, and not the reverse. Some
practices could however be further improved.
Proposals:
- To facilitate as much as possible at all levels of origins research, including
Federal by a Royal Decree of application of art. 368-7 of the Civil Code to determine
the limits, and by devoting the necessary staff and appropriate places without
prejudice to the introduction of specific rules on anonymous birth.
- Establish an intermediate status for babies 'pending approval' during the 2
month of the mother thinking where nothing is prescribed by law for the termination of the 'pupils
State 'and to solve problems domiciliation, mutual, parental authority,
etc. facing social workers, nurses, nurseries;
- Allow anonymous childbirth to prevent abandonment of children or
births in inappropriate places and in precarious conditions.
Accompanying this measure of a possibility for the child who has reached a sufficient age
reconnect later with his biological mother, with the agreement of the latter.
- Work actively to improve the situation of adoptions for couples
gay authorized since the 2006 law but are often prevented by the refusal
biological mothers (domestic adoptions) or country (adoptions
international).

e. Elders
The aging population and increased life expectancy represent a
challenge and an opportunity for our society. If he is not really in our
cultures to live in extended families and keep parents / grandparents at home, he
However, there is way to find a way of integrating older people in
our lives and find their place in a large family cells. Their experience is
important to share with young people and this exchange also helps to fight against
the respective isolation.
Proposals:
- Actively support the creation of intergenerational housing in all its forms ,:
Kangaroo housing, shared intergenerational housing, student housing with a
elderly etc.

150

- Develop also grouped housing and community as an alternative to
nursing home, in connection with the home support policy (see health section)
- Do not lose the skills of older people / pensioners by offering them
volunteer opportunities, especially with children (homework schools, home time
free, etc.) and young people (training, internships) and also allows them to remain active
- Encourage initiatives for exchanges of experience among graduates and people at the end
Career / pensioners

C. Young and social media
The Internet penetration and use of communication technologies continue to
grow significantly worldwide and offer every citizen of
Significant opportunities and countless. However, risks to children and abuse
of these technologies continue to exist and, because of changing technologies and
societal behaviors, new risks and abuses appear. The challenge for
those who are responsible for the safety of miners is to understand these
changes in time and to develop strategies to measure the new
risks appear. Protect children from content and illicit behavior and
harmful online should be a constant concern as ever
evolution.
In 2010, the European Scientific Network conducted the survey Eu Kids Online29, funded
Programme of the European Commission's Safer Internet. More than 25 000 children 9-16
years, internet users and their parents were interviewed in 25 countries
European. The results reveal that the use of Internet is now very much part of
the daily life of children: 93% of 9-16 years are going online at least once a
week and 60% every day or almost every day; 59% of 9-16 years have a profile on
a social network 26% have a public profile accessible to everyone. Children go
Online also increasingly young: the average age at first access is 7 years
Denmark and Sweden, and 8 years in several other countries in Northern Europe. It is apparent
Also from this survey that the internet diversify: If 87% is used to
house (87%), 49% do so in their bedroom and 33% via a mobile phone or
another portable device.
Children are active users of online technologies. Often they are
the first to assimilate and use, and this phenomenon is growing. However, as
underline the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union: "Although
Children and adolescents are skilled users of online technologies and are
aware of the risks as well as ways to deal with it, they do not all mature
which would allow them to assess the situations in which they may be neither
possible consequences of their decisions. Moreover, they rarely share
29

Haddon, Leslie and Livingstone, Sonia EU Kids Online: national perspectives. EU Kids Online, The London
School of Economics and Political Science, London, UK.

151

business online experiences with their parents or teachers, and it was not until last
spring they turn to them for help. "30
The online environment offers children many possibilities of interactivity and
participation. This also means that they must make choices that will not be available to them
normally and which in many cases related to their own safety. In addition, risks
the environment in online and offline converge, and although most children and
teenagers are aware of the risks and precautions to be taken, they take
not necessarily or may not act in the safest way when
communicate in the online environment.

1) The risks facing young people online:
According to figures provided by the European Commission, four out of ten report
have been exposed to risks online, such as cyberbullying, content
Personal promoting anorexia or self-harm, or the misappropriation of their
personnelles.31 data
Some teens may lack awareness and do not question
necessarily about the type of messages, photos or videos they post online. These
young users are sometimes far from realizing the magnitude of their actions and impacts
longer-term potential. Indeed, what is put online stays online and in this sense
some young people may be faced with various problems, especially when
comes time to find employment.
The EU Kids Online survey also provided interesting data on the risks
faced by children online. According to the survey, online communication with
strangers would be the most common risk. This would be the case 30% of 9-16 users
years who say they have already communicated on the Internet with someone he did not know
in real life. It is, however, much rarer than those children encounter
contact. 9% of children say they have met face to face a known person online
the year preceding the survey. Although 9-10 years are the least likely to have
practiced this kind of meeting, they would be most likely to have been disrupted by
meeting (31% of those who practiced this type of meeting offline). The second risk
the most common, according to EU Kids Online, is the exposure to harmful messages set
Online by Internet users. It concerns 21% of 11-16 years: hate messages (12%),
proanorexiques (10%), calls for self-harm (7%), to taking drugs (7%) or
suicide (5%). Finally, 15% of 11-16 years reported receiving sexual images or messages
in exchange "peer to peer" and almost a quarter of those who received this type of
message said they were disturbed "enough" half or "a lot".

30

Proposal for a Decision of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a Community program
Multiannual to protect children when using the Internet and other technologies
communication, February 27, 2008, page 2
31
Communicate release of the European Commission: "Digital Agenda: Towards a Safer Internet
more interesting for children and teens "2 May 2012 IP / 12/445

152

The EU Kids Online survey also reveals that more than half of parents know that
their children are exposed to dangerous content, messages or exchange sex
meet in real life people met online. Although most
parents think it's important to talk to their children about their online activities (70%)
and attempt to establish a dialogue, the use by the control of technical devices relatives
is relatively low. Few are aware of tools to reduce risk: a
Just over a quarter (28%) of parents block or filter certain websites or watch
the history of sites visited by their children (24%).
How to prevent these risks and protect youth online safety.
To protect young people of the risks associated with the use of lines technologies, it is
necessary to act both as regards harmful and illegal conduct leading to
physical and psychological damage, in respect of young people trained to mimic these
behavior and thereby cause damage to themselves and to others. It is necessary
find solutions to prevent intentional proposals adults
children, through information technologies and communications, to engage
sexual abuse or commit any other crime or offense (terrorist recruitment,
incitement to hatred, sectarian recruitment, data misuse
personal ...)
To fight against Internet predators, the MR has obtained the inclusion in the Penal Code
a specific offense. The proposal of MR, April 3, 2014 passed in the House,
aims to fight against Internet luring and luring a child on the Internet by introducing the
Penal Code specifically criminalized.
The adult who communicates online with a minor or a person he believes mineur32
in order to later commit a criminal or tort for it must
be punishable, that these contacts result in the commission of a crime or not.
This is the predatory behavior during the decoy phase and handling and abuse
the vulnerability of children that this device is to blame. The content of
chats, messages and all exchanges made through
communication technologies generally will establish intent
cyprédateur of unlawful or criminal.
Although in practice, criminal intent is often cyberprédateur
committing sexual abuse against the minor, luring can have different
purposes. Indeed, the cyberprédateur can manipulate his prey for aggression
sex, exhibitionism, child pornography, but also pimping
for kidnapping, physical assault, incitement, recruitment
terrorist, sectarian recruitment, misuse of personal data, ...
A) Collaboration with Providers for clear identification of minors on the Internet and
better protection of personal data.
Although it must be admitted that minors often mastered better than adults tool
IT and Internet in particular, they are nonetheless vulnerable.

32

This is to allow the use of special investigation techniques

153

This legal peculiarity, that they should be able to enjoy protection
particular but also clearly identified in cyberspace.
The materiality of the "real" world allows relatively easy to check the status of one hand
minor, on the other hand it has many of the parental permission to perform acts
likely to incur liability and that it does not access the activities that are to him
Prohibited, such as pornography. But in cyberspace, virtuality and
the ambient Anonymity does not easily allow identification
such as a minor. Therefore, the simplest mechanisms of protection of minors
are difficult to implement. In contradiction to the legal personality
binding to a restricted legal activity, a minor is a surfer full and
has a wide latitude of action in cyberspace. Access to social networks
usually possible from the age of 13 years.
The extent of cybercrime against children requires a better codification of
Minor status in cyberspace. The Reformer Movement wishes to plead
European level so that agreement could be reached with the different Providers for
clear identification of minors on the Internet and protection of its data
personal. The Reformer Movement wants users accounts minors
can be identified as such by all over the internet (by a color code,
affixing a sticker, ...) so that can be implemented the legal arrangements
for their protection but also to the adult who comes into contact with them
to be aware and take all necessary precautions.

B) The fight against cyber-hate with the previous day and marked police presence on the Internet
but also by producing a speech against.
In recent years we are facing a significant increase in cyber-hate
on Internet. Hateful statements (harassment, insults, discriminatory remarks)
are expressed on the internet against people because of their skin color,
called race, origin, gender, sexual orientation, ...
The sites of some newspapers that relay various facts raise many
racist or hateful comments characters, unless proceedings never take place. The
Belgian youth recruitment by jihadist thereby also through the Internet and
hate speech towards the rule of law.
For the Reform Movement goes "more blue in street" must be completed by
"More blue on the net" as is the case in Finland or police officers watch over
internet, are present and do prevention against cyber-hate rather than
random repression.
The police must be present in cyberspace and ensure respect for the law. She must
to call to order citizens who hold about illegal but also act
so they can be quickly removed.
The police must rely increasingly on social networks to shame the criminals
and offenders. This is actually a reality. Today Twitter and Facebook
become a real source of information for criminal investigations. It's much more

154

easy today to go on a public profile Facebook or Twitter to have
information to make requisitions.
The Reformer Movement calls for an urgent amendment to the law on methods
Special research so that the police can legally infiltrated networks
terrorists but also produce against internet speech.
It should also better inform citizens of the existence of the contact point "eCops" where
Internet users can report offenses in relation committed in Belgium
or through the Internet.
the fight against cyber-hate regularly touches the boundary of freedom of expression and
right to privacy. To the Reformer Movement, the Government must act
total transparency on these topics. The citizen must be informed of any agreements
Collaboration between authorities and social networks, search engines or
other sites and the police must ensure that the laws that apply in real life the
are also in cyberspace.
C) Awareness campaigns
The protection of minors in cyberspace requires awareness on
Internet in all its facets. But this requires a good knowledge of the tool
is the Internet and the dangers it poses to them. The problem is that many
Minor guardians have only a superficial knowledge of the Internet. Therefore, this
Awareness should jointly strive minors that controlling
Internet features do not always apprehend very well the dangers and
legal implications and their legal guardians. To do this, large campaigns
Awareness must be in place, reconciling families around use
Internet.

2) Social networks as tools for communication and exchange between youth and
the authorities.
Social networks have become the media of the dispute with record time
mobilized at events and an organizational tool, involvement in the creation
communities values. They offer young people the opportunity to be more open about
world and share their passions and interests with other young people, which would enrich
especially their socialization experiences.
A) The development of civil applications:
For the Reform Movement social networks are now part of politics,
allowing elected officials to understand the evolution of public opinion, in addition to making possible
direct dialogue with citizens. Different from the traditional top-down dissemination tools
information (press, television, radio, leaflets), social networks generate a
profound change in the political exercise, both at national and local level.

155

To the Reformer Movement, new communication technologies can
assist in the development of a civic sense among the young. The Movement supports
civic development applications for citizens who wish to get involved in the life
of their city. Young and old can improve their lives through
information they share with their local authority. Applications and
presence on social networks that allow citizens to review the
cultural outings, the municipality of news, to perform administrative tasks,
to make an appointment with an elected but also to report to the officials of the city a problem
of roads, street lighting and clean. The citizen can more or attach photos
geotag to allow municipal teams to realize the extent of
damage.

B) Public services on the Internet:
At a time of new communication social practices, public services must
integrate social media and actively participate. For font services,
Social networks are a good source of information in the course of investigations but
not only. They are also a way to communicate with the public in a very
effective and particularly with young people who are more likely to learn
only via social media.
The Reformer Movement therefore calls for the police are better trained
the use of social media in tracking down criminals but also to interact
with the public, up the human sides of the police and promoting the "Community Policing".
Social media is also a simple, anonymous and finding
easy answers to questions including health. Indeed, many
sites provide access to excellent sources of information on topics
often worry young and STD (sexually transmitted disease),
signs of depression, obesity, ... Public services in charge of these materials must
enjoy the resonance of these networks among young people in order to make maximum
awareness campaign.

156

D. values ​​of sport, universal values

The MR is convinced of the importance of public support to bring sport and activity
physics in general. The values ​​that sport vehicle are universal, beneficial to
health and the integration as they weave a strong social and societal link. Must therefore
implement ways to improve access to sport for all, to strengthen
set in motion at a young age and especially in schools, to support our
athletes and improve our infrastructure. In sport as in other jurisdictions,
politicization and political interventionism directors remain present in
Wallonia-Brussels Federation. The MR argues for a real professionalism of
world of sports, ambitious, apolitical and merit. These elements underlie all
MR proposals in sport.
Finding: sporting activity is essential at many levels
Sport brings, educates, improves health, helps the social and multicultural integration.
In Belgium, it is the most important social movement. Yet in Belgium and
Wallonia-Brussels in particular, sports culture does not exist. There
not a dynamic of moving from an early age. At school, education
Physical nobility did not math or science. Infrastructure
Sports are often obsolete. Politically, the budgets allocated to sport and
infrastructures are often minimal and rarely act as priorities at both
Local decision-making and graduate levels. If our goal is to put the country
movement, then the site is huge and the road will be long.
The institutional complexity of our country facilitates this. Officially, sport
is a community matter. It is the Federation Wallonia-Brussels which is
competent in the setting in motion of francophones. Yet management
sports facilities falls Regions. If the federal government does not intend
Constitution to deal with this matter, its decisions on tax matters,
health or international relations can have significant impact (status
volunteers, support for major projects, etc.).
Yet one thing is clear: the sport is absolutely fundamental and vector values
who set themselves up as universal.
Many studies have proven that a good condition and physical activity have a
beneficial effect against cardiovascular disease through better regulation
weight, blood pressure and metabolism. Yet our society seems to be
entry in a form of settling which results in increasing the rate
obesity, decreased sports practice and routine "junk food". He becomes
157

urgent need to upgrade physical activity every day. A person in good condition
physically present less risk of disease or infection and therefore generate less
social security spending. In the interests of public health and sound management of
public money, physical activity is promoted.
Sport also plays a social role in the various aspects that can develop:
the integration of more and particularly disadvantaged groups of people
disabilities or immigrants for whom it is an excellent way of belonging and
participation. Sport plays a role of social cohesion because it implies solidarity,
respect for others and rules, basic values ​​from a young age. Practicing
Volunteering also strengthens citizenship. Sport plays a vital role by values
it conveys important: team spirit, tolerance, loyalty, solidarity and
personal fulfillment. Sport therefore has an educational dimension and plays a
social, cultural and recreational.
In addition, regardless of age, level or discipline, sport has a clear
interest in the population. Major sporting performances of all time is
dream. Major sporting events drain crowds and generate benefits
significant economic.
Overall, Belgium unfortunately lacks quality infrastructure
to host such events. Awareness is private, in this regard, be
strengthened. Elsewhere, construction of stadiums and infrastructure quality
assigned, at least in part to the private sector. In Wallonia-Brussels center
top athlete of Louvain-la-Neuve (see below) will be exclusively built via
public funds ...
Balance sheet
The balance sheet "sport" Government Olivier, both in the Walloon Region that the
Wallonia-Brussels Federation can be described as "mixed".
At the positive level, we must recognize that increasing the number of members to
Sports federations is a success (from 450,000 in 2009 to 620,000 today). In addition,
the allocation granted to Infrasport to create or upgrade sports facilities
Wallonia were increased. The question nevertheless arises of sports facilities
issue both in quantity and in quality. The "soccer Plan" (€ 20 million per year
for 5 years for the Walloon and Brussels clubs at all levels) is much
please the football fans that makes teeth squeak representatives of other
disciplines.
Despite these factors, the Government Olivier will be remembered as the one who
permanently eliminated "sports vouchers". He has not been able to agree with the
Flemish Government for the creation, yet desirable, a national center
158

elite sport. Conversely, it is the Centre francophone elite sport that will see
Update Louvain-la-Neuve. Costing the community the tune of € 22 million, the center, which
will be grafted on Blocry Sports Centre, will be limited to an athletics track, to
few side rooms and an enclosure that can accommodate 2500 people's wish ...
consolidate all our top athletes so that they are everywhere, even improve their
performance and share them as their physical infrastructure management and
psychological is not met at all. We regret that no reply has so
were made to shortcomings pointed by the associations at the sports structure
highest level in Wallonia-Brussels. We understand better why many
Francophone athletes into exile in Flanders and abroad for their management.
Omnipresent in the media to talk about sports, the Minister in charge of this
jurisdiction has nevertheless increased the announcement effects that have received no follow-up.
And include the renovation of ADEPS centers will hardly begin, the creation of a cell
for sports "very high level" that would be managed by two professionals (a
sporting manager and a marketing manager / communication) and announced not followed
effect, the establishment of a commission "communication" which would allow
Federations, communities and governments to be fully involved in
impact of major sporting events like the Olympics, the desire to
raising the ceiling allowed under voluntary to allow volunteers
framing athletes to be paid for in a decent manner, the idea of ​​an "athletic plan"
that all track projects would be subsidized up to 85%, etc. No
of these projects has, at this stage successfully. In addition, the means put in place to improve
athlete support in clubs and federations are insufficient when it comes to
is an important issue. The Infrasport subsidies remain subjective in their award while
the grant application procedure was more complex and generates costs for
Local authorities, particularly, even if the subsidy is not granted. To the chagrin of the
Most Federations, the annual subsidies granted remain on a calendar year
not on a sports season while the slowness of the administration is blamed.
Finally, one wonders, in this time of crisis, on the merits of creating a
semi-professional cycling team financed by public funds or on the project
discriminatory Minister to target and thus promote certain disciplines so some
Federations for the 2016 Olympic Games.
At the federal level, the credit of the MR, it is worth mentioning the law of 3 July 2005 on
the rights of volunteers (volunteers) which implies that sport volunteers have
can now collect Expense allowances title
own to the association where they prestent their business (€ 30.82 / day or € 1,257.51 / year
maximum). This ceiling is considered a hindrance to sports clubs. The Minister
Sports Federation Wallonia-Brussels held, in the course of 2012, as
increasing the authorized ceiling in the context of volunteering and could encourage
motivate volunteers in their actions, in particular to help the associations
sports. This project has not yet been materialized at this point.
159

MR main proposals in sport
The MR shows particularly ambitious in sport. The different
following proposals are organized around four axes:
•
•
•
•

Promote access to sport for all, notably by improving and adapting
infrastructure;
Strengthen sport at school;
Supporting professional sport;
Improve the organization of sport in Wallonia-Brussels.

1. Promoting access to sport for all
We must encourage access to sport at all levels. In Wallonia-Brussels
the 'sports vouchers "were deleted at the beginning of term of office by the Government. They
allow the poor to benefit from aid for access to sport
(registration in sports clubs, internships ...). Originally, it was then Guy Verhofstadt
Alain Courtois and Marc Wilmots who had launched the idea of ​​these "sports vouchers" before they
are denatured. This was the basis of extra-legal benefits granted by the employer
to his company's workers, whether public or private. Like the luncheon vouchers, allow these fringe benefits in the form of vouchers to exchange at the
settlement of a sports affiliation (or a cultural event) to an employee and / or his
family benefit from a financial boost incentives specifically for inclusion in
a sports club or purchase of specific sports equipment. We remain committed to this
incentive proposal. A parallel mechanism should be put in place for the
Job seekers benefit, too, from access to these "checks sport".
Meanwhile, we believe significant encourage our seniors to sport. Us
propose the issuance by the government (including local) "sports vouchers
elders "or" pass sport ". These incentives in sporting activities, our seniors could
argue in different sports facilities (swimming pools, sports centers, centers
ADEPS, etc.) would not result in a significant cost because seniors use them
during peak hours of the infrastructure. These "pass" would be aimed at "55
and older non-active "(pensioners, early retirees, job seekers over 55
years).
More generally, it seems even more relevant motivate us to practice
sporting a tax incentive. This could be created by establishing
a tax reduction of 25% of the amount of membership in a sports club recognized
the supervisory authority and a regular sport. This amount would still
with a cap.

160

Improving access to sport for all is increase the resources that governments
grant to the sport. The 2013 budget in this area totaled € 45 million. It
representing 0.47% of expenditure. This amount is too small. It should
reaching the symbolic threshold of 1% of the budget devoted to sport. This must become a
political priority in a public health concern. The municipalities that do not reach this
sales should tend, also, to this threshold.
It is also important to improve the number and quality of our sports facilities.
Recently, the Walloon Government has increased the budgets that it grants
sports facilities by performing mainly by alternative financing (risk
debt). We show supporters of other formulas. Thus, it can be
recommended to combine these funding one or more private operators under
a PPP or various partnerships, to have recourse to corporate sponsorship or
to introduce a "tax shelter" in the image of what exists cinematic level,
allow tax deduction for companies investing in a set
sports facilities or in the promotion of sport.
It would be appropriate that these sports facilities are accessible for seniors and
for people with disabilities and adapted to the actual practice of sports
Paralympics. Access to sports facilities should also be maximized. In terms
mobility, it is essential that these infrastructures are served by
transport or by a municipal transit service ("sports bus") that
facilitate access to sports facilities.
At the granting of subsidies by the Regions, to ensure objectivity in the
distribution of resources and to avoid partisan dusting, the solution for which
pleads the MR would be the creation of a drawing right for subsidies relating to installation
sports infrastructure in the Walloon Region. At a time when local authorities face
significant financial difficulties, it would allow for greater predictability
common, the possibility for the latter to implement real action plans
and limit the unnecessary use of public money (tuition, etc.). In addition, in view of
achieve economies of scale and avoid dusting, it seems more relevant
investing in bigger and better facilities rather than in a
many small incomplete projects.
To get a clearer picture of the supply of sports facilities including the Walloon Region
can benefit, we believe fundamental to clearly cadastrer infrastructure
sports. At the Walloon level, the software "Cadasport" is neither efficient nor complete. If this tool
must remain, it is fundamental to make it operational and effective. The Brussels level,
there is no such tool: it is necessary to put in place and to make it more
effective than its Walloon.

161

If the practice of a particular sport may require very specific infrastructure,
sports activity in the general sense (walking, running, cycling) can be practiced everywhere:
in parks, on our roads and bike paths in our forest trails ... It is
essential that these places are secure, lighted, marked and maintained maximum
in the interest of safety.
It is also essential to encourage the practice of sport or physical activity
all for allowing access of school facilities in extended hours.
Some schools have an infrastructure whose use can not be limited to the schedule
school. Conversely, partnerships between schools and sports clubs should be
encouraged so that students of schools located in the city or close to it
to have easy access to the municipal sports facilities. Such partnerships
already exist: we must intensify.
Sport is a vector of education, values ​​and multicultural exchange. In this regard, the
MR defends strongly any initiative to support sports district and creation,
inter alia, 'Agora space "true breeding grounds of social relations, meetings and
physical activity.
To protect the maximum people wanting to enroll in a sports club,
MR intends to clarify the terms for ending the contracts centers
fitness. In practice, indeed, one may determine the existence of unfair terms in these
documents.
Finally, the MR encourages towns (and provinces) to increase the organization
sporting events on its territory (jogging, cycling, etc.) in terms
recreation at a higher level. Meanwhile, within the limits of their capacity, we
encourage local authorities to support their clubs and their jewels. The sport is also
entertainment and leisure for citizens who attend as spectators to the exploits
of / club (s) local (to).
2. Strengthen the sport in schools
The MR is given a second major objective: the strengthening of sport and education
physics at school. The link between school and physical activity is almost zero in Belgium
francophone. The MR is that the school becomes a place where physical activity, the taste of
sport, respect for the opponent, the cult of effort and encouraging a healthy lifestyle
are recommended. Thus, two periods of physical education per week Are
sufficient? To ask the question is probably respond. Such disinterest in
essential to the body balance is worrying: two periods of 50 minutes
during which the student must get ready, warm up, sometimes walking to a swimming pool or
sports center before changing again finally leave little room for
sport. One might also consider that, in this case, there is no use
162

in anything to impose this ersatz physical practice to schoolchildren. The school could then
totally free of the physical practice to leave that task to clubs and federations.
This consideration is far from meaningless. However, the MR continues to believe that
school, because it concerns all children, can be a place that actually promotes a
healthy mind in a healthy body. For MR, teaching is inconceivable without sport and
physical activity.
84% of Belgians are in favor of increasing the time devoted to sport in
school programs. 89% consider that there should be better cooperation between
education system and sporting organizations. In MR, we are attentive to the examples
Anglo-Saxon and Nordic countries that spend several afternoons a week (or even
hours course) to the sport. Culture and Sport and the effort is
significantly developed.
Professor of Physical Education should create enthusiasm and force compliance. In this
regard, the MR is a fierce opponent of the said certificates "of convenience" granted
too often with the blessing of the family of the student.
From an hourly perspective, it is difficult to propose to double or triple hours
physical education. We must find other solutions for more hours
spent in school should be devoted to sport. We want to dedicate, in addition
Traditional physical education, one afternoon a week to practice sport
primary school. Beneficial for students, it could include elements of
psychomotor, teaching some sports, maintenance of physical fitness and
learning hygiene and dietary elements.
In the secondary, the white periods, between exams and results,
could also be devoted to physical activity. This could also be
beneficial when forks hours or in the absence of a teacher. Similarly,
why not imagine, since many parents work late, that
the hours after the school day, where day care is organized, are
devoted to physical activity and sport?
Besides exercise, it is important to make students aware of the food education
and body hygiene. Practically, this means that the possibility should be given to
students to shower after exercise. More broadly, it should be
review thoroughly the physical education program into a
During full.
The physical shortcomings which are showing some pupils found in adolescence
usually rooted in childhood. Inculcate, from early ages,
psychomotor elements must become a priority in the nursery and primary levels.

163

The MR also supports the establishment of a sector "Science-sport" in
high school programs across all networks. The latter would mix well
course of scientific evidence (biology, physics, anatomy, chemistry) with practice
increased physical activity.
We are strongly committed to the interscholastic competition. The very presence of
competition integrates the will, the enthusiasm, the passion, the desire to excel and
achieve a performance, whatever the level. Today there is a smoothing
manifest these values ​​that we put aside for egalitarian reasons that have not
Over in the very essence of sport. We propose to reintroduce competition
Interscholastic or extracurricular (inter school championships, inter-school cross, the Olympiads
sport ...) and Inter.
The physical education involves the usual risks associated with sport
(injuries, discomfort). All physical education teachers do not know how to react in case
serious problem. Patent first aid is an indispensable guarantee to
protect the health of students. For MR, it is necessary that all education teachers
Physical possess. In the same concern for protection and detection of malformations
or diseases, it is important that the compulsory school medical examination, which takes place once
every two years, could be held early in the school year. Finally, we propose
also study the feasibility of a fitness test (such Eurofit) during the
pivotal period between primary and secondary education.
Finally, if the resources are available in Wallonia-Brussels, MR offers
enable physical education teachers to obtain teaching detachments
(in sports clubs, for coaching young athletes in sports centers ...) to
Like what is common in the cultural and social sectors. We must nevertheless
be careful that these detachments in charge of budgets "teaching" remain
limited and do not become the norm.
3. Supporting professional sport
In Wallonia-Brussels, support to the hopes and future "pros" is provided by the
through contracts EPA and ACS ROSETTA. 54 sports are currently in contract
the FWB. The renewal of these contracts is linked to changes in performance and
objectives. They are redefined every year. There are administrative,
medical, sports and coaching to qualify for obtaining these contracts. From the
when these athletes begin to live their sport, it is generally agreed
not to extend their contract with the FWB and assign it to another young athlete
promising. Flanders conducts a policy quite similar to ours. The MR defends it
support to our elite athletes.

164

In Wallonia-Brussels, unfortunately, these athletes are scattered among various
training centers. The MR has positioned itself for a gathering of
expertise and has long advocated the creation of a federal Centre of professional sports.
The profusion of talent gathered in one location would indeed developed envy,
motivating our athletes and shot upward. Thereof, flanked by the best
young people, the best physical, psychological and mental coaching and expertise
best performing medical and dietetic it would have had the best facilities
possible. Sport can generate common goals: the Dutch athletes and
French rubbed shoulders it would be in the interest of performance and transcendence.
This centralization of powers would have involved, in partnership with the world
university, a true sport research center and physical activity, medicine,
science and dietetics. The high performance sport presents a number of risks
which must be both controlled and mainly prevented through basic research
and applied.
The Belgian institutional reality is complex by nature, the establishment of such a center
was impossible. The Government of the FWB then focused on creating
an exclusively francophone center for elite athletes. After several years of
palaver and hesitation in the place that would house the Centre, the Government of the
Wallonia-Brussels Federation agreed on the site of Louvain-la-Neuve is coming
grafted onto the existing sports center Blocry. The ambitious proposal of MR, there will be
finally an infrastructure at a discount. While this project was needed to
professionalise sport francophone elite. Nevertheless, it leaves a bitter taste at the
RM of its lack of ambition and foresight.
Another important project: the national stadium. Aware of the obsolescence of King Stadium
Baldwin, the MR believes that Belgium (and especially Brussels Capital
Europe), should benefit from a large modern multifunctional stadium. All countries
we have such a lush surrounding. The construction of this stage should not, however,
generate any government investment. In terms of funding, the private sector,
world of sports and the Belgian Football Federation will mobilize to find a
solution on the financial package and therefore the cost of the stadium.
Finally, the MR believes that the sports world will always be better managed by
industry professionals. Thus, we support, at the WallonieBruxelles Federation, the appointment of a "top manager" of the sport. Apolitical, former sports
professional, representing a natural authority, that person would be responsible for federating
the great mobilizing projects Francophone sport. This "top manager" of the sport could
be deputy minister in charge. In this regard, we believe it is important that the
Minister in charge of sports infrastructure in the Walloon level (or Brussels) and
FWB Minister of Sports are one and the same person.

165

4. Improve the organization of sport in Wallonia-Brussels
ADEPS is the Ministry of Sport, the true sports administration Federation
Wallonia-Brussels. It reveals a strong political interference in appointments and
appointments to administrative positions and sports. Thus, even if this is not practical
exceptional within the administration, the agents are employed by ADEPS
duly appointed by the Minister in the supervision of the Sports Division.
This applies not only to the directors of ADEPS centers (lack of transparency
in the recruitment of senior officials), but also for all agents
populate these centers. In other words, the autonomy of these directors, who have
virtually no control over their employees, is severely limited. Only
jobistes and trainees are actually selected by the center directors. This reality
prevents ADEPS center directors to surround the team seem them
more effective. These designations often have perverse effects in terms of mobilization
General of stakeholders and need an efficient and proactive management:
Evaluations are few and binding, staff utilization
teaching is very parsimonious and management of centers, funded by denier
public, does not imply an obligation of results.
This observation leads us to formulate the wish to see the complete context of the operation
the ADEPS. The MR first proposes to conduct a complete inventory of the situation.
The MR proposes to undertake a general audit of the ADEPS, its functioning, the
funds allocated to it and its effectiveness. The Court of Auditors could, for example,
be entrusted by the Parliament of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation audit.
The Reformer Movement also believes that the ADEPS would become a vocation
real Public Interest Organization (OIP), which could thus benefit from greater
management autonomy from today. ADEPS is therefore always financed by
public funds of the Federation Wallonia-Brussels but would have by following this
reform its own board of directors, and decision-making powers
own recruitment while concluding a management agreement with the Government of the
FWB. At the head of the OIP, the top manager of French sport could be imposed,
as did the Flemish community, after an impartial and objective procedure. This
OIP would work to recruit genuine sports technicians that must be majority
in this instance and in ADEPS centers.
The issue of management ADEPS to return to the debate on the use of
sports facilities. It turns out in fact that some centers are only visible ADEPS
as clubs or associations in the framework of internships or training days.
This implies that a number of sports clubs or can not benefit from these
facilities even if they are not booked for any event! For the sake of

166

clarification of the situation at the FWB, the MR requires an inventory / cadastre
Full use of sports facilities.
The Wallonia-Brussels Federation has just over 60 recognized Federations
subsidized. The recognition under the criteria specified in the decree of December 8
2006 to the organization and subsidizing of sports in FWB, opens direct access to
lump subsidizing government. The Federations are very dependent
these subsidies that in addition to the return of contributions paid to the clubs, are
main sources of income of the Federations. The pinned Accounts Court itself
this fact and argued in January 2008, for the establishment of an accounting plan
Harmonized building measure likely to improve transparency
the use of loans granted to sports federations.
The MR wants to go even go beyond the recommendation of the Court of Auditors:
we think important to link the granting of this subsidy (or part of it) a share
merit. It would be welcome to link some of these grants to the organization
events (international competitions, etc.), the importance given by the Federation
the training of youth and the professionalisation of the Federation
(sporting and administrative framework, coach, ...) particularly through participation in
training). The recognition of a federation is not a vested right but must
merit through acts and ambitious projects.
Moreover, it would be appropriate to update the Decree of December 8, 2006 to the organization
and subsidizing of sports in Wallonia-Brussels to incorporate duly
Paralympic sport. This would also improve the transition of Paralympic sport
leisure to the need to strengthen competition: our Paralympians get
consistently outstanding results with respect to resources devoted to them.
The professionalization of the leaders of sports federations also seems very
important.












167
















no one waives his rights because of a system too opaque, too
elitist or too distant.
We also advocate the completion of the police reform and the operational capability of the
Reform of the fire service. For the police, we want more nearby. A font
relieved of his administrative duties, so that the security officials are more
present in the streets.
For emergency services, we say that we do not compromise people's safety. He
this reform must devote the necessary resources. Professionals and
volunteers who daily risk their lives deserve the best to perform their
essential missions.

168

1. Fire Services
Finding / Assessment
Following the dramatic disaster Ghislengien, reform of fire services launched
by the vote of the Act of May 15 2007relative to civil security aims to address gaps
noted in the field: structural staff shortages, problems of status
volunteer and professional firefighters, initial practical training and continued insufficient,
geographical distribution of services problematic because of the absence of analysis
serious risk, under-equipped and outdated equipment, inadequate distribution
hardware, equipment standards unsuited to modern realities and current risks,
inadequate distribution of materials, wide disparities in the cost borne by the municipalities and
Funding of fire services provided to 90% by the municipalities, need
streamline management, etc.
This reform is based on three fundamental principles:
- Each citizen is entitled to the fastest appropriate assistance (removal of related limits
provincial borders to, areas of rescue or of Commons);
- Every citizen is entitled to the same basic protection for a contribution
equivalent (equivalent service throughout the territory for a financial contribution
equivalent of citizens);
- Efficiency requires a rationalization of management and fire services
distribution of resources based on an analysis of risks at a
given territory.
This reform was a key priority of the government agreement
December 2011. The latter explicitly provided that the implementation measures
necessary for its implementation would be continued, but on the basis of a reasonable schedule
prepared in consultation with organizations representing firefighters, federations
and local authorities. It was also to review the organization of civil protection
and its articulation with the fire service. Improving working conditions and
training firefighters also a priority in order to adapt them to
needs and risks of the profession. Furthermore, the administrative and financial status was
be adapted.
The law of 15 May 2007 on civil security is a framework law, several provisions
Terms were adopted and a large number of royal implementing decrees were
published.
Several royal decrees fundamentals affecting the organization and finances
Local authorities have been subjected to a process of negotiation with the unions of cities and
municipalities, federations and unions at a steady pace even precipitate.
Concerning the financing of the reform, the government has made efforts
important despite the difficult budgetary context. Several dozen million euros
been made available for the financing of the reform, the recruitment of staff,

169

building equipment, the development of the late-career training
recycling, education reform, harmonization of status, etc.
The Union of Towns and Municipalities of Wallonia has however repeatedly expressed its
Concerns about a possible financial skidding dependents of Commons. She has
handed firmly in question the will announced by the Minister of Interior to
enter fully into force in 2014 and the reform criticized him in his haste
Trading on the administrative and financial status of firefighters
The MR calls for implementation of the reform in a realistic timeframe and taking
account the impact of this reform not only on the federal budget but also
on the finances of our municipalities.
It is essential to estimate as accurately as possible the impact that projects
royal decrees will have on municipal finances and consult regularly
unions of cities and towns. This reform must be conducted with the municipalities and not
the expense of those - one.
In this regard, it is worth recalling the goal contained in Article 67, paragraph 2, of the Law
2007: "As long as the ratio between the means of the municipal authorities and
Federal foreseen under this law, is not equal to one, a common zone
will not together contribute more in real terms than their current intake. The king
determine, by decree deliberated in the Council of Ministers, after hearing the
Representatives of cities and towns, this ratio at December 31, 2007 and the positions
income and expenses that are taken into account in calculating this ratio. ".
Proposals
-

-

-

-

-

Continue the implementation of the reform of the fire services but according to a
realistic schedule and, depending on the elements to develop, in consultation
continuing with the unions of cities and towns, organizations
representing firefighters and federations;
Wherever possible, determine as precisely as possible, the impact
royal implementing decrees as the federal budget on the organization and
the financial impact area by area and for local authorities;
Continuing the efforts to fund the reform and continue via a plan
multi objective enshrined in Article 67, paragraph 2 of the Act of May 15, 2007
on civil security;
Ensuring accurate and intensive support from the authorities
local in the context of the implementation of the emergency areas, taking into account the
Effective January 1, 2015. It is the citizens' safety and
firefighters;
Continue the renewal of the intervention materials and equipment
staff where necessary and renovate some barracks or
build new view of risk analysis. These investments
are likely to improve firefighters' intervention service conditions
citizens ;
170

-

Ensure optimal initial training for trainees and a real fire
ongoing training for all firefighters. Each fireman, voluntary or
professional, must receive training, but mostly theoretical
practice, adapted to the risks they may face;

-

In the interest of optimizing the use of available resources, consider the
possibility of reducing the number of 112 centers being established by province;
Review the organization of civil protection and consider the possibility of distributing the
staff (or make available staff) in various centers
relief on the basis of objective criteria and the equipment based on risk
specific relief areas;
Avoid excessively professionalize the fire service. Following a
recent decision of the Brussels Labour Court, the Union of Towns and Communities
Wallonia has estimated the cost to the municipalities of the full professionalisation
emergency services to over € 200 million extra per year;
Maintain the possibility of a dual status / voluntary firefighter but
only in different areas;
Establish a true general inspection and examine the possibility
attach a coercive effect that it would draft reports;
Bringing theoretical training closer to the areas by delivering them in
central points have adapted local (municipal administrations,
training centers for other audiences, etc.) in order to reduce
travel firefighters favoring the displacement of trainers;
AMU regarding interventions, promote direct reimbursement between
insurers and relief areas to avoid unpaid ambulance
more and more numerous ;
To harmonize all areas the price for certain tariffied citizens
interventions (eg interventions "wasp nests");
Strengthen the role of the provinces in their mission to train various service
appeal.

-

-

-

-

-

2. Prevention - Rudeness - Security in transport
Finding / Conclusion:
Ensuring safety is a fundamental mission must provide the authorities
public. However, the police and criminal justice are not the only actors
which help to prevent crime develops. Prevention policies
must be developed. Citizens, merchants, independent or even
companies may be partners or interlocutors. If properly
informed, they can also be agents of their own security. Consultation
between these "private" partners and public authorities, as well as good information
incentives for better protection against insecurity can improve not only
the feeling of security but also the actual security.
It is also vital that public authorities, especially the authorities
local, have the tools to fight against incivilities. This is indeed
to provide a rapid response to rudeness or "minor" offenses
poisoning the daily lives of the population.
171

The freedom to borrow safe public transport is one of the freedoms
fundamental that must be protected by the State. The citizen has the right to move
feeling and being secure. Employees of transport companies have in common
for their right to work safely.
These constants MR priorities were included in the coalition agreement that has
accurately framed the action of the Minister of the Interior during this legislature.
The mechanism of municipal administrative sanctions available to authorities
local has been adapted on several issues: increase in the maximum amount of the fine
administrative, citizen service, possibility for the mayor to impose a
place temporary ban, lowering the age at which a sanction
Administrative may be imposed, enhanced involvement of parents, etc. On demand
MR express an accelerated procedure in cases of flagrante delicto was established.
To strengthen the sense of security and the prevention of public nuisance and
crime, the missions of peace-keepers have been somewhat adapted.
The strategic plans of safety and prevention were extended until 2017. This
Funding should help maintain the recruitment of personnel and prevention
security and to ensure investments to secure public spaces (eg tools
techno - preventive).
As regards safety in transportation, the measures prohibited
long time by the MR were implemented: strengthening the police force,
operational police taskforce, improving communication between the dispatching centers
transport companies of public and police services, police services access
to the camera images of the STIB and SNCB, strengthening agent skills
Security transport companies together, etc.
It is regrettable that the note - full security framework under the Agreement
government has not been finalized. This is an important political tool determinant
the security priorities and to strengthen the coherence of approach
police and judicial criminal phenomena. Policing Priorities have
been defined in the National Security Plan but it must be a combination of these
priorities with those of the prosecution. In addition, other departments
federal and federated entities have a role to play as part of the security policy.
Indeed, their skills may also have an impact on the approach
insecurity related to crime, anti-social behavior and road safety.
Proposals:
- To develop a coherent policy and facilitate the work of agents
constatateurs, encourage common part of the same police zone
use the possibility of adopting the same general police regulations;
- Concerning in particular the Brussels - Capital Region,
implement speedily the new competence entrusted to it in relation
172

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

harmonization of police and municipal regulations in compliance with
communal specificities;
Add to local prevention programs, a civics course offered in
part of the duties of school activities, holiday courses, internships and school
other municipal and regional activities for young people under 18
years;
Generalizing video protection systems in places at risk determined on the basis
crime of objective criteria, on the basis of a register of existing cameras
and in strict compliance with the rules protecting privacy and to
strengthen prevention and to facilitate the intervention of the police services
especially in cases of robbery;
Encourage and examine the possibility of interconnection of public CCTV networks, para-public and private to ensure multiple access and
coordinated surveillance between police services, peacekeepers and
babysitting services department stores, sports facilities and
of public transport infrastructure;
Encourage police zones, traders, schools, nurseries or the
professional risk using the Tele-Vision system font;
Continuing to organize information campaigns to publicize the
financial incentives to encourage individuals, independent and
professionals to secure their homes and business premises;
Provide personalized advice to specific sectors incurring
individuals and requiring appropriate preventive measures risks;
Strengthen local, operational cooperation between the responsible
local, local police, federal police, prosecution, prevention services,
Services peacekeepers and / or security services companies
public transport ;
Promote the development of local prevention partnerships involving
local authorities, the local police, the fire department, citizens or the
local or professional associations. This type of partnership can help
more effective fight against criminal phenomena such as waves
including burglaries committed by itinerant gangs;
Encourage police districts that have not done so to give the population
possibility of using free techno-prevention advice to protect
not only homes but also business premises;
Conduct a thorough assessment of the real strategic plans and safety
Prevention focuses on results and on the criteria used and before
renewal of these plans in 2017;
Give priority attention to the fight against school absenteeism, which in
certain circumstances, may be the beginning of the slide into delinquency:
strengthen collaborations between the school and its partners on
fight against juvenile delinquency awareness floors, charging the police officers
intervene with a minor in the context of an offense committed during the
hour course to address the question of education, strengthen actions
police surveillance in public places, public transport, etc. or
empower parents faced with dropping their child;

173

-

Encourage fire departments that do not already do so to offer free
services fire prevention advisor;
Improve the status of peacekeepers to enable them to become agent
constatateur without having to wait 5 years.

3. Improving safety of self and traders
Findings - Review
Freedom of enterprise is a fundamental value for the MR. Insecurity caused by
Crime is a major obstacle to the development of entrepreneurial activity.
Robberies in small shops have experienced a considerable increase
these last years. Supermarkets have improved their security devices,
violent offenses focus more on small businesses (eg grocery stores,
bookstores, jewelry stores, gas stations - services, night shops, cafes, pharmacies, etc.).
The shoplifting have also increased significantly. According to figures cited by
some organizations flights represent a loss of some or euros 915millions
1.47% of retail sales. The amount of stolen goods has
was estimated at 3,246,753 Euros per day.
As for the police, contractors and traders fall
regularly a number of deficiencies: police presence and availability
inadequate during the evening and night, lack of neighborhood police officers, response times
not fast enough, etc.
Aware of the seriousness of the issue, the Minister of Independents and SMEs
supported the organization of the security foundation in September 2012. A platform
Built for safety of self with representatives of the authorities
public and representative organizations of merchants and entrepreneurs was
created and aims to identify priority issues for all sectors.
Following the pressure exerted by the MR for several years at the Region
Brussels - Capital, a decree has been prepared to enable micro, small and
medium-sized enterprises to benefit from a bonus of 45% of the total
Investment security such as mechanical protection, video - monitoring
(and therefore the TélépoliceVision system) or an alarm system. Special
businesses, the premium may not exceed 25% of the investment amount. The
premium is capped at € 10,000 per year per company.
Proposals
- Regarding the shoplifting and theft of goods, ensure
Quick penal reaction in the first place via mediation in criminal cases, the transaction
Criminal and the accelerated procedure. One might consider organizing a procedure
amicable involving compensation from the trader by the thief in exchange

174

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

abandonment of a civil action while leaving the possibility to the Crown
continue;
Provide repeatedly commitment to police patrols
Additional during critical periods such as year-end holidays and
Sales ;
Examine the possibility of amending the law on surveillance cameras to
allow traders to improve their safety while ensuring respect for
privacy (eg taking images outside the shops);
Improving information for traders counterfeit money (eg
security features of coins in circulation) and set up a
approval of various counterfeit money detection system tools (eg
List of counterfeit detection of approved materials);
Establishment of a flat - available on the Internet fueled by various forms
enabling independent actors involved to be aware of
all the initiatives taken to improve their safety;
Develop new local partnerships in prevention and facilitating access to
independent contractors;
Encourage independent contractors to retain the services of Advisors
(techno) prevention police zones that can give them advice
Custom security and encourage them to implement
New local partnerships for prevention or participate in existing ones;
Integrating security into the independent National Security Plan;
Develop the necessary tools for independent to declare to
police quickly and easily each criminal act (eg form
standardized);
Embed the purchase of a terminal for electronic payments in the list of
purchases to improve security entitling to a tax deduction;
Examine the possibility of expanding the list of expenses for the provision of certain
services in securing resulting in a tax deduction (ie:
alarm systems in conjunction with CCTV cameras, subscription
and / or transaction fees for electronic payments, etc.);
Insofar violent attacks generate a share significant costs
health care and cause on the other hand a decrease in activity (and thus of
turnover) while expenses remain, provide support and
fair compensation of the independent contractor victim of this type
aggression. The ability to compensate independent abused via
Victim Fund of intentional acts of violence or through a specific fund
powered by the perpetrators of these assaults on the occasion of their conviction could
be examined;
Evaluate and improve the recording of offenses suffered by
Independent (Ex: best encoding complaints to differentiate
Professional individual and professional compared to the others). According to
some estimates, in general, about 38% of the offenses are reported to
police. Only 21% of traders concerned declare flights.
It should also be noted that according to some estimates only 25% of
offenses are recorded in a PV as they are known by service
font;
175

-

-

Ensure a stronger presence of peacekeepers, and stewards
techno Advisors - prevention field to deter offenders;
More active involvement of independent contractors and traders in
the definition and implementation of prevention and security policies;
Develop partnerships "store theft" as is the case for flights
armed. Which would develop a coordinated and coherent action
actors (traders, police, justice, local authorities, etc.);
Establish an aggravating circumstance in cases of special equipment use
to facilitate shoplifting.

4. Police Services
Finding / Assessment
For MR, it is essential to ensure effective policing. Oriented policing
and presents to the community in neighborhoods, streets and public transport to
times of the day or night where it is most useful. We want police
know the residents and businesses of their neighborhoods.
Concentrate police force on the ground, in the neighborhoods closest to the problems
met in all police zones of the country is our priority.
As part of the development of the coalition agreement of December 2011, improving
police services was a key priority for the MR who weighed
considerably in the accurate determination of government priorities:
strengthening the presence of police officers on the street, better funding of the integrated police,
address the shortage of staff particularly linked to retirements, allow
Police to focus more on their priorities in the service of citizens, clarifying the
role of public and private security actors to improve partnerships, release
police of certain administrative or operational tasks to them
allow to focus on the key tasks to be redefined by the Government, optimize
management of the criminal investigation or intensify the fight against violence
committed against police officers.
These priorities have determined the course of the Government and defined capabilities
Action of the Minister of Interior. The Government as a whole has made
Significant efforts despite the difficult budgetary context.
Budgets were identified to strengthen the police force (standard recruitment
set at 1,400 aspirants a year), safety in transport (mainly
Brussels) or certain services of the federal police.
Recruitment processes have been adapted to enable a new strategy
recruitment, accelerated selection process, recruiting more Customised
police zones or strengthening the middle management (PMIs).
As for the violence against the police, it took a
mobilization and demonstration by police unions to end October 2013
finally this issue knows an acceleration phase. This has been incorporated into the Agreement
176

government in December 2011 specifically at the request of the MR. It is regrettable
that it took so long to know that a certain folder
realization.
Also in order to prevent the violence against the police, the MR has
Parliament adopted a bill to ensure the identification of police officers
while improving the protection of their privée33 life.
When preparing the budget for 2013, the Interior Minister has committed to
continue the work of optimization within the police in order to achieve the objectives
budget. In February 2013, the working group Bruggemann-De Bolle presented a
first report of optimization. Thereafter, the Interior Minister took up this
report and reworked to reform the structures of police services
somewhat neglecting the primary objective of this exercise that had been entrusted to him by the
Cabinet: free up human and financial resources to strengthen
operational capacity of the police. Reading the map of the Minister
Interior, one may wonder whether real concrete improvements will be made to
daily management of policing. Finally, it is only a reform of
structures following that which was performed in 2006.
This optimization should also have an opportunity to define key tasks
police and free them from some administrative and operational tasks.
Proposals
Increase police recruitment standard is not enough to ensure capacity
sufficient operational and increased police presence in our neighborhoods. Other
actions must be taken:
- Review the funding standards developed there over ten years according to
parameters have changed considerably in order to achieve more consistency with
ground realities as well as clarity and transparency in the envelopes
federal budget devolved to the local police. Local police areas must
have sufficient financial means to engage the police they
need to meet the challenges they face. It will also be of
ensure the reality of the performance standard;
- Define the key tasks of the police services: what the core business
police officer ?
- Refocusing on core police duties and release of certain tasks
administrative and operational. The MR has already made proposals
saving operational capacity: replace some
police officers responsible for the supervision of certain buildings (embassies, palaces and
royal estates, SHAPE, NATO, etc.), review the organization, body Assignments
safety and increase the number of agents to allow areas
local police, in whose territories are located a courthouse or jail,
and federal police officers to redirect their neighborhoods and their tasks
33

The parliamentary route of this proposed legislation is not yet complete. It will adapt
this card later. It was adopted by the Senate and by the Interior Commission
Bedroom.

177

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

essential, introducing a guaranteed service during strikes in institutions
penitentiary to prevent the police patrol the corridors of prisons
rather than in neighborhoods, organize video hearings, or when it is
possible, in prisons for inmates who must
appear regularly during the judicial inquiry in order to reduce risks and
to limit spending in terms of mobilization of police and body
of security ;
Continue work on administrative simplification and to fight against
bureaucracy by implementing a WorkFlowTeam composed of people
responsible for examining any procedural project in order to prevent mistakes
causing the bureaucracy;
Modernize infrastructure and to standardize software,
in particular, to increase the efficiency of our police services and capabilities
analysis and cross-checking information;
Ensure community policing able to establish a real contact
population, develop a real relationship of trust with citizens and
collaborate with other partners such as social workers,
educational institutions or public transport companies;
Promote the creation of police antennas (possibly mobile type
"Koban") ensures short response times and efficient and accessible to
population of day and night;
To the extent that the harvest of physical evidence will play a role
increasingly important in particular because of the Salduz procedure, strengthen and
optimize the operation of the technical and scientific police;
Encourage synergies between policy areas to make savings
scale (eg personnel management, public procurement, etc.);
Reconstitute true operational reserve capacity capable of acting 24/24
and 7/7 in case of big events in Brussels or Wallonia;
Improve police training: strengthen cooperation with teaching
for security jobs, strengthen the learning modules 'practices' and
policing, organize in-service training both in schools
police or in areas, enhancing training sessions "practice" on
physical abuse to the police, etc. ;
Create privileged access, under certain conditions, the inspector function
police to a police officer and privileged access, under certain conditions, to
according to police officer for peacekeepers. One could establish
apprenticeships and structured training between the guardian of the profession
Peace and a police officer;
Intensify night patrols and foot patrols, cyclists
equestrian from local police stations divisions;
Generalizing video protection systems in places at risk determined on the basis
crime of objective criteria, on the basis of a register of existing cameras
and in strict compliance with the rules protecting privacy and to
strengthen prevention and to facilitate the intervention of the police services
especially in cases of robbery;
Restoring respect for the police systematically pursuing
offenses committed against them and matching penalties in case of
178

-

-

-

-

-

-

murders or police killings of a safety period during which
no early release could not be granted. Group attacks
police stations, vehicles of the police or service
Relief should be punished more severely;
Continue the implementation of commitments in the fight against violence
committed in the police (adaptation status for victims of acts of police
violence, centralized record of acts of violence committed against
Police, under the accelerated procedure, drafting a directive by the
Board of Procurators General, protocols concluded between the police and prosecution
at district level, etc.);
Examine the possibility of entrusting the collection of transactions and / or fines
in road traffic to the private sector for a relief
workload both for the police districts and the public ministry;
Allow, under certain conditions, a common part of a zone
Police to leave the area to join another;
Write and publish the Royal Decree referred to in Article 90 of the Law of December 7, 1998
organizing an integrated police service, structured at two levels which has features
the municipal council or police board may adopt a Regulation on the
collection of a fee for police administrative police missions
local. This Royal Decree shall determine the conditions of this perception and
arrangements;
Need to improve the functioning of information hubs
Borough (CIA) and fill with enough staff. The treatment
Information is crucial in areas such as radicalism by
example;
Continue strengthening the fight against cross-border crime
particularly in the provinces of Hainaut and Liège particular face
specific forms of criminality such as criminal gangs
homeless;
Ensure quality operation of the SA ASTRID in order to ensure
structural safety not only of citizens but also of service
Police and emergency services using radio network.

5. For a quick and fair justice - to a modernized criminal procedure and more
efficient
Finding / Conclusion:
When the offender is identified and apprehended, our penal system must
able to react as quickly as possible. This is, firstly, to avoid the development of a
sense of impunity among offenders by sending them a clear message and
punishing quickly and, secondly, to avoid the development of a feeling
injustice and insecurity among victims.
Under the leadership of MR, the coalition agreement contained two explicit commitments.
First, a signal was to be launched to the prosecution so that they apply more
frequently accelerated procedure for judging of single files in
fast turnaround. Then encourage the establishment of a specific room within
179

criminal courts responsible for handling files "accelerated procedure". These two
commitments to bring the time of sentencing the time of the offense
been realized.
During this legislature, many important and necessary changes were
made to our criminal procedure. However, the comprehensive reform of our Code
criminal enterprise of instruction during consideration of the draft law proposed by the
Professor Franchimont should be provided on the loom. It seems indeed important
to resume work and to clearly set the goal of improving efficiency
our criminal procedure in order to arrive more quickly to a definitive judgment. In
modern society like ours, it is challenging to find that, for some records
criminal, we must wait years for a final decision is pronounced.
The computerization of Justice is another challenge that would improve time
file processing and obtain judicial decisions in a reasonable time.
Progress has been gathered by the Minister of Justice. Despite this, several
Magistrates have recently expressed their concern about the current shortcomings
computer equipment of the judiciary: incompatible programs between
courts or between judicial districts, lack of documentation virgins models
would save time, outdated computer equipment, state of
computer equipment preventing the implementation of certain laws, etc.
Proposals:
-

-

-

-

-

Set up a commission with the participation of representatives of all
the actors of criminal procedure and to draft a reform of our Code
Criminal Investigation. This reform would include as targets
improve the efficiency of our proceedings and to render final judgments
within a reasonable time;
While ensuring provide the necessary guarantees, introducing the concept of pleading
guilty (appearance with prior admission of guilt) to limit
debates on sentencing;
Give investigating authorities a further opportunity to comment
on the bottom (suspension of delivery and confinement): The Council Chamber
may, with the consent of the accused, a substantive decision declaring the guilt or
by applying the Law of 29 June 1964 on suspension, deferment and
probation or imposing a fine, or imprisonment of work
whose duration does not exceed one year;
Insofar as his criminal missions are its essential missions, conduct
depth reflection on civilian missions of the prosecution;
Given the latest developments in the case law of the Court
Cassation and to ensure legal certainty, legally define the principles
applicable to admissibility of evidence in criminal matters. This reflection
could be integrated into the missions to instruct the Commission to put in place
to reform the Code of Criminal Procedure;
Without questioning the basis of the extended criminal transaction, perform
an assessment of the application of this procedure and more particularly
the case where a transaction is concluded when a court or
court is seized (e);
180

-

-

-

-

-

-

Give clear opportunity for the Crown to use penal mediation
even in cases where there are no casualties or where the victim is not
identifiable;
Continue and accelerate the computerization of Justice;
To the extent that Member States must comply with it by 27
November 2016, preparing the transposition of the Directive of the European Parliament and
Board October 22, 2013 on the right of access to a lawyer within the
criminal procedures and procedures relating to the European arrest warrant, law
inform third from the deprivation of liberty and the rights of persons deprived of
free to communicate with others and with consular authorities;
In order to determine priorities in the conduct of analyzes and process
large files on the same site, keeping or strengthening of multidisciplinary
NCIC;
In order not to affect the sampling traces or fibers before autopsy,
consider the possibility of making available the NCIC as an autopsy room
This is the case in France and the Netherlands - Netherlands;
Improve shelf parts to convictions in order to avoid deterioration or
disappearance ;
Continue computerization NCIC should for example enable to send
the reports electronically to investigating magistrates and save time;
Reviewing the coherence of the system of extracts from criminal records requested to exercise
certain activities or access to employment. It is challenging a person with
was sentenced to labor for assault do not see this
conviction appear on his criminal record so that a conviction
for rolling may be included in some cases;
Introduce the possibility for the prosecution to discontinue its appeal: in most
cases, it is the defendant who appeals. In this case, the prosecution follows
usually the call. However, if the accused withdraws his appeal, the prosecution, he,
has no possibility to withdraw;

6. For a diversification of penalties and adaptation of our Penal Code
Finding - Review
Thought should be conducted regarding the penalties under our Code
criminal whose general structure dates from 1867. The many changes that have been there
made have affected his consistency. This code should be reformed at three levels:
-

-

-

In terms of offenses: Our company is facing new
criminal phenomena that require adaptation. Other offenses
probably deserve to be removed from our Criminal Code;
At the quantum of punishment: It reflects the importance of quantum values
our company intends to protect. However, these values ​​have evolved which must
reflected in our Penal Code. We must also ensure greater
coherence between sentences on the basis of our Code and penalties
actually executed;
In terms of diversification of penalties: Until recently, the criminal court did not have
that a reduced palette main penalties: the prison sentence,
181

the fine and the penalty of self-employment. In 2002, it is besides the MR that got
the integration of self-employment penalty in our Code. The government
made the necessary budgetary effort to ensure rapid implementation of
that sentence. In 2010, we proposed to introduce electronic monitoring and
probation as an autonomous sentences. Under the leadership of MR, these two points
were included in the coalition agreement and were concrétisés34. We want
give the judge the opportunity to decide the most appropriate possible sentence
the offense and the offender in order to send a clear message to him, to avoid
recidivism and protect society.
However, the diversification of penalties will not prevent the need for
provide specific or more stringent sanctions against perpetrators of some
offenses.
Proposals:
- Conduct a comprehensive reform of the Penal Code both in terms of the definition of
offenses on the scale plan of sentences and their nature (diversification
penalties). The government could charge a multidisciplinary team
(criminal lawyers, criminologists, etc.) to draft a new penal code;
- Introduce new penalties in our Criminal Code: conviction for
the facts and less serious depending on the personality of the author and
circumstances (the convicted would also pay the fees and should repair
the damage), principally to confiscation not only as
accessory, DAO (care order), compensation for forced
victim supervised by a court official with a prison sentence
Subsidiary, etc.
- As is the case in France for some lesser offenses, predict
directly into the Penal Code that criminalize the penalty
work is worth referring to the place of imprisonment. The offense
would be referred directly punished in the criminal provision for this
infringement by a sentence of self-employment;
- As is the case in France, integrate into our criminal law banning
territory (either temporarily or permanently) to be pronounced
against a person who is not recognized guilty of Belgian nationality
committed an offense for which this penalty is provided;
- To give the trial judge the option to include sentences he utters a period
security before the end of which no early release can not intervene.
This possibility would cover certain offenses such as offenses
terrorism resulting in death, rape or indecent assault resulting in
death, torture resulting in death, with the abduction of a minor
resulting in death, murder or the assassination of police officers or when
court pronounces a sentence of life imprisonment;
- Establish an additional penalty of medical treatment order for authors
sexual offenses which would begin in prison and could, if necessary,
continue to prison. The judge will also determine the length of
imprisonment suffered by the convicted person refuses or fails to cooperate;
34

To date, the bill "probation" has been adopted in the House.

182

- Linking the granting of early release on condition of following a guidance or
treatment in case of conviction for a sexual offense committed
against a minor and create a hormonal drug treatment
for sex offenders released;
- Severely punish offenders who filmed or photographed in
committing an offense and then distribute the images via GSM or
Internet (happy slapping) and the person who is content to film the aggression
or disseminate the images. Of course, these new criminal provisions
would not apply when recording or broadcasting results from the exercise
normal to a profession whose purpose is to inform the public or is made to
used as evidence in court;
- Amend the law on the external legal status of the detainee to increase
weather conditions on eligibility for parole for a
sentenced to a term of imprisonment in case of escape or attempted escape
and aggravate the penalties for criminal offenses committed to facilitate escape
- Provide for aggravating circumstances for the destruction, degradation and
deterioration of property for public utility. We aim specifically
the stoning of police vehicles, fire services,
emergency services or public transport companies as well as
police stations, town halls, corridors of the metro, bus shelters,
schools, etc. ;
- Provide for the participation of a minor as an aggravating circumstance for flights
with or without violence or threats committed with a major;
- Insert a new aggravating circumstance when the flight of an object was committed
inside of a vehicle in the presence of the driver or a passenger
(sackjacking);
- Provide an aggravating circumstance for persons committing theft
attempted to commit robbery with weapons of war;
- Provide an aggravating circumstance when the duty to rescue
was committed against a minor by her father, mother or other ascendants, any
person having authority over the minor or having custody, or anyone who
cohabits occasionally or habitually with the victim minor age;
- Penalize or lure luring and manipulating child on the Internet at
criminal or criminal purposes by criminalizing the adult who communicates through
of information and communications technology with a proven minor or
supposedly, by hiding or lying about his identity, age, quality in
emphasizing the discretion to observe, offering or by dangling a gift or
any advantage or any other scheme, to facilitate the
commission in respect of a crime or délit35.

35

This bill was passed in the Senate. To adapt it to the progress of his career
parliamentarian. The text is inscribed on the agenda of the Committee on Justice of the House the week of March 17.

183

7. For a responsible and credible prison policy
Finding / Conclusion:
The credibility of a repressive system is dependent upon its ability to execute
effectively and quickly the sentences handed down by criminal courts. It is in
this perspective that the current government has taken a series of concrete initiatives.
Prison overcrowding is a major obstacle to effective policy
consistent enforcement of sentences. Its negative effects are well known: the late performance
sentences, non-enforcement of short sentences, early release, provisional release,
barely interrupts pending seats available or electronic bracelets
inability to establish a genuine detention contribute to the plan
accountability of the offender, his reintegration to the lack of awareness
committed and repair the damage caused by the offense.
Overcrowding also affects the working conditions of
prison staff. Discontent leads to strikes with
impact on the conditions of detention and on the organization of services
local police, who are then forced to provide security in prisons. Overcrowding
prison in some prisons has prompted some to mayors
make orders requiring prison authorities to limit the number of inmates.
To fight against prison overcrowding, the government continued to implement
implementation of the multiannual action plan for increasing prison capacity and
refurbishment of prison buildings (Masterplan). This plan between 2012 and 2017, the
Building 2217 seats. In 2014, it will be a total of three new prisons (Marche -
en - Famenne, Leuze and Beveren) that will provide about 1,000 additional places. After
to assessments by the General Directorate of Prisons of
SPF Justice, it appears that despite the full realization of the Masterplan, a deficit of
seats remain due to the increase in the prison population.
The fight against prison overcrowding can not be limited to an extension of the number of
places. Other measures were put in place by the Minister of Justice: optimization
the use of electronic monitoring as implementing modality of the sentence,
now possible using electronic surveillance in the context of detention
preventive, diversification of penalties (penalty work, probation, supervision
e as autonomous sentences), etc.
Priority was given to the enforcement of short prison sentences by the use of
specific terms: increasing the number of convicts under surveillance
electronics, new faster procedure for electronic surveillance, use of
electronic monitoring with voice recognition (house arrest), execution
sentences of 8 months to 3 years via electronic monitoring, etc.
Concrete initiatives have also been taken with regard to detainees who have
no Belgian nationality. This category represents more than 40% of these inmates
184

within a prison. A circular to transfer, two months before the
end of the sentence or bail, foreigners in an illegal situation to
closed centers to the Immigration Department for their removal was taken. Which
resulted in doubling the number of removals. Bilateral agreements were
concluded that the detainees did not have Belgian nationality serving their sentences in their
country. At European level, Member States have transposed the directives in the
material.
Prison overcrowding prevents any movement towards a genuine political
long-term prison. It prevents to establish a true detention plan
and make a real classification of prisoners with prison regime
differentiated.
The federated entities (Regions: training and professional reintegration and Communities:
education, training, culture, social assistance for detainees, etc.) are also referred to
exercise certain powers within prisons and to contribute to
give content to the sentence of imprisonment. These activities must be linked with
prison policy. For example, in some prisons, courses can not be organized
the after - midday with the ASBL exempting gives them that morning.
The Flemish Community and the federal government entered into a cooperation agreement. There
Flemish Community has developed a Strategic Plan aid and assistance to the detainees.
A formal cooperation agreement between the French Community and the federal State is lacking
and no strategic plan has been developed. However, until there is no structure, there can
have good cooperation and implementation of a real detention plan. A deal
Cooperation is essential.
Regarding parole, the MR obtained tighter
Conditions for those sentenced to a heavy penalty. Time conditions were
enhanced regards those sentenced to imprisonment in
life or 30 years and it has been considered in some cases of crime recidivism
offense. The parole procedure will not be started automatically as soon
the convict meets the conditions but on specific request. In addition, for the
life sentence or 30 years and made available, the decisions of TAP expanded to 5
members (3 professional judges and two assessors) must be taken unanimously.
In 2012, there were about 1 132 interned in penitentiaries. What
represents about 10% of the average population. However, the internees have no
Place in prison and Belgium has been repeatedly condemned by the European Court
Human Rights for lack of appropriate care.
Concerning the minimum service during strikes in institutions
Prison, the European Committee for the Prevention of Torture and Inhuman or
inhuman or degrading treatment recalled its Recommendation to implement without
within a guaranteed service within prisons. Under the agreement

185

government, evaluation of the memorandum of agreement of the Committee of Justice Sector III-351
April 19, 2010 is underway.
Proposals:
- Continue the implementation of the Masterplan and if the budgetary situation permits
(or "according to the funding arrangements to be determined), achieve a Masterplan
III prisons to deal with overcrowding estimated by management
general of prisons and allow real
Modern classification of prisoners and therefore to establish a
real diversification of prison regimes;
- While ensuring respect for the separation of powers, organize a consultation
with the judiciary to the extent that its decisions have a considerable impact
on the prison population and keeping the judges informed of the actual implementation
sentences they utter;
- Need to develop further consultation or enter into a
Cooperation Agreement between the Federal State and the federated entities to organize
most optimal way possible missions should assume these entities
federated within prisons;
- Foster returned to the offender employment
o Load the prison administration to promote the work of detainees and
in collaboration with the federated entities;
o Call the federated entities to develop prison and training offering
in collaboration with the prison administration;
- Ensure effective segregation of prisoners suitable for different types of
crime, the length of sentences and classification of prisoners according to their
dangerousness. Thus, persons in custody must be separated
convicts and offenders primo heavy criminals;
- Collect in an establishment suitable prisoners with a profile
dangerousness requiring security system adapted;
- Ensure effective therapeutic and multidisciplinary detainees
sex offenders by specialized teams in all institutions
prison. It is also essential to ensure social control and operational
effective for early release of sex offenders by strengthening the
followed by the judicial assistants and the designation of a reference policeman in
each local police area. This should also improve the traceability of
sex offenders by creating a national registry of offenders in
Sexually within the central criminal record;
- Place as quickly internees, wrongly in our prisons, in
appropriate institutions and continue efforts to create a care package
suitable;
- Prepare the entry into force of the Law of 21/04/2007 on the internment of
People with a mental disorder that has been extended to 01/01/2015 at the
later. This law provides therapeutic support adapted to the internees and expertise
compulsory psychiatric. The execution of internment procedures fall under
the courts of the enforcement of sentences. Before granting
a release, they shall also take into account new counter

186

-

-

-

-

-

indications as the risk of recurrence or the attitude of the internee against
victims;
Depending on the evaluation of the MoU III-Justice Sector Committee
No. 351 of April 19, 2010, establishing a guaranteed service during strikes in
prisons;
Given the difficult circumstances in which they assume their duties,
ensure that prison staff initial and continued appropriate, a
effective supervision and a quick and firm reaction in case of criminal assault and
that further efforts to improve security conditions;
After obtaining a hardening of the parole system,
provide opportunities for judges and the Assize Court to determine the portion of the
they pronounce sentence that will actually be executed and therefore
introduce real time safety in our law enforcement system;
Drug use in prisons, directly or indirectly,
negative impact on all who live and work there. Unfortunately,
significant proportion of the detainees is in contact with drugs in prisons.
The problem must be approached from different angles: prevention, assistance and
security.
o In terms of prevention, avoid at all costs that detainees consuming
no drugs entering prison will pay in the consumption of
toxic due to the presence of drugs in prisons.
To do this, the prison system must protect detainees who
consume no drugs or that make a real effort to fight against
Drugs in prison in isolation, to the extent possible, detainees
addicts;
o Assist inmates addicts by providing them care for their
to detox and end the dependence on illicit substances;
o In terms of safety, strengthen the presence of dogs trained to search
drug ;
For all the trouble, strengthen collaboration with the Aliens Office for
prisoners without a residence permit provisionally released to their remoteness or
late penalty are effectively expelled from the territory as soon as possible.

8. For a court to listen to the victims
Finding / Conclusion:
A human justice, balanced, transparent and welcoming in its procedures vis-à-vis
Victims helps to strengthen citizens' confidence in justice. It should ensure
Victim a special place in the entire judicial process. Whether in
level of their treatment by the police, at the instruction or
criminal information, at the trial courts, at the execution of
penalties or the level of compensation and compensation for damages.
Over the past decade, increasing attention has been paid to the position of the victim. Of
legal and regulatory initiatives have been undertaken to redefine the status of the victim
in court proceedings. A reform of the Code of Criminal Procedure (known as Petit
Franchimont) helped to give victims a more active role notably in the framework
187

criminal instruction (access to the criminal file, request for additional duties
etc.). As part of the execution of penalties, the rights of victims have been improved.
More recently, at the initiative of MR, the indemnn bodily and moral damages
resulting from a technological accident was facilitated. Now, a compensation
victims is organized without waiting for the outcome of a trial.
Several recommendations concerning victims made by the Special Commission
on the treatment of sexual abuse and pedophilia in a relationship of authority,
especially within the Church, have been materialized: the limitation period be extended to 15 years
cases of serious sexual offenses committed against a minor, obligation to
the audiovisual recording of hearings of minors to prevent victimization
secondary extension possibilities to derogate from confidentiality, reporting
injured party facilitated possibility of imposing a ban on residence against
a sex offender to prevent it from becoming established close to his victims, etc.
The status of the victim has also been improved as part of the implementing rules of
penalties: extending the concept of victim, faster communication of the decision of
Court enforcement of sentences to the victim (to avoid than it learns by
press), information from the victim during the final release of the convicted taken
consideration the efforts made by the convicted or not to compensate the victim in
As part of the granting of parole or time devoted to the victim
as part of the court hearing the application of penalties for
allow a debate on conditions in their interest to ask.
More recently, a bill aimed at improving Compensation
MR filed by the victims was adopted by the House of Representatives. This
bill creates a lien in favor of the victims to be preferred by
compared to some creditors such as the State. The objective is to facilitate the recovery of
amounts owed to them by the convicted in compensation for damage resulting
a criminal offense. Current legislation may result in that victims are
ultimately not or almost not compensated due to the intervention of other creditors
benefiting them a privilege. Our goal is to increase the chances for the victims
criminal offenses to obtain material compensation for damage to which they
are entitled.
Proposals:
- Improve financial aid to victims of deliberate acts of violence:
o By removing the financial aid ceiling for crime victims
having either resulted in death, an apparently incurable illness, an
permanent inability to work or loss of use absolute
an organ, or serious mutilation;
o By enabling the granting of financial assistance to the family of a victim
an offense referred to above - is not dead;
o By enabling the grant of financial assistance Uncapped before he
been determined public action for the above offenses - above.

188

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

In case of particularly serious offenses (murder, assassination, etc.), ensure
immediate support for the victim's relatives. When parents are
faced with the murder of their child, they are completely disoriented and
need support after the announcement of this drama. Currently, parents
are not automatically supported. They must go only to the place of
only tragedy and return to their homes;
As recommended in the Directive 2012/29 / EU of the European Parliament and of
Council of 25 October 2012 establishing minimum standards on the rights,
support and protection of victims of crime, to establish wickets
Unique where a complete and detailed information can be obtained
quickly by victims to prevent them from being referred from one service to a
other. The victims should benefit from support by the immediate
a single contact and extending during and after the procedure;
In the context of access to criminal file, avoid traumatic situations such
that consultation of autopsy reports (unless the victim's parents
ask);
Arrange the infrastructure of the Criminal Court so as to reserve to the victim instead
it deserves in the trial. It must benefit from recognition
personal power and assert its presence to the cause by the possibility eg
to consult at any time with his counsel as is the case for the accused;
Under Directive 2012/29 / EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25
October 2012, ensure that communications with victims are made
in simple and accessible language, orally or in writing;
Give the possibility to the victim who wishes to be informed of the execution
correct or not worth of work to which the offender was
sentenced;
Establish a general statutory rights of victims responsible for:
o ensure the promotion of the rights of victims, inform the public of
the existence of services in place to provide victims home,
assistance and help, information on the rights available to victims and
the means to implement them;
o to receive complaints relating to violations of the rights and
interests of victims and investigate the functioning
services or bodies mentioned above - and how are
implemented in practice the rights available to victims;
o make any recommendation needed to protect the rights
and interests of victims, including through improved legislation
existing and / or operation of the services or authorities referred to above -
for a more complete and effective protection of rights and interests
victims;
o to Parliament an annual report presenting the results of its
activities.
Improve assistance to victims when the offender is a minor.
One could establish strong links with the reception and victim assistance
to ensure monitoring and specific support. Victims should
receive all the necessary support to deal with the consequences of the offense.

189

9. For a suitable reaction but firm against juvenile delinquency
Finding / Conclusion:
The minor who committed a crime should be a particular response and
specific. It must be subject to a system adapted to its status as a minor age and therefore
different from that applicable to adult offenders. However, a clear and firm response
must be provided by the authorities. The young must understand that he has committed an act that
Society does not tolerate and that it punishes because of this.
The sixth state reform transferring to the Communities and to the COCOM in Brussels
following subjects:
- Definition of the type of measures that can be taken with regard to minors
committed an act categorized as an offense;
- Deferral rules;
- Investment rules in a closed institution;
- Closed institutions, on terms to be determined.
Therefore, from 1 July 2014 the protection of youth, already partly
communitarised, is now fully the responsibility of the Communities (with
COCOM in Brussels).
The Communities and the Joint Community Commission of the Brussels Region -
Capital will have all the power to make own rules on the matter:
determining the nature of the measures taken in respect of minors who have committed acts
as an offense, measures whose purpose is education, accountability and
reintegration of minors who have committed acts categorized as an offense and the measures
whose purpose is public safety by protecting society against minors
offenders, defining the content of the measures, the conditions to which they can
be taken (eg fixing the age at which they can be applied and choice of
categories of offenses which justify them) and the duration of these, including the
conditions of their extension.
The Communities and the Joint Community Commission of the Brussels Region -
Capital therefore have the competence to provide new measures that will be repealed,
supplement, modify or replace existing measures.
Regarding the deferral rules, the Communities and the Commission
Brussels Region Joint Community - Capital will be responsible for "
establish rules for returning minors who have committed acts categorized as an offense,
as applicable, to a specific chamber of the youth court which applies the law
common criminal and common criminal proceedings or to a special court of assizes
composed, and the conditions in which this reference is possible (age, mismatch
measures, there is an earlier measure or seriousness of the facts, etc.). "
Federal Everberg closed centers, Tongeren and Saint-Hubert will also
transferred to the Communities.

190

The Federal State remain competent for all matters concerning the organization of the courts
Youth, their territorial jurisdiction and procedures before these courts.
Proposals:
- Maintain the principle of a youth law sanctionnel characterized by a focus
more on the penalty, the need to take account of the gravity of
the offense in determining the penalty, on accountability and on
repair as well as a responsibility of parents "resigned". There
society and public authorities must send a clear message to minors
delinquents and parents who refuse to take responsibility;
- Conduct a study on the structure of costs IPPJ to optimize the
cost of these institutions with the aim of creating a new IPPJ to
Brussels;
- Allow a better consideration of the consequences for the victim and
company acts committed by the minor. This should be done taking into account the
necessary rehabilitation of minors;
- Enhance the quality of education provided within IPPJ knowing
school dropout is a fundamental factor that can lead to
delinquency. It is therefore necessary to strengthen the quality of education to
facilitate the reintegration of the young;
- Regarding the outputs provided to young offenders placed in secure custody of
IPPJ, determine the categories of outputs that have a genuine interest in
term awareness of the act, repair and rehabilitation and are
compatible with a penalty of context;
- Consider whether outings for young people who have committed acts
extremely serious (rape, murder, etc.) and the possibility for them,
to be supported only by a closed section;
- Study specifically, within IPPJ:
o the possibility of a blurring of the standard;
o the problem of the possible use of drugs by some young people;
o practices "incentive" through educational outings or
no ;
o rotating seats;
o the possibility of increasing the investment period;
o the reasons and consequences of the failures of the Offering and recidivism;
- Working to appropriate treatment of juvenile offenders whose situation
specifically requires special support (eg children suffering from
psychiatric or deep Youth Drug);
- Develop appropriate ways to care for juvenile offenders
sexual and consider whether to create specific centers suitable for this type
delinquency;
- Review and evaluate the training and personal experience within
IPPJ;
- Establish stronger links with home services and assistance to victims to ensure
monitoring and specific support to victims. These must
receive all the necessary support to deal with the consequences of the act
they were victims
191

-

-

-

A significant percentage of young people in public institution of protection
Youth (IPPJ) hails from Brussels. The current geographical distribution of
IPPJ several problems for these young people in particular for their reintegration
school, key to successful reintegration (325 spaces are IPPJ
currently located in the Walloon Region). Geographical distance is
also a problem in terms of the many transfers to be made by
young (visit to the judge, return home, accompanied outings, etc.). It should
So redeploy IPPJ taking into account this reality by installing a IPPJ
on the territory of Brussels having a closed section;
Provide the divestiture of office of juvenile court if the offense committed by
a minor over 16 years:
o is punishable by a sentence of more than three years and if the minor has committed
previously one or more acts defined offense of the same gravity;
o is punishable by a criminal penalty and if the minor has previously committed a
or more acts defined offense of the same gravity;
If the criminal courts considers a measure of custody, preservation or
education is more appropriate, they may refer the case to the judge
youth.
If a minor commits repeated offenses and if the parents refuse and manifestly
usually cooperate with the law or if they are showing disinterest
characterized with respect to the offending behavior of their child and if this lack of interest
contributes to minor problems, give the juvenile court an opportunity to
remove the right to receive family allowances, to the benefit of a person
or a public institution designated. The amount of these allowances will be allocated
the unique needs of children.

10. Fight against terrorism
Finding / Assessment
Between 1 January 2006 and 30 June 2012, 609 terrorist cases have been processed by
Correctional floors. Between 1 January 2009 and 30 June 2012, that number was 303
and 463 suspects were involved. 46.87% of these suspects were of Belgian nationality. The
Other most common nationalities: Moroccan (7.99%), Russia (6.48%), Turkey
(3.67%), the Netherlands (3.67%) and French (2.81%). In 2009, these cases concerned 118
suspects, 92 in 2010, 179 in 2011 and the first half of 2012 already 74.
According to the State Security, Belgium is a place of important passage for networks
terrorist operations and for its central geographical position in Europe and
the presence of low cost airlines. One also finds that
criminal networks for logistical support have developed for activities
forgery and money laundering.
The State Security also points out that people who have been convicted in the
course of terrorist activities have been largely for logistical support: implication
in sectors exfiltration, manufacturing and false identity documents or forged traffic,
Hosting individuals sought by justice, etc.
192

Note that the media and jihadist forums now legitimize recourse to theft and
other criminal activities not only to support the armed jihad but also
to weaken the West. Moreover, the nature of the threat has evolved authors
planned or committed attacks in Europe have little or no contact with
ideological leaders in the combat zones.
As regards the detection and fight against the financing of terrorism, despite the
quality of work done by the police and intelligence services, exchange
information should be improved. The declarations of suspicions of money laundering
forwarded to the Financial Intelligence Processing Unit contain
information that could be exploited even if the files are classified as inadequate
to prosecute.
The analysis and the gathering of such information contained in these records
would detect new events or new methods and this
Basic develop appropriate strategies. Better consultation and better
exchange of information between the CTIF, the State Security, the GISS, the public ministry,
police, OCAM and the departments of Finance and Economy would
optimize the collection and analysis of information regarding the financing of
terrorism and identify targets. The objective could be to organize a service
financial intelligence with a capacity of thorough analysis and able to
transmit very specific information to other services.
Concerning prisons, the prison population constitutes a risk group in front
be the subject of attention and a permanent monitoring. Indeed, the increase
prisoners convicted of facts related to terrorism requires special attention.
Within prisons, initiatives are taken to limit contact between potential
recruiters and other inmates. A cooperation protocol was signed between the Sûreté
of the State and the Directorate General of Prisons of the Federal Justice. A
process of training and awareness of prison staff to the problem
radicalization in prisons was launched in 2007.
The struggle against violent radicalization and terrorism remains a priority in the Plan
2012-2015 National Security. The Plan R approved in 2005 by the Ministerial Committee
information and safety has also been strengthened in particular with regard to
coordination, cooperation and information exchange between the different services
concerned. The Minister of Interior has prepared a federal program for the prevention of
violent radicalization which is subject to consultation with the regions and
Communities.
As regards the detection and prevention of violent radicalization, various
Initiatives have been taken: establishment of an operational platform (the Ministers
Justice and Interior and the related services), meetings with mayors
of the cities, supporting the development of strategies at the local level, via grant
allocation "security agreement" financial assistance to support projects
prevention, creation within the SPF of a cell "Prevention against radicalism", etc.

193

The many departures in Syria led to the establishment of the task force "Syria", a
centralized contact point, a reference person "Syria" in designated areas
concerned police or even strengthening the Font detection team
Federal as part of the fight against radicalism and recruitment for Syria on
Internet.
As requested by the MR and imposed the implementation of a convention of the Council
Europe, public provocation to commit a terrorist offense and the
recruitment and training for terrorism are offenses now
criminal. It is the same for the fact to receive terrorist training.
Proposals
-

-

-

-

-

Criminalize more severely, in addition to existing offenses, incitement to
hatred, violence or discrimination based on alleged race,
origin, gender, age, disability, sexual orientation, conviction
religious or political when this incentive, by its nature or context, is to
infringe fundamental rights and freedoms guaranteed by the State (3-5 years
imprisonment);
Apply a minimum term of not less than two thirds of the sentence
and confiscation of documents collected in the context of the offense against
the person convicted of the offense in the previous point;
Penalize the usual consultation and without legitimate reason for prompting Websites
hatred, violence or discrimination as well as sites advocating the
terrorism. Constitute legitimate grounds such sites consultation exercise
normal to a profession whose purpose is to inform the public, continued
scientific research or the development of evidence intended to be used in the
course of judicial or criminal proceedings;
Allow forfeiture of Belgian nationality on the part of people who are
guilty, by nature or context of their intervention, the
discrimination, hatred or violence aimed at undermining the rights and
fundamental freedoms guaranteed by the State;
Based on the information concerning the presence of ten
Salafi supporters within National Defence, strengthen the screening of
candidates and civil and military members:
o Provide access to SGRS (Belgian General Information and Security Service)
the criminal record of candidates;
o Systematically screening of successful candidates and waiting for training
to identify extremist activists and behavior contrary to
our core values;
o Extend the requirement of Validity security certificate limited to all
military dependent upon gradation occupied functions.
The renewal of the certificate would allow a permanent analysis of the
military situation;
o Allow the defense to separate military convinced sympathies
extremists whose behavior is not in keeping with the function
without exorbitant cost.

194

-

-

-

-

-

-

Strengthen consultation and exchange of information between CTIF and other
relevant services to optimize the exchange, collection and analysis
information relating to terrorist financing and to adapt
strategies to new phenomena and new methods. In this
frame, examine the possibility of a financial intelligence unit
with a capacity of in-depth analysis and capable of transmitting
very precise information to other services;
Considering that prisons are places of indoctrination and
recruitment, the following initiatives:
o prepare a report on radicalism in prison and to
give them to Parliament;
o take steps to ensure that prison staff can attend
based training interculturalism and detection of phenomena
radicalization;
o take steps to increase the number of chaplains worship
Muslims in prisons and improve their training, to ensure
exercise of religious practices best suited to the prison environment and the fight
against radicalization phenomena;
o take measures to isolate prisoners from other inmates radicalized,
so that extremism is not spread.
Do not grant asylum to foreigners convicted of terrorism: It is noted that
Council Aliens Litigation, seized by an appeal against the decision
Negative General Commission for Refugees and Stateless Persons, acknowledged status
political refugee to a member of GICM person. This person had been
convicted of terrorist acts. It can not accept that a person with
been convicted of terrorist acts can obtain refugee status
policy. Belgium can not become a land of asylum for terrorists.
Strengthen the investigation methods of our judicial and police services
Intelligence considering the use of new technologies by
and terrorist networks while ensuring provide the necessary guarantees. One
could give the police and the intelligence services
possibility of remote access to computer data of persons covered by
organized crime-related investigation or terrorism such as these
data is displayed simultaneously to the user on the screen or that such
the typed into the computer via a keyboard or such a
mouse. This new survey method has the following advantages: knowledge
with whom the suspect is in contact via the Internet or read remotely
a message to be sent through an encrypted recognition software
hit ;
Encourage municipalities to initiate anti - radicalization (official
prevention which returns the mission to detect any problems with the
radicalization and to develop proposals to eradicate this phenomenon -
Mechelen is about to commit such an officer. Evaluation of the function
after one year);
Develop de-radicalization programs, particularly in schools
prisons, and develop cooperation with Arab countries that have
up such programs.
195

11. Cybersecurity
Finding / Assessment
In recent years, cybercrime has experienced considerable aggravation that can
be explained by several factors. First, new technologies play a role
increasingly important in the lives of individuals but also companies.
Then, the cybercriminal is easily identifiable, its commit offenses and remote
often from abroad. One distinguishes three main categories
Cybercrime:
- Traditional offenses facilitated by the use of new technologies:
scam, fraud, harassment, blackmail, money laundering, organized crime,
terrorism, pedophilia;
- The new offenses related to the use of new technologies forgery
bank cards, identity theft, defacement of official sites, attack
sites denial of service, data theft, phishing, "botnets" illegal sale of
credit card numbers, etc. ;
- Diversion of new technologies for criminal and terrorist purposes:
use of mobile phones to trigger bombs, GPS
used to guide explosive devices, Internet of Things, etc.
Several surveys and studies have been conducted in recent years to assess the impact of
Cybercrime. According to a Eurobarometer survey in 2012, more than one in ten Internet users
already faced cybercrime. The figures collected for Belgium by
antivirus developer in 2011 reveal callable information. First, the
Net total cost of cybercrime is $ 347,500,000 euros. Then, 50% of
adult Internet users have been victims of cybercrime in their lifetime and 56% in
the last 12 months. Finally, the main cybercrime are: viruses, software
malware, phishing, hacking social networking profiles, online fraud, etc. According to
A recent survey by the Swiss team of security emergency response
IT (CERT.be), six out of ten Belgians were victims of an act of
Cybercrime (Viruses, malware, money or diversion attempts
information, unwanted sending emails from a personal address, etc.) For
Regarding the concern of the Belgians, it is "high" to "very high" to 49,15%
of those surveyed. It is, however, that this concern does not translate very
bit in an adaptation of their behavior and due to a misjudgment of
risks or their ignorance concerning the establishment of effective protection.
As for Belgian companies, an audit firm has collected more data
figures which reveal that 44% of companies that participated in the study believe they have been
victims of cybercrime. 56% do not know whether their organization is capable of analyzing the
Cybercrime and 51% if their organization has established an emergency procedure capable of
disable the computer network in case of cyber attack.
Aware of the challenge and the challenge that companies face, the FEB and more
partners have taken the initiative to publish a "Belgian Cyber ​​Security Guide" for the
help better protect themselves.

196

The 2012 Annual Management Report of Economic and Financial Crime Police
Federal court confirms the impact of growing cybercrime in
lives of citizens and businesses. (Eg thousands of Belgian PC blocked in 2012 by a virus
"Police ransomware" customers of thousands of data theft with a request to
ransom, rising fraud in online banking, increased use of crime
Computer by criminal organizations, etc.).
Based on several studies, the Federal Computer Crime Unit (FCCU - Federal Police)
considers that the financial loss due to cybercrime in Belgium can be
evaluated 1-3000000000 € per year.
These studies and these figures are used to get an idea of ​​the magnitude of the phenomenon.
However, a scientific study, objective and neutral on cyber crime in
all aspects deserve to be conducted.
Belgium is particularly exposed to illegal intrusions into systems
IT in particular because of the presence of international institutions and
European or even international companies seats. Computer systems
the services of the Prime Minister and the FPS Foreign Affairs were the subject of a
intrusion. Belgacom has detected spyware in its computer systems.
Intentional threats against information systems may come from four
source: hackers, criminal organizations, terrorist movements
and some states.
23/08/2011 A report from the R Committee had already reported high vulnerability
Belgium in case of aggression on its systems and vital information networks due to
the absence of a comprehensive policy in information security and real
authority on the subject. He particularly recommended the development of a federal strategy,
creation of an agency responsible for coordinating activities to security
Information or improve certification and accreditation systems
used for the treatment of classified information. The Committee also recommended R
to consider the possibility of giving the State Security the right to proceed with the
neutralizing foreign systems in case of attacks against systems
some IT departments (Services of the Prime Minister FPS
Foreign Affairs, State Security, etc.) or against those critical infrastructures for the
functioning of the country.
Conscious of the need to rapidly implement the recommendations of Committee A,
the majority parties have included in the coalition agreement of December 2011
the development of a federal strategy for security of networks and information systems. There
computer crime was included in the National Security Plan 2012-2015 as
a priority phenomenon. End December 2012, the government adopted a draft
e-strategy whose implementation was entrusted to the Prime Minister. Goals
policy are threefold. Firstly, a secure and reliable cyberspace. Then,
Optimal protection and security of critical infrastructures and public systems
against cyber threat. Finally, the development of Belgium's own capacities
cybersecurity. Several areas of action were identified: centralized and integrated approach
197

cybersecurity, creating a legal framework for new skills or obligations,
continuous monitoring of the cyber threat against the fundamental values ​​and interests of the State
or against the essential and vital systems, improved protection against the
disturbance or breach of computer systems, strengthening the ability to
respond to cyber incidents, specific approach to cybercrime, etc. From a point of view
budget, € 10 million will be earmarked for the implementation of
Belgian cybersecurity strategy. More recently, a draft royal decree establishing
a Center for Cybersecurity was adopted by the Cabinet.

Proposals
-

-

-

-

-

-

Achieving the Belgian e-strategy into precise and effective operational measures
and develop the national strategy in partnership with the private sector;
Ensure detection and rapid response in the event of cyber attacks directed
against the vital systems and networks of state information as well as against
critical infrastructure (eg establishment of a rapid intervention group);
Enhance information and awareness among citizens and businesses on
existing threats (eg organize a month of Cybercrime);
Establish the means of certification and accreditation of
systems used for the treatment of classified information in Belgium without
depend on government and foreign services and strengthen prudence in
choice of secure technical equipment;
Consider the possibility of giving the State Security the right to proceed with the
neutralizing foreign systems in case of attacks against systems
some IT departments (Prime Minister's Office,
FPS Foreign Affairs, State Security, etc.) or against those of infrastructure
critical to the operation of the country;
Ensure identification of weaknesses in network security
critical information infrastructures and in collaboration with
Owners and operators of such infrastructure;
Conduct regular cyber simulation exercises;
Encourage companies to invest in a high level of cybersecurity and to share
information both at sectoral level and with public authorities;
Strengthen the capacity to investigate and fight against cybercrime whether at
level police, intelligence or level
Public minister. This implies in particular, given the scale of this type
crime and the priority to be given therein, to designate the Minister of Justice
and the College of Attorneys General to set a specific criminal policy
cybercrime and address directives to the prosecution (eg:
harmonized policy, reference magistrates in each district,
determining priorities, setting up networks of expertise, coordination with
police services, national and international implications, etc.);
As is the case in France, provide for aggravating circumstances when the
dissemination of child pornography images or representation of the minor

198

-

-

-

-

destination of an unrestricted public is performed through a network of
electronic communications;
Examine the feasibility and advisability of introducing in our Penal Code
specific offense for the failure of a major to make sexual proposals
a minor using electronic means and worsen
penalties if the proposals were followed by a meeting;
Introduce in our Criminal Code a specific offense relating to theft
identity;
Examine the desirability of introducing a specific procedure or to make
apply the current procedure for infiltration or cyberpatrols (Ex:
participate under a pseudonym to electronic exchanges, be in contact with it
way with persons who may be the perpetrators of certain crimes,
retrieve, transmit in response to an express request, acquire or retain
illegal content no criminal liability of officers involved);
Introduce in our Criminal Code a specific offense of happy slapping:
Severely punish the perpetrators of crime who are filming or photographing in
committing an offense and then distribute the images via GSM or
Internet (happy slapping) and the person who is content to film the aggression
or disseminate the images. Of course, these new criminal provisions
would not apply when recording or broadcasting results from the exercise
normal to a profession whose purpose is to inform the public or is made to
used as evidence in court;
Develop the legal and technical tools to facilitate websites blocked
Internet with illegal content, including those hosted abroad
and intensify cooperation between the justice, police and operators
to optimize the domain name blocking mechanisms moving towards a
Website illegal content (mechanism to be used for sites hosted on
abroad. As for the sites with illegal content hosted in Belgium,
Crown already has the legal instruments allowing it to order
operators to block).

12. Fight against arms trafficking
Finding / Assessment
The Onkelinx Law of 8 June 2006 regulating economic and individual activities with
weapons was supposed to meet two main objectives: first, to fight against trafficking
weapons fueling organized crime and secondly, to come out of hiding them
weapons held by individuals. This law - t - it met these two objectives? It is necessary
admit that not. It is common knowledge that one can easily, after some
research, purchase firearms so completely unlawful and prices very
reasonable. Rather than submit lawful and fair to holders rigor
excessive, a multitude of requirements, obligations and paperwork, he would
took more direct means police and justice to weapons trafficking used by
criminals. It seems pretty obvious that laws imposing harsher conditions
legal gun owners, and therefore honest citizens, will have no effect on
intentions and actions of criminal organizations or offenders.
199

Under the impetus of the MR, the Act of 25 July 2008 corrected some excessive elements of the law
2006: introduction of the possibility of holding weapons without ammunition (detention
passive), changes involving administrative simplification (exemption tests
theoretical and practical for hunters and marksmen under certain conditions, etc.)
introduction of the principle of unlimited duration of authorizations with control
Five-year (rather than having to reapply for authorization every five years), royalty
Single whatever the number of weapons, etc.
Following the tragedy that took place in Liège in December 2011, the Ministers of Justice and
Interior took the initiative to set up an action plan on the fight against
arms trafficking. This plan defined a new criminal policy:
- Improve the image on the trafficking of weapons (strategic analysis);
- Dismantle the weapons supply sources to fire the criminal world;
- Improve working procedure for seizure of firearms
(capture, recording, ballistic database, etc.);
- Increase the expertise of police services in the field of firearms.
He was also a question of modifying Article 90ter of the Code of Criminal Procedure. In
Indeed, arms trafficking or illegal arms trade as such are not covered by
that provision of the Code of Criminal Procedure authorizing wiretapping (and
consequently the specific search methods) except in two
assumptions. First, if the facts in the context of a criminal organization.
On the other hand, if it is to import, export, transit of weapons to specifically serve
for military use or policing. This modification of the instruction code
criminal essential to pursue the real criminals has not been
materialized.
The adopted Action Plan contained a set of useful and essential measures since
aimed at improving and strengthening the fight against arms trafficking.
However, in the wake of this Action Plan, the Ministers of Justice and Interior have
decided to delete Annex 1 to the Royal Decree of 20 September 1991 concerning weapons
fire of historical, decorative and folk or firearms rendered unfit to fire
(firearms called counter).
Very quickly, the MR reported to Ministers that this was excessive. In the
Since the competence to remove firearms from the list of firearms for sale
Free is an exclusive competence of the Minister of Justice, we have offered to
restrict the removal to some variety of weapons (listed) with a
real danger, particularly because of the manufacturing of ammunition from the country
East for these weapons.
The Minister of Justice who persisted in his determination to remove all of this
list, we considered it essential to provide for an authorization procedure
Lightweight for holders of these weapons no longer be called to the counter. And it's
precisely in order to legally make possible the implementation of this procedure
lightened the Arms Act was changed. But the MR was also found isolated on

200

Other flexibilities for weapons-counter or for holders
"Legal".
Proposals:
- Assess thoroughly the law, its implementing orders, the circular of
25/10/2011 on the implementation of the legislation on weapons and its
enforcement by the police, prosecution, services of Governors and the
Federal Service of arms;
- Proceed in this context, the survey of human resources and expenses incurred
various levels in order to evaluate their effectiveness particularly in the fight against
crime;
- Conduct a review of the Weapons Act in light of the evaluation of the law,
inconsistencies and interpretation difficulties and after wide
consultation with local stakeholders and associations representing
legal owners (hunters, collectors ..). The law and its implementing decrees
must be realistic, understandable and applicable by public officials well
trained for the mission entrusted to them, receiving instructions and uniforms
homogeneous for the same application on the entire federal territory with
reasonable and proportionate sanctions;
- As foreseen in the national security plan, to instruct the parquet
priority prosecute illegal arms trafficking to fire and load
police services to effectively fight against the traffic of heavy weapons or
war. International collaborations will be developed;
- Make possible the use of wiretapping and specific methods
Research when a person is suspected of arms trafficking and more
particularly of weapons of war;
- Ensure that the governors services process applications more quickly
authorization to detain;
- In case of failure to report in good faith, avoid the arms being
confiscated and destroyed by providing, like the valid mechanism under
road safety, that public action is extinguished upon payment of a
lump sum (transaction).
13. Judicial Organization

Ensure effective justice is to give the human, material and structural
necessary judicial institutions to fulfill in the best
conditions of their mission at the service of individuals and society. The defendant is entitled
waiting for justice decision lawful, fair and understandable
a quick time, according to a procedure adapted to the nature of the dispute. Special attention
must be paid to the fight against the backlog of cases.

201

Finding
Following the Dutroux case, progress has been made to improve the functioning of
justice, embodied by the creation of the High Council of Justice and houses
Justice, the review of the body of mandates of the Heads of diet and better attention
reserved for victims through various legislative initiatives. Most of these
However, reforms concerned the criminal side of justice and not the operation of the
Justice at large.
A deeper modernization of the judiciary was prepared by the adoption in 2005
the plan "Themis" and in 2009 by the group's discussions "Atomium". It is under
the impulse of the outgoing government that the work began. Reform
legal landscape creates larger boroughs, better organized, with means
streamlined. The management of the judiciary will now be entrusted to the judges themselves, which will better meet the needs of each jurisdiction. The
first foundations are well laid. This work should be refined, pursued and realized. He
This will be a major task of the next Minister of Justice, in close
consultation with stakeholders.
Many efforts are still needed to improve the functioning of the
justice. At the beginning of XXI century, computerization is not yet accomplished while
offers major productivity gains. The backlog is maintained in some
boroughs too high levels, especially in Brussels.
We also find that traditional judicial procedure is not suited to meet
all types of claims. Frequently, parties to a dispute themselves
all losers at the end of a long, costly and generating resentment. The
alternatives to conventional procedure must be developed as possible so
that the legal action will conceive as a range of measures tailored to each
situation rather than a standardized procedure applied indiscriminately.
Balance sheet
The outgoing government has lead numerous reforms improving
functioning of justice:
Reform of the judicial landscape. The number of districts from 27 to 12 password and
territory is modeled on that of the provinces, except for BHV and Eupen. Of
fewer and larger districts will allow to allocate resources
more efficiently while maintaining accessibility to places of Justice
citizens. Mobility will allow judges to move depending on the load
work to fight against the backlog of cases. It will also promote
specialization of skills to the litigant.
Management reform of the judicial order to decentralize decision making and
give greater autonomy to the judiciary. This decentralization

202

will be accompanied in terms of real empowerment in the management of magistrates
their budgets.
A balanced agreement has been reached for the judicial component of BHV. The borough
court was split and the rights of francophone litigants to be tried in their
language has been strengthened to the whole territory of the district. The floor of the demerger
resulted in an overall increase in the number of judges, both in Brussels
Halle-Vilvoorde only.
The rules of the Judicial Code relating to discipline magistrates were changed. A
real court will be set up that will judge the discipline of the judiciary and the
court staff.
The Constitution was amended to allow the Council of State to rule on
effects in private law from the cancellation of an administrative act. This important step will
litigants to avoid having to bring a second civil remedies after graduating
the cancellation of an administrative act before the Council of State.
The status of the justices of bailiffs has been reformed to address the many
problems related to their appointment. Appointments will now be by competition and
there will be a nominating committee. Disciplinary commissions at the
Court of Appeal were created.
Judges were appointed as reinforcements to fight backlogs in Brussels
As part of the split of BHV court. In the end, there will be 75 French magistrates
Additional distributed among the new districts of Halle-Vilvoorde and
Brussels.
The Family Court and Youth was created. One court is now
jurisdiction in disputes relating to divorce, separation, child custody,
liquidation shares, etc.

Proposals
A more modern and effective justice:
Run the reform of the judicial landscape in constant consultation with all
stakeholders. Proceed naturally empower districts
court under the decentralization of management.
Developing of the judiciary by providing management capacities and Colleges
Management Committees of effective support services.
Define the terms of management contracts by ensuring transparent distribution
resources based on specific objectives.
203

Fully computerize justice. The development of smart identity cards and
secure electronic signatures enables the computerization of many acts of
procedures. Computerization should also enable the transmission of files under
electronic form between the grafts, bailiffs, lawyers and litigants in
conditions respecting privacy and confidentiality. To avoid errors
the past, the computerization of justice to take place in stages, working from
softwares already in use and have proved themselves in other jurisdictions.
Arrange working time of judges. The magistrates with small children or
late career still do not have the opportunity to reduce their working time. There
Justice loses annually competent and dedicated magistrates. A bigger
flexibility is needed, subject to arrangements to ensure continuity of
service.
Generate sufficient means to completely fill administrative frameworks
floors and auditorats. These frameworks are currently filled to 80% or even 60%
in some districts. The frames shall be determined depending on the
measurement of workload.
Improve the timeliness of payment of invoices addressed to the Federal Justice. Currently,
only 42% of bills are paid by the Federal Justice on time, which causes
significant damage to businesses and independent and damages the image of the
justice.

Eliminating the backlog
Reaching the extent of the current workload and courts to allocate
resource efficiency within the boroughs. Appoint as many judges
as necessary and support staff based on the results of the measurement
workload.
Indicate in future management contracts under the reform of the organization
Judicial precise and quantified targets for reduction of the backlog and
provide the necessary means to achieve it.
Ease as much as possible the workload of magistrates in the treatment of
files. For example, Belgium is one of the few European countries where conclusions
are not presented in a uniform manner. This represents a non overwork
negligible for judges and thus a slowdown of justice. Standardize
structure of lawyers conclusions would achieve time savings
considerable.

204

Review map of the cantons of JPs to better distribute the workload.
Currently, some cantons are too large and growing backlog while
others are too small and do not use the full capacity of their resources.

Promote alternative at trial:
Encourage the use of mediation before the prosecution of litigation. Create "judges
conciliation "intervening at the beginning of the court proceedings and asked to find
a negotiated outcome to the dispute. For its action to be effective, the "justice of conciliation"
would not be competent to hear the same folder at the bottom if the procedure
judiciary continued.
Better sensitize judges, lawyers and litigants the benefits of mediation.
The right scheduling could be deleted for the registration of mediation.

Thinking globally to the phase of "pre trial" and consider allowing a judge
to resolve a dispute at temporary or give an opinion on the likely outcome of litigation,
to allow the parties to consider the utility of a long process and to encourage the
use of negotiated solutions. These incentives however exist without prejudice
the pursuit of a "long" proceedings before the lower courts.

Avoid conventional legal proceedings for the recovery of uncontested claims
by introducing the summary procedure order for payment. It is noted that this
are particularly SMEs who are victims of arrears exaggerated. The costs of
recovery weigh heavily on their cash flow. Customers who do not pay their
invoices or do so late hinder SME growth and threaten their
survival. Therefore, the MR wants to set up a procedure
to quickly obtain an enforceable title for the recovery of debts that are
not disputed.

14. Access to Justice

The fundamental right of access to justice is guaranteed by the Constitution. This right remains
However, an empty word if the litigant has no practical means to ensure the exercise.
Legal aid can meet this requirement for most people
disadvantaged. For the middle classes, remain significant problems. The slow
judicial process, and its cost, repelled many litigants should
yet able to assert their rights. The government must implement
as measures to ensure access to justice in this part of the population. Finally, the
205

local justice must become a place where each individual can exercise his rights without
the cost of the procedure exceeds the value of the dispute.
Finding
The cost of court proceedings increased following the application of VAT to the fees
lawyers and bailiffs. Although this painful measure was made
required by federal government bonds deficit matters
public, the next government will make efforts to allow each
access to justice.
The most effective solution is to generalize as much as possible insurance
juridic protection. Too few Belgians now have legal insurance
general (that is to say, not limited to a particular disaster such as a fire or driving):
Only one in ten households is covered, while in Germany the figure is half
Population. The legal protection insurance will be more effective and less
expensive if they cover a larger portion of the population because the risks will be
then diluted.
The proximity of Justice must also become accessible justice. Currently, Justices of
Peace differ little from other jurisdictions in terms of the procedure. It is thus
very difficult for a lay citizen to defend himself in a court of peace, even
if he has the right. The hearing process is incomprehensible and intimidating, especially
in large townships, there is no reception and the role of each participant is not
explicit (there is no such an uneducated citizen to tell the difference between the
judge and the clerk). It follows that even for simple and low-value disputes, the
litigants are forced to call upon the services of lawyers to defend their rights,
deterring sometimes bring an action.
As regards legal aid, compensation lawyers who participate has continued
declining since 2009. The value of the "point" of legal aid which was then 26.9 € is
increased to € 24.3 in 2013. This level of pay is not enough and demoralizes
lawyers who wish to practice legal aid. The point value has dropped because the number
of cases handled by legal aid has increased faster than the envelope
budget, which has yet quadrupled in 15 years. One observes, however, is relative
stabilization of the number of cases in recent years, which suggests the
possibility of refinancing sustainable legal aid. Such refinancing must
be accompanied by an improvement in the functioning of legal aid including a
more rigorous verification of compliance with conditions of access on the part of applicants.
Balance sheet
Introduction of class action in Belgian law: this mechanism will allow to process in
one procedure several individual court actions for the same
defendant and whose principal purpose is compensation for damage. This procedure
allows sharing common legal costs and therefore reduce
considerably.
206

Summary of payment procedure: the reform of this process will enable the
trader to recover more quickly and cheaply the amount of unpaid claims
when they are not being challenged by the debtor.
Work on reform of legal aid: the outgoing government achieved
significant preparatory work for the reform of legal aid. Many
proposals were analyzed to improve the functioning of legal aid and
will be quickly adopted by the next government.
Proposals
Help middle class
Generalize the legal protection insurance by granting tax deductibility
(possibly capped) amount paid as insurance premiums
juridic protection. Legal insurance have many advantages:
they offer effective coverage to policyholders in disputes and guarantee to
lawyers fair compensation. The insurance companies have more interest
to promote alternative dispute resolution due to their lower
cost. They do useful work as well as extra-judicial procedures are also more
rapid and often more profitable to litigants that court proceedings
classics; they also contribute to unclog the courts.
Subscription promote collective legal protection of fonts with
employers, who would be allowed tax deduction for premiums paid for
workers. Legal insurance would thus part of the "package" of pay
that offers an employer, as well as meal vouchers and pensions
complementary.
Reduce court fees and scheduling. Since justice is financed by
taxes, as well as any administration, it is unfair that citizens
must pay a second time when they brought an action.
Strengthen local justice
Refocus the missions of the Justice of the Peace on justice of proximity. The justice shall
become the place where disputes are solved everyday (neighborhood conflicts,
consumer rights, etc.). For example, the obligation to approve purchases
Real Estate for the benefit of minors could be assigned to family court. There
control of accounts procedure incompetent could be amended to entrust
the bulk of the mission to an accountant and limit the role of the justice to
control mission. Finally, it will assess the impact of the reform of the "natural judge"
(which unload the justices of the peace of certain disputes, especially between merchants)
to consider going further.

207

Improve the reception and information of the defendant in the magistrates' courts. For
actually operate as neighborhood court, justice of the peace must be the place
where individual can defend his rights himself. This is especially true for
low-value disputes where legal costs can easily exceed the amounts
claimed. The conduct of the proceedings should be redesigned to become
accessed by lay persons, as far as possible. The justices of the peace
could also become places or litigants come to learn and
receive assistance to prepare their own defense.
Allow the magistrate to take a more proactive role in the reconciliation to
find amicable solutions between parties. It is in the conciliation magistrate
best fulfills his title role of peacemaker.
Whenever possible, require the justice to use clear language, understandable
by non-lawyers, in all his actions.
Revalue legal aid
Refinance legal aid in order to increase the point value to the minimum level
which was achieved in 2009 (€ 29 adjusting for inflation). A Budget
enough to compensate hotlines "Salduz".
Create a one stop shop for legal aid and legal assistance. Some
Lawyers are currently appointed by legal aid to launch an application
legal assistance. Grant aids both simultaneously will
remove these unnecessary costs while improving service to the litigant.
Reforming legal aid for greater efficiency and fight against abuse:
widespread quality controls, end irrebuttable presumptions
indigence (except urgent procedure), allow legal aid offices
SPF Finance to obtain information to verify the income conditions,
denied legal aid for vétilleuses and manifestly unfounded cases and
make compulsory prior conciliation wherever possible. It is necessary
also revise the nomenclature of items to better reflect the work
actually accomplished by lawyers and at the same time create incentives for
mediation.
Free Legal Aid Board composed of representatives of lawyers,
litigants, the judiciary and the FPS Justice. This council would be responsible for overseeing the
daily legal aid and make recommendations to improve the
operation, both in terms of service quality than cost control.

208

15. A law and justice for families
The family model has changed significantly in recent decades: next to the family
Traditional developed single-parent families, stepfamilies and
homoparental family. Close relatives, such as grandparents, are becoming
more involved in the education of children. Despite these changes, the family remains
an essential part of our lives. The law must therefore support these developments in order to
protect families as they exist today.
Finding
The creation of the Family Court and Youth is a great step forward for
allow justice to better respond to family disputes. However, there remain many
problems to solve.
The increased number of blended families, with children of a first and a second
Marriage, for example, asks questions of great complexity at the time
succession. Disputes that arise at this time, too many in families
traditional, become even more difficult to decide. Liquidation of successions
becomes longer, causing inconvenience to many heirs.
The law of matrimonial regimes has greatly evolved with new clauses inserted
in marriage contracts and decisions of jurisprudence. The increasing complexity
the material causes uncertainty and lack of predictability for the spouses,
difficulties which often indicate that at the time of divorce or death.
The increased role of close relatives, such as grandparents, and bonds of affection which
can develop when blended family, should also open a discussion on
social parenthood. This concept covers cases where a social role, but also educational and
Protection is exercised in relation to the child without the person has for him no
legal existence.
Balance sheet
The Family Court and Youth was created after 30 years of debate. It's about
a major reform of how to address family disputes. The creation of this
single tribunal improves the efficiency of justice, making it more accessible to citizens and
facilitates understanding of judicial mechanisms in a highly material
sensitive and personal. This reform will also promote alternative dispute
resolving family conflicts and simplify procedures.
Work on the reform of matrimonial property regimes and successions: three bills
were discussed during the parliamentary term on matrimonial regimes and
inheritance law to take into account the contributions of jurisprudence and developments
of society. There was insufficient time to terminate these projects concern
but the complex materials raked work constitutes a good basis for further
the discussions at the next Parliament.
209

Fight against parental kidnapping: now, the identity card must indicate the
conditions in which the child can cross borders.
Transmission of names: the opportunity will be given to parents to send their
two names to their children by mutual agreement.

Proposals
Modernize the law of matrimonial property regimes in order to respond to changes in
family, improve legal certainty and enable spouses to better understand
the consequences of their choices at the conclusion of the marriage contract. This
reform must be carried out without haste and by consulting experts (lawyers,
university professors, notaries, etc.) to avoid technical errors in this
complex and sensitive matter.
Reform the inheritance laws to better reflect the phenomenon of marriages
Successive. We must strike a balance between individual freedom and the protection of
children's rights and the principle of legal certainty. This reform must introduce
possibility for a person to plan his succession in his lifetime with the agreement of
his heirs, with the guarantees needed to simplify sharing
estate and reduce the number of disputes upon succession. This reform must
also be carried out calmly and taking into account the views of experts.
Social parenting: open a reflection on this concept and consider allocating a
person who is involved or is involved in a parenting function some of the effects
side of a legal relationship of filiation, as visitation rights without touching
the child's parentage as such. Allow the social parent to bequeath his property
also favorable conditions for the child he helps to raise.
Actively work to improve the situation of adoptions for couples
gay authorized since the 2006 law but are often prevented by
refusal biological mothers (domestic adoptions) or country (adoptions
international).

210

16. A business-friendly justice
More than ever, we need to support our entrepreneurs so that they can
doing what they do best: offer products and services that bring value
added to society and generate jobs.
Governments must help create a climate for entrepreneurship to
to meet the challenges of our modern society. It is important to offer them a framework
Legislative quality that gives them the support they need at each stage of their business and
which helps to enhance the attractiveness of our country.
Appraisal:
The outgoing government has carried out numerous reforms to improve the framework
Legal companies:
Natural Judge: changing allocation rules will centralize litigation
commercial litigation in the hands of the commercial court. This reform
allow traders to benefit from a jurisdiction with knowledge more
fine the economic world for all disputes.
The class action will allow to process in a single procedure several requests
individual justice to the same defendant and whose principal aim
compensation for damage.
Reform of Security: the non-possessory pledge was created, which increases efficiency
This economic safety. The debtor now has the opportunity to use the pledged property
to generate revenue as part of his professional activity.
Arbitration reform: the Belgian legislation on arbitration has been modernized to
align legislation with the advances in the field. This reform will
consolidate the position of Belgium as one of the ten leading 10 countries in terms
Arbitration, which has a positive economic impact.
Corporate continuity: the law has been enhanced to improve prevention and
Detection of companies in difficulty, better inform creditors and strengthen the
role in assisting professionals in sales when introducing folders.
Codex economic law: the entire economic right has been compiled in a
codex to simplify the system and improve the understanding of the regulations
by economic actors.
Proposals:
Establish summarily order for payment: This procedure
allow facilitation payment of uncontested claims. It is noted that these are
especially SMEs which are victims of payment arrears exaggerated. The costs of
recovery weigh heavily on their cash flow. Customers who do not pay their
211

invoices or do so late hinder SME growth and threaten their
survival. Therefore, the MR wants to set up a procedure
to quickly obtain an enforceable title for the recovery of debts that are
not disputed. The summary of payment procedure applies
in civil and commercial matters. Are not affected, to revenue,
customs and administrative responsibility of the state, property consequences of the
marriage and similar relationships, inheritance, donations and wills, bankruptcies,
concordats, collective debt settlements and similar procedures or the
social Security. The application is lodged by unilateral application to the Court of
1st instance, the Labour Court, the Commercial Court or justice according
the nature of the claim. The limit of 1860 euros disappear because the doctrine considers whether
the claim is not contested, there is no reason to limit the amount. The summation
pay beforehand is held in turn. Finally, the representation by means of a
lawyer is optional. Thus, the procedure should see its reduced cost and time
shortcuts.
Extend the bankrupt excused for farmers. This measure will put farmers
on par with other contractors and give them the opportunity to restart
new economic activity after bankruptcy.
Collective debt settlement: simplify procedures in order to reduce the burden of
labor courts against abuses associated with this procedure. Extending Regulation
collective debt to individuals entrepreneurs who go bankrupt.
Modernising Bankruptcy Law: Assessing the 1997 Act to address the problem of
fraudulent bankruptcies, reduce time to this procedure, avoid cascading failures.
Auditor: fight against conflicts of interest by making inconsistent
the exercise of the auditor function with that of a political mandate when the company
or body to control is under the supervision of a level of power in which the elected representative
exercise political functions (or spouse and family members in the 1st
degree).
Private maritime law: continue the modernization of the regulatory framework of efforts,
in consultation with the companies concerned and drawing on the jurisprudence of
courts. It is vital to ensure an efficient regulatory framework to
support the Belgian ports, especially the port of Antwerp. Being attentive to the implementation
the future European Rules liberalizing the market for maritime services
private operators.
Encourage the use of mediation in economic relations. Mediation
often makes finding from faster, less expensive and more conducive to
maintain business relationships that classical judicial proceedings.
Patent rights: ensuring that SMEs have access to the Unified Patent Court Treaty. The
next government must commit to release the budget to create a division

212

Belgian local operating in English and in national languages. Otherwise, our
Companies will go to Paris, London and Munich to defend their rights.
Create a legal framework adapted to the crowdfunding to ensure its development. The
Crowdfunding is an innovative way to mobilize savings and encourage the creation
business. Its development requires a legal framework that protects safe
investors.

17. Protection of consumption
Finding
Mad Cow (1986-1996), chicken with dioxin (1999), FMD UK
(2001), avian flu (2003-2006), milk melamine in China (2008), sprouts
containing the E. coli bacteria in Germany (2011) and closer to us again, lasagna
horsemeat (2013), as many global food scandals, fatal or not,
marked the spirits.
The Belgian is concerned with increasing the quality of its food: organic or not organic? and
palm oil, is that bad? and if I end up back in my pig
calamari? what are all these terms on the labels? it is not at all clear ... 2
Belgian 3 clearly afraid of their plate!
Following the dioxin crisis, Belgium has adopted the Federal Agency for Security
Food and Branches "animals, plants and food" and
"Environment" has been established within the FPS Public Health. This helped to ensure
safe system of traceability and preventing any new risks of major crisis.
But the controls can be further improved. Thus, they should be carried out on a
evaluation of real risks to human and pragmatic manner. Likewise, the measures
taken or any sanctions should be proportionate. In this context,
the obligation of result should take precedence over the obligation.
At European level, the MR wants an EU policy developed on base
clear and consistent principles and be implemented uniformly by all countries
members.
To do this, the European Commission should strengthen its monitoring of Member States
and particularly in respect of those regularly experience problems.
Consumer habits have changed in the space of 10 years and protection
the consumer can not be reduced to the issue of food security. We
thus observed with the evolution of technology and the emergence of Internet in the lives of all
day new consumer problems to be able to respond.

213

Finally, the insurance sector occupies a more central in research
security of existence. Whether insurance related to people - we think of
different types of life insurance or death, income protection, to assurancehospitalisation which usefully complete health insurance or protection
legal - or insurance related to property (fire insurance, car insurance, etc.)
virtually all aspects of our lives are affected by insurance.
Among the advances of the last parliamentary term, we can mention:
- Technological disasters: With the MR compensation for victims of
technological disasters will quickly fed via a fund
financially by insurance companies practicing branch 13.
- Technical inspection stations will now be empowered to check whether a document
valid insurance is on board the vehicle. However, not being able to present
the document does not entail a refusal but mention on the inspection certificate.
Periodically, the list of people lacking insurance will be sent to SPF
Mobility and Transport and car warranty Common Fund.
- The obligation for insurance companies to establish a better balance between
insurance products offered and the consumer's risk profile.
The insurance also expanded and numerous they are not alone can
protect consumers. Indeed, it is unfortunately still observed
abusive behavior that can not be covered by insurance and require
legislative intervention farm. For example, in litigation concerning the contract
organizing travel and intermediary travel contract where many
Consumers experiencing discomfort during their holidays, even
if they have entrusted planning a travel agency or an intermediary. In addition,
in a sector such as travel, price transparency is paramount. A lot
consumers are indeed attracted by price announcements unbeatable
but disillusioned once one exposes them many additional costs.
Progress must also be made in the fight against excessive debt.
In recent years, consumer credit is increasingly prized by the Belgians. This
phenomenon leads to an increase in cases of debt distress. In some cases, the
situation is such that it requires the intervention of debt mediators.

Proposals
- Strengthening food security
- Guide the development of 5 new European draft regulations ("5-packs")
according to the 5 following principles:
o improvement of the current food chain security level;
o administrative simplification and burden reduction for operators
with particular attention to the smallest of them;
o proportionality and ethics regarding penalties;
o Maintaining a broad decision-making powers to the Member States while
ensuring the uniform application of the decisions taken at European level;
o protection of privacy.
214

- European controls based on relevant and transparent risk analysis;
- Achievement of stricter controls in European countries suspected of not
comply with EU legislation.
- Mention must label the origin of meat used as
ingredient in prepared foods.
- Revise the law of 16 February 1994 governing the travel organization contract and the
travel intermediation contract
• Strengthen the protection vis-à-vis consumers and organizers
Intermediate trips;
• Integrate automatic filing fees in the total price displayed for the attention of
Customer, except of course in the case of a tour "custom" for a
customer whose final price can not be determined in advance
• Require in case of air travel, the tour operator and / or
the travel agent to communicate to travelers, in writing and before
conclusion of the staging agreement or travel agent, all
information on the type of device that will actually carry them.
- To fight more efficiently against excessive debt
• Review the operation of deep processing Fund
debt so he can finally fulfill its primary functions, ie
pay the debt mediators and finance information campaigns on
problems of excessive debt.
• Review the operation of the Central Individual Credit to
to examine the possibility of including social debts if not Central
Credits. This would allow the lender to have a clearer vision of
Consumer situation. Knowing that only the consultation is mandatory and
the lender may, despite unpaid, grant a loan to a person
overindebted.
- Reminder charges
A few days after the end of the deadline for payment of an invoice, businesses
Public send individuals a first reminder letter already includes
fees may range from 5-20 euros. However, non-payment of the invoice is not always
due to the particular (holidays, loss of mail by the post ...) and is not
necessarily a sign of a desire to cheat on his part. The MR is therefore in favor of
elimination of additional fees charged from the first reminder letter. Further
this can lead to frustration among people of good faith who forgot to
pay, this can also be an additional factor in the depletion
people already in high precariousness.
- Revise the territorial jurisdiction of the court litigation related to the law of 6
April 2010 on market practices and consumer protection
Parties to a contract may agree territorially competent judge in case of
litigation except when territorial jurisdiction is mandatory or public order. The
service distribution companies often use this option to insert a
jurisdiction clause in their terms and conditions. However, it is common that most
215

headquarters of major service companies located in Brussels, the
Brussels periphery or in the Flemish Region, which causes cumbersome
Procedural for consumers who do not live in the Brussels-Capital Region.
This is why the MR proposes to consolidate the position of consumers by imposing
exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of his home, in all cases covered by the Act of 6 April
2010.

- Auto Insurance
Young people and senior citizens are finding it increasingly difficult to find insurance
car at an affordable price. While the pricing Bureau can help them, but it
is not his first role since it was set up to enable people
falling into the category of "bad risks" (ie. driving while intoxicated ...) of
find a suite insurance to radiation. 29/29 The contract for young people, is
not the panacea either because it has a number of conditions sometimes little
consistent with the labor market. The MR proposes therefore consider reviewing the
including the legal framework and tariff segmentation possibilities and the opportunity to
reintroduce a general bonus-malus.
- Legal expenses insurance
Review and better adapt to the needs of citizens the tax measure of encouragement
legal protection insurance. This measure, initiated under the government
Verhofstadt, does not promote a very specific type of insurance. In addition, the MR pleads
also that such insurance may be offered as group insurance through
the employer, as already exists in respect of hospitalization insurance for example.
- Fire Insurance
• Currently, when taken out a fire insurance policy for her
habitation, certain guarantees are compulsorily included in the contract as
coverage against damage resulting from storms, natural disasters
or labor disputes and terrorist attacks. Against by the coverage of the
liability when damage cause injury and / or death of people
third is not mandatory. The MR wants to mandate coverage of this
risk by the fire insurance contract.
•

In all liability insurance, the insurer compensates victims when
responsibilities were permanently fixed, which can take years and
is not equitable for third-victims who have to wait for a
Any compensation regarding personal injuries. This is the reason for
MR which calls for the establishment of a more rapid compensation mechanism
victims, persons harmed by an insurance obligation. This mechanism
take the form of a joint guarantee fund, fed by companies
Insurance in Belgium who practice insurance against ordinary risks
fire and the insurance companies that offer insurance contracts
covering the extra-contractual civil liability for privacy. These
Insurance companies will contribute proportionately to the Fund

216

the receipt of the last approved accounting period. The King will determine the
procedure for the treatment of the claim by the Fund.
- Care insurance
This is no doubt to the great challenge of the future. We live longer and more
long time, but unfortunately we also gradually lose our
more autonomy we age. An estimated 60% Belgians use a
non-medical assistance in the last five years of life (eg shopping, the
ironing, washing, etc.).
Therefore, the MR offers:
• enable employers to offer coverage to its workers dependency via
group insurance, as already exists for hospital insurance by
example.
• To pay tax deductibility of insurance policyholders.
- Strengthening security in e-commerce
E-commerce is increasingly on the rise in our country. The total
e-commerce transactions in Belgium amounted to 1.401 billion euros in 2012,
25.3% more compared to 2011. In terms of growth, Belgium is therefore better
the European average is 18%. The online business is well
home 2.5% of GDP, against 4% in the Netherlands and 7% in Britain.
Many brakes which nevertheless remain uncertain about the product
(quality, material, size, composition etc.), privacy problems with
communication of personal data, computer security.
- Creation of a "Made in Europe"
This label would apply to all European products to ensure
traceability to citizens and businesses to avoid having too use
outsourcing segments of their production activities. Thus, as
situations commonly seen in Europe, where production is limited only
labeling or distribution of the license (such as encountered in the sector
pharmaceutical) and generating only a limited number of jobs, would be avoided. To
time of purchase, the choice would be left to the consumer to support activity
which creates jobs, prosperity and social security in Europe.
- Extend the code of ethics for telecommunications applications to smartphones
With the spread of smartphones, we are witnessing the making available of
consumers across a range of applications for playing certain games
Online. These are mainly of free apps for children: age
Ice, Schroumpf, the Simpsons ...; but also for adults: Games
role ... The game is mentioned as free to download but to move in
the game, the consumer can buy "items" against real money ...

217

However, once in the game, the child (or even adults) do not immediately makes
it has exchanged its fictitious gold against real money, at least until the
receipt of invoice.
As was the case a few years ago with sms overcharged, it is important to
telecommunications aware of the danger of over-indebtedness
involuntary represented by these applications and ask them to respond well
Consequently, starting with expanding their ethics applications
smartphones.

- Punishing the ads using images retouched without announcing the
The use of increasingly frequent and massive image editing programs
body in advertisements mislead consumers. The models take
unreal gaits and products sold does seem that more fabulous. The
Adolescent girls and young women are the preferred target of the advertisers who are reluctant
not to carry with them a false image of the representation of the body and that the
detriment of their good psychological development and their finances.
For these reasons, the MR advocates the inclusion in the Act of 6 April 2010 on
market practices and consumer protection, a provision aimed at
must include the following inscription on advertisements that use Image
people whose physical appearance has been changed by a processing software
image: "Image modified and edited by an image processing software". In case
non-compliance with this rule, advertising will be considered a practice
misleading commercial, as defined in Articles 84-87 of the Act of 6 April 2010.
- Mortgage payment suspension in case of job loss
The economic crisis and will unfortunately result in further job losses.
In the household budget, the largest share is occupied by housing, that
it is the payment of rent or repayment of a mortgage. However, in this
latter case, the non-repayment of mortgage credit can lead to the seizure of
housing and thus to the loss of all the savings made during a lifetime. Accordingly, the
MR wants to introduce the possibility for the borrower, who loses his job due
economic, to ask his credit institution to suspend for a period
maximum of six months, the repayment of the mortgage. It is therefore not
question of allowing this procedure in the case of job loss in a situation
other than for economic reasons.
- Safer contracts
Review the methods premiums revision and adaptation of contracts. This issue
applies to all insurance contracts. Indeed we know that the legal obligation
on information by insurance companies to the lessee, on the occasion of
changes they make to the contract and / or the general conditions, is not
respected in practice. The current requirement does not in fact answer - or more - to
consumer needs: it would theoretically work by registered share
and on the other, several months before the deadline.
218

The MR proposes a drastic simplification of the system by introducing the principle of "
Payment constitutes acceptance "and strengthening the given concrete information
tenant insurance, primarily on the maturity notice. In order to make this
effective right for the consumer, taking account of today's technologies,
allows the recall of a direct debit within eight weeks. The lack of information
from the insurer will have other consequences, for lessees
insurance, that the mere possibility to terminate his contract; it is not a
provision protecting concretely its rights. It may also choose to apply the
warranty that is most favorable to him: the old or the new. The aim is also to
reduce administrative burdens and therefore costs, facilitating the use of
new technologies. It also establishes the obligation for the insurers to offer
anytime the policyholder a coordinated version of his contract.
- Technological disasters
Just passed the law on technological disasters is found already amputated
reimbursement mechanism of auto warranty Common Fund, responsible
compensation of victims, following the transfer of jurisdiction regionalize the Fund
natural calamities. Given the importance of maintaining a fully efficient law also
essential in our legal arsenal, the MR proposes inserting in the cover
mandatory fire insurance or create a Fund resuming function
reimbursement that held the natural disaster fund.
- Ensure transparency of management fees in insurance (particularly those related to
life insurance)
- Fight against uninsured
Now estimated at about 1.5% non-insured Belgian fleet, some
100,000 vehicles. In 14% of cases, they combine other offenses, such as
Failure to present their vehicle at scrutineering, or lack of permits
to drive. Losses caused by uninsured drivers are compensated
by a guarantee fund that pays every year 20 million euros for some
8,000 files (including 9% involving mopeds). This fund is financed by
all insured drivers. To fight against this non-insurance, MR
wishes:
• go further than the current legislation and ensure that monitoring stations
technique issue green cards for vehicles being insurance order. The
others benefit from period to come into compliance before insurance
receive their green card.
• Establish a car sticker to be affixed to the windscreen of mandatory
vehicles.

219

SOLIDARITY
It is often said Belgium has implemented over time, one of the safety systems
top performing social world. An effective system that leaves no one beside
the way.
In MR, we believe that this achievement must be protected. Solidarity does not just happen.
It is funded by public contributions. This requires management
rigorous, without wastage.
Today, our welfare is facing the challenge of aging, resulting
Cost increasingly important, both for the payment of pensions for the taking
in charge of health care.
Meeting this challenge can not be improvised. We need a credible plan that focuses primarily on
development of our economy, based essential to ensure the fair distribution of
solidarities. This credible plan is the priority of the MR.
We do not sell miracles, we do not promise the impossible. We mean
The truth. It requires making choices: lower the tax to raise the employment rate.
This is the only way to guarantee a sustainable financial balance of social security and therefore
guarantee the payment of pensions and health care.
We want to allow each and everyone to strengthen its autonomy, to be able
to live a dignified life. It should be noted that the small pensions remain low top. Us
also want to allow pensioners to keep their pension rights when
decide to pursue a professional activity. We want a real policy
senior citizens and a wider offer for families with aging or
handicap.
We want social security benefits provide a better cover certain
needs, insufficiently supported today. This includes patients
chronic for which there remains much to do.
The solidarity is at the heart of the MR project. They define our political commitment.
For today and tomorrow.

220

A. HEALTH CARE
1. Patients
Liberalism puts man at the center of everything and pays particular attention to its
evolution, autonomy and well-being. We know that health is the concern
Priority of the Belgians.
We have all experienced at some point in our lives, sickness or health
precarious. Although we are mostly thought that when it becomes bad,
concerns in terms of health is a reality for all of us. This
experience is often painful and created a sense of anxiety and insecurity.
But health is now no longer only related to the disease. As WHO described, it
has over time become "a complete state of physical, mental and social, and
is not merely the absence of disease or infirmity. " Health then becomes
a fundamental right of the citizen. This is why the continuous improvement of care
health today and tomorrow is a key priority for the MR.
There are two ways to advance the quality of our care: a proactive approach
an implementation based on the long term.
The medical field is constantly evolving (changing research, technical
but also diseases). We must constantly anticipate, adjust and redefine our
health policies.
Then you have to register these policies in the long term and give priority to patients
Chronic sustainable manner to improve the quality of life of the Belgians.
The developments of science and their corollaries (such as aging of the population)
make it ever more essential exercise of a coherent policy
health care. Moreover, our economic development also depends on the support
Our focus on scientific research and the pursuit of excellence in
training.
The quality and effectiveness of our health care requires a global reflection which must
register in duration.

-

Aging population

-

Maintaining Therapists

According to a report of the Budget Control Committee of the INAMI, spending
hosting area of ​​the elderly have been increasing in recent years:
+ 35% in five years, while at the same time, the number of days
Hosting grew by only 9%.
In other words, each senior hosted cost requires increasingly high for
community. The price of day, that is to say the intervention of Inami directly paid to
rest homes, is increasing for 10 years.
This development is especially the consequence of the conversion of tens of
MR thousand beds (Rest House) in MRS beds (Rest Homes and Care). A
conversion which involves a higher staff ratio of 30%, the revaluation of
221

staff salaries and the creation of new functions such as personnel
referent for dementia or palliative care.
This increase will be further strengthened by the aging population and the fact
that people who enter nursing home tomorrow will become older,
will require a frame increasingly important.
Furthermore, the proportion of cheap nursing homes (<990 euros / month) strongly
decreased between 1997 and 2005 while the amount of guaranteed income for persons
elderly (GRAPA) is 674.46 euros for a single and 1011.70 euros for a salarié36.
Besides these material considerations, the fact of living at home allows especially
keep a certain autonomy, to feel freer. For MR, everything must be put in
work to enable older people who wish to stay as long as
be home. The Itinera Institute evaluates him as nearly 150,000 the number of
people that will appeal to home nursing and 400,000 ones
benefit from family support services at home in 2050.
Moreover, the accommodation sector of seniors suffering from a staff shortage
quality. An important financial effort will have to be provided by the regions in terms
Hours subsidized but also in terms of staff training
sufficiency and attractiveness of the profession, possibly in conjunction with other
levels of power.
The MR offers:
-

to fight against the isolation of the elderly: Supporting initiatives and associations
offering cultural activities at home, ensuring that supply meets
heterogeneous demands. For this purpose, a preliminary analysis of the needs can
be necessary to ensure diversity of supply;

-

encourage home support:
•

Coordination between hospital services and aid actors to
must be improved to address any situation requiring assistance
home via the coordination centers. We must therefore make a real mesh
existing services revolving around home seniors;

•

-

36

The working hours of family care assistants and home nurses
must be more flexible by allowing more flexible schedules and beaches
revaluing the so-called schedules "uncomfortable";
support caregivers: must be given the opportunity to give a respite to
participate in a discussion group, finding a place Resourcement. The municipality must
be an interface between the caregivers and the multiple existing solutions. In
Furthermore, it should establish a social status for helping to make it close warranty
social rights (protection for health care, unemployment, allowances
family, pension);

at 01/09/2013 http://www.onprvp.fgov.be/FR/profes/benefits/igo/Pages/default.aspx

222

-

-

-

to inform the elderly: developing, in collaboration with municipalities,
proactive information desks on aid and resources that can be activated
the attention of the elderly. The agents of these machines must be able
systematically inform people, to guide them, to accompany them
in the formulation of a request for assistance and follow up;
strengthen small housekeeping services to ensure the autonomy of
people.
The lack of nursing home in Walloon and Brussels Regions

By 2050, our country will have nearly 2 million more sixties and three times
people over 80 years.
The Federal Planning Bureau lived 566,000 people with moderate to severe needs
of care in 2007 and expects a net increase of no less than 600,000
persons requiring care in 2050.
According to the Itinera Institute, "if one converts these figures, we arrive at some needs
180,000 additional beds in nursing homes over the next 40 years. Yes
we evaluate the average capacity of a nursing home is running at about 90 beds, this
implies that from that day, it would build a new nursing home each
week. "
Moreover, we know that 20% of people in rest homes should not be there
because they could live independently at home. For MR, everything must be implemented
to enable older persons who wish to stay as long as
be home.
-

In the Walloon Region

In Wallonia, there are 47,000 beds in rest homes or rest homes
of care. According to the Federal Office of Plan37, 63,287 seats will be needed in 2020,
which represents nearly 37% of beds within 10 years. However, according to data
currently available, the Walloon Region would have foreseen an increase of 6,000
nursing home beds for the next 10 years.
Currently, only public institutions and non-market of private structures
(ASBL) may appeal to the subsidies granted for the construction and renovation
of health infrastructure. These grants cover up to 60% of costs and
allow to provide affordable financial infrastructure while meeting the
current requirements in terms of housing comfort and care.
In view of the enormous challenge ahead, while preserving the public sector, the MR
therefore hopes that it is intended to open up the sector: currently 29% minimum
beds (MR and MRS) are reserved for the public sector, 21% minimum to associations

37

Impact of demographic developments on health expenditure on health spending, Belgian Outlook (kingdom and regions)
European Micheline Lambrecht (Planning Bureau) Intervention in the south of IPC (Service Centre Interpharmaceutiques
for Belgium), 26 March 2009 - "From OuweSchuur" Overijse

223

and 50% may be attributed to commercial38 private sector. It's the same
for day care centers and short stays. However, the commercial sector has the
means to tackle demographic challenges facing the Regions.
In the Brussels Region

-

In Brussels, unlike what happens in the rest of the country, the population younger.
However, the very elderly portion also increases, which means that
help and care benefits will go crescendo. In addition, the Brussels population will
integrate older age groups is different from the previous one: less easy, more
multicultural, etc. The challenges will therefore be different.
Longer life expectancy in good health certainly allow over 65
years to continue to lead active lives, but they will inevitably need
services of assistance and care increasing with age. The life course of each person
(taking into account their level of education, working conditions, income and
housing) will have both an influence on its "health capital" and "resources" that
will be able to implement to deal with his health problems.
In 2012, the Brussels-Capital Region had 153,323 people over 65 years (
14% of the population) to 15,002 beds available in nursing homes or homes
rest and care places in 1336 and services39 residences. On average, there is therefore a bed
available for ten people over 65 in nursing homes and care
Brussels.
A study of the VUB, if migration remain stable (16% of the population
Brussels), the number of people over 65 in Brussels-Capital Region will
183,000 in 2025 while over 80 represent 4.1% of the population. For
maintaining the ratio of one bed for 10 people, it will therefore be 2 904 17 905 beds and more beds.
Therefore, in 2025 the accommodation will face excess demand
the offer.
The MR offers:
-

-

consider open up the sector. Indeed, the commercial sector has the
means to tackle demographic challenges ahead
Regions;
increase flexibility of supply: to do this, we must make financially
possible short-stay accommodation in rest homes, encourage

38

Art. 346. On the Walloon Code of Social Action and Health §1. 1. The Government shall determine the maximum capacity of home beds
rest, including the nursing home beds converted to house beds for rest and care, as well as maximum capacity and
minimum reception by institution.
2. It also lays down rules allowing the reclassification of nursing home beds to house beds for rest and care, and
requalification shelter spaces from day to day care places center.
3. It also lays down rules for implementation of district based on the number of seniors aged 75 and over who reside there.
4. For the purposes of 1 and 2, at least 29% of the beds are reserved for the public sector, 21% minimum to the voluntary sector and 50%
maximum can be attributed to the commercial private sector. (...)
39

Source: infor-home.

224

-

-

-

-

-

overnight accommodation, foster the creation of "neighborhood houses", houses
intergenerational and day centers and care;
strengthen MRS beds offer: if the home care of the elderly should be
a priority, this has the effect of increasing the age of people entering
SPEs. It is therefore necessary to ensure that the MRS offer beds (most
appropriate for this type of request) is strengthened;
improve the overall quality of the reception: You have to be extremely attentive to the quality
the reception in the various existing structures. To ensure this, the focus
should be on the frequent monitoring and monitoring of childcare facilities. A service
independent audit of the advice offered by the administration would go in the right direction;
to prepare the entry into rest home for the elderly. The elderly should
visit several nursing homes, appreciate the atmosphere, inquire about the rights
residents, analyzing the life project of each nursing home, etc. To do this, the
MR wants to encourage structures like Inforhome (soon Inforseniors Wallonia)
accompanying the elderly in their choice of venue;
adapting the programming to a geographic distribution that meets the needs
real and for ensuring a close family with respect for all networks
nursing homes;
design standards for construction and development so as to enable
viability of small nursing homes with a close alternative of life
in private accommodation of the elderly. If modified standards
Accreditation, check their usefulness because of the additional degree of quality
it offers the comfort of the elderly;

-

increase the supply of housing suitable for the elderly: the obligation to face
modernize the vast majority of nursing homes (and care), powers
public must work together with private partners to provide housing
adapted and adaptable, moderately priced (if conventionnements of seats
Infrastructure subsidies) for the elderly who wishes to have a
sized living space to its needs;

-

support the creation of housing for the elderly independently or
intergenerational (alternatives to nursing homes);
ensure transparency of the amounts claimed and supplements as well as
readability of the invoices;
deveiller that the cost of accommodation in rest homes or nursing home
and care remains accessible to all;
demettre up an information system on all services to
elderly, also accessible via the Internet both in Wallonia and Brussels;
to ensure freedom of choice of doctor and nursing staff.

-

-

neurodegenerative diseases: what evolution?

Today, Belgium has nearly 180,000 patients with dementia. The estimates often fall short of reality, do include neither the family nor the
relatives, or the patient's medical and social entourage. If that were the case, the statistics
reveal that there are actually some 2,000,000 Belgian confronted with these diseases.
225

As part of an effective fight against this pandemic, it is essential to establish a
early diagnosis. Indeed, if allowed to develop addiction, this one quickly becomes
a burden for relatives, leading in many cases to a passage
institution.
In addition, issues of the accompaniment of the sick and offered respite to families
are fundamental to the establishment of a human and suitable device. All the
actors or caregivers are not accessible to the general population
âgée40. Often, the offer is limited to residents of a municipality, the members of a
mutuality, people with low incomes, etc.
The most common disease is Alzheimer's disease. It affects around in Belgium
85,000 people, mostly elderly people (over 15% of those over 80 years).
Alzheimer's disease is a slow cerebral degenerative process resulting in
progressive loss of cognitive, functional and behavioral abilities. It's a
very challenging disease for the patient who sees his cognitive abilities
deteriorating day by day, but also for the environment (96% of cases it is a person
the close family circle of the patient who is the primary caregiver).
The MR offers:
-

Create a plan "Alzheimer" that would take care of the patient and globally
multidisciplinary.

-

Quickly detect early signs of the disease by organizing
information campaigns and by approving of cognitive assessment tools
used in the context of the practice of GPs. In addition, it is necessary
support pilot projects focusing on early detection which avoids or postpones
hospitalization.

-

Desimplifier reimbursement of drugs and providing adequate funding
for the management of treatment.

-

DePrévoir reimbursement acts to facilitate care-related
dementia (occupational therapy, speech therapy, physiotherapy at home, etc.).

-

To promote the creation of "safe houses" (Respite) and day centers
enabling people with dementia to be received during the time
necessary rest of the family that supports them.

-

On the Increase of basic research budgets allocated to universities and
FNRS and particularly those intended for the study of stem cells as well as
for progress in the treatment of patients with Alzheimer's disease.

40

In the Brussels region in 2004, it was estimated that less than 1% of Brussels residents over 65 had had contact with a health center
mental.

226

-

Choose its end of life

The vast majority of Belgians want to end his days at home. Yet a person
two cancer patients with terminal ends his days in the hospital.
In addition to respecting the patient's wish, home care can improve
end of life considerably.
Palliative care include both physical and psychological accompaniment
patient. When these treatments are administered at home, it is transformed to
match the specific needs of comfort which the patient needs during this
period.
The principle underlying the thinking of the MR is clear: the will of the individual in their choices
life must be respected. That is why if euthanasia is now
authorized by law, that legislation has included the principle of the right of everyone to use
palliative care. Furthermore, the MR is the only party in Belgium that defends freedom
aware of Deputies as to their vote on the ethics. Everyone is free to
vote in good conscience.
The MR offers:
- Develop adequate information for palliative care in respect of
patients and their families.
- To develop the provision of palliative care at home.
- To respect the free choice of the patient between intramural and extramural care care in palliative care.
- To promote further training in palliative care for
doctors, paramedics and nursing auxiliaries.
- To standardize the financing of associative structures (double federal funding
and community / regional / local) is essential to develop palliative care
quality nationwide. Currently, ways vary according to the place of
Home generating multiple tier health care creating inequalities.
- Establish a single point of registration at the federal level for
palliative care associations to facilitate the collection of data on the national level
and establish a comprehensive report on the effectiveness and the actual demand for care
Belgium.
- To allow any citizen who wishes to resort to euthanasia in compliance
the 2002 law.

-

Chronic diseases

The World Health Organization (WHO) defines chronic diseases as "
long-term illnesses often experiencing slow progress. "
These diseases are responsible for 63% of deaths worldwide (heart disease, accidents
stroke, cancer, chronic respiratory diseases, diabetes and also
neurodegenerative diseases such as dementia or Parkinson's disease, and various
mental illness, etc.) and therefore are the first cause of mortality.
227

In Belgium, more than 27.2% of the population suffer from at least one chronic disease and
these are the leading cause of death in our pays.41
Furthermore, the risk of developing a chronic disease increases with age.
Increasing life expectancy and the aging of our society are factors
important for the increasing number of chronic patients. A supported
multidisciplinary and integrated approach to chronic care not contribute
only to increase the number of years of life but also the quality of life of
patients.
A chronically ill person should be regarded as a person with needs related to
the disease from which he suffers. Indeed, the incidence of chronic diseases exceeds care
health: chronic patients are facing revenue losses, an inability
of work. They also support additional costs associated with the disease and care. These
needs will change over time and are not only medical (control the
pain, struggle against the symptoms, prevention of complications, etc.). They are also
psychological (need for information, emotional support) and social (assistance in life
daily, integration into society). They are therefore different depending on the individual and
contexts which makes them all the more complex to manage and treat.
These related and "individual" needs have an impact on the organization of care (especially
their level of access and coordination between different levels of care and support).
Federal Centre for Health Care (KCE), our health care system should provide
Patients with a chronic illness, "a coordinated set of services
have the following characteristics: personalized services based on the needs of
patient, a goal-oriented, planned, including the provision is ensured by
professionals. They include both routine care for chronic conditions as
their acute episodes. These high quality services are based on the best data
scientists available. They are accessible and provided in an efficient, sustainable, while
taking into account the cultural specificities and promoting the empowerment of the patient,
in the least complex environment that is appropriate to the clinical point of view.
The objective is to improve the quality of life of the beneficiary and to help work best
in schools, at work and in the community "42
Finally, concerning social security, the European Union Policy Forum has estimated that between 70%
and 80% of health care expenditures are related to chronic diseases. For countries
European, this corresponds to a budget of 700 billion Euros.43
For all these reasons, the MR puts patients suffering from chronic diseases of the heart
priorities! This is also under the influence of the Reformer Movement in May 2012,
Minister of the Socialist Health launched the Observatory of Chronic Diseases
INAMI. This observatory aims to improve the management of health care
granted to patients with chronic conditions and to regularly assess the
needs encountered by them.

41

Guidance Note - An integrated approach to chronic care in Belgium, National Conference Patient Care
chronic, November 28, 2013
42
Paulus D, Van den Heede K, R. Mertens Position Paper: Organisation of care for chronic patients in Belgium. Health Services
Research (HSR). Brussel: Federal Centre for Health Care (KCE). 2012. KCE Reports 190As. D / 2012/10 273/82, p15.
43

European Union Policy Forum. Answer to DG SANCO consultation were chronic diseases. 13 January 2012.

228

Furthermore, the MR believes that a genuine policy of priority access to care passes
by people who are most in need.
The MR offers:
- To develop a maximum invoice for "chronic" patient and recognize the status
chronically ill so that it can benefit from certain rights;
- Expedite the establishment of the Global Computerized Medical Record (DMGI) to be
the unifying element for the sharing of information between the different actors involved
in medical care as advocated KCE;
- To give general practitioners the means to inform their patients about the
risks and support them in changing their health in order to limit
the risk of chronic diseases or halt the progression of existing disease. In
Moreover, better information to patients allows them to manage their own
health and reduce the risk of chronic diseases;
- Provide the patient and his caregivers tailored information and adapted
quality through access to its own multidisciplinary patient records and sources
quality information. This is to allow the patient and caregiver well-close
understand his own illness and the potential to treat or to slow the progression;
- To develop the ability of all people receiving compensation
Disability combine wider labor income with allowances
social in order to facilitate as much as possible their professional reintegration;
- Ensure chronic patients who return to work, their right to benefits
as calculated before the resumption of work, should they lose their jobs;
- To promote the re-employment of sick persons in phase
stabilization through incentives to employers who agree to hire people
risking to miss more than others because of their health status;
- To establish a statute for caregivers designed in particular to safeguard their rights
social when they stop work to look after a dependent;
- Establish more collaboration between different levels of power for
better articulate preventive and curative policies;
- Establish targeted campaigns, enabling practical and concrete
audiences access to screening;
- To promote a culture of health by improving information and motivation of all
the population so that it conducts regular screenings (in particular
breast cancer, colon and prostate);
- To intensify awareness campaigns that change behaviors
focusing on the implementation of a balanced diet, activities
physical, smoking cessation and limiting alcohol consumption. These
campaigns must target all audiences and their places of life consultations
Prenatal schools through medical offices, public transport and
the media.

229

-

Food, sport and lifestyle

-

The rise in obesity, especially in children

According to the Royal Academy of Medicine, "obesity is one of the biggest challenges of the XXI century
because its rates are rapidly increasing and particularly alarming in our country
so-called 'developed'. "44
Indeed, in Belgium, one in five children is obese. In 20 years, childhood obesity has
increased by 17%. It is a real epidemic that affects our children and youth
adults.
To eradicate this scourge, it is necessary that the management of obesity is multidisciplinary and
it includes a network of prevention, medical and psychosocial care
and in some cases, surgery.
The involvement of all family members is also essential. However, in
our country, the management of childhood obesity is totally inappropriate. Indeed,
Accompanying the superficial "eat less, move more" is often disappointing as only
ignores the individual, family and relational variables that led to
symptom and maintain it.
The MR offers:
-

-

-

To establish a clear labeling system for food products with a code
color (style traffic light: green for a healthy product, the orange when it
Consume with moderation and red for products to avoid) as recommended
the Food Standards Agency in the UK, rather than the recommended daily allowance
legibility.
To support children overweight or obese based multidisciplinary
(nutrition, sport and psychological follow-up) in partnership with parents.
Create a prevention network to establish good communication between
ONE, PMS, the general practitioner and pediatrician and so be able to detect
risk children early.
Food: food and product quality

In its 2006 report, the WHO notes that being overweight affects between 25-75% of the
adult population in Europe while obesity affects nearly a third of Europeans (that
representing 130 million obèses45 adults).
Food is an integral part of this social problem. In fact, we eat
too much and / or badly (too fat, too salty, too sweet) and we do not move enough.

44
45

Royal Academy of Medicine of Belgium - symposium on excess weight in children - May 3, 2013
WHO report, Obesity: a challenge for the European Region, 2005

230

-

Sugar: Sugar abuse, health hazard?

Sugar consumption in the world has tripled in the last fifty years.
However, eating too much sugar is also toxic to health than alcohol abuse, according to a study
US published in the scientific journal Nature. Indeed, excess sugar awry
appetite and addictive.
Sugar also plays a bad role as regards diseases such as
cardiovascular disease, diabetes or cancer and promotes hypertension. In
Belgium, a million Belgians have health problems related to the presence too
important sugar in the blood.
The MR offers:
- From empowering rather prohibiting: the prohibition, the MR prefer
accountability and awareness to better eating habits. This is
playing at home but also at school where you have to ensure that children receive
good nutrition education, whether in kindergarten or in the secondary.
- Insist better accountability of agro-food sector to
improves the quality of its products.
- To establish clearer labeling: Belgium must pressure at European level
to nutrition labeling on all foods be mandatory within 5 years.
- To promote the replacement in dispensers (school, public places, etc.) of
healthier alternative products as chocolate bars: dried fruits, cereal bars,
fruits, etc.
-

Fruit and vegetables: towards a reduction of the purchase price through a VAT exemption!

In recent years, there has been a significant change in our behavior
food. The food offer, which diversifies and is more abundant than ever, is moving
largely to industrial products high in salt, sugar and / or fat.
The increase in the consumption of these products has a direct consequence for
generalized dietary imbalance in Europe and a damaging decline
consumption of fruits and vegetables.
Numerous studies have demonstrated the importance of eating fresh produce and
especially fruits and vegetables. In Belgium, only 0.1% of the population over
15 eat 350 grams of vegetables every day recommended by the OMS46.
Furthermore, the poorest families - statistically - the best diet
unbalanced because they logically favor the cost rather than quality
ingested nutrients.
The MR offers:
46

Scientific Institute of Public Health Investigation Report on food consumption, 2004

231

-

-

-

On exonerate the rate of VAT on fruit and vegetables (the current VAT rate is 6%).
This reduction would have the dual aim of promoting the consumption of fruit and
Vegetables by Belgian households and to promote healthy eating by
a positive message to the people.
To encourage the culture of home fruit, their planting in public spaces
consumption by passersby on the model of Incredible Edible or
IncredibleEdible47.
Trans acids and palm oil

Today, trans fatty acids are used in the food industry as
substitutes for saturated fats because they have the advantage to keep longer.
Some trans fatty acids are found naturally in small amounts in some
foods (dairy, meat) and are not harmful. By cons, trans fats
of industrial origin, have negative health consequences: firstly, they
increase bad cholesterol in the blood and on the other hand, they reduce the rate
good cholesterol (HDL) which protects against heart disease.
Despite its harmfulness, few consumers are aware of the existence in their
food. For simplicity, all the products involved in the term "vegetable oils
hydrogenated "or" partially hydrogenated "contain trans fatty acids.
Moreover, the regulations taken in many countries to reduce - or even eliminate the use and consumption of trans fatty acids directly benefit the palm oil.
But palm oil is even more detrimental to health than fat. Its low cost is
Unfortunately a success factor.
The MR offers:
-

to inform the public, consumers and artisan producers on
dangers of excessive consumption of trans fatty acids and on products
container.

-

to indicate on labels the presence of palm oil and its content in the product.
Indeed, at present, the palm oil is listed as vegetable oil.

-

inform artisanal producers (p. ex. bakers) harmfulness oil
palm which use abundant ease but also by ignorance.

47

Every citizen cultivates a square of land and when the crop is ripe, it leaves passersby to use freely.

232

-

The practice of sport, in particular sport at school

It is clear that the school system does not make much of the skill level
physics. There is however no need to demonstrate that the practice of physical activity
Regular has a beneficial influence on our health. Despite this, Belgium, on the contrary
other European countries, is falling behind in the promotion of sport and its
benefits.
The health problems associated with overweight and obesity in our young people are increasingly
alarming (+/- 18% of Belgian young people are overweight) and the absence of a method
objective evaluation of the fitness of our youth is regularly deplored
by number of physical education teachers and health professionals and
childhood.
The MR offers:
-

to study the possibility of establishing the EUROFIT tests (as practiced in
several European countries) which are intended to measure the children's fitness
aged 6-18 years and to enable the review. They have the advantage of being easy to put into
work and are inexpensive. In addition, thanks to the results of these tests, families
will have reliable information on the physical condition of their (s) child (ren).

Expanding the program type "passport" for sufferers
diabetes

It is advisable for diabetics to make a full assessment once a year. These
examinations are particularly important for the elderly. However it is observed
average, only 55% of insulin-dependent patients receiving these exams in the course
of the year. Monitoring patients who are not on insulin is even more flawed.
The MR offers:
-

expand the "passport" to diabetes patients with type 1 diabetes to
allow for taking integrated and multidisciplinary management of patients and therefore at
words, better monitoring. The passport allows different doctors and specialists
to have an overview on his record and to better coordinate care. The
Passport also makes life easier for the diabetic patient by giving it access to a
care program.

233

-

The evolution of search: advanced therapies

Biomedicine was born of recent developments in molecular and cellular biology. TO
Eventually, this knowledge could lead us to more targeted new therapies,
"Advanced therapies" or "innovative". These have a revolutionary potential for
new treatments for diseases such as skin burns, Alzheimer's,
cancer or hepatitis C.
The most dramatic advances are on cell therapies,
potentially, act against the symptoms and against the causes of the disease.
Moreover, Belgium testifies to European leadership or even global, in terms of
pharmaceutical research and development. Belgium is the first country to
have been authorized by the European Medicines Agency and have authorized itself
the placing on the market and the repayment of the first innovante48 drug therapy,
the ChondroCelect, for the reconstitution of cartilage from the cultivation of
cartilage cells of the patient.
-

Gene therapy

Gene therapy is the deliberate insertion of genetic material into the body of a
patient to correct a specific defect at the origin of a disease, whether curative
or préventif.49
-

Cell therapy

Cell therapy aims to treat an organ or body by providing cells,
obtained and modified mostly from souches50 cells to replace or
supply of defective cells. Cellular products for therapeutic purposes can
be autologous, (that is to say that the donor and recipient are the same person), or
allogeneic (the recipient and the donor are then two different people).
The number of diseases targeted by this biotherapy is important: Alzheimer, Parkinson,
diabetes, leukemia, etc. It could also facilitate transplant or restoration
organ.

48

Tigenix drug launched by Belgian company and a spin-off of UGent and KULeuvent which is the first and also the only company
Europe to date have reached to validate a product as a medicine under the new legislation on drugs
advanced therapy.
49
Sérusclat, F., Information report of the French Senate, "Genomics and Informatics: The impact on therapies and industry
pharmaceutical ", Report 20 - Parliamentary Office for Evaluation of Scientific and Technological Choices, 2000
50
A stem cell is a cell capable of self renew, to differentiate into other cell types and proliferate in culture.
Stem cells are derived either from the embryo or fetus, or adult tissues.

234

-

Tissue engineering

A product derived from tissue engineering has properties allowing it to be regenerated,
repairing or replacing a human tissue. This type of product may contain cells
or human and / or animal tissue.
With tissue engineering, future treatments might, for example, regenerating tissue
Healthy heart after a myocardial infarction or still, slow degeneration
brain functions.
The MR offers:
-

enable more flexible and scalable regulatory frameworks (complementary to
European framework) in order to promote the emergence of advanced therapies.

-

harmonize national evaluation criteria for all European countries.

-

To facilitate access for patients.

-

To support basic scientific research to Belgium retains its
pioneer status in the field.

-

to consider a financial mechanism of the same type as the taxshelter to stimulate
innovation, research and development.

-

To mark the law so that the research be more oriented toward healing and not
step towards the optimization of the body.

-

Prevention

-

Breast cancer

There is more to remember that breast cancer is a scourge. Every year,
more than 10,000 women are affected by breast cancer in Belgium. Breast cancer
is by far the most common cancer in women (28.9% of diagnosed) and is the
leading cause of death among women aged 35-70 years.
It can be estimated that one woman in eight will develop breast cancer during her life
and that one woman in 25 will die.
Regular participation in a screening program allows treatment less
heavy and a 30% reduction in mortality from breast cancer.
In our country, all women between 50 and 69 years in Belgium is invited to undergo all
two years and free screening mammograms (mammotest).

235

The MR offers:
-

-

extending the age groups of women eligible for free screening,
knowing 30% of breast cancers declare before 50 and 20% after 70 years.
to extend the repayment of screening say women "at risk" regardless
regardless of age and allow them to complete check-up.
The hepatitis Plan

Hepatitis C is a threat to public health: infectious disease highly
contagious, poor prognosis if not diagnosed and treated so
early.
Unfortunately, it is still largely unknown by the general public. In our country,
it is estimated that approximately 100,000 people are infected with hepatitis C, a
prevalence of 1% of the population, and more than two thirds of these would be in
unaware of their infection, becoming in turn contamination vectors.
Also, action is required as a necessary and urgent to decrease
the incidence of infection and improve the care of sufferers.
Innovative treatments in the fight against hepatitis C, we are very advertised
short term. New molecules promise more effective therapies, allowing
happened to interferon. The treatment time is greatly reduced (from 12 to 3
months).
The real challenge will be to combine these treatment advances with targeted screening and
Early to achieve positive patients who are unaware. Moreover, earlier the disease
is identified, the better the chances of receiving an effective treatment before
irreversible damage will occur.
Various problems currently facing at the repayment terms
the treatment of hepatitis C.
Currently, to access the reimbursement of treatment, liver biopsy should
be conducted to determine the liver damage. However, the biopsy is invasive and slows
often patients. Some countries also advise against some.
Fibroscan (technique for diagnosing and quantifying in a non-
invasive liver fibrosis) is increasingly recommended by Hepatologists. This
technique should be accessible to patients and Belgians taken into account
in the repayment terms of treatment. We therefore ask to expand
repayment terms of the treatment of hepatitis C to use for Fibroscan
diagnose and quantify non-invasively, hepatic fibrosis. In addition,
Fibroscan is an indispensable tool in the therapeutic monitoring of patients
suffering from chronic hepatitis C infection.
Furthermore, the treatment of chronic hepatitis C is repaid only when one is in
presence of high transaminases51. There are no refunds for patients with
normal transaminases. It is not normal ! It is not acceptable that patients
must be at an advanced stage of the disease to have access to a refund of
treatment.
51

Transaminase or aminotransferase is an enzyme that catalyzes a reaction between a kind of amino acid and an α-keto acid. They
are present in all tissues, but their presence in the blood at a high concentration is often associated with diseases
infarction (heart attack) or dufoie (necrosis, hepatitis)

236

Finally, special attention should be given to children. The treatment is
repaid in adults, there is a gold placed on the European marketing authorization
for treatment in children. Accessibility must also be provided for
children.
Particularly sensitive to the struggle of patients, the medical profession and
researchers in the fight against hepatitis C, the plenum of the Chamber
voted May 3, 2012, at the initiative of the Reformer Movement, a draft resolution
on the fight against Hepatitis C. To date, no action of the Minister of Health
public have been taken to implement this resolution.
The MR offers:
to implement an active policy of screening patients with so-called "on
risk ";
to actively participate in the national day of hepatitis C;
facilitate patient access to effective and optimal care for treatment
of chronic hepatitis C, extending repayment terms:
use Fibroscan to, under certain conditions,
diagnose liver fibrosis and monitor the evolution
hepatic fibrosis lesions;
to accommodate patients who suffer from hepatitis C
Chronic and whose blood has normal transaminases and
have liver fibrosis;
to take into account the pediatric age group (2-18 years) between
others by the combined reimbursement for children in whom
Hepatitis presents aggressively on plans and biochemical
histological
to support for the person with chronic hepatitis C, the
vaccination against hepatitis A and B because the accumulated infections increases
high mortality rate for these people;
to support the conclusion of a convention INAMI to improve care
of patients with chronic hepatitis C;
supporting combined therapies;
giving quick access to new drugs;
to introduce incentives for research and development of new
treatment and a vaccine.
to compensate victims of hepatitis following a blood transfusion. The
People who have been infected with the AIDS virus after blood transfusion
could receive compensation, there is no justification for not
grant the same rights to victims of hepatitis C following a transfusion
blood.
-

First aid and automatic external defibrillators (AEDs)

Thousands of lives could be saved each year if we formed the massively
population with lifesaving. Indeed, more than 20,000 people die each
year in a public space, mostly witnessed.

237

Among these emergencies, cardiac events have a special status: it is known
that the chances of survival decrease by 10% passing minute. Gold is believed thereof to
more than 15,000 people per year in Belgium, justifying a proactive policy as
DEA regarding equipment, training in their use, as geolocation
AEDs with signage and modern technologies.
A survey of the general public in 2012 revealed huge gaps, not
Only in the knowledge of these actions and the use of AEDs (External Defibrillator
Automatic), but also in the lack of knowledge of "112" as a number
emergency.
The MR offers:
-

-

-

-

Raise awareness and promote information and education on defibrillators
Automatic External (DEA);
Develop and promote first aid course within the population and
reflexes "detect, call, massage ', in particular in schools and
sports;
To establish a Master of Maps available to the public and develop an application
geolocation on smart phone;
To install AEDs in schools, places of sporting events, cultural centers
and other important public places;
Awareness among private enterprises of the importance of the acquisition of DEA
ensure the safety of workers in their workplaces and centers
business given the large number of public they generate;
Promote AED equipment of police vehicles in areas where this
warrants and police training as well as encouraging partnerships between
emergency service to improve the speed of response;

The development of organ donation and, in particular, that of living

Demand and the number of organ transplants has increased significantly
recent decades, potentially saving thousands of lives each year.
Transplantation is currently the only solution to a series of health problems such as
renal failure, pulmonary, cardiac or hepatic end-stage, etc.
In Belgium, a millier52de patients died in 10 years because they could not benefit
transplantation. You should know that from 10% to 20% of patients on the lists
Belgian people awaiting a transplant (in most cases, it is the
liver or lung) are not eligible for a transplant in time. In Belgium, a
Receiver candidate expected on average 18 months before receiving the organ.

52

820 transplantation could not be performed on ten years

238

The number of transplants nevertheless remains stable despite the shortage of organs. By itself,
is already an achievement, but doctors can not do ever more with less.
Our country is a good student in terms of donations. We actually topped the trônons
Eurotransplant53 donor countries, with sales hovering around 26 donors per
million. Spain is in the lead with 33 donors per million population. As
Spain, Belgium developed the gift of living but unfortunately costs
related to this gift are still not supported by INAMI.
The MR offers:
-

-

-

to encourage the gift of living by paying medical related costs and the
related costs (such as work disability benefits) and to ensure
Donors monitoring to assess their long-term health. Indeed, a person
healthy has the ability to donate an organ while alive. This is the case for
example of the kidney (80% of donations), a part of the liver or, very rarely, lung.
You can actually live with one kidney, part of the liver (because it is an organ
that regenerates quickly) or a part of the lungs, but it is not necessary that the
donor pays the price of his altruism.
develop awareness campaigns to encourage registration
statements stipulating want to be organ donor after death. This
Registration is in his communal administration, is free and can be
revoked at any time.

Addictions

The drug dependence is dependence or addiction, psychological minimum at a
substance, usually toxic.
We talk for drugs (cannabis, heroin, cocaine etc.), alcohol, tobacco,
drugs (as well as games, for example). It can affect anyone at any
How old. Generally classified all drugs in three categories according
their effect: those that increase performance, those which have a sedative effect (and
alleviate anxiety), and hallucinogens.
Public health policies coaching addictions are based on
three pillars: prevention, risk reduction and medical management. There
problem drug also contains a repressive aspect.
Prevention
Prevention is the first line of the fight against drug use and
potentially the most effective. It is therefore essential to inform and raise awareness
53
Individual banks were formed worldwide. Belgium belongs to Eurotransplant. A dual function is devolved to these
banks. They must firstly allow to preserve organs for a period which varies depending on their nature, in view of their
subsequent transplantation. On the other hand, organization involves a complementary manner, the collection of information on both
many donors that receivers.

239

health risks associated with inadequate intake of these substances. Indeed, it can not
fail to be challenged by increased addictive phenomena (consumption
so-called hard drugs has doubled since 2007: + 5.8%), the continuing evolution of
substances and their impact among young people. In addition, the implementation of a policy
effectively requires concerted action by the federal levels of government, community and
Regional.
A strength to tell the difference between hard and soft drugs, we often forget to be
attentive to the use made of it. But it is good to remember that tobacco and alcohol kill
million people each year (2.5 million worldwide deaths related to alcohol, 6
million tobacco-related, according to WHO). There is no "soft" drugs for
consumer "hard" and care must be taken to any trivialization.
Moreover, one can not fail to be stopped by lowering the age of
the first use of alcohol or drugs. The average age of first use of alcohol
is currently 12.3 years and 12% of young people between 15 and 24 years to consume
extreme way alcohol.
It is known that regular consumption for a child aged 13-14 multiplies by 40 the
risk of becoming an alcoholic relative to that of a young 18-19 years. Without stigmatizing
this segment of the population, do not trivialize this data. The alcohol, in
Belgium is problematic for almost 500,000 adults or 5% of the total population.
On smoking is well established, it is a major health problem of
Public. It concerns all health professionals and has implications for all ages.
No wonder, since the burning of tobacco releases more than 4,000 substances
some are particularly toxic or extremely carcinogenic. The parliament
EU has legislated on the issue: it provides that tobacco packages are
covered 65% of health warnings, it limits the aromas and banned cigarettes
Slim and others. If the recovery packets to 65% of health warnings
percentage was voted Belgium, the other proposals are currently
outstanding. The new European legislation on tobacco products does nothing to clarify the
legal status of the electronic cigarette: Consumer product like
with tobacco distribution at tobacconists and other similar outlets, or
drug with exclusive sale in pharmacies. In our country, there are 27% of
smokers in 2013, of which 22% are daily smokers.
As for cannabis, 21% of 12-17 years have ever smoked, 10% are
regular consumers, the majority has no plans to stop, and, more worryingly, a
in 5 young people think that cannabis is not dangerous. However, at least 20% of
cannabis users become dependent (this rate being twice
higher in adolescents than in adults).
Recall that cannabis can cause a minimum of mental disorders such as
anxiety, depression, hyperactivity but also risky behaviors
(disinhibition), psychosis, memory alterations and concentration, etc.

240

It is during adolescence that prevention can be most effective, knowing that it is
much more effective than the curative aspect. Because it is not dependent born, one becomes when
changing from a usual or social consumption unproblematic a
excessive and uncontrollable behavior.
Many experts agree that we must work on the well-being and education
to avoid falling into the traps of addiction. A person has a healthy mind
less risk of dependency drag any product. The drug is well
often a bandage, a leak. It can help consumers reduce stress,
increase self-esteem. We must therefore prevent initiation. The social environment and / or
Family plays an important role and so we must develop a preventive
systematic right from school.
Risk reduction
The health promotion needs to be done at different levels. When the prevention is not
worked, come the care and treatment phases. Experiments show that
support groups, acting on motivation, are very effective.
This component also includes risk reduction measures to prevent the
situation of nobody even worse (hepatitis, AIDS, overdose, etc.). He is
important to focus the full axis: prevention, risk reduction and treatment. The
concept of risk reduction (DRR) bundles together means for limiting the risks and
health damage related to drug use.
Common to the use of drugs is to cause dehydration. It is therefore very
important that the institutions where these drugs are consumed or offer
distribute free drinking water, easily accessible because it reduces
risk of dehydration and facilitates the removal of these toxic substances.
On alcohol and cannabis, the immediate risks associated with their use
relate to behavior. For example, the number of road accidents
persons under the influence of alcohol or drugs reminds us that political
proactive is essential (free tests in recreational areas, public transport
night, Responsible Young Drivers ...).
It is also important that drug users can consult professionals
Health. The risks for those in poor health situation is, indeed,
tenfold (including heart problems, asthma or epilepsy, etc.) In addition
drug use can put people in a situation of contracting certain
pathologies.
In the case of consumption related to the use of materials (eg injection) is
essential to have access to sterile equipment, because it is often a
major risk of viral and infectious contamination.

241

Support
If addicts can sometimes commit criminal acts, we must not
forget that they are also drug users requiring support order
medical and / or psychological. Self-help groups, acting on motivation,
also prove to be very effective and also for the relatives.
Heroin is still one of the most problematic drugs, although more
Young people seem gradually turn away in favor of new substances.
In Belgium, there are about 60,000 heroin addicts.
The heroin addiction can nowadays be treated with drugs
substitution (methadone or buprenorphine-treated 15,000 people in Belgium), or
other types of weaning (mainly in hospitals).
Heroin addiction is a disease, therefore requiring a holistic care: a socket
in charge of medical and psychological treatment order which reduces the
societal abuses caused by this scourge (job loss, housing, dealers, etc.). He ... not
must not neglect monitoring solutions after any stay institute
Psychiatric.
Synthetic drugs have in common to be particularly harmful to
health. In recent years, a large number of new substances
syntheses (NPS or designer drugs) occurred. The impact thereof on health is
still poorly known, but it promises to be disastrous. The low price of these products makes them
accessible to an ever wider public and younger.

Repression
Our company has always been faced with drug issues and discussions on the subject
regularly oppose prohibitionist and supporters of decriminalization.
Faced with the problem of drugs, any exclusively prohibitionist policy
lets not ensure sufficient control of the phenomenon of addiction.
Conversely, an exclusively prohibitionist policy, which would simply
not consider that the only decriminalized the use of all or certain substances risk
cause adverse effects that may be, ultimately, disastrous. He is
crucial to remember that drugs are dangerous and harmful products. He can not
in no way be trivializing the matter and particular attention must
be granted in respect of minors.
The MR considers the drug policy must be in the way
median that would build on a comprehensive device that allows to conduct a policy
comprehensive and integrated.
242

In compliance with international treaties, the drug law considers cannabis
as an illegal drug and punishes detention but since 2005 the detention
a major amount of cannabis for personal use (up to 3 grams), falls
the level of the lowest priority of the prosecution policy, unless circumstances
aggravating and disturbing public order. Drugs are among the phenomena
priority criminals 2012-2015 national security plan: in particular the import and
export cocaine production and trafficking of synthetic drugs and cannabis
the sale of narcotics ('dealing'). Heroin trafficking course requires attention
particular.
In the course of this legislature, the law on drugs has been adapted to include
consider the drug market developments including 'legal highs' or
Instead of new generations of psychoactive substances produced in order to escape
the application of criminal law (generic incrimination).
Belgium is an important entry point of the distribution and
commercialization of cocaine in Europe and plays a major role in the production of
synthetic drugs and is, with the Netherlands, an important source of traffic
Cannabis production in Europe which, following a stricter policy of the Netherlands, has
also moved here.
The MR offers:
-

-

-

-

-

-

to develop more ambitious strategies for prevention and fight against
addictions to reach all audiences;
strengthen political consultation between the different levels of power
competent in addiction to implement policies
integrated;
as much as possible to stimulate networking of the various associations
field, organizations and institutions for obtaining reorganizing systems
subsidies in the field of addiction towards simplification and guarantee
local services and support to young people and their families, especially in the middle
most disadvantaged or vulnerable;
to give priority to school skills related to healthy lifestyles
not just warn and inform about the harms of drugs and
also establish a universal intensive prevention program;
to provide local services and support to young people and those around them (eg.
Cannabis Points in Liege but extend to more substances), especially in the middle more
presentation and encourage parents to participate in prevention initiatives;
to ban flavors in cigarettes with menthol, as well as any artifice
misleading or appealing, the slim cigarettes, ultrafine and strengthen controls
for the fight against smuggling and counterfeiting;
Clarify the legal status of the electronic cigarette defending the free choice of
vapoteur, in the interests of consumer protection and risk reduction
smoking

243

-

-

-

-

-

promote a holistic support addiction by treatments
multidisciplinary (psycho-socio-medical) training physicians during their
courses on the comprehensive care of drug addicts as chronically ill
and organizing an inter-university training module on addictions;
to promote access to sterile syringes, and the availability of treatments
substitution under medical supervision;
to maintain the fight against people traveling guilty of drug trafficking
as one of the key priorities for research and criminal prosecution;
intensify checks on international drug trafficking hotspots
input as seaports, airports and some borders (France,
Netherlands) ;
to strengthen collaboration between electricity companies and / or distribution
Water and police to detect, in the respect of privacy, places of
cannabis production;
develop links between Justice and the aid sector to guide the
drug user who had committed lesser offenses rather
that send him to prison and increase the possibilities of judicial measures
alternatives: obligation to follow a course, getting a job, abstaining
consume, prohibition to associate with other users, etc.
implement treatment options within schools
prison.

-

Environmental diseases

-

Stress at work

For twenty years, the world of work has undergone a profound transformation. There
2008 crisis has undoubtedly exacerbated a sense of anxiety about a future that appears
uncertain for some workers. In Belgium, 60% of workers say they are stressed. The
degree and status are still a difference: 51% of university experience
much stress against 40% of the least qualified workers. The frames are also 51%
significantly suffer from occupational stress against 42% of employees and 41%
workers.
The main causes cited are a lack of recognition (over 50%), work
repetitive (45%), the working speed (43%) and a lack of autonomy (38%).
In addition, it is estimated that more than 9,139,770 days, the number of days of absence due
Stress in Belgium in 2010. More active Belge of 10 was absent because of a stress
too high. These absences lasted 15 days on average.

The MR offers:
-

Inform workers and encourage them to do 20 minutes of daily exercise is the
recommended remedy against stress. Physical activity reduces the hormone levels of
244

-

-

stress and increases endorphins (feel-good) and dopamine (antianxiety).
To inform business leaders and encourage businesses to take stock and
annual action plan on psychosocial risks.
prevention of pathologies of the back

Commonly known as the "bad back" low back pain back can in most cases
be avoided through simple gestures. One in five for compensation Fund
occupational diseases regarding back pain. The symptoms of back pain are
responsible for 12% of sick leave of 28 days or more.
Workers in the sectors of construction or packaging are particularly
affected. But this disease can also affect other workers, including
office workers.
The MR offers:
-

-

-

Improve prevention to make it more effective and integrated right moves
to allow not only ensure the "health capital" of people but also
savings on the treatment of this pathology more costly both
human and for health insurance once it becomes chronic or
handicapping.
On financial incentives to companies that put a prevention system in place
by deducting the cost of training their employees in ergonomics and design
correction (without overload to bring back, good posture at work, the adjustment
office chair, height of the computer screen over the eyes, etc.).
Asthma and Allergies

For over 50 years we have witnessed the relentless disease progression
and allergic asthma.
In Europe, over 80 million people suffer and projections show that
50% of the European population is allergic to a decade.
An allergy is an immune system that responds inadequately and
exaggerated for harmless substances for most people. This term, if

hides a host of symptoms caused by multiple causes equally. From there, any
its complexity and a difficult diagnosis to make.
Another phenomenon is the increasing number of people with asthma. In
Europe, 32 million people suffer. Asthma attacks can be triggered
by numerous environmental factors, the most common being the pollution
air, dust, pollen and cigarette smoke.

245

The MR offers:
-

-

-

Support research to assess the underlying causes of the allergy epidemic.
To develop patient-oriented strategies, from prevention to
diagnosis and particular emphasis on treatment, including research
Clinical and use of active ingredients.
To emphasize prevention and better control of allergies especially in
Children developing in all regions, a service that tracks, places of life
giving priority to schools, kindergartens, nursing homes,
modest homes and workplaces, pollution may be the source of its
health problems.
magnetic waves

The International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC) of the World Health Organization
(WHO) announced in 2011 that he considered electromagnetic fields
cell phones as "possibly carcinogenic to humans" classified
2B alongside 266 other items.
This reassessment of the potential risk associated to electromagnetic fields concerns
especially gliomas, brain cancer tumors associated with the use of
cordless phones. The researchers indeed found that there was "limited evidence" link
between mobile phone use and the occurrence of gliomas or neuromas
acoustic.
However, it is clear that the state of scientific data acquired, the link
between cancer and radio waves is still not proven. No danger is therefore
formally established, but uncertainties remain and research should
continue. Meanwhile they deliver better results, it is necessary to maintain
precautionary approach to risks related to mobile phone use.
In addition, all GSM antennas placed on the roofs of the Brussels Region
meet the standard of 6 volts / meter passed by parliament in 2014. However, in its
study, WHO does not seem to consider that the GSM antennas are at risk. In
Indeed, the evaluation focuses only on the possible consequences of the fields
electromagnetic emitted by the phones. This standard of 6 volts / meter adopted by the
Brussels region is hundred times more stringent than WHO.

246

The MR offers:
-

-

To establish a prevention plan with regard to the people to teach them
right moves to use the precautionary principle: as little as possible with phone
GSM, make short calls, avoid traveling when it is in communication,
not to the GSM too close to the body and focus the speakerphone, turn off the GSM
when one travels by car or train, focus, where possible, the
wired connections to the wireless, etc.
Review the standard 6-volt / meter in the Brussels Region. Indeed, this standard too
requires strict GSM to produce a greater electromagnetic field to
communicate with antennas.

2. Care Providers

The Reformer Movement wishes to safeguard the independence of the professions
health which stands for quality, freedom and maintaining a healthy rivalry.
We defend liberal medicine: free choice for patients, therapeutic freedom,
value of the act and the personal relation provider-patient relationship.
We support the orientation of means to the needs of patients and providers
rather than the structures.
We reject any discrimination between employees and independent service providers.
The reduction of administrative burdens and constraints is paramount to all
care providers so they can fully concentrate on listening and care
patient.
Finally, the MR preaches accountability of all health actors: the care budget
health will always be limited to be used in the manner most effective and most
efficient. To this end, healthcare providers should define, each in their field, the
practices appropriate to the needs of patients and carry out continuous assessment
their activity. The establishment of mechanisms and analytical procedures, changes in costs
and efficiency of diagnostic and therapeutic resources available is required. The
role of providers in the evaluation process must be central.
Favorable to the promotion of the intellectual act, the MR calls for the work and the role of
all service providers, whatever they are, are revalued. We also advocate
for strengthening the role of the family doctor and proximity of medicine
General.
Despite our efforts and the results already reaped the threats to the
care providers remain real: orientation of budgetary resources to structures

247

rather than to patients and providers, accumulating loads and stresses
administrative discrimination between employees and independent service providers, etc.
The challenge of the coming years will be to remove these threats to value
high quality care providers work they provide and, above all,
their contribution to improving the health of the population.
3.

doctors

The situation of general practitioners is worrying for several reasons. There
profession is aging. In his recent report entitled "Performance of general medicine,
Health Check ", INAMI concluded as follows:" In terms of sustainability, it
should be realized quickly that the general practice will face
very quickly to the anticipated reduction in generation of the 55-64 which produces a
third of the current activity. But the numbers of the most recent generations will not be
sufficient to replace that loss of activity, which could significantly alter the
how to practice general medicine. "54
In 2016, 2,600 general practitioners (GPs) will be over 60 years while only 360
MG leave college! The number of general practitioners in training decreases
Due to the attraction of the particular medical specialties to the detriment of the medicine
General. The profession is feminized: 28% of GPs are now
Women and tomorrow, they will be 65%.
The new generation of physicians designs, rightly his job differently and
wants a less solitary practice and improved reconciliation of life
family and professional life. Working conditions are increasingly demanding and
stressful. For all these reasons, 30% of GPs leaving the profession
after 5 years.
The organization of the guards, especially in rural or semi-rural areas is a problem
important because the area to be covered is extensive with low population density. Insecurity
denounced by many GPs particularly during visits
patient's home is also worrying.
These organizational and sociological changes have led to lower
vocations for general medicine. Therefore, it is imperative to revive the attractiveness
general medicine.
Beside specific measures to improve the attractiveness of general practice, different
reforms must be carried out for all physicians.
A thorough reform of the nomenclature of health benefits, many times
announced, will ever conducted emerge. Multiple modifications, deletions and
additions occurred in nomenclature since its inception in particular have had the effect of
P Meeus, Van Aubel X. Performance of general medicine, health check. Health Services Research
(HSR). Brussels: National Institute for Health and Disability Insurance (INAMI). 2012. D / 2012/0401/11
54

248

the excessive complexity. These adjustments in fact met mainly for
questions or specific needs. Until now, a flat pattern of the entire
nomenclature in order to adapt both to the overall development of techniques that,
medical practice has never been carried out or even started.
The doctor's administrative burden increases significantly at the expense of
clinical work. The doctor's administrative expenses which consist in writing
countless certificates and reports and comply with lengthy procedures constitute an
important point for which adequate measures must be taken quickly. The
doctors wish they could spend more time with patients and less time
in front of their computers, to check whether a patient meets the criteria multiple enacted. They have
increasing the feeling of becoming doctors "officials", for which, although
obviously they do not want. It is time to stop the medicine under the walnut
prescribed forms constantly reworked and make available to the doctor for her
patient.
Regarding medical specialists, relationships and bargaining power between
hospital managers and clinicians need to be reviewed
basically: a new balance must be found and the establishment of funding
by pathology should be the occasion for political, hospital managers and
Hospital doctors to agree on new partnership arrangements, to give
physicians a more proactive role in the management of the hospital.

The MR reaffirms its attachment to the conventional system.
He refuses to erase any difference between panel doctors and doctors nonconventionnés on pain of jeopardizing the system of agreements in force
in our country and tariff ensures certainty for patients. If we put on the same footing
contracted and non-contracted doctors, physicians will no longer have reason
to join or not to the Convention. However, the conventional system allows negotiations
Mutualists between providers and partners on health objectives,
their funding, on fixing their costs and their repayments. These agreements
bring the tariff patient safety and transparency in the fixing of costs and
refunds. For doctors, the convention allows for reasonable growth
the amount of fees and provides a "status" which is the legitimate counterpart
their compliance with negotiated fees.

The MR offers:
•

in consultation with universities, improving the image of general practice in
within universities to recreate the enthusiasm and vocation for medicine
General;

249

•

to set up an awareness campaign at their patients
indicating that the home visit should be reserved only serious situations
(real emergencies, elderly or disabled, ....);

•

to develop an effective tool that allows doctors to inform
permanence of all legal provisions on publication;

•

improve safety by allowing practitioners, for example, doctor
GP return a call to the 112 service when it is manifestly
a case of aggression or endangered;
to review the organization of the guard by supporting local initiatives proposed by
circles GPs based on their knowledge of
ground such as support to the care home setting (in areas where the
number of physicians allows such an organization), the removal of the dark night
where the circles so wish; modulating the necessity of moving the
GP according to specific cases to tend exclusively to the
"Timely home visit", the development of the concept of "social taxi" which
bring non-motorized or insecure patients to the doctor on duty.
to establish a tax exemption for social fees
availability of general practitioners up to 3,780 euros to
recognize the personal investment and medical equipment by the guard. For
As a reminder, the concept of honorary availability, established in 2002, aims to increase
motivation of physicians towards the guard. It recognizes the value of the
availability of GP and certainly encourage the return of
young GPs to guard ambulatory services. The fee
availability contributes therefore to reinforce the essential role of medicine
General.
to review the compulsory third-party payment system scheduled for 1
January 2015. The doctor should be able to apply the system of tierspayant face difficult personal situations or vis-à-vis patients
vulnerable. The application of pay-thirds of the system should avoid both
overuse and fraud through the use of the electronic identity card.

•

to adapt the reform work is allowed pensioners to take into account the
years of study in the calculation of the 42-year career. The regulations
of licensed activity has been adapted to encourage work and the benefit of the pension.
This reform of the authorized work beyond pension was expected. Number of
pensioners who wish to continue their business after 65 years continues to grow. This
reform was fundamental because it releases the work, making it more accessible and less
binding for pensioners. Specifically, the government proceeded with the
removing limits on authorized work for pensioners over 65 years
have a professional career of at least 42 years. However, this
250

reform suffers from a gap. Grades may be included in,
recognition of 42 years of career and even if they are treated as
periods of self-employment. This regulation is particularly
disadvantageous for professions which required long years of study as
doctors, dentists, notaries, lawyers, .... At 65, it is impossible for them
recognize 42 years of professional activity and thus benefit from the new
regulations concerning the authorized work of pensioners ..
Impulseo removing the premium calculation of social contributions. At present, this
premium of 20 000 is considered a physician's professional income. He
Consequently, this premium leads to higher social security contributions. Given that
This is an incentive that is not used to offset any loss
income, it is logical that the premium Impulseo is removed from the calculation of rates
social contributions.
to guarantee the status of physicians who are threatened with withdrawal of approval. From
Many doctors (6580 according to the Federal Department of Health) may
losing their license because they do not meet certain criteria
Accreditation set by the Ministerial Decree of March 1, 201055.
to achieve reform of the nomenclature of health benefits for the update
and that better reflect today's reality (withdrawal of benefits
obsolete, introduction of new codes, etc.). (removal of obsolete benefits,
introduction of new codes, etc.). A thus improved nomenclature would
effect: to ensure greater legal certainty, increase the efficiency of care
health, restore a hierarchy of priorities for both the provider and for the insured
and Medicare

to fundamentally revise the relations and negotiation between the margins
Managers of hospitals and hospital doctors: a new balance must be
found and the establishment of a pathology financing must be the occasion for
policies, hospital managers and clinicians to agree on
new partnership arrangements, to give doctors a more proactive role in
hospital management. For MR, it is important that it is the players themselves
defining the new rules under which they can evolve, including the

55

The purpose of the accreditation criteria is to ensure the quality of medicine and patient care,
through regular practice and a number of contacts. But it is clear that these criteria
are not in phase with the reality of medicine practiced today by the different GPs. He
GPs are working part-time or full-time in the hospital or, for example, in
rehabilitation services with general medical practice with these patients. If these doctors
General lose their accreditation, this will obviously bring in big trouble all of these services and
it is also deprive sort of general practitioners who would return perhaps one day to medicine
general or today prestent perhaps half time in the hospital or in a rehabilitation service and mitemps as a generalist in general practice frontline.
Moreover, the withdrawal of approval would mean for doctors involved a total loss of capacity
including prescription -mêmes for them, their families and to their patients - the loss of the right to
reimbursement by health insurance.

251

Role of the Medical Council. The implementation of such a system should lead to greater
the position of physicians face managers
to drastically reduce the administrative burdens and stresses on
and physicians to review and simplify the rules on prescription
drugs
to adapt the quotas general practitioners and specialists and organize a
Selection of medical and dentistry students via an entrance examination
in the first year, which would combine scientific knowledge and motivations
personal. The medical planning is not limited to quota but must
answer to the current problem and future supply and demand for care
health taking into account the specific needs of the population. It must integrate
needs by specialty and geographic area, as well as changes
sociological medical professionals (aging, feminization, ....) and population ellemême. Must therefore be taken into account the following essential information:
the aging population, the growing demand for certain specialties, the
faster development of medical knowledge, the requirements of service providers
to get a better balance between work and family life, maintaining a
quality training. It is also essential to develop a genuine Maps
of medical activity
to increase the attractiveness of the specialties where it is noted a shortage of practitioners;
certain specialties targeted by the Planning Commission as psychiatry
child, acute medicine, emergency medicine, geriatrics are deficient
workforce. But there are also some specialties that are not as such shortage,
except in hospitals. This is the case pediatricians eg are lacking
pediatricians in hospitals. It is necessary to upgrade the status of hospital pediatricians.

4.

Pharmacists

At the beginning of XXI century, the image of the pharmacist, busy in his laboratory to perform
a masterful preparation, belongs more to the imagery of Epinal. Picker
medicines, the pharmacist has become a provider and advisor in the
field of medicine. It is a major player in the medicine nearby,
frontline provider. In collaboration and consultation with the attending physician,
pharmaceutical care aims any kind of issues related to drugs.
They include the detection and resolution of problems related to drug use.
They also include the pharmaceutical accompanying form of dispensation
information and advice to patients during and after drug delivery for
optimal use, effective and safe. It is in this spirit that the MR supported the establishment
an Honorary delivery precisely to enhance the active role of the pharmacist in the
health care system.
In the same vein, the "accompanying interview from New Medication", the
ENM, have emerged during this legislature. The NHS is a new type of service
pharmaceutical that goes beyond drug delivery and advice therein
252

associates. It is a major development for the community pharmacy because it involves
an innovative approach to professionnel56 exercise.
The democratization of access to the pharmacy profession is a concern
we want to address. Each pharmacy, its independent pharmacist. This is less
and less true. Since some number of years, it must be noted that young people
recent graduates of our universities pharmacists increasingly difficult to settle
as an independent pharmacist in our country. Involved, the competition
groups generally consist of pharmacies in cooperatives are able
exercise during times of pharmacies. Too many young pharmacists must renounce fault
be able to find sufficient funding to establish. Access to bank credit remains
difficult for independent young people. The best situated to offer pharmacies and insured
real prospects of profitability are trustees by those cooperative societies whose
financial power is not commensurate with that of the independent pharmacists.
This trend is unfavorable. It raises the question of democratization of access to
pharmacy profession and a return to the more "independent" of its exercise.
Finally, security pharmacies must be considered. There are increasingly
of attacks against pharmacies. Pharmacists are
particularly affected by the phenomena of robbery and assault.

The MR offers:
•

adapt the new pharmacists reward system set up with
the objective to be no budgetary impact on the overall margin of pharmacists.
However, between the policy decision and implementation of the measurement,
measures have influenced downward margin of pharmacists (decreased duration
treatment,…). An adaptation of the basic factors must be studied to
adapting basis of the fee for the duration of treatment.

•

to enhance pharmacists' advisory role and strengthen the monitoring of the file
pharmaceutical care to contribute to therapeutic patient education and
and encourage better adherence to treatment prescribed by the doctor.
The current system of fixing the health care budget does not
enhance the main activity of pharmacists, which should be increasingly
oriented pharmaceutical care paid by the Honorary and less on
the volume of issued specialties. It is therefore recommended to isolate a specific budget
in Medicare fees for drug benefits.

•

to defend the independence of the profession: access to pharmacy practice
must be in compliance with the principles and intellectual independence
in a spirit of free enterprise. In line with the measures taken by the Minister

56

"Accompanying Interviews New Medication" - ENM Safety Data Sheet September 2013 - Service
APB Communication

253

Laruelle, we must continue to strengthen the social status of self that
take risks to create employment and most of the time, to offer others.
Moreover, we must continue reforms aimed concrete steps to
rebalance the relationship between banks and independent

5.

•

develop continuing education which is a professional obligation and
ethics. Permanent training institutes such as the SSPF (Society
Scientist Pharmacies Francophones) and IPSA (Instituut voor Permanente
Studies voor Apothekers) that provide post-academic training must
be recognized like Domus Medica SGAM or for doctors. These
institutes aim to improve the quality of pharmaceutical care and provide
a validated scientific information (including the implementation of Recommendations
Good Practice).

•

strengthening medical and pharmaceutical consultation. Contacts between doctors
and pharmacists, primary care providers, are paramount. They
can lead to concrete initiatives in the interest of the patient. There
Medical and Pharmaceutical dialogue is an instrument which aims to
the optimization of care delivered to the patient as part of the compulsory insurance
health care and benefits, with particular attention to three dimensions:
prescribing, dispensing and use of medicines. This must be done in
gathering at the local physicians and pharmacists and promoting the
so the collaboration between the two groups of caregivers.

•

to consider the issue of the standardization of the size and range of
conditionings. The question must be asked in consultation with the sectors
concerned: industry, pharmacies and doctors. The objective is to
facilitate a more rational prescription and delivery and a good use of
drugs.

•

improve the safety of pharmacies. It is also a priority. The
prevention campaigns in collaboration with the police and associations
pharmaceuticals must be intensified to strengthen the security of pharmacies
and the adoption of preventive measures.

the Physiotherapists
The physiotherapist provides an important contribution to public health but also
the well-being of people in general, and particularly seniors. Their action
often also helps to maintain a large number of people in life
active, for example by speeding up a resumption of work.
In Belgium, there are about 18,000 active physiotherapists. They work in
different sectors as an independent and / or employee.
254

Faced with an aging population, physical therapists will increasingly a
important role to keep people healthy.
However, it is clear that physiotherapists are facing different challenges
the Reformer Movement wishes to be considered for this value
profession.
Recall that the Reform Movement has won her battle against the support of
graduates in physiotherapy at the end of their study. The competition, particularly
inhuman, established at the end of the studies was a hindrance to freedom of physiotherapists
practice the exercise of their profession. This contest has been removed during this legislature
and we welcome it.
The MR offers:
•

to finalize the draft of promoting quality in physiotherapy. As is
today, the association Pro-Q-Kine is structured to arrange the system in practice
improving the quality of physiotherapy and training structure
continues that physiotherapists have the opportunity to participate on the basis
voluntary. The goal is obviously to achieve a practical
professional physical therapy which relies more on bases
scientists.

•

enhance the role of the physiotherapist, a key player of the first
line, like other independent contractors who work for the maintenance of
Healthy people

•

reviewing the nomenclature which in its current form is becoming less and less
practicable as it is complex and subject to varying interpretations. This
Nomenclature is very bureaucratic and synonymous with constraints
administrative unbearable for physiotherapists.

•

creating a College of physiotherapists. For many years,
physiotherapists calling for the creation of a professional Order to them
clean. They are calling for the ordinal instance to better
organize and represent their profession.

•

increase the travel allowance physiotherapists who
particularly low (1 euro!) and led to less travel to the homes of
patients. A revaluation of the travel allowance is essential
not to threaten access to essential care for patients who do
are more able to move.

•

to clarify the status of the physiotherapist at the hospital and evaluate the way
financing of hospital physiotherapy. The Hospitals Act shall be
adapted. Indeed, although about 2,000 physiotherapists working environment
hospital, hospital physiotherapy is not enshrined in the Act

255

coordinated on hospitals, which has major implications for the
profession.
Moreover, financing of hospital physiotherapists is calculated
based on a graduated scale or new graduates are holders
a master's degree in physiotherapy. This is going to be a problem
Structural increasingly acute.

57

•

to balance the schedules of therapists and physiotherapists.
Measures must be taken to optimize and harmonize in
identical clinical situations, the management of physiotherapy patients
and physical medicine.

•

to recognize the specific skills in physiotherapy. The
physical therapist can deepen one or more Basic Qualifications
physiotherapy in order to acquire one or more QPP57 (ex. Therapy
manual, Sports Physiotherapy, neurological rehabilitation, rehabilitation
cardiovascular, ...). It is normal for these particular skills are
legally recognized.

•

to refuse any form of forfaitarisation of physiotherapy in
rest homes for the elderly in order to guarantee the free choice of
Patients and staff ratio physiotherapist and patient. The MR was
strongly committed to this fight.

•

equalize user fees under agreement between the physios and not
contracted. As for physician services, user fees
for the patient is the same as the doctor is not agreement with or
under agreement, the situation is different for physiotherapy. The ticket
moderator is increasingly important effect on the provision of a physiotherapist
déconventionné compared to a contracted physiotherapist. This disadvantageous position
the patient will have to be corrected.

•

reorganize the offer physiotherapy. Two sectors (universities and Hautes
Schools) coexist francophone side, operating in eleven training centers. He
need to think more collaborations between these institutions and a
harmonization of curricula.

•

to open the debate between the different actors involved (including doctors
and physiotherapists) on direct access to the services of the physiotherapist oriented
prevention, and therefore without prescription in office or at home like this
practice in France where the therapist can support a patient
on its own initiative without a prescription when it is not in a
but therapy by prevention. As the provision of preventive,
it could not be supported by the budget of the INAMI.

Specific professional qualification

256

6.

Nursing
As part of the upgrading of health actors, practice the art of nursing
requires many reforms. The first matter to recast the tool
Training to a single die. Then, at the professional, it is
urgent need to increase the overall attractiveness of the profession in order to avoid a real
exodus of nurses.
We speak indeed often shortages in the sector, since many of difficulty
hospital institutions to recruit and sustain their nursing manager, could leave
believe that nurses are not sufficiently numerous. The reality is that we
Belgium intend 150,000 graduates under 65 years, of which 110 000
prestent about 90,000 full-time equivalent. This is 9 per 1,000 nurses
capita, which places our country in the European top.
Moreover, at present, it still lacks in Belgium of a cadastral
the official nursing activity, clear and definitive. Now these correct statistical information
are very important to know precisely the number of practitioners of the art
nurse and their field of activity, their status, their professional intentions, etc. . He
must therefore continue to update Maps.
The harmonization of training is a real priority. Belgium is in fact one of
few countries still conducting in parallel a nurse and a Bachelor Patent. This last
is a legacy of the past. Based on the idea "A chain, a diploma, a title" of a
hand, and recognizing the obvious need to level training from the top in order to
face future health issues. The MR submitted a proposal to "
clarification of courses leading to a diploma in nursing. "
However, we must also take steps to make the profession more
attractive (fair pay, simplification of administrative constraints, measures
to combine family / life) ... .. The quality of life of practitioners
Nursing Practitioners should be a major concern because it strongly influences the
quality of care and retention of nurses.
As with other health professionals, the role of nurse practitioners in the art
in our health care system is gradually changing. Nurses
brought to practice new activities and increase the range of services offered
patients in the ambulatory sector or home. In this regard, many countries
have already developed the concept of "nurse practitioner", ie the reference to nursing
of support previously performed by the physician tasks. This transfer
may be implemented as delegation, supervision or without the physician, one who realizes the act
being fully responsible. In the context of care increasingly
multidisciplinary, this debate in our country will open sooner or later.

257

The MR offers:
•
•
•
•
•
•

•
•
•

7.

to establish a single procedure leading to the title of nurse as a
MASTER 1 and to encourage additional training in MASTER 2;
to revalue the profession and make it more attractive (fair pay,
simplifying administrative, measures to combine family life /
working life) ;
promote and facilitate access to gateways of studies to acquire the
As a nurse;
combat discrimination in the art of nursing sector in particular
against independent practitioners;
to continue updating a cadastre of the nursing activity that will
know precisely the number of nurse practitioners in the art, their field
activity, status and confront supply needs;
to enhance uniform and clearly the particular professional titles. He
is also essential to clarify the specialization courses and get their
recognition. Skilled nursing needs are increasingly feeling
since, having regard to scientific and technological change, complexity
certain functions has increased considerably.
assess the implementation of caregivers in home care and, if
appropriate, to revise the regulations provided at this level to avoid a race
Bottom of nursing home care;
Foster the functioning of the structures on a human scale, made
self motivated, and must be able to exist with large structures
Mutual;
To favor an external coordination of home care as opposed to a
coordination dependent on a parent organization;

Psychologists and psychotherapists

Until now, everyone could use with impunity title
"Psychotherapist" because he was not protected by law. This was not
safe for the patient, who might not receive the care he needed. In
Indeed, some people were as psychotherapists, as they
did not follow a valid training.
The recognition of psychologists and psychotherapists who protects the patient and
ensuring that providers have received valuable training and care
So is delivered quality. Psychologist and psychotherapist are protected because
they are not exposed to competition from people who have not received training
valid or no training at all.
Psychotherapy a multiplicity of interested professionals and currently admits
multiple levels of prior training (academic or not, ..); schools and
Paradigms are many. This heterogeneity leads to very different interests and
258

opposites that have always made it very difficult to define a legal and consensual framework
for psychotherapy.

8.

•

The MR features to ensure quality training and practice.

-

The psychotherapy training is a specialized skill that we
the most natural access is either a master training in psychology or a
specialist medical training in psychiatry. Nevertheless, we recognize
an opening must be considered to allow persons who have completed a
different course from that master in psychology or a medical degree
to have access to training in psychotherapy. We insist, however,
for persons holding a bachelor's degree have taken a
Additional training program university type and previously
the specific psychotherapy training. This requirement is essential to
ensure patient safety and prevent a race to the bottom. We want
to protect patients legislative guarantees of rigorous training,
transparent and controllable. This prerequisite should help give graduates
the "concepts" of "bases" include psychology, psychopathology and
Psychiatry. The objective is for example that the provider can judge so formed
if there is or is not facing a problem somatic and optionally return and in any
knowing the patient to a qualified doctor to treat the patient.

-

A federal psychotherapy Council should be created. This Council will hold the keys
to ensure quality of psychotherapy in our country. Compounds
professional psychotherapists, academic and psychiatrists, this advice will
responsible for many missions to the MR, it is important to have
academic and psychiatrists in this council to ensure a scientific basis
to training in psychotherapy and establish the conditions for control
effective.

Unconventional Practices
The Act of 29 April 1999 on unconventional practices in the fields
of the medical art, the art of pharmacy, physiotherapy, the art of nursing and
allied health professionals provides for a mechanism of recognition, identification
and protection of so-called unconventional practices.
The Reformer Movement addresses the issue of non-practice
Conventional placing in the foreground the interest of the patient. Freedom of choice
the patient is fundamental. In this context, the freedom to choose
provider for the patient includes the right to use non Practices
conventional.
Governments need to ensure that this freedom and this right can be exercised
in a context of optimum safety. Patient interest also postulates freedom
259

therapy physicians and practitioners must be able, if they consider it useful,
incorporate into their practice treatments or techniques, conventional or
not, but beneficial for the patient. They must also be able to delegate the application
these treatments or these techniques to practitioners they consider
suitable for this application.
The safety of non-conventional practices postulates meet a certain
number of conditions, the first being the need to be a most diagnostic
specific as possible before making a therapeutic procedure.

The MR offers:
to continue the recognition of non-conventional practices by ensuring:
to the patient's interest,
qualification of providers. These practices must be exercised by
qualified practitioners, who are fully aware of the technical,
their limitations, their possible side effects and they are
intervention in a duly established clinical context.
compliance with specific limits to the therapy used and more
fundamentally, the patient's referral to other treatments
or other therapies when his health requires.
to ensure that the non-conventional medical practitioners are
recorded and purchase insurance.
to establish an ethics and continuing education for
Non-conventional practitioners.

9.

Reform Orders

The College of Physicians has in recent years been the subject of criticism. Some
even proposed its deletion. This is not our option.
The founding text of the College of Physicians of 1967, the order of adaptations
doctors on its structure and its operation would
better meet the changes in our society.
However, the specificity of the role of the order on disciplinary and ethical matters
must be maintained. The disciplinary law should indeed help to establish and ensure the
compliance rules for the proper exercise of the profession.
For patients, the exercise by the College of Physicians meeting of its disciplinary powers
much misunderstanding in public opinion and sometimes arouses sharp criticism
the proportion of patients who entered the Order of a complaint against a doctor.
260

The contacts that occur between patients and the Order are sometimes difficult.
Other health professionals are demanding the creation of own professional orders
to represent them and intervene in the organization of the profession.
The MR offers:
to adapt the internal organization of the College of Physicians to changes in our
society while maintaining its specificity:
o reviewing the conditions of eligibility of members of the Order,
o broadening the range of disciplinary sanctions,
o creating a training college to distinguish
the disciplinary investigation and trial of the case,
o by introducing the concept of conflict of interest,
o by further opening the company to order at the composition of the
National Council.
responding to requests from health professions to create
new professional orders:
o creating a College of physiotherapists,
o creating an Order of the art of nursing practitioners,
to ensure, for patients, greater openness of the Order under the
his relations with patients having lodged a complaint giving them
information it considers appropriate as to the decision taken in
compliance with specific principles of the disciplinary law.

10.

Hospital institutions
Everyone agrees to consider that the number of hospital beds for care
is very acute or too high in Belgium.
Collaborations and connections between hospitals are still hampered by
current legal and financial context.
The implementation of the interinstitutional agreement will provide the opportunity, future
Government of the federated entities to set up a care package
harmoniously divided between hospital acute care on one hand and care
chronic and secondly revalidation.

261

As for the current hospital financing system, there must always be
fundamentally revised in order to better control costs. The move towards
funding to pathology is clearly needed, like that
already know most other European countries, without calling into question
maintaining a medicine to act.
This should be an opportunity to fundamentally review the nomenclature of acts
provided at a hospital and above all, reflect a new balance in relations
between hospital managers and clinicians, in order to better
involve them in the management of medical activities of the hospital.
11.

Homogenization of the hospital policy

After the 2014 elections, it is the federal entities competent for
define the standards to which hospitals and the functions, services and
hospital care programs must meet to be accredited. There
Programming remains, however, federal as well as hospital funding
(except, notorious, infrastructure finance, which now emerge
the exclusive jurisdiction of the federal entities, as this funding is
today shared between federal entity and federated entities).
The federated entities also receive full competence for everything
as accommodation for the elderly, but also to manage the hospitals'
categorical "(geriatric services and isolated revalidation services) and
the overall mental health sector (except psychiatric hospitals
and psychiatric services in general hospitals).
The challenge for the federated entities will be threefold:
•
Establish a new "Calendar" constructions (and renovations) of
hospital infrastructure, which take into account both programming
Federal and also the needs of the region concerned;
•
Changing the current registration rules to a more oriented system
the quality of care while ensuring that these new rules will not impact
negative on federal budgets (in the absence of bilateral agreement);
•
Embed this hospital policy in a broader project to the
older people, people in rehabilitation and people with
mental disorders.
These challenges are all the more important that in the future, hospitals will be more
more organized horizontally in an orientation "patient care
"Instead of being vertically service and this while giving priority
growing quality. This implies in particular strengthening
coordination and reference functions.
Hospitals will also have to specialize more, while working
much more than at present with primary care physicians, the care
262

home and other hospitals, similar to what is already achieved through
the current project "107" of the psychiatric sector.
The MR offers:
•
redeploy hospitals articulating them better hospitals
academics, specialized hospitals and hospitals nearby. In this framework,
You really create competition between public and private sector hospitals,
denominational and non-denominational. This implies that public hospitals
operate with a budget autonomy and accountability
identical to those of private companies. It also requires accelerating the
professionalisation of management of hospitals;
•
also review the programming of certain infrastructures, health
including mental, but also the nursing home structures
elders. To this end, the MR requires a comparative analysis of licensed beds
programmed beds in our country for all the care and institutions
Analyse of needs. The results of this research will be used to program
not only essential investments in infrastructure, but
Also expected in the long-term operating resources to devote to
care institutions while ensuring that they meet the objective
needs of the population;
•
develop innovative childcare (in rehabilitation, health
mental and the elderly) with more flexible coaching standards
and allowing easier financial accessibility. To seniors
particular, must be given the guarantee to choose either to stay at home with
appropriate and financially aid is available to move into an institution
including the environment and coaching best meets the aspirations
personal;
•
prohibit insurers to operate hospitals: one can not
not be both controller and controlled, each must remain in his role and that of
mutual societies is not to manage hospitals;
•
to enable public authorities to grant the management of public hospitals
to private operators (as is already the case in many European countries)
in the rigorous framework of specifications, particularly at the level of quality
and accessibility, and then removing the automatic clearance of deficits
public hospitals by the government (which is nonsense about healthy
governance);
•
to encourage hospitals to join an accreditation system for hospitals,
recognized internationally. This involves the gradual replacement of
quantitative standards for accreditation based on quality of care;
•
to improve access to hospital services (cardiology, pediatrics ...) and
the most efficient medical equipment (magnetic resonance, pet-scans,
etc.), through the creation of inter-hospital technical platforms. This requires
263

deprogramming of some heavy medical equipment diagnostic (eg.
magnetic resonance) while empowering doctors financially
in particular.
12.

Reform of hospital funding

Hospital financing is too complex, very transparent and very hypocritical
since the notorious shortcomings of the funding through the Estimates
Financial resources will inevitably cause continual increases
samples from doctors' fees.
Prior to 2002, hospitals were funded by a "day price", which favored
including longer lengths of stay.
Today, the hospital funding based on three pillars:
the budget financial resources (BMF) already forfaitarisé in part: since
2002 funding is based on the justified activities in which the mix-box
Each hospital is multiplied by the average length of stay by nationally
group of diseases (corrected for outliers) to determine the
number of patient days in hospital justified;
levies on physician fees, already largely a lump sum
in clinical biology and medical imaging, but also in the system
reference amounts which is a post-audit payments
the act (for certain pathologies, among the most common) have not exceeded a
certain amount, and, if applicable, refund to the INAMI;
the activities of the hospital pharmacy, knowing that the reimbursement of
forfaitarisé drugs is already 80%, and reflects pathologies.
The current system allows not to control hospital costs, constantly
growing. Our hospital financing system is manifestly end
race.
Many European countries (France, Germany, Netherlands, Switzerland, Denmark)
long since adopted a prospective financing system by pathology, based
on the hospital case mix, according to variable modalities in order to stimulate
the effectiveness of their health care system and curb costs.
The implementation of such a system however requires taking at the same time
measures to avoid that hospitals practice a skimming patients (
favoring the admission of patients with the most "profitable" diseases),
which could obviously lead to accessibility of care reduction,
even a two-tier medicine.
Furthermore, the introduction of a financing to pathology would change indeed
significantly doctors relationships - Hospital managers.

264

The introduction of such a system will need to meet two challenges: first, the
maintaining a medicine to act, and also the introduction of a new
consensus between managers and doctors to manage the hospital medically,
doctors to keep control of investments in medical equipment.
The introduction of a funding pathology may, in this context, provide
the opportunity to review the role of doctors, which could become more proactive than
in the current system, where the Medical Council is often limited to the level defense
income of hospital doctors.
The MR offers:
•
to grant hospitals a flat and prospective financing
Pathology (regardless of the fee awarded to physicians who must
including keeping control of the financing of the equipment and materials
medical);
•
Rather than the DRG ("DiagnosisRelated Group"), used in most
other European countries, to preferably use the APR-DRG, which are already used
for the calculation of activity justified in the BMF for calculating biological packages
and to the reference amounts and who better than the DRG, the dread
severity of treated cases;
•
to set up incentive mechanisms and quality control
care care to avoid under-consumption is a first risk
may result in the establishment of a financing condition;
•
calculate as precisely as possible and adapted packages
continuously changing cost and technology to avoid
a selection of the patients and according to their profitability activities is a
second risk that can lead to the establishment of a financing condition;
•
to prioritize the funding of the entire episode of care rather than
each component separately to avoid a transfer of charges to
the extramural and outpatient who is a third risk that may result
establishing a financing condition;
•
maintain separate funding for pathologies or services
which there is no satisfactory classification system (eg. Health
mental and rehabilitation) or that little or unsuitable for financing by DRG
like emergencies (as a mission of general interest), if certain
techniques such as radiotherapy, dialysis, intensive care units,
samples and organ transplants, expensive and innovative drugs,
serious burns, but also to fund teaching and research.
•
to fundamentally review the relations and bargaining power between
managers of hospitals and hospital doctors: a new balance must
be found and the establishment of a pathology financing must be the occasion
for policy, hospital management and hospital doctors
agree on new partnership arrangements, to give a doctors
265

more proactive role in the management of the hospital. For the MR, it is important that
are the actors themselves who define the new rules in which they
may change, including the role of the Medical Council. The establishment of such a
system can only lead to a strengthening of the power of managers over
than doctors, on the contrary.

13.

Medication
The pharmaceutical sector is the largest private investor in research and
development (R & D) (40% of private investment) and the leading contributor
the investment objectives of the Lisbon R & D for Belgium (3% of GDP
R & D), an average of 20% of turnover is invested annually in
R & D.
Belgian exports of drugs quintupled in twelve years and represent
Today 11% of total Belgian exports. According to the OECD, Belgium is the
second largest drug exporter after Germany.
The biopharmaceutical sector, which currently has 33 research sites and
production in our country, is particularly well represented in Belgium
belongs to the world top in R & D, production, employment and
exports.
Belgium also occupies a prominent place in the clinical studies (world leader
for phases of clinical studies 1-3 per capita and the European leader in number
phase 1 clinical studies per capita; which reflects a stimulating, of
the quality of the health system and the competence of health actors in
our country, particularly in terms of doctors, universities, hospitals and
that biopharmaceutical companies. These essential assets for research
Belgium, also for patients.
In total, the pharmaceutical industry is directly responsible for 5% of employment
Total in Belgium, some 29,000 posts (mainly people
highly qualified, nearly 6,000 researchers). Taking direct employment
and indirect, this represents some 100,000 jobs; which also explains the
population seems to have a perception of increasingly positive role of sector
Pharmaceutical in the economy and employment.
If the drug budget is under control for several years, it must
continue to be the subject of special attention. Indeed, in case of growth
Excessive these expenses, there is a real risk of innovative treatments
denied reimbursement for lack of budget. This growth can even, if
it is uncontrolled, jeopardizing the health care budget and therefore access
patient quality care system.

266

It is also important to establish a new procedure to enable
that drugs respond more quickly to medical needs not met
(UnmetMedicalNeeds, UMN).
The MR offers:
• to maintain a controlled drug budget. It is a condition
necessary to finance the entire health care sector. In this
framework should be:
o
to favor the conclusion, between the government and
representatives of the pharmaceutical industry, a framework agreement to three years
which offers a budget perspective and gives stability and security
Legal to develop a comprehensive and coherent vision of the sector,
to optimize its contribution to the health of patients and that of the economy
Belgian. The objective of such a framework agreement is to stimulate research,
promote access to innovation and preserve a wide therapeutic offers
and quality for patients, while giving sufficient guarantees of
monitoring and control of expenditure in the drug budget;
o
strengthen the effective implementation of "contracts" mechanism
between the INAMI and pharmaceutical companies for defining
compensation arrangements for budgetary risks related to the authorization
reimbursement of a new pharmaceutical product;
•

continuation of a policy that favors the drug "cheap" (including
not only generic but also old
specialties off-patent) provides a valuable alternative when medically.
It is in this context, a necessity in order to identify budgetary margins
necessary to fund innovative medicines;

•

assign, under the obvious condition that the drug budget either
control a percentage of the drug budget to the reimbursement of
innovative medicines. Would be considered as such, new specialties
class pharmaceutical I have received a favorable vote (2/3) of the Commission
drug reimbursement. For example: 5% of the budget
medications dedicated to innovation would be placing on the market and a
important for the patient accessibility to innovative medicines. Another
possibility could be: 2% of the drug budget, plus the amount
savings achieved through the use of "cheap" drugs. Of this
way it engages in the path of "innovation envelope 'within
the budget of drugs;

•

to reduce as far as possible, the maximum period of 180 days in the
drug reimbursement procedure.

267

14.

•

to pursue procedures "high unmet medical need" in making
provision of innovative treatments for serious or fatal diseases
for which there is no alternative treatment, and before
registration at European level for yet unauthorized specialties, or
before the recognition of a new indication for which there is a need
Medical non met for already authorized specialties.

•

to continue the work of the "platform for dialogue" between the
Government and the pharmaceutical industry, already implemented for several
years, which proves to be a place of useful and interesting meeting allowing
development of a comprehensive model between policy makers and
representatives of the pharmaceutical sector as well as representatives of major
Pharmaceutical companies active in R & D in Belgium. The objective is to encourage
R & D activities in the pharmaceutical sector but also in Belgium
favor an integrative approach, rather than exclusively fiscal, industry
the drug (research and development, Lisbon objectives, jobs and investment measures
tax, pharmaceutical taxes, etc.). The subjects to evoke concern as well
investment, training, research and development, production, the
budget and terms of pricing and reimbursement, including
innovation;

•

further information and awareness of the medical profession on the role
and responsibility of physicians in prescribing medicines,
patient information for the proper use of medicines;

•

to organize information and awareness campaigns on the risks
incurred by patients, by buying drugs over the Internet out of the circuit
legal (risk of receiving counterfeit or adulterated drugs or use them
inappropriately). In addition, the role of the Agency in combating drugs
against counterfeit drugs will be strengthened by pursuing a strategy
both multidisciplinary and multisectoral.

Mutuals

Mutuals are key players in our social protection system.
They reimburse health benefits and grant allowances. They participate in
discussions in the different NIHDI committees to determine or adapt the rules
for these benefits. They sit on management committees which will discuss ways
financiers of health care insurance. Mutual societies also play a role of insurer
via their supplementary insurance products.
However it is clear that the administrative costs allocated by the budget
State mutual societies is 1,045,193,000 euros in 2013 (excluding the budget

268

additional insurance) 58. This amount concerns us when confronted with the
budget of the General Medicine 1.300.819.59359sur the same period.
Between 2004 and 2014, the administration fee in question increased by 23.7%!
In a move to shared responsibilities for greater system efficiency
health care, the Reformer Movement wishes to review the role of mutual societies and
strengthen financial accountability, but also given a proactive role in
insurers against patients.
The MR offers:
•
to make patient information a priority criterion in assessing
the performance of insurers Organizations
•

reduce administrative tasks mutuals through
computerization to simplify the work of medical officers, manage
insurability of patients and eliminate paper invoices and health certificates.

•

to adjust the amount of administrative expenses of insurers in
taking into account the computerization and budgetary constraints

•

to strengthen the mission of the mutuals Control Board regarding
administration costs of insurers Organizations and associations aimlessly
profit related to mutual societies

•

to rethink the financial mutuals accountability mechanism
improving the normative key

•

avoid conflicts of interest: mutual societies should not be allowed to
act directly or indirectly as care providers (hospitals,
polyclinics, ...). We must clearly separate the role of insurer and health
care providers. In addition, it can not be both controller and controlled.

•

to review the agreement / repayment procedures under Chapter IV
Proprietary Medicinal Products for a quick decision for patients and
avoid jeopardizing access to care. Many patients and
Pharmacists evidence of significant delays in processing
certificates that entitle to reimbursement of medicines. It is
expensive and usually for drugs for serious diseases
(diabetes, cancer, epilepsy, ....). This is unacceptable! Patients
chronic need their drugs, their salaries can not be
interrupted.

58

The amount of supplementary insurance members to benefits represented 840.89 million euros
in 2010. (This amount does not include expenses in premarital savings benefits which amounted to 39.89
million euro). 2011 Annual Report of CMO.
59
Estimated expenditure for 2013 Post General practitioners (consultation, tours, DMG, passport diabetes,
Care route package)

269

•

ensure competition between private and mutual insurance that is not
incompatible with a mandatory solidarity system, provided that the Authority
Public clearly establishes the general framework within which operate
different actors.

•

to extend to mutual societies and national unions of mutual insurance rules
propaganda relating to certain prohibitions applicable to parties
policies and their candidates during électorale.60 The INAMI budget does
may be used for expenses that do not concern health care.

60

Doc 53,145 bill to extend to mutual societies and national unions of mutual insurance rules
relating to certain propaganda bans on political parties and their candidates during times
election

270

B. BOARD
Continue the modernization of the pension system to ensure the right
to a decent pension at 65
Report and Review
While she was still in 1960 that 69 years, life expectancy in Belgium
now 81 years old. And that age is expected to increase more than 5 years up to 2060.
This lengthening of life is obviously an opportunity for our society, but,
coupled with the arrival to the retirement of the baby boomers of the postwar period, it leads to a
overall aging of the population. More than two million of our fellow citizens today
more than 65 years. And despite the new demographic growth experienced by the country, the proportion
pensioners continues to increase faster than assets.
This makes inevitable the adoption of reforms to ensure social sustainability
Financial and our pensions. To do nothing would be irresponsible and ultimately lead to
have to reduce pensions and to plunge into poverty many people
older, what we can not accept.
That is why the Liberals have requested and obtained significant reforms are
companies under this Government. Between December 2011 and May 2014, the Government
notably decided:
-

-

-

-

gradually increase to age and career requirements to access the
early pension in employee pension schemes, independent and
officials;
to give preponderance to work days on certain periods
treated in the calculation of the pension of employees;
changing the pension calculation of statutory civil servants (taking account of
Last 10 years of career and suppression of the most favorable directors' fees);
to establish a new pension bonus, identical for all three schemes
pension, which encourages the pursuit of professional career until the age
retirement;
easing regulations authorized work after retirement by providing
including the ability to accumulate, without limitation, professional income
with pension for pensioners over 65 who have a career in
least 42 years;
ensure the connection to the well-being of the oldest pensions and pensions
minimum;
to reform the pension scheme of survival.

271

Because they allow the recovery of the work periods and they aim to
delaying the effective age of retirement, these reforms contribute to ensure sustainability
our pension system.
They have also led to greater justice between pensioners, for greater harmonization
different regimes: this is how the MR has got that discrimination hitting
independent system are reduced or eliminated. Corrections and advanced
Major were obtained for the benefit of pensioners who have careers as
independent. Two important advances acquired at the last
Parliament should be highlighted:
Revaluation of the minimum pension:
After 10 years of hard work, the MR was able to complete equalization
minimum pension at household rate: since April 1, 2013, the minimum pension
granted for an independent household is therefore the same as in the system of
employees! This is history!
In 2003, the minimum pension independent household rate was € 825 per month
for a full career, an amount 20% lower than that granted in the scheme for
employees. Since 1 April 2013, the minimum pension 'household' is € 1,386.40 per
month, the same amount as in the scheme for employees. This represents over ten years,
an increase of € 565. At single rate, the minimum pension "isolated" amounts to
€ 1,047.84 and has increased since 2003 from 430 €!
On 1 September 2013, the minimum pension has been increased in the framework of
adaptations welfare to reach € 1,403.73 per month in household rates and 1060.94
€ per month single rate.
Removed penalty for early pension and sustainability of the bonus:
Before 2006, the malus corresponded to a reduction of 5% per year of anticipation, or
a total of 25% in the event of retirement at 60. A rare exception
met: to have an independent career of 45 years, no penalty
was applied. Whatever the circumstances and reasons why
Independent asked his early pension (illness, economic hardship, ...), the
planed board was definitely the percentage of penalty.
At the initiative of MR, successive relaxations have been made to reduce this
discrimination which knocked more than independent since 1 January 1991.
from 1 January 2014, no further penalty is applied to independent departing
the pension before age 65. Another historic advance!
In addition, like other pension plans, the independent who choose
to continue working beyond one year of age from
where they fulfill the conditions for early retirement are entitled to a bonus

pension. This is granted by quarter of professional activity as
Independent. This bonus system was perpetuated beyond 2013, in a formula

272

adapted to the new conditions of early retirement. Bonuses will now
also be granted to those who postposent taken their pension beyond 65 years.

The purpose of the MR is to provide those who undertake and taking
risks similar social protection than that offered to employees. It's a
question of respect, common sense and justice and this must also apply for
pension.
The work is, however, not complete. It will, in the next Parliament, adopt
Further reforms that pursue the following objectives:
Pensions must be an instrument of recognition of the work done
benefit of society. The system must ensure respect the general principle of
proportionality between the effort of assessment and the resulting benefits.
If we want to increase the pension replacement rate, it is also
find a new balance between the technical distribution and capitalization.
This balance requires further reforms regarding the first
pillar (state pension), a generalization of the second pillar (insurance group) and
strengthening of tax incentives for the third pillar.
Further harmonize the different laws in order to achieve portability
Maximum between schemes remains a requirement: it is to ensure mobility
between employment statuses, but also greater equity in the implementation
of solidarity with the seniors. This does not imply that all statutes (employees,
independent officials) are identical. But their level differences
any duly justified in advance, must be able to enroll in a frame
coherent whole.
Flexibility of the professional career is desirable, some preferring
work well after the official age while others choose a retreat
anticipated. Systems should reflect this flexibility and encourage
financially retirement adjournment without necessarily imposing for it
authoritarian declines in retirement age.
Fiscal consolidation is expected to produce sufficient margins to
continue the connection to the well-being, it is to focus on a revaluation
of the lowest pensions and older, and the Income Guarantee
Elderly (GRAPA
Finally, it is essential, if we want to guarantee the financing of pensions, increase
the participation rate. It should first of all stop punishing pensioners
wish to continue working after the legal retirement age,
even when they do not total 42-year career. It should also, without changing
the legal age of retirement, take further steps to delay the effective age of
exit from the labor market.
273

Our proposals
15. More out of work
Our pension system does not take sufficient account of the work, as that to which
contributions were collected to feed the coffers of social security that
made by the beneficiary of a retirement pension or survival.
The MR considers it necessary to upgrade the work taken into account for calculating the amount of
pension.
This requires increasing the pension replacement rate. The rate of
Replacement is defined as the ratio between the pension and the salary received by the
pensioner before his retirement.
It is not normal that a worker who has completed a full professional career,
left with a pension just above the statutory minimum pension. Currently,
from all careers, near a two-pensioner receives a lower pension
€ 1,125 per month.
To increase the pension replacement rate, more reforms are needed
companies, both in regard to the statutory pension as supplementary pensions.
1.1. Change the calculation of pensions to better take into account the work
To better reward work performed prior to retirement, the MR wants mode
for calculating pensions be reviewed by:
an increase in salary caps:
In the scheme for salaried workers, retirement pension is calculated on the basis of
wages obtained during the career. Consideration earned income is
however, limited up to a salary cap. This ceiling has not been adjusted since
early 80s, that depending on the price increase, no increase
real. In 2012, the salary cap was approximately € 51,092.44. Given that wages
generally evolve faster than indexing, a proportion increasingly
great employees saw their pension planed by this mechanism
The MR therefore proposes to revise upwards the ceiling considered in the calculation
pensions and adapt to the evolution of wages in Belgium.
a revaluation of actual working days:
A number of non-worked days are treated as work days and
come into play - under certain conditions - in the calculation of the pension: unemployment,
274

early retirement, time credit, career break, care leave, sickness, disability,
military service, periods of study, training, strike ....

Moreover, the legal conditions for such assimilation vary from plan
support to the other.
At the initiative of the Liberals, the present Government has already taken several measures to
reduce the weight of certain assimilated periods. Thus, since 2012, the 3rd
period of unemployment and early retirement before 59 remain assimilated to a period of
work, but with limited fictitious remuneration.
Because we think it appropriate to reward work, we propose for the
next legislature, a "professional bonus" that allows them to revalue
actual working days taken into account in calculating the pension.
Assimilated days would be weighted by the way: the assimilation covering a
period of vocational training or care leave should be given to a close
worth more than covering a strike period. The focus should be on the "added value
social or societal "(eg training or care of a parent) and involuntary
(example: illness or disability) periods considered for assimilation.
Furthermore, because we believe that education is the best investment
for professional careers, we propose to facilitate the assimilation covering
years of study. Currently, assimilation is granted in regime at the employee
provided that the redemption takes place within 10 years of the start of career
professional. We propose to permit the inclusion of grades
until the pension decision, by a voluntary payment of contributions as is the case
in the independent regime.
In order to harmonize the assimilation between different pension schemes, we
also offer the same assimilation scheme for military service within three
pension plans: the assimilation would be granted without career condition as is the
If employees currently in the scheme (the period of military service is considered a
work period if followed an occupation within three years)
in the independent scheme (for which the said period is only 180 days). It
allow the end of a series of schemes inequality between sexes and people with
been subject to military obligations before 1994 and those who today are no more.
a consideration of the whole professional career
Several reforms have been undertaken in this legislature. Thus the calculation
based on the number of years is replaced by a model based on the number of
workdays, allowing better use of the professional career. Previously,
taking into account the career for calculating the maximum pension was 45 years.
Now it is limited to 14.040 "days FTE" (full-time equivalent days). This new
method of calculation allows a worker totaling 47 year career, but has
275

4 years worked part time to consider all of its working days, even those
made during the 46th and 47th year.

The present Government has also decided to consider the final months of the
professional career. Currently, if a worker takes his pension on 1 July, the six
last months of his career are lost in the calculation of his pension. With the new
system, they will be taken into account.
However, it will go further: we believe that all work days which
located before retirement and have resulted in contributions deductions
Social must be taken into account even when the total is higher these days
FTEs to 14,040 days.
1.2.

Generalising the second pillar to provide the same protection to all

All experts highlight the increase in the replacement rate induced
a supplementary pension plan. In other words, while the statutory pension
represents a full career for an employee receiving an average salary that
42% of his last gross salary, supplementary pension will increase this
percentage of nearly 20% for a membership spanning the entire career (with fee
4.25%).
2.3 million Belgian workers (out of a total of 3.3 million employees and officials
contractual) are currently affiliated to a pension scheme of the second pillar. Number of
affiliated workers is increasing with recent years, a net increase of
Affiliate laborers rates. The development will continue with increasing
number of workers covered by sectoral plans.
In order to achieve a generalization of supplementary pensions as it happened
in other European countries, the MR offers:
•

the generalization of the second pillar is an essential element of the next
interprofessional agreement 2015-2016.
The MR wants the discussions between social partners can lead to
to cover the latest professional sectors without supplementary pension
(CPNAE, textile, acting ...).

•

the second pillar should be extended to the public service contract.
Contract staff of the Public Service, who perform services
similar to a statutory worker, are given a pension
often is half that of a statutory agent of the same rank.
The MR considers it necessary to set up a supplementary pension plan
contract staff. A modern public service can not authorize
discrimination in pension.
276

•

it is established, as is already the case for independent, free pension
Complementary for employees to enable them to freely carry
additional payments.

•

it is created for independent individuals in a real vehicle
second pension pillar: individual commitment to worker pension
independent.
As is already the case for certain employees and independent (in society), these
independent will, in addition to free additional pension,
subscribe to such a commitment in the tax 80% limit.

•
1.3.

that tax incentives for the second pillar should be strengthened.
Strengthen the third pillar (pension savings):

The financial sector is estimated that the number of Belgians who have subscribed to pension savings
reached 2.73 million people: 1.4 million via insurance and 1.33 million via a fund.
All for a total amount of approximately € 26 billion. The number of participants will
growing, particularly in the categories of lowest income.
The MR estimates that the third pillar should be strengthened since it is a simple,
People that encourages citizens to save, on an individual basis for their pension
future. These savings also helps to raise the overall replacement rate.
That is why we propose that the amount of payments coming into play
for the tax reduction is doubled. For payments made in 2014, the limit
Current is 950 € per year. We propose, as part of the future tax reform,
double it and bring it to € 1,900 or € 158.33 per month.
1.4.

Hold the housing bonus

The home ownership or ownership of real estate for rent, is
often considered "the best pension savings" or even as a "fourth pillar
pension ". There is nothing, if only because it does not based on a system
mandatory or voluntary contributions.
Nevertheless, our fellow citizens are very sensitive to this ability to own,
encouraged by housing-bonus (all tax deductibility available to
citizens to purchase a home).
The MR therefore calls for the full maintenance of accommodation bonus (principal, interest, premium
life insurance) at regional level.

277

16. Encourage the participation rate, also for seniors
Belgium is among the European countries where the employment rate for workers aged 55 to
64 is the lowest. While the average percentage in the European Union is
48%, it is in Belgium and 39.5% (Eurostat figures 2012).
If early retirement policies practiced heavily in our country could make sense
in a certain context, priority should be to significantly increase in the
coming years the employment of over 55 years. This issue goes beyond course
largely the context of pensions, but we must set up pension systems
incentives and consistent with that aim of public encouragement to the maintenance work.
Without raise the legal retirement age, it is possible to improve the participation rate of
older workers. Bring everyone to work until age 65 would be a step forward in
size and help to ensure the financing of future pensions!
That is why the proposed MR:
1.5. Insert a coefficient of revaluation of actual working days:
This coefficient revaluation should help increase the amount of pension
all workers. This would be a "professional bonus" for
the recovery of the actual workdays (see 1.1.). The idea is to take better
account the contributions made during working life. It is not normal that a worker who
conducted a compète career, sometimes left with a pension barely above
the minimum pension.
1.6.

Sustaining the pension bonus:

At the initiative of the MR, the Government introduced a pension bonus for the benefit of
employed persons, self-employed and civil servants who extend their
career beyond the minimum age for early retirement.
The granting of the new bonus begins when the worker continues to operate at least 1 year
beyond the age for early retirement. The amount of this bonus is progressive:
more professional activity, the greater the bonus is important. The pursuit of
professional activity beyond the legal age to retire early may
now allow a substantial increase in pension, sometimes several
hundreds of euros.
This bonus system must be sustained and even be strengthened because it promotes
pursuit of a professional activity up to the age of the State pension and even beyond if
the worker wishes.

278

1.7.

Introduce greater flexibility in career:

Should be introduced without raise the legal retirement age, greater flexibility
career, some preferring to work well after the official age while
others choose early retirement.
In other words, it is better to consider the career that carried the age of
retirement.
The MR considers that all contributions paid, even in activities during the
retirement, should be valued in pension rights and should provide for a
Rights openness in relation to contributions paid. Harmonization in this sense
the plans is desirable.
1.8.

Delete the limits of work allowed for pensioners

At the initiative of the MR, the limits of authorized professional income in respect of the
retired workers were increased gradually, but very significant.
Since 2013, for those aged 65 and a career of at least 42 years, the ceiling
authorized income is now deleted. For others, the current ceiling remains
application but is now indexed. In addition, when the ceiling applies, the
penalty is proportional to the overrun if it is less than 25% of the ceiling
applicable (against 15% previously).
Also, for pensioners who pursue self-employment after retirement,
facilities were obtained by MR: Maintaining preferential rate of contributions and
revenue cap considered in determining these contributions.
The reform of calculating social security contributions, which allows from 2015 reflect
income from the same year and not income of three years ago, will also
greatly facilitate the lives of working pensioners.
Despite these reforms, the excess over the authorized limit, however, can still lead
a disproportionate sanction since the pension is suspended when the quarry
work is less than 42 years and that the excess is greater than 25% of
applicable ceiling. These limitations discourage work of seniors who may yet
make a useful contribution to the economy and society.
It's time to make the right to the pension an unconditional right by performing
full liberalization of overlapping of income related to the pension. This is why the MR
ask the simple deletion of authorized work limits without subjecting
thereof to a career condition. We want in this way promote the activity of seniors
wish to continue working after age 65, according to
recommendations from the European Commission.
The tax aspect of complementary work to the pension must be reviewed (see 2.5. Below).
279

The pension scheme of survival is also subject to limits authorized work, which
sometimes forced some beneficiaries, mostly women, to make a choice between
pursuit of their professional career and the benefit of the survivor's pension.
The recent reform adopted by the Federal Government plans, instead of
survivor's pension, grant, from 1 January 2015, a transition allowance when
the surviving spouse is aged under 45 (with gradual increase of the age
to reach 50 years in 2025). Unlike the survivor's pension allocation
transition is fully combined with professional income, whatever
the importance thereof. However, it is only granted for one year (no child
load) or two years (child).

After 45 years, the person can no longer claim that the survivor's pension as
currently exists. To solve the difficulties related to income limits
licensed professionals, the MR application that person over 45 years can choose
between the traditional survivor's pension and the transition allowance which favors the continuation
a professional activity.
1.9.

Encourage the professional activity of fiscally seniors

For fiscal 2013, the tax reduction which pensioners benefit amounted to € 1,968.18,
provided that the income is made up exclusively of a pension or other income
replacement.
When a pensioner has other income, the amount of this reduction
is reduced according to the ratio between the net amount of the pension and the overall amount
of net income. It follows that the earned income are quite heavily taxed seen
decreasing of the tax reduction.
This regime is unfair and unjust because the pensioner who wishes to complete his
income exerting an authorized professional activity is the victim of discrimination
compared to another retiree whose pension is higher, but not engaged
authorized activity. For equal gross income, the latter receive a higher net income.
This is why the MR proposed that this tax reduction is no longer reduced during
cumulation with earned income when the person receiving a pension
wishes to continue working.

17. Enhancing and pensions
One of our first priorities is to improve policies in the purchasing power of
pensioners. Decisions taken by the Government in recent years point in that
meaning. Significant amounts (€ 64 million in 2013 and € 174 million in 2014) have indeed
been devoted to linking pensions to well-being in employees and systems
independent despite the difficult budgetary context.
280

We must continue the adjustment of pensions, in particular those that are lowest
and often the oldest. To this end, the MR proposes:
1.10. Continue linking welfare:
According to the law on the pact generations, the Government decides every 2 years
on proposals from the social partners, the distribution of the financial envelope
Available pensions granted to adapt to changes in the general well-being.
The MR estimates that the next envelope must focus effort on the most pensions
old and lowest.
1.11. Completely remove the solidarity contribution:
In the previous legislature, we obtained - not without difficulty! - The contribution
solidarity that unfairly hit pensioners is removed for all pensions
2.222,18 € below regarding isolated and 2.569,12 € regarding the
households.
Our objective is to completely remove this unjust levy which accrues to require
pensioners who have contributed throughout their working lives, contribute a second
times, breaking the very principle of our system that organizes solidarity
intergenerational and intra-generational not.
1.12. Remove the minimum pension ceiling in cases of mixed careers:
In case of mixed careers (independent and employed), the rights related to the pension
years of work as an employee are planed so that the minimum pension granted
does not exceed that granted in the independent regime.
The MR proposes to adapt the calculation to obtain an amount of pension that is a reflection
more appropriate to the actual career of the copyright holder.
We propose that individuals who have performed a mixed career and are entitled to a
minimum pension due to the addition of their career years in the regime
employed and in the independent system, receive a pension consisting of
sum of:
•
•

the minimum pension for employed multiplied by the fraction of a pension
corresponding to the years worked in the scheme for salaried workers;
the minimum pension for self-employed multiplied by the fraction
pension corresponding to years worked in the regime of workers
independent.

This measure is part of the desired harmonization of regimes by the MR (see
below).

281

1.13. Allow full cumulation of pension with a disease for rent
professional or industrial accident:
To limit expenditure on occupational diseases and industrial accidents,
two types of measures were taken in the 80s. The first was to limit the
amount of benefits when recipients are over 65 years taking as a base
computing a package instead of remuneration. The second, which curiously does not apply
in respect of occupational diseases, is to not take into account
establishing the degree of disability after 65 years of socioeconomic factors. There
first measurement planes the basis for calculating the second and decreases the degree of disability.
At the initiative of the MR, the Government terminated since 1 January 2010, the second
measure that reduced the rate of disability taken into account for the calculation of pensions as a result
occupational disease. This allowed 26,000 pensioners benefit
plus an annuity.
The MR believes it should go further and allow pensioners to maintain
full pension that was granted to them following an occupational disease or
a workplace accident. The current limitation of cumulation is indeed a form of
discrimination between victims of occupational disease or a work accident
whether they are retired or not.

18. Harmonize plans
The various pension schemes (employees, entrepreneurs, civil servants) exhibit
big differences.
These differences relate not only to the level of benefits (the maximum pension
is € 1300 for an independent, € 2,700 for an employee and € 5,000 for a
official), but the pension calculation (reference periods and wages)
the system of assimilation, access to the second pillar, ...
For MR, it is therefore appropriate:
1.14. Reduce differences to enhance labor mobility between schemes:
Working conditions during the life change. This is not new, but what is
different today is that these conditions are changing at an accelerated pace. The
traditional careers, linear within the same company or within the same
status, are less and less frequent.
If you change more frequently enterprise, mobility generally occurs within
the status of worker. When it comes to change status, to move towards the
self-employed, many such brakes exist at loss
social protection. Lift those brakes would promote the development of entrepreneurship
282

ensuring a true "social safety net" to self-employed. In other words, it is necessary
reform to avoid pitfalls status, including the harmonization of regimes
pensions between status and facilitating the transition between insurance formulas
Additional employee plan (group insurance) and those of the independent regime.
1.15. Reduce differences to ensure the sustainability of our pension system
The harmonization of regimes should be an opportunity to correct some of the excesses that highlight
threatening the viability of our pension system.
This is particularly the case of the system of local pensions funded ONSSAPL. In good standing
Overall, the pension of a statutory agent is more favorable than that of an agent
contractual. Especially because the remuneration taken into account in calculating the
pension cover the entire career of an employee as an official,
one takes into account that non-indexed remuneration of the past 10 years (the
income level is generally higher at retirement).
Sometimes therefore increasingly that local authorities (municipalities, CPAS ...)
engage contract staff they call late career. This allows these
agents to benefit from public sector pensions for their entire career, including
years worked as a contract, and the local authority savings of
contributions during the years of career under contract, given the rate of employer contributions
lower for contract compared to statutory.
This practice, which uses the differences in statutes, largely explains the deficit
current, over € 2 billion, the pension scheme for local officials.
This is why the MR considers it necessary to undertake a new reform aimed at
up a joint board for contract staff appointed during their career: the
years as a contractual right to give pension 'scheme
employees, while years of quality open on statutory pensionable
public for these years only.
In return, we must generalize the granting of a supplementary pension officials
contract (see section 1.2).
1.16. Reduce differences to bring more equity
We want to bring more fairness in how the community implements
solidarity vis-à-vis the elderly. This does not imply that all statutes (employees, entrepreneurs,
officials) are identical. But their different possible level, duly
justified in advance, must be able to fit into a coherent framework.
Conversely, differences which can not be justified (assimilation, pension calculation
minimum, ...) should be deleted.

283

1.17. Continue raising pensions in the independent scheme:
As stated above, the MR has achieved a complete equalization of the minimum pension
"Household": Since 1 April 2013, the pension is equal to that granted in the diet
employees.
There remains however a difference as regards the minimum pension "isolated".
This is currently € 1,060.94 in the independent regime and 1123, € 34 in the
Salaried Plan.
The MR hope that in the course of the next legislature, the amount of the pension
minimum "isolated" granted in the independent regime to be brought to the same level as
granted in the "employee" scheme.

19. Ensuring the future pension payments
According to the latest report of the Study Committee on Ageing (July 2013), the cost
Budget pensions will increase from 10.2% of GDP in 2012 to 10.6% in 2015 and 13.6% in
2030. No new measure, spending pressures for the state pension will increase
to about 50% by 2050.
Whereas at present there are 5 active to finance the payment of two pension
retired, there will be 3 more than in 2050 for both active retirees. This situation is
untenable. And future generations can not afford the price of a lack of
Provident our generation. We must ensure that tomorrow's pensioners to continue
enjoy decent pensions. Avoid the assets of tomorrow need to be
punctured so indecent to fund pensions.
The measures adopted by the Government in this legislature helped limit
the budget increase of pensions of 0.4% of GDP. Additional measures are
however necessary:
5.1. The future financing of pensions firstly requires the continued efforts
to reduce public debt.
Launched in 2001 at the initiative of MR, the Ageing Fund, which should contribute to
funding of future pension expenditure, has nearly € 20 billion. TO
except interest "good aging-Treasury Fund" in which the Fund
performs its investments, it has not been fed since 2007 given the difficulties
budget related to the economic crisis. It is in fact fed in the event of excess
budget.
Besides the fact that this amount is insufficient to finance the additional cost of aging,
estimated at over € 300 billion by 2060, it can be mobilized if the debt is
reduced to 60% of GDP.

284

The rising cost of pensions can not be supported only if the country
further reduce its debt level.
5.2. It is then necessary to continue efforts to raise the effective age of retirement
(59.3 years in Belgium and France, 61.7 in Germany and 62.8 years in the Netherlands).
The reforms adopted in the last Parliament, which aim to delay the retirement age
early or early retirement, are a step in the right direction, but
as recommended by the European Commission, new measures
should be taken to delay the release of the labor market without raising the legal age of
pension.
5.3. It will take further measures to raise the employment rate (61.8% in
Belgium, 63.9% in France, 72.8% in Germany and 75.1% in the Netherlands).
Note that the structural measures taken by the present Government in matters
employment and pensions helped to raise significantly over the last two years, the
employment rate for people aged 55-64 years. While it was only 38.7% in
third quarter of 2011, it is 41.6% in the third quarter 2013 (Eurostat figures). Of
additional measures to restore the competitiveness of our economy, will be
taken to further increase the employment rate in Belgium.
5.4. Finally, it will be necessary to reform further forward our pension system by a
new balance between technical distribution and capitalization.
At the initiative of MR and the VLD, a Commission for the Reform of Pensions in 2020-2040
was set up. Its mission is to prepare concrete proposals for reforming
in depth in depth the Belgian pension system.
The MR wants this vast project is an opportunity to improve our pension system
drawing on European distribution patterns mixing techniques and
capitalization.

20. Adapting pensions to company developments
In order to better take into account the developments in our society, it is necessary to reform a
number of provisions to include reforms on the following elements:
1.18. Legal cohabitation concept:
This notion is not integrated into all the different schemes of the first pillar. The MR
finds it necessary to remove the differences between married and cohabiting
legal for pension rights, in particular to pay survivor's pension
the surviving legal cohabitant.

285

1.19. Sharing of pension rights between spouses or legal cohabitants:
To bridge the gap between men and women in relation to pensions and to
facilitate reconciling family life and working life, the MR wishes
introducing the sharing of pension rights.
When a partner takes care activities or education of children who are not
not included in the equivalent periods and therefore reduced his career, the rights to
pension established for these periods may be freely distributed among the
partners.

21. Information on the pension rights
Early in their careers, citizens must be informed of
the evolution of their pension rights.
The current Government has decided to set up a "pension engine" that allows
to provide all assets, regardless of their status, an estimate of their rights to
pension. This is a common IT platform to the three administrations
pension: ONP, the NISSE and the Public Sector Pension Service (SdPSP).
From December 2015, citizens will, online, check the estimated amount of
their pensions for the three pension plans and make a simulation of the impact of their
future career choices.
Meanwhile, the Government has also decided to improve information to citizens
on the rights they are made in the second pillar. From January 2016, they
will have access to data relating to the constitution of their supplementary pension
using the identity card.
The next Government will have to ensure the success of these projects started under
this Parliament.

286

C. HOUSING
Encourage the property, restore the social ladder of public housing, improve quality
habitat
Housing policy has a major social and economic impact. We need,
today and tomorrow more, housing quality and accessible to Walloon. There
best way to meet this objective is to influence the price of housing - to buy and
to rent - promoting an adequate supply. This should be a top priority. It's here
best social policy that we can do today.
For MR, the policy of support for homeownership course remains a priority.
Fundamental requirement for the personal development of many of our fellow citizens,
it also aims to strengthen social cohesion. Access to the property offers some
Safety of operation, a project of life for many and is the best "épargnepension". The Study Committee on Aging also stated very recently: "Being
homeowner or apartment almost halved the risk of
Poverty among pensioners. "
However, the rental sector, both private and public, must not be forgotten, because it meets the
housing needs of many of our fellow citizens.
To solve what some call the housing crisis or, at least, the crisis
accessibility to housing, long-term solutions are known in their broad strokes
: Build more housing (public and private), especially in high pressure areas
land, adapted to new needs (smaller or larger accessible for guards
alternated and blended families ...), developing the accession (lower) to the
property and generally enhance habitat quality (safety, habitability,
security, energy performance).
- The new law of financing, Federal Skills transfers to entities
Federated under the 6th state reform, the economic context, etc. will impose
very significant fiscal efforts to the Walloon Region and, therefore, choices,
particularly in the housing policy. This will, in this difficult context, to answer
the various challenges (demographics, affordability for young households
environmental / social detailed below) with the means that will - more than ever -
numbered.
In public housing, the role of "social elevator" is reduced, the share of public tenants
accessing private housing, rental, or acquisitive, decreasing continuously, including
due to the lack of exit opportunities in the public park.
-

287

FINDINGS / RESULTS
The total housing stock totaled 1,506,065 units for 2012 in line. It is called
reaching 1,826,065 in 2040. It has roughly 76% of occupied housing (s)
owner (s) (1,144,609 units) and 24% occupied housing (s) tenant (s)
(361,456 units). These are divided into 16.36% of private rental housing and
nearly 115,000 public housing (including social housing, under agreement, the
CPAS, integration ...) to 7.64%.
We identify three major challenges:
1. Demographic and societal challenge. The increased population will require the Walloon
115,000 new homes by 2020 and, by 2040, nearly 320,000 homes
Additional Wallonia.
The aging of the population, cohabitation and evolution of structures
family already and already induce additional housing adapted to these needs
specific conditions.
Nevertheless, we see a continued decline in housing starts
New since 2007. In other words, based on these figures, to meet the challenges
demographic awaiting the Region should build on average 14 years
come (maturing in 2026) 47.4% of housing more than in 2011 (20.9% more than the
average of the last ten years). But the trend is still bearish in 2012 and 2013,
after four consecutive years of decline.
-

Source: Construction Confederation.
. Between 2003-2012, 5196 social housing have been commissioned or 519.6 per year
average (far removed from the 2000 homes per year promised in the previous legislature). This
number tends to decrease continuously since 2003. The last five years have been
marked by placing on the market of a number of housing below the average
Last 10 years.
.

Number of housing commissioned or sold, per year. (Source: SWL)

288

800
600
400

homes sold

200

housing created

2012

2011

2010

2009

2008

2007

2006

2005

2004

.

2003

0

In summary it has been over 10 years that the Walloon Region has not brought to market so soon
social housing as the last two years. In addition, homes sold must
be subtracted to obtain the net new housing ...
The social housing peaked in 2007 and has only been flowing back (IAP impact:
2800 housing demolition and sale of the park to balance the books). It is necessary
go back nearly 10 years to count so little social housing throughout the
social housing stock.
Number of social housing (1993-2011) - (SWL source, RA, 2012, p.15)

This sector remains a structural deficit that has particular consequences for a
inability to maintain daily social grounds and to limit investment on
in terms of own funds given to health, safety, habitability or
energy efficiency and in terms of new housing. This in
expense of tenants ...
In general, we find that the demand for quality housing prices
affordable, very significant, continues to climb. She'll be growing in coming years,
result mainly from demographic changes and downsizing
Average household.
2. The challenge of affordability. In 10 years, the average price of housing has doubled while
the average gross wage increased by only 36%. Banks require a contribution
Personnel increasingly important, more and higher household income, all
in a context of crisis and job loss ...

289

3. Finally, we find that the public authorities and housing actors in general
will face in the coming years, the environmental challenge and quality of park
housing. The latter is, on average, in a clearly improvable state, whether public
or private (dilapidated due to age, lack of maintenance, changing to higher
standards of comfort and habitability standards, health, safety, or
energy performance of buildings, etc.).
- Choices will be required. For example, to qualitatively the affordable housing
Wallonia with low incomes, does he indicates not compare the cost of different
currently existing solutions?
- Financing a home via a social credit costs on average nearly 10,500
€ to the Region;
- Construction of social housing causes an average loss of € 242.30 by
months or a loss of € 58,152 for an investment of € 130,000 after 20 years,
excluding any renovations other than normal maintenance. 1250 euros / year / housing
on average for the operating costs
- Construction of social housing for sale amounts to a subsidy
Direct to € 92,000 ...
- The management of housing by making an AIS on average 3800 euros / year / housing
for operating costs, to be increased up to 54,000 potential jobs
euros, and intervention in the rental differential and the amount of benefits
Tax (PI 0, tax deduction ...)
- Allowances, rents / check-functioning housing in Flanders back to 376
euros per housing cost operation in addition to the amount paid per month
of around 200 euros.
-

PROPOSALS
The MR wants to convert these challenges into economic lever. It will at the same time:
- Provide more quality, affordable housing for the establishment or
the preservation of a favorable investment environment;
- Improve the use of existing social housing;
- And encourage mobility between social and private parks.
To do this, it is necessary to develop a better statistical knowledge
to improve diagnosis and hence to make the right strategic choices;
It is in this perspective:
-

updating faster and improve / refine the statistics produced in
federal level but concerning Wallonia: typology of households (last
Data published: 2009), indicators of poverty and precariousness SILC) statistics!
fiscal, administrative data of the Crossroads Bank for Social Security,
information provided by the Administration of the Cadastre, Surveys budget
households, statistics on building permits and housing starts,
data "private" (eg energy consumption), construction costs,
demographic prospects, expulsions statistics ...
290

-

centralize and operate better and administrative data held by
housing actors (SWL, SLSP, FLW, SWCS, AIS ...);
to develop through IWEPS harvests information tools (surveys,
administrative data, "private" data) in particular to combine
today much of administrative data and data resulting
investigations;

We propose, in parallel, to set up a development scheme
Regional housing (in the context of SDER, space development plan
regional) to assess the actual, current and projected needs in terms of housing,
in each municipality, in view of existing available land, the
housing / unoccupied spaces, densification of potential ...
-

1.
Provision of a sufficient number of quality affordable housing by
creation or preservation of a favorable investment environment
- Wallonia has the heaviest estate tax and the OECD only
Paid by the buyer. Here transaction costs for the purchase of housing within
OECD (2009) 61:
20% of the value of

Total Seller

Total Buyer

15
10
5
0

Source: Johansson, Å. (2011), "Housing Policies in OECD Countries: Survey-based Data and Implications", OECD Economics
Department Working Papers, Forthcoming.

61

291

The MR intends to develop / maintain tax incentives at all levels: from the
portability of registration duties, reduction of inheritance tax, gift tax
and / or abatement in case of transmission of a dwelling (or Land)
destined to become the principal residence of the recipient (with conditions
delay and / or a minimum of renovation work to achieve) We also propose
setting a VAT rate of 6% throughout Wallonia (and not in a few
common) in case of demolition / construction, including when construction is done
via a real estate developer. Finally we wish the application of a VAT rate of 6% for the
Construction for a specified period to revive the construction and meet the
housing demand.

Provision of a sufficient number of affordable housing quality
promoting rental property investment via a rebalancing of the rights and
obligations of the parties.
If slum landlords must be ruthlessly punished, it is not
qualify as a good father suffers only outstanding owner and / or cost of
degradation unscrupulous tenants besides the costs, loss of earnings and the length of the
judiciary process.
The MR wants to prevent the negative consequences of poor rental relationship
requiring earlier intervention of the justice and punishing a crime
leaving hotel without paying anyone would engage in a rental relationship knowing that it is in
absolutely unable to pay rent.

Improving energy quality of housing:
While all these new regulations are inevitable progress, not only
energy,
but also as regards the purification of waters, the ventilation of rooms, coord
ination health security, acoustics, safety standards on glazing ...
The legitimate question that can be asked is whether the policy of the
Wallonia is in line with the financial means to its population? Did you not want to do
too much, too fast?
A study by the Flemish association of architects established that between 2000 and 2008
budget
necessary
to
There
building
to
practically
doubled.
If one dissects the overall budget of a small house (a house or 2 rooms
of € 120,000 / VAT) including VAT, the land, the costs of deeds,
the architect's fees, surveyor, manager of PEB and the coordinator,
will be in the order of € 210,000. This means that the construction alone represents more
55% of the budget (in 1995 the building construction accounted for 70% of
budget).
Yes
is
refines
analysis
we see that the constraints
regulatory (ILL, CSS, cleansing, glazed standard, ...) represent 1 / 5th
budget construction. The standard requirements will increase further,
some are already planned (PEB deadlines, radon, water percolation, ...).
292

Was it appropriate to impose such energy performance for new buildings
which are already very energy efficient and by definition do not pollute
practically? Since it knows that 80% of habitat
2040 already exists. Would it not make more sense to make the choice to improve the built
Existing representing the vast majority of the pollutant residential park?

On the energy performance of buildings, the MR has the objective
following: in 2025, all units should at least: Having their insulated roofs, be
equipped with double glazed windows and an efficient heating.
- To achieve this, proposed the setting up multiple devices including: free
energy audit; premiums refocusing and awareness to
most relevant investments, reliance on third party investor system.
-

Evaluate the 2010 law on co-ownership in order to further improve the
transparency in management.
As a reminder, on the initiative of MR, the law on co-ownership has undergone two reforms that have
major changes to the organization and management of rights and obligations
owners while preserving the philosophy implemented by existing legislation.
The aim was to modernize the operation of associations of co-owners and
ensure greater transparency in their management. A third objective was to end
existing academic and judicial controversy.
Let us recall some essential elements:
Besides the co-owners associations, which have legal personality,
there is now a possibility to create "partial associations" of

co-owners in some cases, particularly to address difficulties
encountered in managing real estate condominium complexes (groups
buildings or compounds of buildings in several parts);
The Act specifies the role of the various organs of the condominium: General Meeting,
strata council (formerly management board) and trustee;
The law determines the rules which must be respected on the sale of lots, ie
when selling an apartment, a studio, a garage, a cellar, ...
Finally, the Act refers to arrears charges and the issue of procedures
court.
The MR is concerned, however great difficulties experienced by more and condominiums
more numerous: poverty and / or aging or all of the tenants, state
more or less high degradation, difficulties in financing the work of
renovation / modernization ...; trend, the number of apartments in the
housing stock needed to pay particular attention; it is obviously too early to
measure the impact of new legislation on condominiums.

293

NCM seeks to ensure a special monitoring in the management of condominiums and costs are
related. That is why it is that the professional status of trustees is improved
in view of a better ethical monitoring.
It will also be that Wallonia launches its own analysis of the current situation regarding
condominiums and measures - regional level or federal level in consultation
with it - that could be taken to improve the existing situation.

1. Revolutionizing the use and management of existing social housing
The sector is structurally in deficit by the rules that are imposed by him
regional power (rent as cost, underfunding of buildings ...)
In 201262, the monthly cost of a new social housing amounts to € 230. Each accommodation
social construct therefore results in annual debt of € 2756.28 is, over 20 years, 55 094
€.
Note that the total rental arrears amounted in 2012 to nearly € 12 million and ...
the cost does not include land purchase or major renovations out maintenance.
To recap, the exceptional investment program dedicated in 2004
1.052.759.900 € 36,353 for the renovation of housing ... an average of € 28,959 per
renovated housing!
Clearly, build social housing is costly to the community, has very little impact
concerning the regulation of the rental market and creates inequalities between citizens presenting
equivalent social and financial conditions.
We propose that
- As for new buildings, only the land remains subsidized by the Region,
to ensure gender SLSP throughout Wallonia. The region
can operate levers of land for some relief
tense areas.
- The "stones" will be entirely borne by the SLSP, financed by the rents (fixed on
basis of cost including maintenance)
- Reform of the attribution rules to the goal of social diversity
- Region assumes the entire social housing costs (rent differential between social
and rent received) via a personal assistance (accommodation voucher) modulated according to the
socio-economic situation of the (candidate-tenant);

62

Management Indicators 2011. Base: construction of a new social housing 2 to 3 bedrooms for a total of
€ 130,000 financed by a subsidy of € 84,500 and a loan of € 45,500 over 20 years at an annual rate of 3.74%.

294

- The Region establishes a genuine housing assistance for people who, while
being in the conditions for obtaining public housing, can not benefit later
the inadequacy of this type of housing. It would be especially necessary to set
specific grant criteria that avoid rent increases, which could be assured
by a system of agreements concerned and the intervention of leases Agencies
social property.
- The acquisition of social housing by tenants is promoted through, for example,
hire-purchase.
- The systematic search for synergies between the different actors of the housing is put
in place.
- Region falls within the regional development plan for housing
contractualize social housing objectives (size, number ...) to fill
deficits of deals recorded rather than imposing a linear percentage throughout
Wallonia.

We also want to reorganize the sector structures to improve service
offered (candidats-) social tenants and optimize the use of means that are there
affected.
In other words, we want to increase the professionalism of a small number of
companies refocusing on their heart of business namely dignified housing at a price
Affordable families with the lowest incomes, starting with cities
with more active SLSP their territory.
Eventually, only one housing company by Province should be enough, but we suggest
work in successive steps:
-

Rapid melting of the companies that serve the same common (Liège, Namur,
Seraing, etc.);
Identification of habitat basins where one company would be maintained
(about twenty in Wallonia);
Maintaining a single company by Province, taking into account the specific
Rural to set the number of companies, particularly in Province
Luxembourg.

The same thought must prevail for a group of social Real Estates.
2. Encourage developers to include public housing (social housing, means,
AIS, rental, usufruct, ...) in real estate projects of a certain size
The essential problems of public housing mainly lie in its cost,
lack of social mixing that causes the excessive delays in provision and,
and finally to a lesser extent, in the quality of the frame. Mistrust vis-à-vis municipalities of communal anchoring plan for housing also necessary to consider a
other public housing construction model.
295

The MR estimates that in strict compliance with the requirements of the development plan
Regional housing, private developers could be encouraged to include housing
public in their real estate projects of a certain magnitude. This would imply,
Contrary to what is practiced in Flanders, the transfer of the grant to the promoter
private. There can be no question to bear, like planning office, the cost of
public construction by other private owners.
Rental management would be entrusted to existing operators and public attention
particular would be reserved to the management of the condominium and the burdens of life
common.

For MR, the accession to private rental housing and acquisitive remain essential.
Social housing can not be a "way of life", it must ensure that the system
welfare is only temporary.
- For the Liberals, the social tenant must be accompanied at its
'Behavior' rental as it can be if it is the beneficiary of an integration income
social or receives unemployment benefit, especially as the public housing accounts
Using an average € 230 per month ...
- To this end, intermediate mechanisms must be put in place or, if they exist,
be strengthened with a view to greater permeability between the public and private rental,
see the acquisitive.
1. Encourage mobility between social and private parks.
- The social housing does not, by itself, meet all needs. Mobilization
strong of available private rental is also required.
-

-

We propose to develop an accessible via a private offering include
increased development of AIS (incite conventionnement without jobs, modulate
federal deductions based on the low rent, work with chèqueslogement granted by the Region to obtain a more attractive rent for the owner
more so in areas of high land pressure.
- We also want to re-market the empty / unoccupied:
unoccupied public spaces (public buildings, municipal, provincial, regional ...
unoccupied rural areas (barns ...), site of economic activities to rehabilitate ...
2. "Contractualising" social housing
Public housing is expensive, maintenance is sometimes inadequate resulting in
significant costs, both in renovations in rental empty. The rental arrears
important.
Yet this form of social assistance is not currently "contractualised" in the idea
Asset social state which prevailed, for example, during the implementation of Revenue
social integration.
The MR believes it must amplify social support for tenants in touch
narrow with CPAS, which are the only ones who can provide coaching
Multidimensional necessary for some tenants.
-

296

This "contract", a kind of "individualized integration project" should contribute to
more rotation in public housing and make his role elevator
social.
- It could include the commitment to take courses in French language
example; on the acceptance of following financial guidance in case of overindebtedness
affecting the level of rental payments, on the steps to
carry out social housing, etc.
-

3. Mobilizing public heritage
Cities and municipalities, CPAS, the SLSP SWL or possess property assets
important that they can not or will not implement.
The MR application to mobilize the public patrimony by generalizing the PPP and the setting
implementing projects in the form of promotional markets. The construction sector is
ready to invest in the PPP as long as the context is marked. Governments
must do so, in particular by promoting standard contracts locally. These
projects may involve all types of housing: social or not, acquisitive or rental,
in full ownership or building lease on the land. In essence, social diversity
it would be ensured. The Community Land Trust is a track to strengthen.
-

1. Bonus housing
The ownership right shall be maintained in full, not only for
aspects developed above (housing is often considered a fourth pillar
pension, demographics, etc.), but also because housing is a factor
major socio-economic stability.
The MR therefore calls for the full maintenance of accommodation bonus (principal, interest, premium
life insurance) at regional level.
2. Supervision of rents
Such coercive measures would effectively reduce the number of rental units
available on the market and, ultimately, following a reduction in supply, to increase the price
rents.
The quality of housing may be reduced by a rent control.
The incentive of an owner to carry out works will be reduced since the extension of the
depreciation period will more uncertain return on investment.
Finally, another risk to the rent regulation is the establishment of mechanisms
compensation (bribes, anticipatory payment of a year, etc.) that could
also end if actual taxation of rents.
The MR is adverse to any coaching or rent control.

297

3. Cadastral Equalization - taxation of actual rents
The absence of general cadastral equalization since 1979 has resulted in a significant lag
between the amount of the cadastral income and net rental income of a property, but it also
admit that we are now facing a housing crisis that some measures
could amplify adverse.
The real estate market is extremely sensitive to any change and it is important not to
believe that the measures presented as fair or ethical will have no impact
unfavorable.
The MR believes only add direct and indirect taxation of the rental scheme would lead to a
reducing the supply of housing. By exerting downward pressure on income
investment whose return is already low real tax initiatives,
very short notice, forcing owners to sell housing already
amortized.

In Brussels

FINDINGS
The Brussels Region has nearly 545,000 units on its territory. Contrary to
rest of the country, the majority of the housing stock up to the rental sector. Indeed, despite
various measures to promote home ownership, the ownership rate remains below
40% whereas it reaches 75% in other regions.
The number of housing appears insufficient given the increase in population that knows
the Brussels Region since the '90s, now amplified by a demographic boom
the Brussels population would increase by 180,000 people by 2020. It is estimated that the 6000
housing that should be built each year to meet rising
the population of Brussels. It is important, moreover, that this new offering is affordable at
revenue of Brussels tomorrow.
The housing crisis in Brussels has its main factor in the shortage of housing,
both in the private market than the public housing sector. The increased demand and
increased competition on the Brussels market, as the presence of foreign workers to high
income exert upward pressure on prices as acquisitive as rental.
Thus, in 10 years, the property prices have almost tripled in the Brussels Region for a home
usually home and doubled for an apartment. Now a large number of households,
have one or two average incomes, are unable to acquire housing
in most of the municipalities in the region. Buying property is increasingly impracticable for
Brussels middle class. Over the same period, rents have also increased
298

constant. Indeed, the Brussels average rent has increased by nearly 15% between 2004 and 2012.
Certainly, for the first time since 1992, a slight fall in rents was recorded without
so be a trend.
The increase in rents in the private market has a direct effect on housing demand
said public social purpose, whether social housing or resources managed by the public.
Thirty-two public housing real estate companies (SISP) currently manage housing
social purpose in the Brussels Region, acting under the supervision of the Company's Region Accommodation
Brussels Capital (SLRB). In the coming months, the implementation of the 6th State Reform,
wishing to rationalize the sector, will increase that number to 15 companies.
With nearly 40,000 housing units, the regional public rental fleet represents some 9%
Brussels real estate whole park. This number has increased only slightly
Over the last two legislatures. In 10 years, only about 1,500 new homes are out
of land in the Regional Housing Plan, initiated in 2004, which envisaged the construction
5,000 new dwellings for social purposes. There are now some 38,000 households
waiting list for a social housing.
The pace of the outgoing majority, it would take over 250 years to meet the
increasing demand for public housing. It is important, as well, to revitalize production
public housing mainly through conventionnement with private developers
willing to produce, in partnership with the Region of rental housing in the conditions of
social housing. Such public-private partnership formula, win-win, was never supported
under the auspices of Olivier Brussels. Valid for new housing, the
formula also found to apply to the maintenance, renovation and restoration on the market
rental of currently unoccupied public housing. To date, an estimated them to be around 3,500
nearly 10% of the Brussels public rental housing.
To try to reduce the failure of this policy, the Brussels government recently conducted
the opposite policy by requiring developers, through the issuance of a
Housing permits, a town planning charge 50-65 euros / m2 in any building project, unless
achieving 15% of panel housing. This is intended as much real estate projects
standing as those undertaken in order to increase the supply of housing means including lack is
shouting in the Brussels Region. This "tax" will directly affect the cost of acquisition
housing destined to meet, in this case, demand for middle-income households.
Another possible answer to the housing crisis in Brussels and the lack of housing in
social purpose is the rent allowance, defended last ten years by the MR. This device,
cheaper than the construction of new housing, designed to intervene in part in the
rent for households meeting the requirements of social housing. The Brussels government has
too timidly favor this allowance, however, brings the fastest response to
precarious situation of households on the waiting list. End 2013, a rent subsidy pilot device
is nevertheless set up to 1,000 households.
299

Finally, it will also regret the inertia of the Brussels government in promoting
Social Real Estate Agencies (ISA) which allows private owners wishing
retain ownership of their property to entrust, however, the management of an association that will act
as an intermediary between him and tenants seeking housing. AIS guarantee
the owner of the property management, rent payments and the possible compliance of the latter, while the tenant, AIS provides a low-rent housing and social support.
The tax incentives proposed by the MR, for a reduction of inheritance tax for any property entrusted
to AIS for a period of 9 years, remained blocked in parliament due to the majority Olivier.
PROPOSALS
A. The social public housing
to. Promote a social mix
The latest amendments to the Housing Code by the majority Olivier
seriously undermine the objective of social diversity within public housing.
Now, the actors of the Brussels public housing - among which municipalities,
the cpas or social estate agents - can no longer consider the level
income tenants candidates. The new rules of allocation of housing
social purpose only more difficult to allow the working poor
see revenues reach their request.
The MR and calls for better social mix in the public housing sector.
For us, having a job can be a cause of exclusion of social housing
since the income it produces meets the scales of social housing.
The housing allocation mechanism based on respect of a list of entries
objective and transparent, with justified exceptions for social reasons and limited to
40% of previous allocations, should not be questioned. Partnerships
public housing must be able to respond to the urgency of certain situations, such
the sudden loss of housing, the occurrence of disabilities, etc.
The social mix must also think about the scale of the city by promoting diversity
Urban, which should exclude the creation of new social housing construction
large sets but, rather, foster integration in our neighborhoods
building social housing on a human scale.
For MR, social diversity logically through cultural diversity, ethnic and
generational public housing to prevent or interrupt the constitution
dehumanized in ghettos.

300

b. Succeeding Housing Plan and developed through a public-private partnership
The implementation of the Housing Plan is a failure. Of 5,000 new housing Professional
social, whose construction was decided there are already 10 years from the Liberals only
1,500 homes have sprung up. Worse! In two governments Olivier, the number of
occupied social housing declined. To date, for a household in the housing
social, there is a household on the waiting list.
The government has for too long been unable to build new
housing and renovate the same time, the existing housing stock.
The MR wants to open the door to private developers by developing partnerships
As for public-private housing construction as the maintenance of these. These projects could be realized thanks to the contribution of regional resources but also
the contribution of private capital, while maintaining rents corresponding to the sector
social housing.
The MR advocates the creation of a cadastre of public land available and the disposal
courses, including through long-term leases, for the
realization of these public-private partnerships.
The use P.P.P. constitute a certain economy to the regional budget, allowing
so effectively conduct parallel policies, such as the establishment of an allowance
rent able to respond to the housing crisis in Brussels.

c. Expand the supply of intermediate housing for the middle class
The exodus of the middle class is a reality Brussels for almost 10 years. One of
Due to it is increasingly difficult for small and medium-workers
income, living alone or in households, to cope with rising rents.
Today, two young people in Brussels are launching the workforce will have to devote a
significant part of their revenues to the rent of their apartment. It is the same with a
many pensioners struggling to pay their rent payment.
The public housing sector should partly help in the fight against this exodus and
avoid reducing regional tax revenues. The MR and calls for real
development of the supply means and housing upward revision conditions
admission revenues.
The achievement means housing will not happen to the detriment of social housing; the
Rather, we see it as an important complementarity. By combining the most frequently
possible, in every construction project, part of social housing and a share
means housing, we intend to foster social diversity on the one hand, and to promote,
secondly, the financial balance of PPP insiders.

301

d. Fostering social acquisitive
For MR, promote access to property is still the best social elevator.
In this matter, the Housing Fund remains an excellent tool that has enjoyed success
growing in recent years. A large share of beneficiaries mortgages
granted to acquire their first home was in the household under the conditions
access social housing.
The MR wants to extend the resources allocated to Housing Fund so that it can allocate
some 2,000 loans per year, almost double the number of loans granted today.
Meanwhile, the MR to contribute to access to the property by authorizing the acquisition
of empty social housing. Specifically, we offer an inventory
unoccupied for over a year and owned housing companies
public. These companies, under certain conditions, would be allowed to sell property
included in the inventory in favor of buyers in the conditions of public housing.
With some 3,500 vacant housing in the Brussels region and saw some
38,000 households on the waiting list, the acquisition of such housing is a
advantageous solution, both for families and for public authorities
may reinvest the proceeds of such sales in the renovation or construction of
new housing.
In the same context, the MR wants to see repealed the new provision of the Code
Accommodation which prohibits local governments (local utilities, cpas) selling
their homes and provide for an obligation for them to use those amounts
Sales to the acquisition or construction of new housing.
Finally, some of the strong experiences at the local level, the MR will continue to defend
the use of surface rights. This law allows a public or private owner
sell, for a period of 50 years renewable, a house or apartment while
preserving land ownership. The advantages of the area of ​​law known; outraged
a significant decrease in price, the registration fee is almost 10 times lower
a conventional sale.

e. Continue the renovation and securing social housing
Before promising the increasing number of social housing, the authorities
the duty to manage the existing housing stock and ensure that these housing
meet the standards of health and safety.
The renovation of social housing requires new regional average. She can
also be carried out through public-private partnerships.

302

f. Support the work leading to energy savings
If obvious efforts were made during the construction of new housing,
it is clear that the energy performance of some 39,000 housing
the public rental park are particularly problematic. This is especially the case
the cost of energy has been growing in recent years.
The consequences of this state of public assets weigh above all on tenants
and often, the CPAS experiencing a boom in requests for help from
energy cells.
Faced with such a finding, the MR wants to fairly allocate the budgetary means and
is not favorable to allocate unreasonable amounts to passive construction
the public housing sector. Priority should go to construction and renovation
low energy.

g. Guarantee a percentage of adapted housing for disabled
and persons with disabilities
The Brussels public housing sector is experiencing a deficiency in terms of housing
adapted to PRM and persons with disabilities. Today, only XX% of
public rental park is suitable for the accommodation of these people. But this concerns all
one each, the difficulties of moving can meet at any time, on time
or sustainably.
The MR argues first for the establishment of a regional regulation that will require
any operator public housing, regional and local, to provide 25% of adaptable housing
in each construction project or renovation of housing and a minimum of 5
% Special needs housing.
The MR also offers up a list of specific attribution to PMR and
modify the current regulations so that suitable housing is a priority
attributed to a person with reduced mobility involving housing access conditions
social.
Finally, we intend to support, in partnership with relevant associations,
allowing new projects of persons in high disabilities
dependence.

h. Supporting intergenerational housing projects and community
Intergenerational housing meet more and more success in the Brussels Region.
This form of collective housing where older and younger people live under the same
303

roof, has many advantages including that to pay only low rent
in exchange for some household chores.
This form of housing also makes a greater sense of security and
prolonged independent living for elderly people who opt for this
new form of community life.
If MR wants to support civil society actors developing intergenerational housing
Brussels Region, he wants to go further by proposing, alongside the implementation of the
Housing Plan, a public offering of this type of habitat.

i.

Relax the rules on the size of housing to better meet
needs of big families

The MR wants to allow the Public Service of Real Estate Companies (SISP) to derogate
under certain conditions, the current rules impose a
number of rooms according to family composition.

j.

Promote the transfer between SISP

Every tenant has the opportunity to request a shelter mutation or transfer
to a more suitable family status housing; due to, for example,
departure of his children, a birth, separation, etc. This possibility is
however possible within the same housing association tenant.
To speed up the transfer request of a tenant and increase its chances of
benefit from a housing adapted to the household, the MR proposes to allow the mutation
between SSSI. As for the allocation, the tenant can request to share
transfer to other housing companies.
Currently voluntary, the MR also like to make it mandatory for the mutation
people who have housing sub-busy. This will help
responding in part to the housing waiting 3 or 4 bedrooms that are sometimes
busier than 2 or 3 people.

k.

Promote the creation of Single Window Housing in common

Local actors in charge of housing can be numerous: housing company,
Communal Economy, cpas, social housing agency, etc. Often the citizen is lost
between the various parties and does not have a reference point to help
in his efforts.

304

The MR intends to promote the creation of Single Window Housing with support
brought to the municipalities.

B. Private housing social purpose
to. Establish a framed rent allowance
The MR pleading for years for the introduction of a rent allowance
framed to respond to more concrete and immediate way to crisis
Housing in the Brussels Region. The government was particularly Olivier
ineffective in the field. It was not until late 2013 that a pilot project be
initiated towards 1000 Brussels households.
The introduction of a generalized rent allowance to end discrimination
between those with a head housing and those under the conditions thereof, but always
waiting.
Faced with rising rents and the need of households waiting for social housing
to host on the private market, the rent allowance would enable the Region to intervene,
partly in the rent, under income requirements.
To avoid any call on the rise of the rent, the rent allowance would be paid
directly to the lessor who will in return give much rent in a rent
Maximum according to specific criteria.

b. Encourage the management to put Social Real Estate Agencies (AIS)
AIS manage, under certain conditions, the rental housing owned
individuals to benefit low-income people. Thanks to this system, the candidate
tenant benefits of lowering the rental expense. It pays a proportional rent
income, the difference between the rent paid by the tenant and the amount payable
owner being supported by the Region. Another advantage is the payment of rent
- Even if the rental vacancy - is guaranteed to the owner.
3180 housing units are now managed by an AIS.
The MR wants tax incentive setting property management with an AIS
reduction of inheritance tax. It is thus to encourage the heirs or
legatees of a dwelling to entrust it, for a minimum term of nine years, with
AIS; in return for which an exemption from the first $ 100,000
Euros would be granted in the calculation of estate tax liability.

305

C. The average housing
to. Allow to communal land governed resell to their tenants, a
from their renovated heritage with the obligation to reinvest the funds obtained
in new acquisitions or renovations.
Several municipalities have a public property developer, namely a regulated
communal land. The creation of such an authority to assign staff and
means exclusively, to urban renewal function.
Land boards were able to buy a number of abandoned buildings in
for their renovation and provision of their tenants, at a rent
non-speculative. This policy is integrated into a wider policy whose objective
is multiple: effective fight against the impoverishment of certain neighborhoods; answer
to urban challenges; incorporate a quality public space; encourage the installation of
local shops as well and fight against all forms of petty crime. In short :
gather the necessary conditions in order to improve the quality of life in cities.
To promote this policy, allowing an acceleration records and access
Tenants at the property, the MR wants to allow municipalities to sell
existing tenants, a part of their heritage thus formed.
Otherwise, the town becomes the largest owner of buildings located on its
territory. But forcing municipalities to remain owners of all these buildings,
such as now provides the Housing Code, diverts goal renovation
Urban and prevents the extension of this policy.
Our proposal, to allow resale of certain properties, is accompanied by
the obligation to reallocate funds thus obtained to new acquisitions
and renovation.

b. Fight against abandoned buildings
The buildings are abandoned too often cankers that tarnish the
districts of our Region. They also pose a risk to the safety of goods
nearby and a risk to public safety.
The MR supports regional and local devices allowing, after notice
of the owner, taxation because of this abandonment.
The MR does not equate this type of property unoccupied buildings due to
personal lifestyle choices of its owner. In our view, the right of property as
right to privacy must enshrine the right of everyone to live in his property
occasionally.
Thus, the MR considers it essential to review the provisions of the Brussels Code
Accommodation which arbitrarily assumes the abandonment of a building even if it is
306

occupied part of the year only by its owner. It also intends to not
penalize excessive fines by the owners who have difficulty
legitimate to invest in the compliance of their property.

c.

Fighting against excessive fragmentation of housing

The general increase in property prices, together with the institutions installation
European and foreign have led the illegal alteration of housing in
offices or excessive fragmentation.
It is thus not uncommon to discover "housing" built in a kitchen-cellar,
attic, garage, ... It is a duty to fight against such situations, contrary to
human dignity.
For MR, one way to achieve this is to support the creation, in each municipality,
an observatory housing whose primary mission is to control the state
habitable housing.
d. Encouraging the creation of housing above shops
Mainly concerned, Brussels main shopping streets meet
the same issue; the vacancy of the floors above the shops. To
remedy, heavy work often prove necessary, such as creating access
floors, separate from trade.
The MR wants to encourage owners and merchants to begin that work via
Mechanism specific premiums "reallocation housing voids audessus shops".

e.

Encourage the transformation of housing into offices

f.

Support aid policies to the acquisition of housing

Promote Homeownership is a major objective of the housing policy
Brussels. This issue is all the more important that we are witnessing an exodus of households
average incomes due to rising cost of real estate. Such migration is
obviously not without tax consequences for our region.
The BRDA among the actors of this policy, with the production of 130
housing / year contracted price. The MR wants to strengthen this production with
support of private operators.
The MR also wants to extend the resources allocated to Housing Fund so that it
can allocate some 2,000 loans per year, double the number of loans today
granted.
307

Finally, the granting of renovation grants should be simplified.

D. student housing
to. Create a quality label for student accommodation
With nearly 74,000 students enrolled in a college or university located
on its territory, the Brussels Region is unquestionably the student capital.
This is strategic in more ways than one, since higher education form
much of the staff as the Brussels job market needs. It is
a powerful lever for economic development (scientific conferences, market
real estate, catering, medical research) and it also contributes to the visibility
International Brussels. However, this strategic asset has great weakness
is that of quantitative and qualitative shortage of kots. For several years,
situation continues to deteriorate and in the wake of the demographic boom, there is a
Capital risk that the student loses its national and international appeal.
The problem of the shortage of transplant is that the quality of a rental market where prices
soared by 30% in ten years.
The MR features and the introduction of a quality label for student accommodation in
Brussels Region. This would certify that a property leased fulfills, besides the
regulations of the Housing Code, a number of qualitative criteria that the
prices, the possibility of concluding a lease for 10 or 12 months, the furniture or equipment
an internet connection. The major objective of this label is to allow better
information to students when it comes to choosing a future place of life.

b. Estate agencies develop Etudiantes
The MR is considering recognition of a new form specifically for AIS
to be the intermediary between private landlords and student tenants.

E. The emergency accommodation, transit and destination
to. Support local initiatives in terms of emergency housing and transit
The relocation of the problem is related to various situations: poor sanitation, violence
marital, homelessness, indebtedness ... The transit permits temporary relocation
for people experiencing social insecurity, which included lost their homes and
who enroll in an individual integration project.
In the Brussels Region, the AIS are currently the only recognized and authorized to manage
dwelling transit for a tenure not exceeding 18 months.
308

The MR supports a legal framework and financial recognition initiatives
developed by municipalities and CPAS in terms of urgency and transit. The region
may, moreover, set minimum quota by common transit housing,
accompanied by financial incentives.
b. Support Home projects for victims of domestic violence
In Belgium, estimates put that in eight women will be a victim of violence
marital. A part of them are forced to leave their home duty of all
emergency, sometimes with their children, to be generally supported
by specialized childcare.
The MR recalls its support to associations and working in shelters
rehousing of victims of domestic violence. If he pleads for a particular
considered victim status in the allocation of housing criteria
Social, the MR is in favor of greater support of government structures
Home specialized in order to improve the offer.
c.

Home support projects for young victims of homophobia

On the model of the French association "Le Refuge", the MR supports support
associations offering temporary accommodation and social support
for young adults, victims of homophobia, in situations of family breakdown.

309

D. Poverty
Poverty can not be inevitable: to prevent and hope and dignity to the weakest
and to the poorest
22.
According to the most common use, poverty characterizes the situation of an individual who
not have sufficient resources to live in dignity deemed in a society and its
context. Insufficient material resources affecting food, access to water
drinking, clothing, housing, and living conditions in general. But also
failure of intangible resources such as access to education, the exercise of an activity
rewarding, respect received from other citizens or personal development.
Poverty breeds injustice and differences, it marginalizes, it causes prejudice.
Poverty can affect everyone, overnight and this time of crisis should
push, more than ever, our thoughts on this issue.
Poverty is a violation of human rights, a multiple source of inequality:
23. Inequality in health, housing or school: when we hesitate to be
treat when one has to pay private tuition for his children, when humidity
invades the housing;
24. unequal precarious, especially for the weakest: young, unskilled,
women, single mothers, seniors;
25. unequal opportunities and lack of hope: today, some see
the future as a promise, others like an impenetrable wall, either
for themselves or for their children;
26. Inequality sustainable exclusion, poor workers, poverty
children and some elderly people, especially women, in a country that
remains one of the richest in the world;
27. inequality between those relationships and those who do not, between those who
go to the movies or do not go there, between those who play sports or can not
make financially, etc.
For us Liberals, these inequalities, these inequities are a negation of our great values
founding. When you are poor, it is not free, it is not equal, no one knows to be
solidarity, we hide it flees the other, it is leaking.
While poverty has always existed, its foundation, its perception by society and its magnitude
have evolved considerably over the centuries. It is the same concerning the causes
who produce and action strategies to combat it.
With the industrial revolution, is growing poverty of those who, while having a
employment, can not meet their basic needs and scrape below the minimum of existence.
These are already "working poor"! The solutions soon be implemented: housing
for workers, private initiatives of family allowances, mutual relief funds

310

(recognized in 1851 by a Liberal minister), Public Assistance Commissions, Decree Law
of 28 December 1944 on the mandatory social security.
Alas, the dream of eradicating poverty fizzled! From the 80, we talk about "
new poor ", first assuming it is only a temporary phenomenon.
Shares of emergency, high-profile, are launched as "Les Restos du
Heart ".
In Europe, poverty is increasing. The crisis and the recession show their effects.
15% of the population of the entire European Union live below the poverty line
! The risk of becoming poor in Europe is more important today than in the early
crisis. According to data published by the Cooperation and Development Organization
Economic, income inequalities were more dug for three years
following the beginning of the crisis until 2010 that over the previous twelve years.
The MR is fully consistent with the objectives of the 'Europe 2020' strategy against
social exclusion. It aims to reduce poverty by focusing on what 20 million
people at least stop being at risk of poverty and exclusion. This is
results in the creation of a European platform for fight against poverty: ensuring
social and territorial cohesion so that the benefits of growth and jobs are
widely shared and people experiencing poverty and social exclusion
are able to live in dignity and take an active part in society.
With a poverty rate of 15.3%, Belgium occupies an intermediate position in the
European ranking. Poverty remains a major problem of our
society despite all the means implemented.
•

1 of 5 Belgian exposed to poverty risk = 2.3 million (in 2011) = 160,000
more than in 2009
• 9.5 billion euros of unpaid invoices in 2010
• 3.3% of delinquent borrowers between 2010 and 2011
• 120,799 people in 2012 received food assistance (106,550 in 2006)
• 18% of Belgians in 2008 lived in housing that does not meet the standards
health plan.
• € 1,000 = 60% of the median income for a single with 1 child
• € 2,100 = 60% of the median income for a family of 2 adults and 2
children. This is the case of 1 in 5 in Belgium, 1 in 4 in Wallonia and
1 in 3 in Brussels.
Moreover there are large regional disparities. Given the differential
regional poverty rate, 63% of poor people living in Belgium or in Brussels
or in Wallonia, while 37% of them live in Flanders, or the inverse of the distribution
of the total population.
Poverty concerns 20.2% of over 65s and 38.5% of single parent families. For
this family type, the rate reached 54.3% in the Walloon Region (meaning that a family
Parent 2 is in a situation of poverty!). The unemployed are also part
of the most vulnerable groups: 37.8% of them live below the poverty line. To
Overall, 20.8% of people in Belgium live in a household that encounters
311

difficulties making ends his income. As elsewhere in Europe the number of people
living below the poverty line has increased compared to the figures published last year
Because of the social impact of the economic and financial crisis of 2008 and the rise
unemployment.
The MR, through the agreement of the Government, pledged to "conduct an ambitious plan to
reducing poverty and increasing purchasing power, aimed at the most priority
vulnerable in our society. "
A federal plan to fight against poverty was adopted by the Council of Ministers of 14
September 2012. It provides for:
- Strengthening the coordination task entrusted to the PPS Social Integration,
- A half-yearly monitoring of the plan,
- The creation of an assessment instrument.
The government also provided an update of the plan every two years.
The life changes very quickly. A job loss, accident, separation, divorce,
illness, an unexpected event occurs and these are vulnerable people who can
be confronted with social exclusion and the obligation to confront it. In 88% of cases, the
people fall into poverty due either to the loss of their jobs, the occurrence
an illness / accident or the couple's separation (up).
When rocking in poverty, decent housing, food to eat, wash,
dressing, access to knowledge and culture becomes difficult or impossible.
Risk groups are identified:
1. Single women, especially with children, have a risk of poverty and
high exclusion.
They often find themselves without a job because it is very difficult to reconcile life
family and professional life. They find themselves isolated from any social network (54%
of them). 4 out of 10 single-parent families are under the poverty line.
2. Young
Poverty severely affects children and young people in Belgium and the situation
not improve.
Children between 0 and 17 years have an increased risk of poverty compared to the rest
of the Belgian population: 18.7% (EU-SILC 2011) against 15.3% for the
population. Between 2008 and 2011, we noted an increase in the number of children
known risk of poverty: 424.000 compared to 386.000!
22% of youth aged 16-24 years are living (alone or with a family) located with income below the
poverty line. 65% of young people believe that they do not live better than their
Parents, demonstrating an important societal failure.
312

To move towards autonomy, a young person needs several things. A family with him
provides education and material security, a positive and friendly social network, schooling
successful and, above all, confidence. When one or more of these elements are
Otherwise, the entry of the young into adult life will be difficult.
Besides poverty "expected" linked to underprivileged youth which come from it
there is also a poverty of young people from the middle class, who have a degree sometimes
high, but "rowing" to find a stable job enabling them to make
projects. In Brussels and Wallonia, nearly a third of those under 25 years on the market
employment is unemployed!
This raises questions in this generation is lack of projects. Not because these
young adults would be bored or lazy, but because they alternate periods
unemployment, temporary jobs, internships, insecure jobs, volunteering ... and they do not see
no prospect of development. Without a steady job, you can not buy a house,
or even a car, we are afraid to start a family ... It was twenty years ago, a young put in
average two years to land a steady job. Today he uses between five and ten
years. Those who can remain dependent on their parents. For others, the risk of
falling into lasting poverty is real.
3. Seniors
With age, social inequalities are widening. Too low state pension (on average,
€ 1230 per month), a supplementary pension that could not be made, expenses
which must be faced and which increase with age: health care planning
housing or into a rest home, mobility. For these reasons, a senior on
five lives on less than € 1,000 per month, or under the poverty line.
In 2010, 20.2% of people aged 65 and over were aware of the risk of poverty
revenue base. In absolute terms, this represents about 355,000 people. This digit
must however be nuanced, especially in terms of heritage which an individual has
(if owner, etc ...). Although the share of older people at risk of
poverty is relatively high, their situation in terms of income is precarious
than the population of 16-64 year-old confronted with poverty.
The extent of poverty among older people, like the rest of the population,
not limited to income poverty.
The main causes of poverty were discussed above. There is unfortunately no solution
miracle, but the MR finds it necessary to have the will to act decisively in
following areas:
Prevention
Must be identified as soon as possible the risks of poverty and social exclusion by generalising
social coordination integrating all stakeholders.
To this end, the MR wants to open up the social integration sector by encouraging
various players to work in a broader context including the schools, the
313

world of work, the voluntary sector, the public housing sector and understood the
social mediators, home care services, police, institutions
debt mediation, etc.
We propose to develop partnerships between these services, encourage the exchange
skills and information through the creation, within each commune, a
social coordination integrating all services related to the daily lives of people.
The process leading to social exclusion is often the result of the dilution of links
Solidarity whether professional, academic, emotional or cultural. It is therefore important
to invest in maintaining these links reinventing solidarity between people at
within neighborhoods.
We offer:
1.

2.

3.
4.

5.

6.

Develop a family policy based on solidarity
and intergenerational responsibility popularizing and, if necessary, improving
status to helping close to contribute to maintaining the family unit
the sick, disabled or elderly;
Support vulnerable families by type actions "family or coaching
Parental "with the goal of breaking the chain of transmission
intergenerational poverty.
Develop exchange and meeting places: words of spaces centers
recreation, exchange networks and knowledge ...;
Encourage participation in social life to avoid the marginalization of
People precarious: facilitating access to culture and sport; encourage
volunteering;
Secure environment so that people "dare" and leave home
to meet others. The right to safety is for us a social right
fundamental, more insecurity affecting the weakest of our society;
Support the local shops (bookstores, grocery stores, bakeries, ...) as it
contributes to social cohesion since, for many it is the
last link with the immediate environment.

Preventing over-indebtedness
It is important to prevent this risk by:
1. Consolidating the debt mediation device for people in debt
to meet their expenses while continuing to live decently. This service
in no case lead to disempower people, but must,
Instead, be the opportunity to think about the consequences of a commitment
disproportionate to the resources;
2. regulating the recovery of the sector by controlling credit practices
aggravating the debt situation;
3. Amplifying projects contributing to the empowerment of our behavior
consumers and protecting them against the aggressive campaigns pushing
uncontrolled consumption.

314

Finally, we note that a number of people, tenants of housing,
accumulate rent arrears. They prefer to honor somehow debts
may be recorded in the file of the Central Individual Credit
(CCP). Somehow, these tenants 'retreat' debt. Yet the
Rental cumulative delays can quickly exceed that, for example, a
consumer credit or no-honored phone charges. There is therefore a certain
inconsistency and a perverse effect on the system since a tenant can contract
a consumer credit while still not paying his rent ...
The MR therefore like rental objectified delays following a final conviction
Peace of Justice are mentioned in the PAC file to protect tenants
failed against excessive debt.
Access to housing
We must enable everyone to have access to safe housing and energy efficient ...
Clearly, we must allow everyone HAVE A ROOF. Access to housing is one of the issues
major coming years.
Inadequate supply of social housing led many households to make a
arbitrage between debt and the choice of a house in relation to income, but not
suitable or unsafe.
The MR wants to develop new forms of housing (shared habitat, housing
Kangaroo ...) establishing the "check-housing" in specific situations,
encourage the construction of new homes through the mixed economy companies
through a public-private partnership while supporting the real estate sector agencies
Social.
In its relation to the housing (and only in this case), the individualisation of rights
social could be considered taking into account both, of inadequate housing
affordable, the advantage provided by certain shared life situations on rehabilitation
and finally, the fact that housing is often the essential prerequisite for any rehabilitation.
However, this individualization is accompanied by strict monitoring, evaluation
Periodic and would be granted only for a specific limited period.
Facing specific situations, we propose to make possible the temporary occupation
housing and empty public buildings certainly need a small and fast
renovation but still habitable, using the bailment.
The bailment (or loan for use), is a contract which establishes a real or personal property
lent for free, provided that it is made without damage to its owner
dates previously agreed. This would have the merit of providing a quick fix
the crisis of welcoming homeless and homeless raging periodically.
The management of these housing and premises would be entrusted to a non-profit (social Relay for example)
in collaboration with the local CPAS (inventory, small rebates urgent condition,
social support). The association would carry a daily lump sum for
cover charges and insurance. A partnership with the Red Cross, for equipment
Minimum housing, would also be considered.

315

Assistance to persons
It should continue and strengthen the specific actions that tend to favor integration,
protection and support to people weakened by age, sex, disease,
handicap or more generally by the vagaries of life.
1.
Women and Poverty
In a 2010 study, which has not been denied since, the Federation of CPAS Union
Cities and Municipalities of Wallonia established the "sketch" of the poor person. This
"Standard profile" is an unemployed 34 year old woman living in a household
single, unskilled, with limited social network, not being healthy and
living in a shabby housing.
To prevent the risk of poverty among women, the MR will:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

Fight against all forms of discrimination at work both in the
recruitment as career development and pay;
Adapting the workplace to family constraints and gender specificities
;
Singularly facilitate private-professional life balance for women
isolated;
Supporting initiatives to help victims of domestic violence;
Improving the functioning of Secal.

Exclusion seniors
2.
The isolation of seniors can lead to a feeling of loneliness, aggravating factor
exclusion and suffering. It often add reduced income, loss of
close, the separation from family, the absence of aid.
To improve the living conditions of our seniors, the MR wishes:
1.

2.

3.
4.
5.
6.
7.

Guaranteeing an income and sufficient financial means to lead a life
worthy
to.
Continued connection of the income guarantee for seniors
well be
b.
Total elimination of income limits allowed for pensioners
keeping work after the legal retirement age
Develop alternative forms of housing and contribute to the maintenance in
family structure and in the environment (kangaroo housing, maintaining
home, etc.)
Extending relief TV services
Create a care insurance in the federal social security;
Fight against child abuse
Supporting read volunteering;
Supporting solidarity initiatives (grandparents
storytellers, etc.)

316

3.
Risk of poverty for people with disabilities
Disability contributes to the vulnerability of the person in employment and inclusion
social.
Care financing or managing a large dependency disabilities
reinforce the risk of poverty: cost of care and accommodation, sacrifices
professionals related to the care of the person, equipment investment, etc.
Because these people are also entitled to a dignified life in accordance with their
Unlike the formula MR commitments:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.

End the "price of labor";
Encourage the work of people with disabilities;
End the "price of love";
Connection to welfare benefits;
Do not deprive the person of its benefits simply because it resides
or institution that owns a housing;
Better management of dependence
Evaluation and improvement, if necessary, the status of the helping hand;
to.
b.
Extend parental leave or assistance;
c.
Develop material aid (tax support, bonuses);
d.
Increase the number of childcare places;
e.
Allowing relatives to reconcile care and professional life;
f.
Supporting initiatives respite for relatives

4.
Fight against child poverty and youth
Child poverty has many faces. The poor child is often excluded activities
social, sports, recreational and cultural that are standard in other children. His
access to fundamental rights may be restricted His school eduction can be
influenced by poverty, especially if he needs an expensive accompaniment
(speech therapy, psychology, tutoring, etc.). It can also be discriminated against
and stigma.
In line with the recommendation of the European Commission published on 20
February 2013, the Reform Movement intends "Investing in Children: break
vicious circle of inequality "because children and young people are tomorrow's parents.
To this end, the MR offers via a multidimensional approach, including:
1. Via the social coordination, as quickly identify the risks of poverty and
social exclusion in pre-school and school environment;
2. Ensuring decent accommodation: establishment of true housing allowance in
for persons who, while being in the conditions for obtaining a
social housing, can not benefit from following the failure of this type of
housing;
3. At the CPAS, organizing specific cells to socio-professional reintegration of beneficiaries with children, first priority in infancy;
4. Maintaining family allowances, supplements, increases and allowances
317

5.
6.
7.

8.

retracted within their regionalization;
Maintenance of increased family allowances for a certain period after
professional reintegration of a parent;
Improving the work of the maintenance claims department (SECAL) to better
support families facing the failure of the debtor;
Policies aimed at strengthening the socio-cultural and sports participation
Children (supports registration fee sports club, reduced price (or free) on
cultural events, sports, museums, etc.). Direct access and clubs
associations of such grants should be considered;
Preventing health risks in general and mental health in particular
close relationship with the doctor whose choice must be preserved.

Health and the right to health
For precarious people, health is a luxury. Some treatments are often
weighed against other constraints of physical survival as shelter or food.
This results in an inevitable physical or mental deterioration aggravating the situation
Initial poverty!
The MR does not accept that in our society of families are forced to such
arbitrations. To remedy this, we wish to:
1.
2.
3.
4.

associations encourage providers;
expedite and simplify reimbursement procedures;
encourage the sale of good markets drugs (generic and off-patent);
Encourage the creation of childcare facilities for those requiring
longer hospitalization but being unable, for social reasons, to
go back home.
We must allow more precarious access to a daily hygiene, eg
reserving access to sanitary schedules sports centers, swimming pools, etc. Us
propose that specific aid is awarded to cities that would fit in
this dynamic.
Special attention should be put on the psychological and / or psychiatric help
emergency. Indeed, disability is an increased risk of instability that could lead to
exclusion.
In some neighborhoods, youth and families are exposed to social violence
Cumulative can result in damage to self-esteem, disruption of
relationship with others and risk behaviors (addictions, violence, suicide attempts ...).
In this area, we therefore propose:
1.
2.
3.

Strengthen existing structures;
Enhance the role of the family doctor and access to care for all;
Adapt supply care for special needs such as psychiatric help
emergency.

318

Education and training
The school is a crucible from which social mobility should be considered. In this sense,
we want to allow everyone access to schooling ensures the acquisition
skills necessary for personal and professional development.
We must ensure that the school learning a reality for every child,
regardless of their background or social origin. Small simple idea:
Therefore with the help of professionals, do not spend sleepless days
financial education, the risks of easy credit and more generally rules
good practices to manage their money.
It must also have an effective vocational training system to allow
people losing their jobs, or who have not been running the school train,
access to trades in line with the needs of the working world.
The MR therefore wishes to reinvest in the quality and excellence of basic learning and
technical and vocational tracks.
We undertake strong actions on the following:
1.
2.
3.
4.

5.

6.

strengthening of basic learning for all;
promotion of technical and vocational courses;
school support in the fight against dropping out of school;
registration required from the first year of primary school, a device
remedial teaching professional as soon as a problem arises and before
that failure occurs;
redeployment of-school care in a double perspective: support
Learning and replace day care time by more than sports and
cultural;
establishing a support system for education aimed at parents and
based on understanding of our educational system and language
education.

7.
Employment and Employability
The MR wants to promote an active welfare state that values ​​entrepreneurship, responsibility,
integration and participation.
When locked whole families in the audience, when left to lose hope,
this is not money that is wasted, these are lives that we strike!
We hold that personal investment is rewarded and want everyone
could find a favorable environment to flourish!
The return to employment and the financial and moral valuation of work should be the
basis for effective social policy. In this logic, the priority is to combine the MR
319

economy and social and reward work: all work must grant income
higher than the unemployment and assistance allowances. Lowering loads on the
Work to increase the pocket salary is indispensable.
We must merge, clarify and simplify the hiring too many shots because too to often
they are for people who are not "under conditions" an obstacle to
direct and immediate access to a job that is available yet ...
The MR supports maintaining, for people from unemployment or income
integration, additional aid when they find a job and that during
the first months of employment.
In the same vein, social rent could be kept unchanged for a certain
period (rising income affects the amount of rent). It is therefore
"Reversing" the logic of "unemployment traps" that makes any prospect random
Inclusion in the labor market.
The MR wants to Social Integration Income and Social Welfare for a real tool
restart his life.
CPAS socio-professional reintegration of the work must be supported as it gives
encouraging results. Some CPAS have gained considerable success without
get recognition for that work.
Financial social assistance or integration income is a right whose corollary is
the commitment of the beneficiary to integrate. In this sense, contracting assistance means
base it on a foundation of mutual obligations of both recipients as "agents
insertion ". It is therefore appropriate to encourage claimants to pursue training
qualifications, to be actively involved in finding a job or through a
community involvement (voluntary volunteering).
Currently, for a young person under 25, the right to social integration income
accompanied by the obligation to conclude a contract within three months of the
demand, or enter an individualized social integration project (PIIS) with the OCMW.
We wish to generalize, to the extent of the potential of each, the course
compulsory accompaniment to all beneficiaries of social integration income.
The objective of this measure is to mobilize the person to bring it to dispose of
posture of "assisted". Respect the other is to see him as a capable actor to take
in charge !
Finally, also in this spirit, volunteerism and public and nonprofit volunteer must
be encouraged as integration and socialization vectors.
While vocational rehabilitation is the ultimate goal, many people, unfortunately,
can not be returned immediately to work without social support
adequate. For many, reintegration requires a medical management,
administrative, psychological, rental, etc. It is also illusory to believe that all
may at any time be reintegrated professionally.

320

What therefore? The government can not accept that thousands of citizens
remain in the shadows. We can accept it for the dignity of persons, but also
by social equity. It is a question of equality of all face the need to protect and
responsibility of each facing the social contract.
The Reformer Movement wishes to provide an innovative response to these situations
enabling truly voluntary by the vote of a law on voluntary associations and
public.
It is not unthinkable or disrespectful to ask the recipients of aid from the
national solidarity to give a little of their time to another via an association or
public Power. Is it shameful to say that a beneficiary of social integration income
may feel useful by securing the passage of children in a school
accompanying a peacekeeper?
This is no longer acceptable in our society, is to let human beings in
the most complete idleness. It is to refuse to admit that every citizen, with its difficulties,
keeps within him something he can share with others.
It is an optimistic and proactive complex project to be implemented; it is also a
new social contract.
The formula of Articles 60 and 61 has proved its effectiveness. We must strengthen it to avoid
the risk of de-socialization of people benefiting from the RIS, but also to allow
its beneficiaries a useful reintegration into society. It is also important to improve the
training policy, particularly for the beneficiaries of an employment contract
"Article 60". The aim must be the sustainable integration in the labor market, not the
way to regain the rights to unemployment benefits.
It is appropriate, therefore, to develop synergies between social services and employment to
to include the person in the dynamics of an integration project taking into account the
own situations and potential. The implementation of a measure as "coaching
individualized "based on an inventory of skills greatly contribute to this.
Guide to the best means of social action: reform of the integration sector
social
We never spent so much money for social integration and there have never been so
poverty. This demonstrates the need to focus on better ways to true
assigned mission and develop social action oriented devices
the emancipation of the individual!
1.

Strengthening synergies between the CPAS and municipalities and remove services
"Duplicates"
The MR wants a proactive and effective social policy. Thus, it is necessary to refocus
missions of the CPAS and reduce their operating costs in order to devote resources
the real priority, social work.
321
The fragmentation of social assistance generates a burst of grants and
instrumentalization of social services. They often become distributors
various resources (oil aid, sport check, food stamps, etc.). This reinforces
the recipient logic of passive consumption and does not encourage to engage in
a project of independent life!
If the official line is meant empowering, in fact, there is often the persistence
assistantship (CPAS "Mister Cash").
The MR wants to reform the organization of the CPAS in the interests of public socially
disadvantaged, but also to enable social workers to operate in better
conditions and give 'meaning' to their mission.
This reform can go through the strengthening of which some are multiple synergies
already in place, but the question arises whether the current provisions are
sufficient to achieve the economies of scale to guide
more resources to social action.
The hypothesis of a total or partial integration of CPAS in Towns and Communities do
may be delayed. It must be seen in terms of the impact on good
financial, social and administrative management on the tasks entrusted by law to CPAS.
An alternative would be the management of technical resources and staff at the CPAS
a district, a province or a population center.
Nevertheless, the MR believes that social work should remain at municipal level
(proximity and local knowledge).
2.
Refocus missions Facilitate access to quality services
Changes must also be involved in the missions assigned to social services.
The CPAS must become a genuine socio-professional integration tool. The reform of its
Missions should also be considered in the context of social coordination mentioned above.
The slow, complex and cumbersome administrative procedures pose the question
access to quality services.
Refocusing the sector missions to social action, the centralization of IT
data and effective human resources policy based on the valuation of
skills assessment, training and professional mobility will contribute
greatly.
3.
Fight against social fraud
Social fraud is an unacceptable breach of the principle of solidarity. To fight against
it must provide the means to detect agents and, in some cases,
sanction. This is for us a real social measure that allows people
really struggling to receive proper aid they deserve.
The issue of temporary suspension of any assistance (including welfare
equivalent) to fraudsters should be considered because it is a key issue of cohesion
Social: can we tolerate today that a fraudster indebted to the CPAS can
benefit from the same amount of social assistance in full charge of cities and towns?

322

Precarious self-employed
The employee has no monopoly of precariousness. A study by the King Foundation
Baldwin, 15% of independent live below the poverty line for six years
least 40,000 permanently.
Psychosocial risks among independents are numerous:
-

-

-

High work rate: self-employed work on average 53 hours
per week. A small business owner is working on average 57 hours a week. The
Long working hours are recognized as psychosocial risk factor
by the European Agency for Safety and Health at Work. Firstly it
increases the risk of accidents. The number of hours worked generated
also cardiovascular risks and difficulties in the joint
between private life and professional life.
Low absenteeism: it stagnated at 8.2% among self while it is 20%
among employees. The health status alone will probably not explain these differences. There
fear of losing his job, financial pressures or the customer can
be as many disincentives for reporting for work stoppages
self-employed, while the drudgery and frequency of
accidents or injuries in certain professions favor the opposite.
Stress and emotional fatigue: most self-employed exercise
occupations of public contact, the emotional demands of their work can
be high, especially for medical and social professions. The fact that the
recognition of their work comes mainly from the public, patients or
customers, putting them in a situation of greater vulnerability to risk
burnout or burnout. The stress can be independent
also due to a dependence on one customer or a single chain
commercial, forced a choice of self-employment without personal project
making sense to the person concerned, a lack of family tradition of independence,
a lack of experience or capital in a context of economic crisis.

The MR will actively fight against poverty to self-employed
make the profession attractive.
It will, in the next legislature, consider the opening of certain supplements
social self-employed workers who, despite their work, have to live with a salary
lower than some social incomes.
Similarly, the rules on the right to self-employed allowances
Unemployment should probably be eased.

323

ECOLOGY RESPONSIBLE AND QUALITY OF LIFE

The MR aims at the emergence and development of growth that is sustainable. This
which means creating prosperity by preserving the planet for present generations
and future.
Ecology is a form of organization to optimally coexistence
humanity and its environment. Humanity has a superior dignity to what
but surrounds the preservation of the environment preserving conditions
humanity. In a developed society, ecology is only responsible even at
reconcile economic and demographic development of mankind with
preservation of this evolving dynamic is the environment.
What for ? Because only the model of responsible ecology allows to live more than 6
billion people today and more tomorrow. Modes
consumption must evolve towards a more balanced and less wasteful consumption.
Which will only be effective if healthy products are accessible to all families. The
choice of quality today is still too often reserved for the most affluent backgrounds.
To paraphrase the judicious formula "we can create a social paradise on a desert
economic, "it is true that one can not create social or economic paradise paradise
environmental desert. The challenge for all is: to what extent
technological innovation associated with the initiative, the extent to Search
Scientific coupled with the market economy will both ensure the needs of
human societies and to avert environmental imbalances.
That is why MR is strongly in favor of technological development to create
in universities, colleges and research centers such oriented
economic development.

324

A. ENERGY

ENERGY POLICY

Energy is a need, an important need for companies and households that
can not always devote sufficient resources. In addition to its effects
the environment, its impact on the purchasing power of households and on the outcome of
companies is growing.
Three pillars make up a modern and pragmatic energy policy. For MR, they
are of equal importance:

PILLAR 1 - A sustainable and responsible development: sustainable because it meets the needs
the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their
own needs; responsible because it does not hinder the necessary growth
human development in the Third World;

PILLAR 2 - Security of supply: our modern society has a need
Permanent supply; interruptions heavily mortgaging the
business and investment climate. We need to help our choice to work
European security of supply. Blackouts and other shortages
could have dramatic consequences for the population, mainly the
that lives in urban areas.
PILLAR 3 - Prices: energy must be available at an affordable price for all
residential consumers. This price should allow companies to be competitive
on international markets but also must allow all economic actors
(traders, SMEs, entrepreneurs, farmers, Catering, etc.) to work in
reasonable terms.
The energy policy of recent years has not led to an optimum balance
these three pillars. The cost of electricity in our country has evolved over the last 15 years
one of the lowest levels in Europe to a higher and our security
Supply is increasingly questioned.

The MR therefore calls for a reassessment of energy policy to rebalance
the pillars mentioned above. We must, for this purpose, inter alia, further harmonization
energy policy at the European and Belgian level.

325

Towards a sustainable energy model
o set reasonable goals and support all forms of energy
alternatives
The European Union adopted in 2009 the climate and energy package, known as the
"Plan 20/20/20". This package aims to achieve the objectives in terms of development
sustainability, competitiveness and security of supply and this in three ways:
by reducing, compared to 1990 which is the base year, the gas emissions
Greenhouse 20%;
bringing to 20% the share of renewable energy consumption
energy by 2020;
20% by improving energy efficiency by 2020.
The EU is therefore committed internationally to achieve by 2020 a
20% reduction in its CO2 emissions. In this context, it launched a program
ambitious promotion of renewable energy sources (RES) with the objective of
2020 deadline for producing a European quota of 20% green energy. This objective
varies depending on the economic capacity of countries to develop these energies
renewable and the state of development of these energies.
In Belgium, the renewable energy quota to be reached was set by a directive
European 13%. The "National Action Plan in renewable energies"
precise targets for heating and cooling sectors, electricity and
transport.
% Renewables set by the EU
Target 2020
Total Objective Belgian renewable energy
13%
RES - Heating and cooling 11.9%
SER - Transport 10.14%
SER - Electricity 20.9%
Reduction of greenhouse gases
20%
Energy efficiency targets
20%
In this global plan, the vector "electricity" is a very important axis of the
Belgian policy to promote renewable energy at the expense of progress
could have been made in the field of heating so much easier and
much less expensive. In 2020, Belgium will have to reach an electricity quota
up 20.9% green.
The distribution of "effort" intra-Belgium between the federal and regional (known in the jargon
the "burden sharing") setting forth the responsibilities of each of the entities of the country - to
that day - yet to be established. Discussions are ongoing between the federal and
three regions.

326

It seems clear that without a "burden sharing" clearly decided between the federal and
regions, the figures reach for each entity remain quite speculative. Indeed,
that federal and regions will take over what and how much? As ...
For example, the share of offshore wind in the North Sea represents a major challenge for the
Wallonia. What will the "Walloon part" of this production? For memory,
Belgian offshore producible by 2020 could reach more than 7000 8000GWh. Always
for the record, it should be noted that if the investment for wind onshore is 1
1.2 M € / MW, it changes to 4 M € / MW in the North Sea excluding network costs yet
to build.
In the Walloon Region
Currently, the Walloon share of renewable in energy production is as follows:

Source: CWaPE - June 2013
With 18.65%, Wallonia is close to the EU target of 20.9%. So
with such a result, one would expect a slowdown in investments
in this regard, the Walloon Government has, however, not wait for the end of negotiations
on intra-Belgian distribution of "effort" required by the European Union to set its
own quotas. Indeed, on 1 March 2012, the Government has set a quota of electricity
Green up to 37.9% by 2020.
In Brussels Region
The share of RES in total electricity production is negligible. In 2011, 1.5% of the
final energy consumption have been produced from renewable energy sources. End
2012, the total installed PV capacity in Brussels can cover the needs
Electric 3000 equivalent housing.

PROPOSALS
1) comply with our obligations under Directive 2009/28 / EC (ie 13% energy
renewable by 2020) and in the national plan filed with the Commission
European in November 2010 determining an original Belgian electricity quota
20.9% renewable by 2020.

327

2) enter in a timely consultation - committed since 2010 - regarding the
"Burden sharing" and detailing the efforts and responsibilities of each of the four
entities (federal and three regions) and defining the efforts and responsibilities between the three
energy carriers (heat, transport and electricity).
3) Supporting alternative energy forms with priority for energy
non-intermittent renewable:
-

supporting renewable energy through green certificates should be
fundamentally revised. It should avoid all effects thrift whatever
industry and any "over-subsidization". More flexible in nature and constantly updated
with technological developments, this support will target promising sectors in R & D
and jobs as well as the most effective technologies and adapting best to the
Geography Wallonia. Consider, for example, the centralized biomass, the
geothermal and quality cogeneration.

-

Specifically, by sector, public support should be reviewed as follows:

Biomass
In recent years, the biomass sector in Wallonia reduces its wing. TO
2020, unchanged policy, the Walloon landscape will be almost pure biomass
nonexistent. Yet the sector has some advantages: stable production, several outlets, etc. He
is proposed to stimulate investments in the sector, particularly by promoting
centralized biomass (end of lock of 20 MW) and promoting all sectors
biomass (bio-liquid, biogas, ...). For cogeneration (green origin or fossil)
a new framework must be promoted in order to allow further opportunities to
new heat.
Photovoltaic :
Currently, 97% of Walloon facilities are residential. Only 3%
facilities have a capacity of more than 10 kWp. For the future, priority should be focused on
photovoltaics over 10 kWp; it must be supported and promoted. In other words,
must maintain the photovoltaic sector in Wallonia focused mainly on the sector
industries and SMEs. Furthermore the previous commitments made under the Plan
SOLWATT must be respected.
Wind power:
Wallonia currently has 273 wind turbines in operation (source: APERE - August
2013). This will cover +/- 6% of the Walloon electrical needs.
For MR, the Walloon government's objective in this regard is unrealistic: +/- 750 masts by
2020. This will generate serious consequences for the living environment of citizens, but
Also on the electricity bill (impact due to the support of green certificates).
328

The energy "mix" advocated by the MR does not preclude the installation of wind turbines. However,
a clear and democratic legal framework to accompany the on-shore wind power deployment
Wallonia. Otherwise, a moratorium should be promulgated. A reduction of the grant rate
green certificates (1 HP currently at 0.7 CV / MWh) must participate to cool the market
currently overheating. When we speak of the production cost of wind energy, take
into account the implications for network management. The cost explosion in Europe and
Belgium, is not due to the cost of generating electricity (which has also decreased
Belgium) but the explosion of network costs. More energy is produced random
in time, most network costs increase. Similarly, the more one decentralizes
output instead of the make "power plant" as justifies the technology and
the economy, the more the network costs will be heavy to bear for consumers
rather than by electricity producers. Thus, residential producers to postpone
the collective citizen dependent on their individual benefit.

For offshore in North Wed, September concessions were granted by the Government
Federal. The goals by 2020 are seductive: +/- 7000-8000 GWh producible.
However, the societal costs due to the support for this technology remains challenging: 800
million euros / year in green certificates, huge investments in networks, ...
Hydropower
The area is relatively stable (at the discretion of rainfall years). Two parameters
must be supported: On the one hand, smaller facilities can still flourished here
and there and on the other hand, modernization of existing tools (new turbines, ...) allows
significant increase in energy yield. The networks of energy costs due to random
are destroying the value added of pumping plants such as Coo.
This is a serious signal that can not be obscured.
Geothermal
The three current pilot projects should be sustained. The experiment should be extended and
supported for the heat development. The potential in Hainaut and Liège is real
for low enthalpy geothermal energy.
Solar thermal (Soltherm) and heat pump (CAP)
These high-potential areas are primarily intended to heat in the residential.
Support more pronounced in the "Soltherm" to allow a back time
more attractive investment as well as targeted and reasonable support to the CAP must be
studied.
An ethical principle to enforce would take that any private producer bear the
network costs it causes. It is not fair nor socially defensible than
less wealthy consumers pay more for their electricity because of the overload
caused the cost of the network.

329

o Promoting research and development

FINDING
In Belgium, the Research & Development (R & D) into energy is still being
investment significantly insuffisants.63 In 1980, OECD countries spent 19
billion for research in the energy field. In 2008, these same countries
spent $ 12 billion in the same field, or 7 billion less than in 1980.
More specifically, research in the field of renewable energy represented
$ 2.2 billion in 1980, whereas this amount fell to $ 911 million in
2000 to rise to 1.7 billion in 2008.64
The storage of electricity is a major challenge in the coming years. It will be supported
both in terms of R & D in terms of industrial plants (plant types Coo) or
residential (batteries, ...).
SCK • CEN, Centre for Study of Nuclear Energy, wants to contribute to energy
Sustainable Nuclear by building a new research facility. This system
Innovative, called MYRRHA, will transform long radioactive substances
life short-lived elements. This project will also demonstrate the feasibility of
generation technology IV on an industrial scale.

PROPOSALS
1) To support R & D in the field of energy storage and smart grid
through mobilizing programs.
2) Promoting diversity avenues of research in the field of energy
alternatives. Both private actors that governments must contribute
directly or indirectly to the financing of energy-related research
alternative production methods or improving performance of the original energy
fossil.
3) Provide financial support for R & D in the field of building materials
capable of meeting the requirements of sustainable development and able to
meet the demands of PEB standards through mobilizing programs
4) Support the Study Centre for Nuclear Energy and R & D 4th of plants
generation; maintain in Belgium a nuclear power capable of performing work
research and industrial operations for decommissioning, management
and waste treatment, medical radioisotopes and study of materials and,
63

.J. Albrecht, Why do we persist to under-invest in energy R & D? Itinera Institute, 2010/48, publication
online (www.itinerainstitute.org) 19/07/2010
64
These figures are in nominal dollars. If were corrected to take account of inflation, reductions
appear even more spectacular.

330

in that capacity, ensure the sustainability of the Centre for Nuclear Research and the Institute of Radio
Elements (IRE) and specialized consulting firms.

Security of supply - the energy available at any time
o Ensuring the security of electricity supply
Electricity is a very very special: it is essential for households,
businesses and public services. Its availability is essential permanently
functioning of our society. It requires technically permanently balance
between supply and demand.
Under present technological conditions, the electricity can not be stored (except
indirect and proportionally few significant via pumping stations
turbine).
All European countries are facing the same challenges:
-

renewable production is decentralized, with the constraints
Additional that entails for transmission and distribution;

-

intermittent generation (wind - sun), which complicates the management
causes of price increases due to excess subsidies

-

Revolving given a priority that impacts production units
thermal and creates uncertainty for new investment;

-

dilute responsibility for security of supply between
different market players.

and

Faced with these challenges and finding identical, each country seeks its own recipe without
European coordination or vision. Beyond this European context, Belgium was
faces two additional challenges:
-

the law of 31 January 2003, which provides for the phasing out of nuclear energy from 2015;
a lack of vision on the energy mix desired by the country which results in a
unstable and insecure framework for investors.

Currently, priority is the fight against global warming home
anthropogenic, and the complete exit from nuclear energy by 2025, with the
consequences:
-

-

new capacity of 6,000 MW power plants to compensate for gas
intermittency of renewable and ensure security of supply
electrical;
the gradual closure of coal power stations;
331

-

continued investments in wind and solar;

A study by Boston Consulting Group (June 2013) provides an overview of the landscape
Energy in Belgium by 2030 if the current energy program is maintained:

Renewable capacity (in Belgium)
MW
Total power currently installed
Additional capacity (2030)
Offshore wind
Onshore wind
Solar
Biomass

1900
1700
1700
600

Subtotal
Total

5900
10,500

4600

To compensate for capacity loss due to intermittency, it is estimated that it will take
increasing the capacity of gas power plants:
Gas central capacity
Current Capacity
Capacity in 2030
Additional capacity (13 500-6 500)

6500
13,500
7500

In this context, this study estimates the cost of the additional investment, by 2030,
24 billion of which EUR 10 billion by 2020 to finance part of the new
building and development of the electricity grid and this without considering
Gas central subsidies to encourage investors to build as
their lower profitability following the subsidies to renewables.

Even taking into account the energy savings, the bill paid by manufacturers
could increase by over 70%. Belgium would be reduced to concede to
intensive industries of electric power financial compensation for
remain competitive and avoid delocalisation (carbon leakage) and, although
Naturally, at the expense of private consumers and SMEs.
PROPOSALS

1) develop an integrated strategy (federal and regional) regarding
electrical energy supply by 2030 to ensure
predictability in the investments to be made;
332

2) diversification of energy sources, including renewable, without condemning any
of them because no one can predict how technologies evolve and
which sector will be the discoveries of the future.
3) restore the competitiveness of power generation units currently being
difficulty (mothballed) and threatened with closure in the short term (CCGT units,
biomass units, ...) to prevent, as provided in the reports of the Directors
Energy, lack of 800-1200 MW by 2015 and up to 2000 MW in 2017
necessary to ensure a minimum level of security of supply in Belgium.
4) Ensure a permanent monitoring of the impact of phasing out nuclear power on the evolution
security of supply and the prices of electricity and adjourn 10 years
closing some nuclear plants (Tihange 2 and 3 and Doel 3 and 4), under the
absolute condition of the guarantee of security of these facilities.
o Ensuring the security of gas supply
FINDING
One of the objectives of the federal energy policy, with regard to the market
natural gas, to bring together the essential requirements for safety
supply and competitiveness of gas prices for end consumers.
Strengthening the role of Belgium as a crossroads for natural gas in the North West
Europe is a central element of this policy. Consultation between the private and the
public and a common long-term vision have given Belgium a unique function
hub.
PROPOSALS

1) Providing financial support to existing central gas;
2) Develop an active gas diplomacy:
to. Enhanced promotion of the industry and the Belgian infrastructure from countries
producers and producer of natural gas
b. Closer collaboration with neighboring countries and network managers
neighbors

3) Encourage the creation of a group of industrial common interest grouping
forces between government, industry, port authorities, and Fluxys
CREG

333

4) Encourage collaboration between Belgian companies to develop
industrial synergies internationally.
5) continue to develop the role of natural gas hub in Belgium:
benefits to the further development of the role of hub are important
: Strengthening the security of supply, positive effect on the functioning
the market and the price of natural gas and major investment program

Energy at an affordable price for all households and businesses

FINDING
The production and consumption of primary energy
Since the last regional elections in 2009, European energy challenges have
been shaped by three major elements:
-

-

-

First, the "revolution" of shale gas in North America has resulted in a
significant drop in gas prices and other energy commodities
including coal;
On the other hand, the European Commission announced on 22 January 2014 that the goal
for limiting the CO2 and renewable energy are secondary
over the competitiveness of our economy;
Finally, environmental issues became clearer with particular
European commitments on the matter ("Package 3x20") impose on our country a
target of 13% renewable energy by 2020.

The energy landscape of our country is not frozen, energy sources in Belgium
changed significantly since the first oil crisis in 1973. This trend is
mainly the result of political choices (European, Belgian and Walloon)
1973
59%
15.5%
0%
25.5% others

Oil
Natural gas
Nuclear
Coal and
fuels
Renewable
Source: FPS Economy

0%

2011
35.9%
30.1%
20.4%
5.1%
7.9%

334

At the regional level, Wallonia has consumed 211 TWh of energy (in 2010) whose sources
are distributed as follows:

Primary energy consumption
Wallonia - Values ​​in 2010
Renewable 17.8 TWh
Natural gas 49.8 TWh
Nuclear 69.8 TWh
Oil 61.7 TWh
Solid fuels 11.9 TWh

Source: IECW 2012
The production and consumption of electricity
In 2012, electricity production in Belgium amounted to 75.39 TWh. These figures are
decrease. This is explained by the increase in net imports (from
France, the Netherlands and Germany) and the economic crisis resulting in reduced
electricity consumption in the industry. The origin of this production was - for more
half - end of the nuclear fleet (38.5 TWh) and thermal power plants for more than 40
% (30.9 TWh):
At the Walloon scale, production amounted to 33.1 TWh. Broken down by production sector, the
figures are as follows:

335

As for power consumption, it amounted to 79.9 TWh at Belgian level in 2012.
An important point to be mentioned: the consumption is greater than the output
Interior, Belgium had to import electricity from abroad. Over the years, this
dependence has become structural (green curve in the graph below):

Too expensive for households and a competitive handicap for our companies
The competitiveness of Walloon industry is deteriorating. In first line, the overly expensive energy
and the load on CO2 emissions.
Turnover in support (study by Deloitte in April 2013), the industry, like any
European industry has sounded the alarm. The price of electricity in Wallonia
are rising. Worse stall Wallonia compared to its closest
competitors has begun.

336

The bill could climb. According to the Boston Consulting study commissioned
by FEB and made public June 6, 2013, it is expected to increase law
250 euros per year for an average household by 2030. In its report on price
Energy, COM (2014) 21 found that the price of household electricity and industrial have
increased 20% and 15% respectively between 2008 and 2012 due to subsidies
granted to renewable energy and complexity arising from the electrical grid
this production of random energy. In this report, it suggests that this
trend will continue as will continue promoting these energies.

The components of the current utility bill (for a household consuming 3,500
Kwh / year) are:
Wallonia

Brussels

Source: CWaPE (CD-13g11-CWaPE) July 2013 Source: Brugel (December 2013)
The end customer - whether residential, SME connected to the distribution network or
industrial company connected to the high voltage transmission network - must
bear all or part of the following costs:

337

1) The price of production and supply of electricity itself: 41%
bill
The main federal and state measures that have a negative impact on
competitive position of our plants are: transport rates,
the federal levy and surcharge "protected customers" royalty
on regional green certificates introduced in July 2012; new charges
proposed by the Walloon Government for surface water catchment and
the substantial increase of environmental charges for loads
pollutants in the discharge waters, many public service obligations
(OSP).
2) The green contribution: 7% of the bill
OSP dependent main suppliers, overload corresponding to the green certificates
the invoice has an increasing impact on the final customer invoice. This quota is key
vault system of "green certificates" (CV). Green electricity has a real cost to
the consumer. This cost was a few euros in 2003 - at the launch of
green certificates system - and always will be increasing in 2020 to reach nearly
400 euros on average per household.
3) distribution costs: 36% of the bill
Managing the distribution of electricity is a monopoly activity. At that
As such, it is subject to regulation by the CREG (Regulatory Commission for Electricity
and gas), federal regulatory authority. The sixth state reform will regionalize this
pricing policy. The project of "progressive and inclusive pricing" of electricity will be
also a new OSP to load more "big" consumers (load +/- 305
€ / year). This distribution costs increased the most in recent years due to the
decentralization of power generation. The more power generation
decentralized (including solar), increase over this position.
4) Transportation costs (ELIA): 13% of the bill
Other monopolistic activity regulated by CREG, the transport network is managed by ELIA.
The ELIA tariffs in Wallonia - approved by CREG - are:

This explosion of the transmission system operator rate is mainly due to
the extent of growing ELIA's purchase of green certificates (CV).

338

5) Various federal surcharges: 3% of the invoice
Several federal overload impact the end customer invoice: the levy on
Energy and the federal contribution.

6) Regional surcharges: 1% of the invoice
Two regional royalties impact the electric bill the end customer: The
connection charge and road tax

The changes between 2012 and 2013 are as follows:

Source: CWaPE - July 2013

Synthetically, developments can be explained as follows:
-

-

The price of energy (blue column) decreases due to lower prices
certain raw materials, the price per ton of CO2, the greater vitality
market vendors, ...
The price of distribution (pink) temporarily decreases as a result of blockages
tariffs CREG and the postponement of the regulatory balance to the next tariff period.
The transmission tariff (yellow column) following the explosion explodes purchases
green certificates on the part of ELIA.
The price of the green contribution (green column) increases following the increase of
quotas of green certificates.
Federal and regional premiums remain stable overall.

339

PROPOSALS
1) Make the most transparent electricity bill: The transparency of the bill paid
by the end customer is not currently guaranteed. Pursuant to an obligation
contained in the 4th EU package on market liberalization, greater
readability of the impacts of policy choices must be made to inform the
citizen-consumer tariff consequences of political choices made in the
material.
2) Hold the VAT on electricity 6%.

3) Flatten the different OSP dependent suppliers to consider for
each of them and their opportunity cost on the invoice for the end customer
"Rebudgétiser" PSO so that the bill is more a disguised tax card.
4) Raising even more thousands of customers in Brussels and Walloon "passive" the
need to compare supplier prices and so benefit from price
competition.
5) Establish as soon as possible a clear and competitive pricing policy and
and prepare in the best conditions regionalization of policy rates
distribution.
6) Clean up structurally the green certificate market and thus relieve his ELIA
repurchase obligation impacting increasingly transportation price, to avoid
use financial subterfuges of "banking" (Ecetia, GRD, ...) and other masking
the actual debt of green certificates;
7) Act on the cumbersome administrative procedures: reducing the heavy tasks
administrative and obligations of potential suppliers who will come on
the Brussels market. We must mitigate risks to limit the arrival of different
providers in the market, and thereby prevent the freedom of choice that the Directive
intends to grant European consumers.

Consume less and better: Energy Efficiency
Alongside measures to achieve the targets set for energy
renewable, the most effective solution, and preferred, is to reduce our consumption
energy by rational use of energy.

340

PROPOSALS
1) Invest in Energy Efficiency: set sectoral targets
energy savings; focus insulation and develop, in consultation with the
Regions, an integrated plan for the use of electrical efficiency in the context of
security of supply policy.
2) Improve the management of the application, set up displacement mechanisms
the demand for electricity at peak hours: directive financing (flexible fares
and the market mechanism), deployment of smart metering in businesses,
strengthening the role of aggregators in network management and implementation of
information and awareness campaigns.
3) Accelerate the integration of Belgium into the regional power grid: Projects
Investment (Alegro, Stevin, Nemo ...) must be made in line with the policy
Supply and projects in neighboring countries support more
political integration and improve the collection and sharing of data between
and the federal regions and between the various bodies (Elia, CREG, SPF Energy) on
electricity consumption.
4) Encourage the renovation of housing stock Wallonia and Brussels: condition
the granting of a premium to an audit demonstrating the relevance of the subsidized investment;
focus on the renovation of existing housing, more energy, more potential
saving
5) Improve the legislation on the energy performance of buildings (PEB)
The regulations concerning the energy certificate must be part of the new objectives and
European regulations. No more no less. In this regard, any desire to go "too fast,
too expensive, too ambitious "at the PEB standards must be curbed. There
regulation must be consistent with the techniques available at a reasonable price
and the level of training and qualification in the construction trades
This in Wallonia and Brussels. Moreover, in order to simplify
administrative, redesigning the landscape of the different actors must be studied for more
readability and better accountability.
6) Implement smart meters based on the return on investment
this represents (technology costs very expensive now).
For example, for +/- 100,000 private producers Walloon Walloon, deploying
this technology to better participate instantaneous consumption with
production, which would relieve all the network. Greater harmonization of
consumption on production is preferred to a taxatoire such a fee mechanism
injection on the installed power, for example.

341

Streamline and modernize the energy landscape

FINDING
Belgium has four regulators in the energy field. A federal regulator,
CREG, whose skills are essentially the transmission and distribution tariffs.
Three regional regulators who have jurisdiction over distribution networks and
electricity produced from renewable energy, network adaptations
local distribution and transportation. These are CWAPE, for Wallonia, for BRUGEL
Brussels and VREG in Flanders.
The distribution landscape in Wallonia is divided thus:

Intercommunal
mixed
SEDILEC
EGDI
SIMOGEL
IEH
IGH
INTERLUX
INTERMOSANE
INTEREST

Intercommunal
pure
PBE
AIEG
TECTEO
AIESH
GASELWEST

Municipal Authority
Wavre Régie

On the spur of the MR pleading for years to streamline the management of networks
two distribution DSOs in Wallonia, the merger of GRD 8 mixed was recently organized.

The shared via their holding company (Publi-T, Publigas and Publi-D tomorrow for distribution) are
controlling shareholders in both transmission and distribution. For the MR, it is not
the role of common knowledge that these "professions" as that distribution are transport
become risky activities by the challenges they face (including related
site renewable energy) but also by the financing of future adaptations
inevitable.

PROPOSALS
1) Improve the regulatory services: ensure true independence
regulators of political power, particularly in the context of policy
appointment; ensure better control of operating costs of regulators,
notably by Parliament and encourage connections between certain services
regulators (to create economies of scale)

342

2) Improve coordination of the two energy mediation services (one federal and
another regional). Eventually, the opportunity to maintain only a single mediation service
will be studied; a rapprochement with the common ombudsman service Wallonie-CFWB
is to study.
3) Continuing the consolidation of the distribution landscape in the Walloon Region:
Assets ORES the operation must be consolidated. Other bindings must be
also operated with a target of two unique GRD (IC pure and mixed) in Wallonia
2020. In this context, an assessment of the landscape pure intercommunal
financing should be initiated. A broader reflection on the funding of
Network investments must necessarily also be launched with a view
to avoid a heavier even more pronounced in the indebtedness of GRD. The role
Exact municipal authorities, in this context, should be redefined. Indeed,
common-they are financially strong enough to continue investing
heavily in networks? Place of operators (para) public will also
studied in particular in terms of good governance and the supply of know-how
(professionalization).
4) Ensure that the transmission is funded by the Federal Government while the
Electricity, which has been entirely regionalized, can
continue to be financed by the municipalities.

343

B. MOBILITY

OBSERVATION IN WALLOON REGION
The movement of people in Wallonia are growing: over the past decade.
Only on highways, the overall increase of 85% in 20 years.
Congestion increasingly frequent traffic in many cities in Wallonia
an element that becomes disturbing.
This implies that we have a debate on how we conceive our
territorial development, who also in a direct impact on mobility in a territory
given.
OBSERVATION IN BRUSSELS REGION

Recently, a study on nth mobility calls Brussels' capital
World plugs ". This study reveals that, in 2012, Brussels is leading the top
25 most congested cities in Europe, with an average of 83 hours lost per year
motorists in traffic.
The study also emphasizes the need for increase in power of the very important
capacity offered by public transportation to reduce automobile pressure by 20%
Brussels, in accordance with the objective adopted by the Iris Plan 2. It is far! With this
government, no decision was taken on the subway extension: 10 years come
be lost.
Just before leaving office, Minister President Ch. PICQUE has recognized
specifically the failure of his government in this area: "Where we have not been
good enough, it is in mobility. The problems are still acute. It could not be the
master. " Indeed, daily files are present on 39% of the main lines of the
Capital, which is a score worse than that of Warsaw (38.1%) and London (34.5%).
A study of Agoria also shows that 90% of employees working in the Region
Brussels found an average elongation of 20% of their travel time
between their home and their workplace in the past three years.
Some government initiatives present Olivier, such as removing 25,000
parking spaces in office buildings by 2015, will clearly
not in the sense of improving mobility conditions in the Region.

344

1.

DEVELOP PUBLIC TRANSPORT

FINDINGS
In Wallonia
A study by the European Commission shows that less than one in two
is satisfied with urban transport services and extra-urban. The main reasons for
dissatisfaction are linked to price levels, the attractiveness of commercial offers, the
ease of purchase and the attention given to the consumer (comfort, punctuality, ...).
Furthermore, the repeated strikes of recent years in the TEC seriously
tarnished the image of regional transport companies, causing disaffection
Customer ratings for this mode of transport. Therefore, the introduction of minimum service
in public service, which does not affect the right to strike, is objective
MR This position, in addition to being one of common sense is also required number
user associations who want to go to school or at a workplace
without being penalized by strikes, especially when they are "wild" and without
prior information of users.
Finally, there is a real problem of insecurity in public transport for both
users than for drivers or guides.

In Brussels
In terms of the STIB, we must first of all forcefully deplore inertia
government that has absolutely nothing decided in the field of improving the
public transport in Brussels either in favor of extending metro lines or
Real progress in the creation of tram lines.
We lived 10 years made of rhinestones and sequins during which we talked about, via a
Iris Plan 1 and 2, to reduce the pressure in the city car without taking the measures
appropriate to bring the public to make more use of public transport.
Nowadays, the increasing number of connections placed on the user following
fragmentation of certain lines, discomfort resulting from wrong correspondences
organized, the urgent need to improve journey times and saturation
expected network must find urgent answers.
Every year, the Brussels-Capital Region boasts an intervention
Beliris supplying the federal government fund to improve conditions
trip to Brussels. The fund remains underutilized in terms of mobility. Too
Much of the means at the disposal of the Brussels Region (or 125 million
euro per year) is crumbled into a crowd of often remote missions of projects
Brussels as the capital.

345

PROPOSALS

1) To promote intermodal transport (ride facilities, combine
the use of bicycles and public transport, adapting timetables, etc.).
2) Improve the quality of service in public transport: maximize
correspondences between the TEC, STIB and SNCB and minimize loads of breaks;
facilitate access to transport for people with reduced mobility and prams
(lowering system at sidewalks, remove handrails before
entry, sufficient space, ...); use new technologies as part of the
management of these modes of transport. (eg real-time display of time
pass).
In Brussels, the MR argues strongly for a quick and proactive extension
metro network. If one wants to see new stations inaugurated before 10 or 15 years
earlier, it is essential to resort to alternative financing methods
(eg use of a public - private partnership).
The MR also proposes the creation of new lines structuring the network
Surface enjoying a real priority traffic (lines "Chrono" high
frequency with protected sites and regulation of lights).
The MR considers that the commitments under the program must Beliris
priority be
directed towards improving public transport.
Simultaneously, the use of other sources of financing should be investigated for
allow to achieve more ambitious travel programs. Through a
public - private partnership, the city of Madrid has installed 100 km extension
its subway lines in record time.
In Wallonia, it is necessary to strengthen the supply of rural TEC: Transport,
in rural areas is still too often conducted exclusively by car
particular. There remains a real problem in most Walloon provinces,
Access to public transport.
3) Establish minimum service in case of general business interruption due to some
reason whatsoever. The minimum service involves the minimum service lines to
peak hours.
4) standardization of prices of tickets between the 4 transport operators
public across the RER.
5) Unify the commercial offer in the 5 TEC.
6) Maximising the private concessions of public services, particularly for bus lines.
Indeed, these services are more flexible and more efficient.
346

7) Promoting access to transport for people with reduced mobility and the
Car children.
8) To end the nonsense encountered in the organization of school transport in
recent years by amending the legislation to include it
can consider fundamental criteria such as the age of the children, their safety,
siblings phenomenon, etc. We wish and the school transport policy
is tailored to the needs of the population and that it can, to do this, answer
common sense rules.

II. RAIL TO THE HEART OF SUSTAINABLE MOBILITY

FINDINGS
Over the past decade, passenger traffic SNCB increased by over 50%.
The increase should be constant in the coming years to nearly 80% of
increase in the next 20 years.
However, for several years, numerous quality indicators are in the red:
decrease in customer satisfaction; timeliness and number of stops. In addition, the state of
gridlock in some places now is a real problem. Losses
Economic caused by congestion are important and begin to
threaten prosperity. Companies think to outsource some of their seats
activity outside Brussels or Antwerp port.
Railways must be able to act as the backbone of sustainable mobility
of the future. To do this, several problems have to be solved in the medium and longterme:
The railway system cost 3 billion euros to the Belgian taxpayer. Reform
Rail which entered into force on 1 January 2014 is a particular object of reducing
the costs.
The RER connections of Wallonia in Brussels are constantly delayed.
The North-South Junction, through which passes a third of passenger trains reached its
capacity limit. The next government will have to find a solution to the crossing
Rail Brussels.
The future of rail freight in Belgium is a challenge. In 2014, the SNCBLogistics should see his situation clarified one way or another. Of the solution to be
found depends the future of the diffuse traffic and combined transport is partly over
Half of the cargo business. Nevertheless, financial losses generated by these activities
must stop. Beyond the specific case of SNCB Logistics, is also the problem of
347

restore a "level playing field" for all rail freight sector,
problem subsidizing diffuse traffic and futures combined, the establishment
a cargo terminals of policy in a context of massification of flows
Goods and good planning, ...
PROPOSALS
1) Improving the supply and quality of SNCB services to meet expectations
Guest: A special effort should focus on the restoration of
punctuality acceptable without curb security initiatives
network and rolling stock such as equipment thereof in TBL1 + and ETCS
(signaling systems to reduce the total risk of an accident
factor 20).
2) Accelerate work RER and the Brussels-Luxembourg, as requested by the
Infrabel government that will go into debt to do so.

348

3) Define, 2016, an interregional sustainable mobility plan, a major tool
the absence from the 80 prevents the optimization of Mobility Resources
3 Regions.
4) Encourage intermodality: Once the rail network will be upgraded to serve
Brussels and its outskirts public transport feeder lines to
RER high level of service must also be implemented. The
RER network will develop its full potential only if stations
are adjusted to ensure intermodal (parking cars and bikes
secure, standardized ticketing, schedules coordinated connections, ...).
With a large number of institutions on its territory, the Capital
Europe is undoubtedly internationally oriented. It is up to the authorities
Regional ensure an optimization of comfort and intermodal terminals 5
International.
5) Maintain the mesh network: SNCB's policy was to reduce the
some service stations due to a consequent cost of failure to
a deemed insufficient attendance. This policy is contrary to
encouraging mobility. It has the effect of enhancing the use of
private vehicle and thus swelling the number of vehicles in circulation on
roads. The RER is a first approach, although it only concerns a zone
30 km around Brussels and the high cost of land around the capital leads
number of young families, looking for a home, to settle beyond
of 30 km around Brussels.

6) Establish a minimum service

III. IMPROVING ROAD INFRASTRUCTURE
FINDINGS
In Wallonia
Wallonia has some 80,180 km of roads divided as follows: motorways: 870
km; regional roads: 6970 km; provincial roads: 715 km and local roads:
71,730 km. With its 16 844 km2, Wallonia has the highest road network
dense of all Member States of the European Union. Traffic as a whole is growing there
on average 2.4% annually. For single highways, this growth is
3.7%.
Forecasts indicate that for the transport of persons, Wallonia will face
by 2030 a 30% increase in the total number of passenger-kilometers and the
freight, a 60% increase in tonne-kilometers.
Today, 86.5% of goods are transported by road and a truck on which two
circulates in Wallonia is of foreign origin.
349

Chronic underinvestment in routine maintenance of roads that raged during de
numbers year has significantly degraded to the point where the Walloon road network that
allocations for extraordinary maintenance are not even enough to cope with the
Annual degradation.
Today, the addition is salty and blocks promising projects in terms of mobility and
logistics while Wallonia is central and ideal place in Europe and represents
a hub of trade.
The invoice is both financial: more than 900 million euros are needed to repair
and clean up the Walloon road network, and humane: the safety of users is put
in danger, the road condition occurs in 10% of accidents. It also has
obvious consequences in terms of traffic flow, pollution and Stooges
Economic.
Each year, over 2,000 motorists complaints are filed with
the regional administration; this number continues to grow. About 15% of cases are or
become legal. Five to six million are disbursed in compensation. Close
a folder on both the subject of a transaction out of court because the responsibility of
Wallonia is engaged and less than 10% are subject to legal action.
Brussels
Brussels meanwhile has only 11 km of highway infrastructure, 300 km
mainly structural and regional roads nearly 1,500 km of local roads
which generally pass through residential neighborhoods. The road network is Brussels
composed of 80% of local roads with local character. This road network has
varying quality depending on the investments that municipalities can or Region
or are willing to spend. For example, according to a rough estimate of
the regional administration, modernization of all tunnels of the Brussels Region
would cost some 400 million euros.
With a vehicle for less than two inhabitants, the rate of motorization in Brussels is a
the highest in Europe. Unable to reverse this trend by changing the
mentality and the relationship to the automobile, this policy seeks to discourage
the motorist to take his vehicle by redesigning the road network without taking
sufficient account those who travel by car because they do not have
other choices simply because the supply of public transport is not enough
adapted in terms of coverage, operating periods, efficiency ...
If some rearrangements can be beneficial to the quality of life in
residential areas, the reduction of significant line routes can not
qu'occasionner traffic problems where there are none now.

350

PROPOSALS
1) Given the technological evolution (low level of vehicle pollution,
development of electric vehicles, etc ...) must provide for the Region
arrangements accordingly: installing electrical terminals to allow
wider use of electric vehicles with 2 or 4 wheels; make the free parking
for small vehicles that pollute little, if at all; decrease
road tax applied to these vehicles in order to encourage wider use
of them in the city; promote boulevards where coexist harmoniously the
different modes of travel.
2) Improving the distribution of powers between regions, provinces and municipalities since
Stakeholder disparity affects the quality and consistency of the network, generates
costs and raises the issue of identifying the responsible manager.
3) Focusing on public-private partnerships in infrastructure financing
granting eg, contractors, concession on the road to renovate -
maintain - secure.
The / the company (ies), dealer (s) will (are) responsible for ensuring, for motorways and
the main roads, their maintenance, cleanliness, safety and compliance trends
Traffic accordance with strict and precise specifications including the different mentioning
expectations for quality achievements and interventions, their time and their
cost. The Region would retain ownership of these roads, companies would take care of that
their operation and maintenance. The concession is granted for a period of time
defined. These companies would be fully private or public-private mixed.
This solution would be a major advantage in terms of tendering and cost.
Only one company would be responsible for all maintenance of a section or one or
several highways. This would have a direct impact in terms of deadlines, simplify and
greatly clarify procedures.
4) Improve coordination of projects to encourage the flow of traffic and
reduce nuisance.
5) Establish, in large cities, electrical terminals networks
The motor vehicle is responsible for a share of noise pollution and air. This is
forget too quickly that in the years close to zero greenhouse gas emissions and vehicles
microparticles and quiet will become widespread on our roads. Currently, no plan
Development of these terminals to recharge electric vehicles is being considered.

6) Adjust the speed according to the type of infrastructure: better segment areas
speed.

351

7) Systematise road safety audits on all highways and roads, same
communal and use the guarantee in case of defect.
8) Prohibit maintenance (including trees) at peak hours on
connecting pins.

IV. IMPROVE SAFETY ON ROADS AND Walloon BRUXELLOISES
FINDING
In Wallonia
Wallonia continues, like Belgium and other European countries, the aim of reducing,
between 2010 and 2020, half the number of fatalities on its roads. The figures from the last
barometer of road safety than encouraging the well IBSR make Belgium one of
bad European students in terms of risk of death on the road. Many efforts
are still to be produced to make up the European average and our direct neighbors.

Walloon highways remain among the least safe in Europe. Motorways countries
such as France or Germany, where speed limits are higher, are more
two times less dangerous. In 2012, mortality highway in Wallonia was 50%
greater than that observed in Flanders.
In Brussels
In Brussels, the last general states on road safety emphasize a point
alarming: no less than 40% of serious injuries and 32% of deaths are pedestrians. In late 2008,
International Automobile Federation was examining crosswalk safety.
This indicated that Brussels was getting bad results due to the development of
pedestrian crossings and the lack of visibility during the day. The most defects
are frequent lack or inadequate use of markings, lack of lights,
352

lack of guidance on the direction of traffic, obstacles and manhole covers, the edges of
Hazardous sidewalks. Despite the installation of automatic cameras housings 90 on the axes
where speed limits are often outdated and not respected fires, only 34
cameras are alternately used. Risking getting control can be likened to a
lottery.

PROPOSALS
1) Integrate, in structurally teaching, education and road safety
knowledge of the highway code
2) Facilitating the mobility of vulnerable road users and two wheels
The MR has the will to establish land registries blackheads - and for the different modes
transport - and make the investments needed to address them.
It is imperative to generalize the specific facilities for the safety of vulnerable road users
(pedestrians, bicycles, disabled) during development works or
redevelopment of roads (roads, sidewalks, pedestrian crossings, cycle paths ...) and
consider the two motorized wheels when, for example, development works or
shifts of roads (road markings, bollards, railings ...).

3) Securing near schools
It is essential to minimize the danger posed at times of
day meeting between vehicles and children. We must therefore increase aid
financial granted to municipalities for this purpose.
For MR, the prevention and security agents commitment (APS) additional needs
be continued as these ensure the safety of children and ensure a behavior
suitable drivers at these locations at risk.

4) Adapt the speed according infrastructure and crash sites:
better segmentation speed zones)
5) Consider systematically the recommendations of the Belgian Road Safety Institute and the work of
Walloon High Council for Road Safety.

VI. Traffic flow FACILITATE AND PARKING
Security, whether in Wallonia or in Brussels, also requires the fluidity of mobility and
compliance with spaces for parking. More and more frequently, the edge
353

urban centers, parking raises questions. Properly managed, it should lead to a
complementarity between the car and public transport.

PROPOSALS
1) Streamline the reporting road
Sometimes the signal will not reach the goal, if it induces users
the error in road (road contradictory signals, unnecessary, outdated or masked).
Place a road sign is not a harmless act. Advantages and benefits must be
strictly evaluated beforehand. For MR, the roads managers must ensure
simplify and clarify the signs.
The MR advocates the development of intelligent green waves: fire remain green at
constant speed and moderate happen to red when the speed limit
authorized is registered to slow the car and then return to the green.
The MR also supports the ability for emergency vehicles to order
remote traffic lights to facilitate and accelerate their interventions.
2) Require the principle of alternating insertion:
When road narrowings associated with a reduction in the number of bands
traffic - whether permanent due to the construction of the same road,
or temporary, due to work or incidents - and risking to create
traffic congestion, the principle of the zipper ensures the smooth flow of
traffic, if properly implemented, that is to say, provided that the
Motorists do not fit too soon and borrow all lanes
available until actual shrinkage.
Now, motorists are required to fit on the principle of the zipper
in case of major slowdown or stop traffic before fewer
of traffic lanes.
3) To oppose the congestion charge would constitute a real incentive to offshoring
mass of people and businesses outside Brussels.

4) Create the vicinity of public institutions, and even some businesses, an area of
drop-off.
5) To promote coordination between the municipal authorities and downtown merchants to reduce the replenishment opening hours but also
foster, mainly for large stores, modes of
quieter transportation to reduce disturbance for local residents.

354

6) Building on the outskirts of cities and urban centers, where it is possible,
close to public transport lines or main cores
communication, secure parking and arrows of sufficient capacity prompting
motorists at a price incorporating the ticket to continue on
urban public transport network. Such car parks can also be coupled
with amenities such as schools, kindergartens and commercial and sports center.

VII. TWO WHEELS MOTORIZED

FINDINGS
More than 350,000 motorcycles on our roads and, according to various estimates, between 500
000 600 000 mopeds do the same.
For these many PTW users, security is extremely
important, especially as devoid of protective body, their only protection
Accident is limited to a helmet and some clothing for limiting the effects
direct impact or a fall. For these users, even more than for
motorists and truckers, it is vital (in the first sense) as infrastructure
Traffic will not be an aggravating factor in accidents. Thinking in particular of
markings which, poorly designed, may prove to be real time by rinks
rain or maladaptive safety rails that can become true
guillotines for motorcyclists or moped riders gliding above or below in case
accident, without forgetting the cooker sewage can pose an obstacle
protrude or be extremely slippery in the rain.

PROPOSALS
1) Amend the Highway Code and the Act of 21 November 1989 on insurance
the mandatory for motor vehicles in order to responsibility
consider mopeds and motorcycles as users
low with respect to automobiles.
At present, only pedestrians and cyclists are considered low users. The
motorcycles and mopeds are among the strongest known users in the same way
as cars and trucks.
2) Improvement of road improvements to increase safety
PTW users and systematic consultation of their
representatives when developing this work.

355

3) Provide the bus strips adequate panels authorizing the movement of two
motorized wheels in these corridors.
4) Apply a reduced VAT rate on safety equipment and on
driving lesson.
5) Appointment of a "Mr. moto" within the Directorate General
operational roads in Wallonia, privileged interlocutor between the Region,
local authorities and representative associations bikers to advise
common in their various road improvements, to report
concrete problems of infrastructure and maintenance, and existing hazards
potential managers responsible to solve them quickly.

VIII. PROMOTE SOFT MOBILITY

FINDING
Walking is the basic link in every movement and therefore a component
important intermodal. Bicycle use is still essentially today
related recreation. It can become a real means of transport for medium distances.
In Brussels, the promise made in 2004 to achieve 19 cycle routes including the territory
Regional was not respected and it is not discontinuous cycle lanes established
floor by means of simple road markings that will address it.
Wallonia:
• 450 km autonomous sites on old railway tracks;
• 565 km of towpaths
• 1 km from Ravel represents around € 100,000 investment
But there are still too many missing links in Wallonia.
Despite its success, the Ravel is not a real alternative to remaining road
mainly a tourist network attended the weekend.
In fact, it lacks in Wallonia real concerted policy to promote cycling.
In terms of attendance, the bike does not sufficiently nibble market share
Significant to the car and transit.
Incongruity to join communal routes from Ravel routes (regional) it
should ride on sidewalks or borrow way streets.

356

PROPOSALS

1) Develop specific Safety-motorized traffic (pedestrian and cycling).
2) Focus on the quality of sidewalks to ensure the safety of pedestrians and
people with reduced mobility and systematic audits crosswalks
dangerous.
Sidewalks often offer a sad spectacle of pavers or unsealed
Missing from the wrong place advertising banners, a maintenance failure. A
effort to make travel friendlier foot and clear of any discomfort should
be undertaken.
3) Improve the quality and security of infrastructures specifically for
cyclists. This focus also provides a good maintenance of bicycle paths. He
should strengthen the protection of cyclists compared to motorized vehicles.
4) Encourage the installation to major interchanges public transport
(underground and surface stops) Secure parking for bicycles number
enough. This has the effect of increasing the attractiveness of these interchanges in the
making it easily accessible to users living in a wider radius than
we are willing to explore on foot.
5) Provide the possibility of borrowing the future RER with his bike like that is
applied for example in Berlin, Munich and Copenhagen (platform access, ability to set
bicycles in ad hoc systems in some trains, etc. ...).
6) Finalize Ravel connections while putting priority for networks to use
daily (home-school trips or commuting).
7) To promote intermodal transport (deterrent parking, combine
the use of bicycles and public transport (free bike), adapting timetables, ...).
IX. WATER WAY

FINDINGS

In Wallonia
In 2009, there has been a drastic fall in the tonnage transported in Wallonia: -18%. Never
since the regionalization of waterways, Wallonia had reached a figure so low.
The decrease in traffic by the Walloon waterway observed between 2004 and 2009 finds
originated in siltation of the waterway network and the lack of maintenance of a

357

number of structures on the lower and middle Meuse. The network has on several
times, was paralyzed as a result of failures of locks.
In 2010 and 2011, freight transport by water gradually rising again.
They are some 44 million tonnes transiting the waterway in 2011.
exports have never been more important over the last ten years.
Loading and unloading in Wallonia are identical and reach over 3.5
million tonnes against Flanders, 7 million tons of cargo and 4 million
tons of unloading. Compared to neighboring countries, Wallonia was not ashamed: the
France accounts for less than one million tonnes of cargo, Germany, barely
700,000 tons and the Netherlands, 6 million tons.

The Port of Brussels
It is worth recalling the importance of the waterway where traffic helps ease
significantly the presence of trucks on the roads and in the capital provided
as urban distribution centers are arranged at certain points of the city.
The own traffic Port of Brussels has reached 4.606 million tonnes in 2012. Only the
multimodal terminal posted an increase of 16% or 14 580 units boxes
transported in 2012 compared to 12,594 in 2011.
The role of the port of Brussels is important in product supply
bulky by the waterway and beyond to transport by road.
It is important to develop alternatives to road and encourage intermodality between
different modes of transport (rail / water / road).
PROPOSALS
1) Promote alternatives to road development in intermodality
different modes of transport (rail / water / road).
2) Develop intermodal logistics spaces in cities or in the vicinity of
urban centers and along the waterways, motorway nodes and pathways
railway.
3) Reinvesting in the waterway by a rehabilitation of structures, the
rehabilitation of some bridges, higher network tonnage classes to
accommodate larger gauges, a reinvestment in more locks
large capacity and superior quality, true dredging grip and
sludge treatment, modern management of airway management
Inland ...

358

X. AIRPORTS

FINDINGS
Encouraging figures demonstrate the importance of the airport network in Belgium.
Thus, Charleroi airport carried almost 6 million passengers.
Concerning Zaventem airport, it is clear that the new procedures
off and landing generate significant reactions. The current implementation of the plan
overflight does not comply with the agreements to allocate the nuisances areas
less populated regards the new "left turn" introduced by
said plan. The new plan was intended in particular to relieve neighborhoods
the Oostrand which was partially completed. Unfortunately, this was done in
Referring nuisance to other municipalities of Brussels.
These problems are related to the new left turn from the runway 25 R and landings
on runway 01. They are frequently used without the clear indication whether
new wind standards were met and when the independent authority
nuisance control, although an integral and fundamental part of the agreement
Government has still not emerged.

PROPOSALS

1. Replace the current overflight plan avoiding densely populated areas
and prolong the night until 7 am;
2. Establish without delay an independent federal authority control
nuisance to objectify air routes;

3. Establish effective sanctions for breaches of anti-noise rules (in
View avoid attracting aircraft bins but also to minimize
nuisance to local residents);
4. Encourage cooperation between regions to harmonize noise standards
avoid all forms of "environmental dumping" between airports;
5. Plan the development of airports in accordance with the principles of
sustainability ;

359

6. Continue to support airport operations in Wallonia speeding
certain investments (longer track, car parks, rail links, ...);
7. Diversify activities at both sites BSCA and Liège-Airport encouraging
welcoming new entrants;
8. Ensure the connection of airports to the rail network (including TGV)
to facilitate inter-modality between the transport modes;
9. Effectively promote our airports to maximize investment
made in attracting new operators.

360

C. ENVIRONMENT

The Reformer Movement considers the environment, habitat and living environment are
fundamental areas. These are protective places, healing places,
places where take place the most important events of life, places
exchange and conviviality. It is from these areas that we propel us towards
outside and it is the latter that we return each evening. Ecology is a mode
organization to optimally coexistence and humanity
environment. The first has a higher dignity in the second but preservation
second conditioning the preservation of the former.
The state of the environment is generally satisfactory but many are in progress
how in many areas:
•

•
•

•

•

•

In the area of ​​water, we must put the network status and track losses.
To prevent flooding, combine classic and alternative measures.
Moreover, water is an economic deposit largely untapped in Wallonia.
This is a major issue in the re-industrialization of the region. We must attract
investors and export our expertise worldwide.
Biodiversity, we must transcribe several European directives,
Olivier task neglected by the government and invest more in R & D
Environmental.
In terms of soil management - another resounding failure of the current majority - it
is imperative to quickly adopt a clear framework to ensure legistics
legal certainty to attract investment and free up useful space for our
economy.
We have already honored our European commitments to reduce
CO2 emissions. We must continue in this direction but refrain to follow the majority
current in the pursuit of unrealistic goals that harm our economy and
make the energy prices unaffordable to an increasing number of citizens.
In terms of waste, it is necessary to impose the truth to the collection costs both in Brussels
This is already the case in Wallonia and in Brussels still, we must fully transfer
cleaning the skill of roads to municipalities while assigning the
Area chain waste and bulky. In Wallonia and Brussels, he
must fight against incivility and massively illegal dumping by
harmonization and strengthening sanctionnatrices measures.
Finally, it is fiscally promote the development of electric vehicles
Because of the significant benefits - environmental and others - brings this
promising technology.

361

Water
Water balance in the Walloon Region: the long delay in the transposition of directives
Europe is a recurring disease of the Government Olivier. The instructions
concerning water policy are no exception to the rule. Thus, the first plans
Management of Walloon parts of the international river basin districts of the Meuse,
the Scheldt, the Rhine and the Seine were approved by the Walloon Government
06/27/2013. These plans should have been adopted by 22 December 2009 at the latest ...
We notice :
•

•

•

•

•
•

•

a constant increase in the price of water: in 2000 the price of water was
€ 1.67 / m³ in 2000. He is € 2.448 / m³ since 01.21.2013. The water price rises
So today + - 4 € / m excluding VAT (which is 6%). In summary, on consumption
100 m³, a Walloon household paid € 399 in 2011 and € 423 in 2013.
the prospect of a new tax on water sampling
surface. The sector announced in the press, he "will initiate the procedures
necessary legal if the measure is adopted. " Power generators
fear that this new financial burden put an end to the
profitability of their facilities on Walloon soil. The threat of closure is
launched! Moreover, additional costs will be charged to producers
inevitably passed on to citizens bills. The political choices of the Olive Tree
severely affecting household purchasing power ...
too many losses: In Wallonia, there are about 25% loss in production
water, including 12-15% of leaks and fraud (against 12% of losses and 5% leakage
Brussels). More than a quarter of the water production is lost before reaching the
end consumer.
a poor state of bathing water: while the quality of bathing water
Europe is improving, Belgium is among the worst in the class
European, and that is to Wallonia that must be this bad note. The less
80% of bathing sites meet the standards of cleanliness.
wear network: while European precursor to benefit from the distribution
Public water pipeline, Wallonia today sees the state of its network,
more than a century, deteriorated.
abundant water reserves and partially untapped: the "Blue Gold" that
representing groundwater reserves - annually renewable - are
estimated at 550 million m³. Only two thirds of this mass are renewable
captured. This ratio shows that the threat to the Walloon reservations - brandished by
some- is a caricature.
a lack of information about the flood character of a particular good. From
Many buyers purchase goods may be subject to claims.
The scale and severity of recent floods Walloon Brabant are related to
"Over-urbanization" in this area.

362

Proposals:
1. Encourage the creation of PPPs in the water management sector. For MR,
One of the basic rules is to ensure control over the water cycle by
Public authorities. This does not prevent to open certain activities to
specialized companies. It may indeed be appropriate to encourage partnerships
public private in the sector.
2. Ensure quality service and proximity to the public at minimal cost to
level of the water distribution. The water supply is near by business
excellence. Municipalities have an important role to play but must Regions
also ensure a role of general interest, particularly in terms of solidarity, by
eg for security of supply. Agreements between Regions
border must also be able to extend solidarity (ie if
drought, flood or gel) beyond Wallonia.
3. Replace the network status and track losses. It is important to reach 1%
year renewal of the distribution network, to prevent leakage.
Currently, Wallonia is below 1%.
4. Clean up as soon bathing areas and catchment protection areas and
to comply with European directives: sanitation in these
two types of areas is very important: the first because it touches directly
tourism and the economy that surrounds it, and the second for the quality of safety
of the water distributed. We need more treatment plants and collectors.
5. Aiguiller and help those who are autonomous wastewater treatment areas. A proposed
decree to set up a pre-financing of premiums purification
individual of the Walloon Region for autonomous sanitation system was
MR filed by the group to the Walloon Parliament.
6. Exploiting the Walloon greater potential. Wallonia is sitting on a pool
importantly, the "Blue Gold". The water business is under-exploited in Wallonia. So
which is home to the world water capital in our territory, our ambitions are
too modest. In a global context where the issue of water is becoming a
major issue, capital "freshwater" Wallonia is immense; it represents 13
bcm per year (surface water + groundwater). The approach practiced in
Wallonia since the regionalization of the water policy is presqu'essentiellement
environmentalist; it's unfortunate. Given the abundance of this water must Wallonia
play "water" card holders to attract large consumers of water sectors
(textiles, food, ...) where other countries can no longer host such
activities. This is a major economic issue for the reindustrialization
Wallonia to the mandatory condition that can control the reduction process
pollutant emissions and recycling of wastewater.

363

Water balance in the Brussels-Capital Region.
Determining the true cost of the water problem. Under the Directive
European on water, Member States need to develop the tools to
determine the cost-truth of the water, that is to say all of the costs related services
the use of water in order to enable taking into account the principle of recovery of
costs. The water pricing policy must therefore encourage water users to
rational and efficient use of water reflecting the financial costs, costs
environmental and resource costs. The cost-truth of the use of water is
completely covered by two sources of financing: first the water prices charged to
end consumers and secondly a financial contribution from the Region. To get
a view of the current method of recovery services concerned, the Region has set,
on the one hand, economic analysis and, second, order "accounting". There
Implementation of the decree "accounting", however gave a mixed result.
The evaluation of environmental costs and the costs of the resource remains difficult and
not yet clear in the cost-truth determined by RBC. The government
Olivier long to develop the necessary tools, we must succeed and meet the requirements
European.
The integral water pricing system generates negative externalities. by virtue of
Directive "water" for part of the cost-Truth paid by consumers, a
pricing based on the polluter / payer must:
•
•
•

help to ensure universal access to water necessary for the health, hygiene and
human dignity and can therefore provide for social measures;
enable end consumers to encourage ecological behavior, that is to say use of effective and efficient way to contribute resources
to achieve the environmental objectives;
consider the number of people in the household, provided that the price
water is progressive depending on the volume of water consumed.

To do this, Hydrobru has developed a system called "solidarity fee". There
progressive pricing (dependent on volumes consumed) and integral aims
to encourage consumers to efficient and economical use of water, while
guaranteeing the right of everyone to benefit from a volume of water "vital". Prices per meter
cube of water will vary depending on the consumed amount (the first being very m3
much cheaper than the latter) and the number of people in the household.
Hydrobru applies a system of "global solidarity pricing". Instead account
for each household, the number of people who make it up, charging "solidarity
Global "reflects the total number of people occupying the building.
But the system generates negative externalities. The occupants, who have no control
the consumption of others, must bear the financial burden of consumption
of the assembly, which load may be their unfavorable without their being compensated. So,
efforts to reduce household water consumption will not be compensated
financially. Household by the occupier and pricing far depending on the composition of
this one, this system does not encourage users to use water resources in a
364

more sustainable way by personally promoting the most efficient consumer
water. It tends to disempower certain types of consumers and gives a premium to
large consumers. It is a source of inequity in that a household consumes Brussels
same amount of water will not pay the same depending on the type of housing,
number of residents in the building at 1 January and profile
consumption of other occupants of the building.
The untreated wastewater pose a risk to public health. The Directive
on the treatment of urban waste water requires us, rightly, to collect and
treat their urban waste water. Indeed, the untreated waste water can
be contaminated with harmful bacteria and viruses and thus present a risk to
public health and can adversely affect freshwater and the marine environment by promoting
the proliferation of algae that chokes other life, a phenomenon called
"Eutrophication".
However, the Brussels Region is struggling to meet EU requirements in this area. In
Indeed, all the houses are not yet connected to the sewer system. Otherwise,
40% of sewer water is the rain. These waters are responsible pollutant if
mixing wastewater and must therefore be treated in waste water treatment plant. He
The result is increased (useless) the volume of water to be treated.
Rainwater is not managed effectively. Increasing urbanization has contributed to
transform our natural landscape suddenly paving, paving, vaulting, etc. This
artificialisation territory significantly changes the balance of nature, disrupts
natural cycle of water and forced to complicate water management. So far, for
manage flooding problems the Region focused mainly on setting
place of conventional measures. The management program focuses mainly on the
Maintenance of the sewerage network and storm basin construction (gray mesh)
which collects water downstream and focuses the most extreme storm events. These
retention areas are not involved in the planning. However, current rains
do not create flooding but need to be treated in treatment plants. The
runoff on impervious surfaces increases polluted charges
polluting and makes the objectives of European directives on water quality more
difficult to achieve.
To address the problem of flooding worsens in the Woluwe Valley,
Government has prepared a management plan. This plan provides for the reduction of construction
new storm basins in favor of the partial use of ponds as spaces
natural flood prevention. Therefore, in addition the construction of basins
storm, work must focus on strengthening the banks of
ponds. No implementation timetable has been set.

365

Proposals:
1. adequately calculate the cost of water, which means
to. Adopt and implement the accounting plan
b. Strengthen cooperation between water stakeholders
c. Continue studies to assess the environmental cost
2. Make the pricing system applicable and equitable among all the people of Brussels,
which means :
to. maintain and promote the installation of individual meters policy;
b. awareness building managers for load distribution
water between units is done by conducting a breakdown
application of tariff solidarity, housing through housing, with counters
passage;
c. replace traditional meters with passage passage counters
smart to make instant match
Global consumption (Hydrobru times on the counter) and individual
(times on the passage counters);
d. make the most transparent water bill and more easily understandable
for the consumer.
3. Empowering consumers Brussels practicing pricing
adequate water in Brussels.
4. Ensuring compliance of wastewater with European standards, which
involves:
to. the rapid completion and commissioning of collectors
b. analyzing the feasibility of separate drainage networks furnishing
consultation with all stakeholders
c. the compliance of the South WWTP continuing
the adaptation of its facilities
d. improving the performance of the North treatment plant so
conform with the requirements of the European directive.
5. Effectively manage storm water by combining management measures
Conventional and alternative management measures for each type
environment, which means:
to. continue construction of storm basins and collectors;
b. continue the fight against soil waterproofing policies;
c. support alternative management measures based stormwater
specificities (characteristics) Geological Brussels (create zones
flood upstream water retention system, etc.);

366

d. take into account the landscape and urban integration works
stormwater management and give the water a place in the city ("dévoûtement" open up ...)
e. promote the integrated management of stormwater each project it
real estate, or land use planning must mainstream
water management;

Biodiversity

Biodiversity requires the establishment of a protective environment and in our regions, a
constant human intervention. The current biodiversity results from agro-pastoral practices
old and holding sometimes requires more sophisticated management forms (such
that regular mowing or herbicide use) which stabilize the medium to
specific stage of ecological succession. These media are not virgins but are
yet very rich in species.
Assessment of the state of biodiversity in Wallonia
There is a slight erosion of biodiversity in Wallonia. It is important to
protect natural habitats and endangered animal and plant species. Status
Species Conservation Wallonia is unfavorable to 40%. Indeed, according to
Key indicators of the Walloon Environment (2012), all groups 31%
species that have been studied are endangered throughout the Walloon Region.
Moreover, nearly 9% have already disappeared from the regional territory. At a time today, few
Things have moved. Plans are in effect in the project, including the "plan 100% Nature"
presented in the press in February 2011. A "Plan Maya" was also set up
in some municipalities. However, we deplore the lack of a comprehensive policy with
real impact on the ground.
In this same objective to face the erosion of biodiversity, the European Union reacted
by launching the creation of a vast ecological network over the whole of its territory. The
purpose of the Natura 2000 network is to protect natural habitats and animal species
or endangered plant. All Member States thus have a responsibility in
Protection of this biological heritage. This commendable policy became, at
transposition in the Walloon Region, a real political mess. This includes
also very large risks for Wallonia compared to the European Union
relative to the deadline for transposing the Directive N2000 dating from 1992. The Management
how hazardous this essential dossier O has undermined public confidence,
including farmers, forest owners and forest. Indeed, many
Farmers are faced with restrictions that affect their operations, and aids
do not compensate sufficiently the situation.
Regarding wildlife, note that populations of wild ungulates (deer, roe deer and
wild boar) have doubled in the last 20 years in the Walloon Region. Overcrowding
partly due to the feeding of big game in order to get more specimens to hunt
367

during the hunting period (for example, large laies produce more
wild boars). The current game of overcrowding causes significant damage to
forests and crops from surrounding farms.

Proposals:
1. Adopt a Walloon Biodiversity Strategy, based on the overall analysis and
local situation, set ambitious goals for the decade 2010-2020
involve all stakeholders in our region to the implementation of this policy
across the region, locally, in the various human activities and
everyone's life;
2. Promote the ecological network in Wallonia as in the Brussels Region,
as part of an extensive program of tree planting through our cities
and campaigns;
3. Better manage our important natural areas, that is to say, promote the creation of
natural reserves, restore ecosystems, protect so targeted species
threatened (by reconciling human and economic activities) and promote
participation in the implementation of Natura 2000;
4. Better regulate trade in animal and plant species,
5. Encourage the sustainable intensification of agriculture and develop with the world
a strategic partnership in agricultural biodiversity,
6. Promote agricultural diversification, particularly through the promotion of
agroforestry, sustainable energy crops, redeployment of production
with support local delivery of the Commune.
7. Limit the nutrient content of soils and water;
8. Foster a partnership between local and regional authorities and the world
Farm to develop actions for the preservation and planting
hedges, orchards and nature areas;
9. Transpose the European directives on the matter in due time, without
however go "too far" and put our businesses and farmers
competitive challenge;
10. Investing more in R & D environment;
11. Empower more hunting organizations regarding damage caused by the
game farms. The solution of the Ecolo party, adopted by the Minister
which has since backtracked, would be counterproductive. Indeed, it is to
remove the feeding to remove the excess population. Therefore, the
368

starving animals would do enormous damage to the bark of trees and
Biodiversity (particularly boars are omnivores). Instead of
regulate and impose solutions, it would be more efficient to allow companies
hunting the choice of appropriate measures, which means to make
responsible for any damage caused by game they would become
owners. This already represents a form of reality as it was feeding
transformed this wild population in a semi-domestic population. For
allow hunting societies to manage this problem, we must allow them to kill
surplus animals (increasing the hunting season, allowing
night fighter, organizing shooting sessions, etc.), ask fences, etc.

Assessment of the state of biodiversity in the Brussels region
Finding: Brussels is one of the greenest capitals in the world ... When the MR
held the responsibility of the Environment (1989-2004), this exceptional natural potential has
been many safeguards and enhancement such as creating
of special areas of conservation under the EU directive on Natura 2000
13% of the region, setting numerous green areas previously devoted to
real estate speculation by the Regional Plan of Allocation of Sol, restoring more
of twenty historic parks degraded, creating new green spaces ...
Looking ahead, significant resources are needed to improve the situation. It remains to
Brussels-deficit areas in green spaces and quality public spaces. This is
especially the central districts inhabited by socially disadvantaged. He
Brussels region also remains in some large city parks whose charges
excessive maintenance and management do not allow municipalities to achieve
quality levels worthy of the capital of Europe.
Proposal: As part of the preservation of green spaces, the MR offers:
1. Give the rural and natural sites such as the Scheutbos or Neerpede status
lasting protection;
2. Preserve the island interiors;
3. Rehabilitate parks in disadvantaged neighborhoods and put in playgrounds
standards compliance;
4. Transfer Brussels-Environnement large parks with a regional focus,
currently under the management of cities that have neither means
sufficient nor the global expertise to achieve a level of maintenance and management
optimal;
5. Implement a controlled policy for urban gardens. For that it is necessary
adopt a regulation for the organization and supervision of
vegetable so they do not bloom anywhere;
6. Exceeding cleavage Heritage / Biodiversity during the preparation of the management plan
the Sonian forest.

369

Floors
Assessment of soil condition in the Walloon Region
Due to its industrial past, Wallonia includes number of polluted soils. There would be
18,000 potentially contaminated sites in Wallonia, at an estimated cost 6 billion euros
for sanitation. It is always complicated to this day define the exact origin of this
pollution and at the same time to identify those responsible. The money that would be needed
to clean up former industrial areas equivalent to the amount of the annual budget
the Walloon Region, 6 billion. The state has no obligation to repair industries
damage in the past. Sometimes it is the state itself that has polluted. In Belgium there are any
a series of stations and disused warehouses. Thus measuring the financial impact of the
decision taken in the past, to no longer apply in this respect the principles of
public liability. If we had followed this principle, the polluter pays principle would have been, at least
if it was solvent. The legislation regulating pollution control, often called on the loom,
is misconceived. Today it leads to a severe blockage procedures for any actor
willing to engage in soil remediation or disused industrial sites. Like as
demonstrates the saga of Arcelor Mittal, the problems of soil remediation by
industries could not be more current.
The delay in the making and adoption of a third decree ground
and the non-applicability of many provisions of the second create insecurity
Legal uncertainty and soil quality (before 1975 each municipality had its
own landfill, which explains the very scattered nature of pollution in the territory
Walloon). The answers given by the Government since 2009 have not been able to
noted difficulties. The system in place does still partially
applicable! Is it not a priority to adopt it if we want to attract investors
on Walloon soil? It is time to adopt a text that guarantees legal security to all
in the field. However it should not be that this is done at the expense of the activity
sanitation. Indeed, in the opinion of many people in the industry, if the decree is being
work in the present circumstances, it is more likely that this will result in a number very
Therefore bankruptcies that development of the sanitation sector.
Companies are waiting for clear signals to comply with the requirements
European in terms of soil management and rehabilitation of polluted sites. A
modification of the "soil" decree is currently under discussion in the Government, and the text
proposed promises to displease the various sectors concerned.
Proposals:
1. Protect entrepreneurs and individuals who are facing cost study
significant strengths and soil pollution, while they are not at the root of this
pollution. This can put them in serious difficulties. Elsewhere, tools
aid for financing have been developed by the public or private sector. In
Wallonia, there is nothing concrete. Yet we all know that putting
entrepreneurs in financial difficulties is against-productive to our economy
370

Wallonia! It is therefore a first important aspect against which we must fight,
doing whatever it takes to set up a permanent support system
entrepreneurs, and private operators in the legislation on soil.
2. Release of useful spaces for our economy: the rehabilitation of polluted sites
by soil remediation certainly has an environmental purpose but also
an important economic opportunity and that because they are businesses,
mainly Walloon who undertake rehabilitation (which generates
employment) and because the sites are rehabilitated operating spaces
Economic suitable for hosting companies and industrial activities.
3. Finally Establishing a clear framework legistics about soil: if the problem is really
supported by the Government in all its aspects (environmental but
also economic), one can expect a development sector that is
not at the expense of the rest of economic activity in Wallonia. This implies :
to. to establish a clear framework and in line with the requirements specified in
materials development planning, environment and economy;
b. to clearly define the various players in the sector;
c. to integrate the economic realities facing the disclosures required
authorities;
d. to favor the implementation of contaminated soil treatment center
Walloon Region (currently there is only one center), which would generate
job creation and avoid transfers to Flanders with
ecological, additional transport costs, etc.
Assessment of soil condition in the Brussels Region
Since 2004, the Brussels-Capital Region has adopted legislation on the management
polluted soil. Completely revised in 2009, the current legislation has established a Brussels
inventory of state land which lived late 2011, some 18,000 parcels listed
as polluted or polluted alleged. They are so close to 37,000 people who are
concerned because of the condition of their soil. And most of these owners
Operators will under the same legislation, use a variety of studies to
sometimes to establish the actual pollution of their land or not, sometimes even manage to ensure
sanitation thereof.
At the date of service by the IBGE census of a plot
as alleged polluted, owners and operators have three months to
present evidence establishing the non-pollution of it. Otherwise, they
see expropriated their land. Therefore, the sale of the land and its buildings, the
issuance of a building permit or environmental performance of work
excavation, etc. will simply forbidden to implementation of a
analysis of the state of the ground to an average cost of 5,200 euros.
If pollution established by this analysis, and to recover the full enjoyment of their
goods and parcels, owners and operators will achieve - at their expense - of
371

additional investments. The addition of these particularly costly investments
(thousands of Euros) is accompanied in many cases a reduction in the value of
property, a limitation of the operation of these or a loss of profitability. This
is unfair because it particularly affects the parcels affected by
orphan pollution (or history) for which identification or commitment
responsibility of the author of it is no longer possible. If the MR fully endorsed
the sanitation target of contaminated soil on the polluter-pays principle, it can only
note that current legislation poses many difficulties and must be
revised.
Proposals
1. End the aberration which imposes the financial burden of various soil studies
and sanitation to the actual rights holder or not operator
responsible for pollution;
2. Match the remediation obligations accountability
calendar: a good father management can not be penalized ...
3. Circonstancier, ease respecting standards (and sanitation) to the
adapt to the real risk posed proven pollution on health and
the environment (risk sometimes very limited, does not necessarily justify a
Intervention).
4. Establish a regional rapid remediation funds to meet
possible financial difficulties that could affect bond holders
to clean;
5. Pay property tax rebate to the owner who can no longer
fully exercise its real interest in the property (even frozen) during the study period and
risk analysis ,.
6. Ensure better communication between the IBGE and bond holders
clean up
7. To require the IBGE to formally justify its decisions taken under
the application of the Ordinance polluted soils.

Air

To fight against the emission of carbon dioxide, the MR will respect the
international commitments we made in the matter. Under the theory
anthropogenic climate change, which links the increase in global temperature
the increase in Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions due to human activities, the objective
European climate is limited to 2 ° C increase in temperature of the planet
compared to pre-industrial levels. It is in this context that the European Union
adopted in 2009 the climate and energy package, known as the "plan 20/20/20." This
package aims to achieve the fundamental objectives of the EU in terms of development
sustainability, competitiveness and security of supply and this in three ways:

372

•
•
•

by reducing, compared to 1990 which is the base year, the gas emissions
Greenhouse 20%;
bringing to 20% the share of renewable energy consumption
energy by 2020;
20% by improving energy efficiency by 2020.

Under this theory of anthropogenic climate change, Belgium, for its
hand held to achieve by 2020 a 13% reduction in emissions. She already
achieved this.
Regarding the share of electricity in our energy mix, the government Olivier
decided on 1 March 2012 to assign a quota of green electricity up to 37.9% by
2020 (whereas the European Union has set the latter to 20.9%). Clearly
this decision heavily penalizes the competitiveness of our companies and creates in
Due to a massive use of renewable energy, a significant increase of electricity for
businesses and individuals. It is not necessary to be more Catholic than the
pope.
Concerning the quality of air, the average concentrations of suspended particles
met the stringent European standards for the protection of human health
all the air quality measuring stations.
Proposals:
1. Meeting the EU targets for reducing emissions but not
more. The will to show first class is detrimental to the economy,
population and future generations. With the current renewable energy park
we have already completed this European objective. We do not need
new wind turbines in Wallonia.
2. Improving energy efficiency and modernize power plants
existing in order to reduce CO2 emissions.
3. Select from the potential CO2 reduction measures those which are
more profitable. That is to say that you should always, before adopting a measure, arise
the question of how much is it per tonne of CO2 saved.
This is an important criterion because the resources that the state can spend on this fight
are not unlimited. Now we see that the measures do not obey dusting
not to this rationality. Promote efficiency in terms of cost implies that all
technologies and options in the energy transition must compete
to each other. Except that the young technologies deserve help
specific but temporary.

373

Waste
Review of the waste policy in the Walloon Region
The confidence of the inter-sector broken ... In 2008, the Walloon Government
defined a waste management plan in terms of infrastructure investments and
urges inter common to make investments of regional interest
promising substantial subsidies for more than 460 million €. He then asked
intermunicipal to pre-finance subsidies promised by pledging to repay
over 20 years by paying annuities. Today, the Government did not always honors its
commitments and accumulates delays in defiance of Finance and intercommunal
communal and the successful completion of the regional investment strategy. In addition, it was
decided in October 2012 that the Region supports the repayments in
interest only up to 2% instead of 5.
Lots of expenditure and no progress ... While with the results place
Wallonia in the European top in the field of selective collection, recycling and recovery,
while inter invested heavily in infrastructure
waste treatment to meet the priorities set by the Region, the Government
Walloon is lost in innumerable evaluation approaches and studies whose cost is
several million euros. The major challenge of the coming years will be, firstly, the
decrease in the amount generated upstream and, on the other hand, the development of dies
downstream recovery (recycling, re-use, recycling). Concrete measures are
absent while the needs are obvious: emphasis on prevention, management
problem of litter, cost control to citizens under
the imposition of cost truth simplification, finalization of tools, development support
sectors of Wallonia for further involve waste management and job creation
and economic activities in Wallonia.
Critics frequently raise the cost of waste and on the differences in
pricing between inter and even between municipalities in the same area.
Fairness of citizens before the services, whether in terms of frequency
collection, container parks availability, glass bubble network is also
frequently the subject of questions. Although the Walloon waste management policy
a success, the price of crop waste is both too high and not sufficiently transparent
very disparate according to the Commons.
Proposals:
1. Place priority on the fight against litter and prevention for
where there are unused budgets;
2. redirect significant resources allocated to support studies
development of environmental industries in particular in the field of
waste;
3. Finalize the current waste plan which allows compliance with European objectives;
4. Make every effort to limit the cost of waste management for
citizens.
374

5. To inform young people about waste management and their habits from the benches
from school. Awareness campaigns should be conducted, whether for
getting people to consume more responsibly, to continue sorting and fight against
illegal dumping.
6. Promote widespread high social utility projects such as
"Ressourcerie Namur." This is a commercial company with a social purpose and, in
Moreover, job creation. Valuation of channels exist, but we can
develop further. It is essential to allocate existing support budgets
the development and the creation of new sectors rather than studies
expensive and often unnecessary.
7. Check and more effectively punish littering and anti-social behavior and
this by harmonizing and strengthening of existing processes:
o training and accreditation given to one or more agents by town
to search for the perpetrators of illegal dumping;
o standardization of fines and greater severity.
Proceedings
particular for repeat offenders;
o establishment of a single toll-free number to report illegal dumping.
8. Align costs for all citizens: we must streamline tools
management, put these in the network and load the Region to ensure that
harmonization rather than inter.
Review of the waste policy in Brussels
The state of cleanliness of the city is a good barometer of the quality of urban life. Account
Given the general state of cleanliness of our public space, the Region will continue and
intensify efforts in this area. One of the main challenges will be to overcome the lack of
cooperation / coordination between all actors cleanliness. So far,
distribution of powers between the Region and the municipalities generates situations
complex where everyone blames not the work done. To avoid
our streets are dirty in the absence of clear rules, it was necessary to clarify the role of
each. Thus, in the context of the Brussels part of the sixth reform of the State, the MR has
obtained as sweeping regional roads is transferred to the commune level.
In general, the waste management targets based on the principle
waste reduction at source using the following hierarchy: prevention,
reuse, recycling, recovery - including energy - and disposal.
While the Brussels Region has a recycling rate of 30%, is the European target
reaching a rate of 50% by 2020. To achieve this will require 100,000 tons of sorted
Additional waste. However, taking into account regional specificities (context
urban and socio-economic context), it will be difficult to ask Brussels to sort
more. Efforts should be made to improve selective collections. Downtown
the city is a privileged site for the development of tourism and shopping. These
activities have different schedules from those of Brussels households, which enables them
not always adapt to refuse collection schedules. There are still in the
household waste a significant portion of organic waste, mainly from
kitchen waste, including restaurants or canteens, it is possible to
375

turn into compost, including through biomethanation has the advantage of producing
green energy. Now, consider waste as a resource to value
that generates economic activity. Many private companies have experience
and significant expertise in the field of waste.
Proposals:
1. Impose the true cost of waste collection in Brussels, as is already the case
Wallonia;
2. Transfer fully
the cleaning of roads to competence
Public and qualify the Region entire waste chain and
cumbersome. This measure was intended to achieve the objective of a hedge
more complete and effective public space;
3. Perform agreements with each municipality in order to organize
a stranglehold on the supervision of the work of the Agency by Cleanliness
municipal authorities. This particular agreement will define common objectives
public cleanliness, and a description of the operational organization of
Work carried out by the Agency to achieve them;
4. Continue this process of rationalization in the direction of better
Coordination between all actors (ABP, AED, STIB, police zones, municipalities,
etc.). The partnership between STIB and the Brussels-Cleanliness Agency for cleaning
clean STIB sites should be implemented;
5. Develop downstream recovery processes (recycling, reuse, recycling)
6. Support the development of private initiatives in the field of treatment
Waste and strengthen the public-private partnership where this is appropriate.

Various
Noise pollution (noise)
Brussels is a large urban center which has a rich cultural life, activity
Many important economic and communication (public transport,
international airport, roads ...). Noise is one of the nuisances and one of
major environmental concerns of the urban population. The noise
Brussels is primarily perceived as an annoyance that is constantly increasing, and the sound of
traffic occupies, in this respect, the upper hand. Indeed, nearly 50% of Brussels
consider road noise as the most annoying source of noise in town. When it is
excessive, especially permanently or repeatedly, when tranquility and disorder
376

sleep of the inhabitants, he becomes nuisance that can seriously disrupt the quality
life and health. Beyond tolerance, governments must take
measures to prevent the adverse effects of these nuisances for residents.
Proposals:
1. In consultation with the Confederation of construction, technical study
to reduce construction noises;
2. Determine the black spots in terms of pollution linked to road traffic and
will perform in priority sound insulation work necessary for tranquility
inhabitants ;
3. Provide standards imposing a minimum acoustic insulation of new
construction of public and private housing;
4. Integrate the problem of noise in the environmental permits and impose
operating conditions that minimize the sound impact of the activity concerned,
especially by packaging the new road improvements to the use of
materials minimizing noise and vibrations of vehicles including
trams.
Gmo
GMOs used in a marked and regulated framework, can be an opportunity for
increase yields and to create new jobs, new skills and
new niches. Concerned both security and the need to take advantage of
technological innovation, the MR opposes any ideological position that blocking
would have no scientific basis. The RM solution is above all pragmatic:
experimentation is allowed after an exam, case by case. The criteria to be
account are agronomic criteria (so, for example, the risk of dissemination of
seeds into the environment is real for rape but not for corn. For this, the
MR is based on the opinions issued at European level, by EFSA and at national level, the Council
Belgian Biosafety Advisory.
electric car

Environmentally responsible, the MR is in favor of the electric car. It's a
potential revolution in the world of the automobile and transportation. The use would be
beneficial to the community in terms of environmental, conservation
limited resources and greater energy independence vis-à-vis countries
oil producers of the Middle East, whose political regimes share
usually our democratic values. Furthermore, the electric fleet
connected to the electricity distribution network at their parking, as well as
old used batteries of electric vehicles (replaced for losing a
certain percentage of their capacity) could be used to smooth peaks
production and consumption (not generally in phase especially since the introduction
a large number of wind turbines and photovoltaic panels) into a "smart grid"
according to the concept V2G (vehicle to grid).
377

The great advantages of the electric car (EV) are:
•
•
•
•
•

comfort and driving pleasure;
total absence of air pollution (transmission zero) at the point of use
of the vehicle. In particular, the quality of air in cities will be dramatically
improved progressively as will spread the use of electric vehicles;
cost of incommensurate with the energy consumption of a vehicle
Conventional;
minimal maintenance cost compared to that of a car with a combustion engine, having regard
to the extreme mechanical simplicity of an electric car;
Vehicle silence.

The technical limitations (higher purchase price, low battery life, time
recharge, etc.) are only temporary and it is likely that a significant part of
Car engine (if not all) will be replaced if not by cars 100%
power, at least initially by rechargeable hybrid cars
(plug-in hybrid) also sometimes called electric vehicles with extension
autonomy. These limitations are only temporary, because:
•
•

•
•

the price of the batteries is very rapid decrease and it is expected that the trend
continue;
the autonomy of the new electric vehicles is growing rapidly, and
that energy equals mass capacity battery. Some predict that
some electric vehicles will eventually offer a range of more than a thousand
kilometers, thus having nothing to envy to conventional cars;
Current technologies allow loads much faster than in the
past;
as to the charging station network, this is obviously a problem
chicken and egg. Without government or distribution networks
fuel manufacturers themselves will invest in such infrastructure.

It is hoped that a clear and resolutely dynamic view of public authorities, such
can be observed for example in Norway, where there are many incentives for the use of
electric vehicles (3% of new registrations against 0.15% in Belgium) accelerates
the movement in the interest of improved mobility, more efficient, safer,
comfortable, less noisy and less polluting, economic development and guarantee
better quality of life. That said, granting subsidies (in any case already deleted
Belgium in 2013 in the case of individuals) is not the best incentive because they induce
a huge cost of administrative management. In addition, taxes are already exorbitant in
Belgium.
Proposals:
1. benefit EVs tax exemption measures

378

2.
3.
4.
5.

6.

•

o VAT exemption on electric cars, the spare parts,
batteries, maintenance and possibly even on the price
electric refills;
o exemption of taxes on insurance premiums if technically
feasible;
o exemption from circulation tax.
Provide free parking for electric vehicles and the road
public car parks.
Allow electric vehicles to use the lanes reserved for buses and
taxis.
Exempt electric vehicles from the obligation to respect the limitations of
speed 90 km / h on motorways smog days (because they are zero emission);
Grant tax deductibility to x% (x but now determine
greater than 100% for companies) to companies and individuals using a
electric car ;
Given the benefit of some or all of these five benefits (or at least a
part thereof, for hybrid vehicles (with the exception of those with
diesel engine).

Territory Development

In the Walloon Region
1. One goal: a territory for development
The policy of land is not an end in itself. Unfortunately it
had largely become the trend in recent years. The "parsimonious use of land"
engraved principle in Article 1 of CWATUPE (former Walloon Code for Spatial
territory) and reinforced in the Codt (new territorial development code) is often
seen as the ultimate goal to assign, while it is only a constraint as
another observed.
Today, respect for the environment is fully apprehended by legislation
Environmental coming from European law and which are vigorously enforced
Wallonia (Natura 2000 areas, environmental permits, impact study on
the environment, various protection zones, ...). It is at this level that should enjoy the
respect of the third pillar of sustainable development.
The spatial planning policy must (re) become a tool of political
ambitious development and social and economic redeployment whose Wallonia
urgently need.
The challenges of job creation and decent housing must be the engine
land of tomorrow.

379

The employment rate in Wallonia (56.7%) is well below the Lisbon targets
(70%). Catching the only differential means an increase in employment of 250,000 units.
These 250,000 new jobs are to be located on Walloon territory.
Besides this, more people with smaller household size, this means
increased need for housing. Figures from the Bureau for 2040 prospects
give an increase of some 600,000 inhabitants and one can estimate the need
Additional accommodation to about 300,000 over the period. These 300,000 new
locate housing are also on Walloon territory.
It is first necessary to quantify the need for space:
•

Economic activities
250,000 new jobs in locating:
- 50% located AEZ with 20 jobs per hectare 6,250 hectares
- 50% located in urban tertiary zones at 60 jobs per hectare 2.083
hectares
TOTAL = 8.333 hectares
• Housing
300,000 new housing to locate:
- 75% in dense urban environments at 60 dwellings per hectare on average
3,750 hectares
- 25% in rural areas at 15 dwellings per hectare on average 5,000
hectares
TOTAL = 8,750 hectares
• Collective Infrastructures
To these two fundamental needs, we must add the need for infrastructure
collective (schools, home for the elderly, sports and cultural activities,
transport infrastructure, ...). It can encrypt, given the increase
population approximately 3,000 hectares.
Need a total of about 20,000 ha by 2040!
We need to break ground this development at 800 ha / year on average!
These needs must be located in a balanced spatial structure for Wallonia,
coherence between job centers to create or strengthen and places of residence
amplify, ensuring the structuring modes of transport (rail, TEC, transportation
individual).
One part will fit in the existing availability of the sector plan (ZACC,
Brownfield requalify). Another part will require a land according to recreate
locations tailored to social needs (and therefore to revise the sector plans).
2. (new) method: pragmatism
A goal must be clarified a working method that is equally important.
Today, in a large extent, records the processing is built on the basis of a
addition of opinion, with a major problem: only one negative opinion (or mixed) may deliver
380

into question the validity of a file and return to square one or even worse, thwart
definitely.
Spatial planning must become a knowledge integrator in territory
and given on a project that the territory will receive. He must get to build
compromise integrating all the skills and analysis available, but not losing
Never sight of the goal: the territory is an issue for the Walloon development.
This presupposes a clear redefinition of the roles of each level of authority: the
Region, the municipality and, in between, the clear need for an intermediate level which should
make supra-communal type of arbitration (and which exists nowhere in the
CWATUPE or the Codt).
This in turn implies a "cultural revolution". All administrative actors involved
in land use records must be bathed in a "culture
project, "with the sense of urgency to achieve well-negotiated files within
determined.
From this point of view, the Delegate Officer must build consensus around a project
having powers to gather all stakeholders and bring them to negotiate
their constraints and objectives. The Officer is delegated to the Government, it
must also report to him directly.

3. Involve private and public actors
Spatial planning is essentially prescriptive jurisdiction (that
Department represents only 0.25% of the Walloon budget). It can sometimes prove to be
a formidable lever for development by ensuring legal stability and
predictability for development projects, sometimes prove to be a "lock", a
lock braking all socio-economic development. As an unfortunate illustration,
Currently, a sector in Wallonia plan review process lasts for a project
an average of seven years. Is it realistic? Is it in line with the recovery objectives
economic? ...
The liberal vision of land use promotes the following objectives:
-

-

Public authorities must guarantee predictability projects
Real posing in Wallonia (predictability on time and in
decisions, legal stability, respect for the right of private property ...). Security
is the essential legal basis for a strong and growing region;
The emergence of creators of value added projects (economic, social,
cultural, housing, ...) involving the private sector more.
The integration of the concept of sustainability (in its three components: social,
economic and environmental) in all real estate projects.

381

Meet future socio-economic challenges in a strong Wallonia (eg 2022)
the major investment involves the acceleration of procedures for obtaining permits and
planologique of revision for the emergence of business projects, housing,
schools, nurseries, sports facilities, economic areas, ...
To meet these challenges, the private sector has a key role to play. But to invest
Wallonia (or elsewhere), the private sector is based on two parameters:
-

The "return on investment" of the project;
Predictability based on the legibility of administrative procedures (deadlines, type
authorization, availability of legal, tax burdens of planning, ...) but
Also the degree of government support vis-à-vis the particular project.

While the first parameter is often quickly apprehended on the part of
investors, it does not go well with the few predictable legal framework of the Walloon law.
However, it is a basic need for the measurement of investment risk.
The first step to develop is to reassure investors by giving them the
legal elements enabling them to anticipate and calmly translate decisions
authorities. In return, according to the principle of "WIN-WIN", they benefit from
Investments by the private along the lines of policy objectives presented
in the various program documents (DPR Marshall Plan Housing Plan, SDER,
...).
If SDER (development plan of the regional area) has the merit to exist as it attempts
to draw up a development strategy of the Walloon region, it is unfortunately too
Theoretical and low operational only for inspiration every day. In short, the project
Wallonia in territorial development is unclear. He does not know where the
major infrastructure investment projects should be sited
priority. The concept of "free zone" launched in 2005 thanks to the Marshall Plan is
also a missed opportunity in this area since the choice was too
general, too vague. What we wanted to do in those "free zones"? ...
A reformed Walloon SDER must become a reference tool containing a political (and
one) territorial development strategy. This SDER Walloon must guide revisions
sector plans; plans - them - have a legal value against third parties. As
red thread, the new Walloon SDER must be leveraged to enhance the socio-economic attractiveness of the territory.
To strengthen its economic attractiveness and guarantee a competitive Walloon territory
and quality, Wallonia must also adopt a clear and stable legal framework. A
sustainable and stable regulatory framework is in itself an administrative simplification. TO
For example, inflation CWATUPE the changes between 2004 and 2009
rendered unreadable text and unstable while laudable goal of these reforms was precisely
... Administrative simplification.

382

This regulatory stability must not be the excuse to remain deaf to any reform. The
framework needs to evolve towards a rationalization of the texts and put them into practice. It is necessary
break with the policy that is the adoption of legislation without making them enter
in force.
Another approach consists in reducing the number of legal tools. This reduction should
reduce delays in project implementation and to break with the "lasagna"
administrative.
Restructuring proposal tools:
Regional
Communal
Documents value diagram development structure diagram
Indicative
regional space
Communal
Documents
Sector Plan
Plan
local
Regulatory
Urbanization
In this restructured landscape, will instead be made to inter-municipal projects (or supracommunaux) with the emergence of "inter urbanization plans."
Finally, only the value-regulatory tools must be used for motivation of acceptance (or
refusal) of licenses. Currently, too many motives are drawn from documents
strictly indicative.
In this streamlined landscape, the sector plan should be fundamentally re-energized.
Tool dating back 70 years, the document is outdated. Too rigid, no proactive vis-à-vis
contemporary issues, the sector plan should evolve into a real system
geographic information encompassing mandatory prescribed and helpful planologiques
territorial regulation. The reformed sector plan should be as comprehensive as possible
(areas of landscape interest, karst area, area flooding, ...) to ensure
legal predictability as to the proper implementation of the investment.
Binding instrument, guaranteeing predictability, the sector plan should become a tool
constantly updated on the basis of an evaluation process (current sector plans adopted between 1977 and 1987 - have never been assessed ...) and by understanding the issues
contemporary enrolled in the new SDER Walloon. In this context, the industry can plan
afford to understand the policy of "centrality of places." On this point, plan
sector has not waited for the current policy on "core habitat" as it traces
already the perimeters of "settlement areas" (red areas) and "character settlements
rural "(red pajamas areas).
A sector plan, regulatory tool par excellence, must also leave more
room for private initiative. Indeed, territorial development of Wallonia happens (ra)
inevitably by private investment.

383

This liberal belief is based on an alarming fact: currently in Wallonia, there
not enough room to develop private initiative.
To overcome this deficit, the right of initiative should be enacted at all stages of
procedures. The private should be seen as a partner and not as a performer
regional strategies to endure. In this context, it must be clear, the Government - guarantor
the general interest - always keep control of procedures and decisions.
In this context, the new spatial planning tools (SDER, area plan, ...)
must become "facilitators" encouraging various forms of consultations
and partnership between public authorities and the private sector. It should also
to insist that the administration must also be transformed into an institution
"Facilitator" for the project hatch instead of a gendarme administration
spitting in the soup served too cold or too hot by project developers.
In short, the land must become a place of manufacture of consensus and not a
Instead of blockages.
This highlighted the role of "facilitator" that represents police land
territory is also the excuse to reaffirm the real added value that represents
private initiative (and the PPP, "public-private partnership,") in the context of emergence
real estate projects of all types (housing, kindergartens, schools, sports complexes, prisons,
...). Indeed, the public sector alone will not meet the objectives and creation
renovation of housing and infrastructure. Not only are these private initiatives
allow to meet program objectives of general interest as well
these formulas are used to convey a positive image and good governance
Wallonia. For example, it would be appropriate to enable thousands of hectares of land
Plot in possession of the public sector. To do so, a private initiative could
bring out tens of thousands of new housing in the short term.
As for wastelands, before the development of private initiative to rehabilitate
slightly polluted land is a more ambitious alternative than the current situation where the
rehabilitation by the public sector alone predominates. At this rate, if the words of one believes
some leaders of the regional administration itself, the rehabilitation of brownfields
take another thirty years ... Several examples of rehabilitation by the private sector
currently underway: the old mills of Mont-Saint-Guibert, old
Forges de Clabecq ... these experiences, the public sector must invest more
massively in highly polluted sites threatening the health of local residents and
Walloon environment; sites where the private sector will never invest.
To surround these private initiatives, new consultations upstream of formulas
Projects must emerge. For example, think about setting up a meeting
convened by the applicant and bringing together all stakeholders in decision-making stage
Prior to the introduction of the permit application. This dialogue upstream
would anticipate procedural hazards and accentuate the predictability of procedures.
All in a context where the delegated official is a "project manager" conscious
the harmonious socio-economic development of Wallonia.

384

Within this new framework encouraging consultation upstream, public participation
(residents, associations, ...) should be fundamentally rethought. Some analyzes
lead to the fact that the refusal to accommodate a project near home but elsewhere
(phenomenon of "NIMBY" not in my back yard) is driven more and more into a pure and refusal
any single project where it is and sometimes whatsoever. Given this situation
disturbing public participation should be enhanced upstream procedures
projects. In other words, public participation is fully justified at the stage of
Procedures programs (SDER, SSC, ...) and plans (sector plans, PCA STREET, ...) but
must be better managed at the stage of projects. The right to environmental information is
healthy necessity in a democratic society. The general interest, common development
Planning and development of the common good must prevail over private interest,
Individual or nearby.
In this context, we advocate a return to democratic political accountability
detriment of a presently emerging more and more marked with the "prosecution"
which permits only the judge ultimately decides.
4. The creation of economic activity zones
The proof is simple: no space allocated to economic activity, are not in
economical development.
Currently only 1.2% (21,000 ha) of the Walloon territory is occupied by the activity
Economic (actual occupation to the cadastre) against 3.4% in Flanders. Per 1,000 inhabitants, the
Flanders devotes 6 ha industrial economic activity, against 4.6 in the Walloon Region!
Besides this alarming fact, significant challenges facing our country:
-

Significant population growth which certainly generate savings
residential but require increased supply of jobs, new services
This will require public ... for that also develop and create economic activity
and thus make room for it;

-

Wallonia has several thousands of wasteland. The rehabilitation of these areas
There is a necessity to implement new functions (economic activity,
housing, services ...), limit the use of the agricultural area and improve the image of the
Wallonia.
From a regulatory perspective, the operationalization of new and Codt SDER
is an unknown and will be analyzed in terms of economic development.

-

Faced with these challenges, we nevertheless found:
-

a provision still too slow space for economic activity;
situations of shortages in some subregions;
lack of centralization of information on procedures and occupancy
land for economic activity;
385

-

-

a lack of strategic vision, particularly for regional issue lands;
increasing difficulty to establish an economic activity (and cohabitation NIMBY
harder) despite the implementation of environmental policies,
Yet more and more demanding;
a lack of policy coherence;
a lack of legal certainty as to planologiques tools and permits.

To reduce the Walloon behind in areas of economic activity, it will be
implement several actions:
-

(Re) start the area plan review procedures concerning areas
approved by the Walloon Government in July 2008 and still in limbo for
the majority of them;

-

Accelerate new land provisioning procedures to
economic activity;

-

Accelerate the work of the committees of acquisition;

-

Accelerate procedures for new equipment urbanized areas;

-

Validate the idea of ​​the new SDER to release each year 200 new ha
economic activity;

-

Having a permanent reserve of available land of around 5,000 ha;

-

Clarify the rules and modalities for establishing the compensations and expenses
town planning;

-

Pursue a coherent and incentive policy for the rehabilitation of wasteland in
only objective to focus on projects that offer the best leverage;

-

Implement a land management at three levels. All fields
are now generally managed in the same way, regardless of their
level of strategic interest (local, subregional, regional). It would be useful to
implement management at three levels:
strategic land (airports, universities, logistics parks,
large area of ​​land ...) and thematic areas of influence
regional and supra-regional should be managed regionally.
In this context, the few large areas of land (over 100
ha) that the region still counts should be inventoried and
preserved with a view to accommodate activities that actually require
such surfaces;
GPs and specialists parks of sub-regional influence
would remain entrusted to existing operators, in continuity with the
current situation ;
386

small areas (ZACC, or SAR SRPE) 65 could be managed
municipal or supra-municipal level. This option would
regenerate a favorable mix in revamping centers
urban.
-

Create a basic economic land uses management data (existing
and potential).
-

Encourage municipalities by financial support mechanisms, to accommodate
economic activity;

-

Finalize the regulatory arsenal linked to Codt SDER and ensuring that the activity
Economic there is a real place. In this context, establish a committee
strategic to monitor the practical implementation of Codt and SDER and to
ensure the proper field interpretation.

Finally, in terms of sales offices (regionalised competence), it should be
implement a flexible and scalable framework for the authorities and the industry,
administrative simplification and a single permit incorporating all other permits.

In Brussels
FINDING
The results of the last two legislatures PS-CDH Ecolo-development material in
territory and urban planning is at best mixed. In major socio-economic challenge
2004-2009 years, came to add new and numerous challenges identified
particularly in the context of the development of the new Regional Plan process
Sustainable Development (PRD (D)):
•
•
•
•
•
•

the challenge of population growth;
the challenge of employment, training and education;
the environmental challenge;
the challenge of the fight against the dualisation of the city and poverty;
the challenge of mobility;
the challenge of internationalization.

1. The challenge of regional population growth is not least because the last
updating of population estimates the prospects for growth Brussels
14,000 inhabitants per year, which means an annual increase of some 7,000
household and therefore, if we take as a prerequisite that all remain in Region
Brussels, an equivalent need for additional housing.
65

ZACC: concerted municipal planning area, SAR: site redesign, SRPE: rehabilitation site
landscape and environment

387

According to available data, this growth result
mainly from the combination of two factors: international immigration
important and a natural increase (birth-death) positive. Indeed, the Brussels-Capital Region has known for several years:

•

positive natural balance with a high birth rate of 15%
(for comparison, this rate is 10% for the Belgian average of 10.7
% For the Netherlands and 12.9% for France);

•

a large influx of migrants:
Since 1994, net migration in the region is positive, exceeds
natural balance figures and has been steadily increasing. In
2008, the external migration (between the Brussels-Capital Region and foreign countries) amounted to 2.21%.

These trends are not without influence on the composition of the population
Brussels:
- Diverse population from the point of view of nationality
income and education level,
- Over-representation of young people (15-35 years) and people more
Seniors (80 and over)
- 35-80 years of representation deficit.
Two phenomena are revealed in parallel:
The region is both
•

a place where poverty is concentrated, as it fulfills a host function
for migrant populations from countries in difficulty and offers
some stability to populations weakened by the economic crisis;

•

a place of concentration of a wealthy population, which is teaching it,
employment and cultural dynamic.

Moreover, this "boom" population is also challenged by some. The
forecasts in this area must actually be made carefully and it takes
highlight the unforeseen nature of migratory movements and the uncertainty of
Prospects for real evolution of the population. The latest figures show
a trend reversal for certain common (eg. Ixelles)
The implementation of a policy on that basis is therefore not easy.
2. The economic challenge and employment is probably a corollary of the same previous challenge
if it is already present in the Brussels Region for longer.
The facts are simple, the social reality of the Brussels-Capital Region is out
with the wealth produced. Its socio-economic reality covers much more than the 19
municipalities.
388

This explains the paradox of a poor region that produces many
wealth. With a weak secondary sector, 19 municipalities make up a
Tertiary region, based on services.
All this is true only in the context of the institutional straitjacket.
The secondary sector of the Brussels Region develops in Brabant
Flemish:
Vilvoorde Brussels industry.
Brussels Zaventem Airport.
If we limited the Paris ring road, this city would have no industry either.
Furthermore, the Brussels regional unemployment rate is the highest in the country and
Many young people are unemployed and therefore unable to cope with
costs of renting or purchasing housing on the open market. The
public housing do not allow to close the recurring shortfall in this area.
Job creation, vocational training and general education adapted
are the only solutions to this vicious circle out.
Must still at the level of land use, land are made
available to businesses and schools or training. This is
far from the case when you see the recent amendment by the current
Government requirements for the equipment area that can now
host without limitation housing
The challenge of the fight against the dualisation of the city and poverty will be largely
met through more active policy on wealth creation by
jobs devolved to Brussels on the regional territory.
3. The environmental challenges and in terms of mobility are important for this region
registered in a particular urban and institutional context.
They must be taken into account in particular by integration into the context
constraints related to urban
-

the energy performance of buildings,
soil pollution,
the use of construction and durable materials techniques,
rationalization of transport means (number of locations
parking, bicycle slots, etc.).

4. The challenge of internationalization materializes by
-

a series of initiatives on the hosting plan reserved for institutions
European and international present in Brussels
through greater attractiveness to give our multi-capitals Region
a time when the competitiveness between cities and regions is larger.

389

The international role of Brussels and its role as European capital contribute very
clearly to the economic development of the region and its viability as Region
autonomous.
BALANCE SHEET
What did the Regional Government
land use planning in land and urban planning?
1. The answers given by the Regional Government to the above challenges are limited,
at the policy planning, the adoption of plans and
schemes.
Achieving these expensive plans and diagrams, themselves preceded by a multitude
studies that are generally cost more than € 12 million, seems to have become an end
in itself, to multiply the effects of rate announcement conference
press.
Whether or not these plans lead to a real implementation.
Whether the findings underlying these plans are biased or at
less bit objectives.
That said, this way of understanding the material brought joy to some offices
studies ...
2. The main change to the existing regulatory schedule is
probably adopt a partial modification of the regional land use plan
(SAPP), demographic PRAS.
Demographic PRAS
-

modifies the allocation of certain areas mainly for industrial purposes, or
Mixed order to encourage it, or rather favor the creation of housing,

-

creates a new area called Zemu,

-

In addition, some of the PRAS zones were changed to allow
strategic site development for International Development
Brussels (Delta and Heysel).

3. At the indicative planning, weak balance sheets:
-

PRD (D) is, to date, not yet adopted,

-

for communal development plans (PCD), the tool is very little
flexible, documents often old and very slow development process.
The usefulness of this type of plan should be questioned.

4. The development and adoption of master plans has run its course.
This process was initiated in the 2004-2009 term.
390

To date, four master plans were approved by the Government and cover
Botanical Cité Administrative areas, Urban Project Act, Tour and Taxis and RTBF-VRT.
Three other master plans and a master plan is being developed and
cover areas Schaerbeek-Formation, Delta, and Midi Canal.

PROPOSALS OF MR
1. We need a new dynamic for Brussels.
That means :
•
•
•

fewer planning tools, simple, responsive and controlled in
function of specific objectives particularly in terms of deadlines,
an assessment of current tools in terms of utility and efficiency,
a good land which leads to a new urbanity and gives
a contemporary meaning to the concept of quality of life in the city.

2. Answers of the present Government face the various challenges faced tend
essentially in the spotlight on housing alone.
This is the main objective of the amendment by Olivier Regional Land Use Plan
Soil (SAPP). This housing preferably leads to restrictions
Important in implanting other uses, including
economic activities: Reduction of land Economic Development and implementation
competition housing with specific allocations to certain areas.
The figures given by the observatory productive activities are instructive in this
against:
In 2011, the stock of workshops and warehouses of 1,000 m2 and totaled close
5 million m2 (4,700,000 m2) for nearly 6 million m2 (5.700.000
m2) in 1997.
More than 1.4 million m2 have been converted to other uses and near
260,000 m2 were demolished.
Since then, more than 430,000 m2 were built in new
buildings and some 250,000 m2 were added to buildings already
existing.
The MR can not accept this situation which soon will make our region a desert
Economic.
The will of the MR is not to favor one over another assignment.
The region takes its interest mainly on the co-existence where people live or
near these other assignments: local shops, facilities
cultural, sports, schools, workplaces (office or workshops, etc.).

391

The MR denounces the current development leads increasingly to authorize housing
in all areas of economic activities which SAPP allows for
Considerable gains in the value of land in those areas.
Such gains are in fact a real bonus at the start of
companies are still based in Brussels.
The MR insists maintaining PRAS the guidelines adopted in 2001 in
he favored mixed use on the entire regional territory.
3. Each district moves and evolves according to certain balances, sometimes precarious, of
functional and / or social intermingling. These balances are important.
The MR wants to maintain this balance and give priority to projects that integrate and
involved in the proper development of different Brussels districts.
4. The desire to favor the construction of large-scale housing programs
results in a trend of increasing densities or to accept
construction of new buildings, towers or jigs outsized.
The MR does not want to encourage this way of densification that excessive
deconstructs the environment and creates poor quality of housing both in its
dimensions by promiscuity often associated with this type of construction
excessive.
The purpose of the MR is
-

focus on quality housing for all

-

admit density increases in circumstances
specific and provided that the projects involved include in their
surrounding urban context and are accompanied by the necessary equipment
(crèches, schools, shops, mobility etc.)

5. MR wants a broader reflection beyond regional boundaries, to provide
the most appropriate responses to the challenges encountered, including the challenge
population.
The Brussels-Capital Region is not an island in the ocean. Too much
long the Brussels regional policies were undertaken without regard
for policies implemented by the other two regions.
The various challenges will find answers and converging in the shared
framework of the metropolitan community under the government agreement
2011, notably for the consequences in terms of migration, setting
RER work and major equipment (eg. the national stadium).
6. MR wishes to pursue an overall reflection on the Canal Zone

392

This area is too long remained under exploited and in many cases
"Abandoned" since deindustrialization of the secondary sector in the years
70.
A channel plan is being developed, it should be continued and especially make way
concrete proposals to create an integrated channel water to the city and along
which will place new districts for the implementation of
multiple complementary functions:

-

mixed neighborhoods of housing (gentrification) and various activities,

-

Economic Development neighborhoods offering real gains in terms
socio-economic picture and creating jobs for the people of Brussels.

7. MR wants to reflect on the review, redesign and simplification of
planologiques existing tools (PRD (Regional Development Plan), PCD (Plan
Municipal Development), PPAS (Plan of Allocation of the Private Sol), RRU
(Regional Urban Planning Regulations)).
8. MR wants to reflect the level of subdivision permits to include:
•
•

make it possible, under certain conditions, in two parcels division
large land to allow the construction of a new
housing without need for prior subdivision permit;
permit the sale of housing on a map without the need for a subdivision permit
beforehand.

9. An adaptation of the RRU should be considered to take into account certain
changes, in particular, for
•
•
•
•

energy performance of buildings (external insulation of walls and
roofs)
Parking standards for housing,
habitability standards to ensure consistency with the Housing Code,
conversion of office buildings into housing, etc.

10. Certain technical issues also need to be addressed:
•
•

expiration of licenses in case of partial realization of the authorized project,
better integration of administrative policies and urban planning
the environment in the context of joint projects, etc.

11. Under the Code of Brussels Air, Climate and Energy Management
(COBRACE) approved in March 2013, the government intends to regulate, through the
environmental permits, the number of office parking spaces.

393

To this end, subject to the reservation of special circumstances, a maximum quota of seats
Eligible parking spaces and also imposes the payment of a charge
Environmental for any excess parking.
Such measures should eventually allow the removal of 25,000 seats
off-street parking, as estimated by the Minister Huytebroeck.
If for the MR, it should develop mechanisms encouraging workers
adopt an alternative movement to the car, these mechanisms must
imperatively be part of an overall strategic vision, and cross
coordinated.
In terms of mobility, the policies should be complementary and implemented
work concurrently. These requirements are currently being faults (failure of a
mobility policy in Brussels), we consider it unwise to implement
certain actions outside of this overall framework, the risk of creating chaos.
Under current conditions, the elimination of off-street parking spaces
should be suspended because it would only encourage a relocation of businesses,
flight of investment and, ultimately, would cause desertification and poverty
of the Brussels Region.
12. In the context of some housing crisis and rising prices
real estate, MR wants to launch a global reflection on real estate taxation.
Too many taxes or financial contributions hit the building
housing even modest or even buildings Economic Development:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

property tax,
VAT construction (6% or 21%),
VAT on the sale of new construction coupled with the application of VAT
to 21% on the ground,
registration fees,
the specific housing building charges (added by the current
government!)
municipal taxes on the building or the right to build levied at
the granting of planning permission or during the implementation of such permits,
municipal or regional taxes
- On office buildings or Economic Development,
- On parking spaces,
- On unoccupied buildings, etc.

13. As part of institutional reforms, legislation on settlements
be regionalized business.
The specifics of the Brussels-Capital Region in terms of settlements
commercial is expected to be taken into consideration:
•

Risk of proliferation of shopping centers in the immediate outskirts of
Region, particularly in the Flemish Region;
394

•
•

Protection of the existing commercial attractiveness and redeploy it
in some commercial districts;
Fight against the proliferation of certain types of businesses in the piping
Business: department stores (phone shop, real estate agencies,
banks, mobile telephone, travel agency, etc.), night shop, etc.

All this requires the implementation of specific tools which
consultation with other regions.
"Commercial Development Perspective" was developed following five years without
brings improvements in terms of commercial appeal.

New tools must be implemented.
The MR supports the integration of the "license socioeconomic" in the procedure
the issuing of planning permission to create a new path in management
authorizations by a "single window" Heritage authorization model.
Finally, the MR intends to carry out the adoption of legislation to protect and
favor the commercial mix at the commercial centers.
14. Pursuing its objective of reducing administrative burdens, the MR estimates that
is desirable to:
•
•
•
•

Refocus planning skills at the town when it comes
strictly local projects;
Better coordination of procedures for investigating and planning permission
environment with the requirements of the Energy Performance
Buildings (PEB) and soil remediation
Remove the need to request an extension of the validity of a permit
planning after two years. Thus, permits (Planning and Environment)
will be valid for three years except in cases of suspension or expiration;
To eliminate the huge paper files (13 copies in case
consultation!), implement a computerized procedure for lodging
permit applications in a protected system to the applicant and
the administration to follow the different steps of the procedure.

15. Concerning the Heysel plateau, the MR acknowledges the decisions taken concerning:
•

the construction of a large national stadium on site parking C Heysel,
or other acceptable place

•

Heysel plateau with the redevelopment of the development including
a congress center and a shopping center (NEO project)

395

These large projects must be in the direct surrounding urban context and the
Brussels context based on the benefits to be expected in terms of creating a
jobs and new tax revenues.
The MR insists that these major projects are established in conjunction with other
quarters or other poles with which a particular synergy can be created.
This is particularly the case between Heysel and the Canal Zone.
Furthermore, the development of such emblematic projects must not forget
renovation needed boulevards of the center and the revitalization of the cores
existing trade.
It is through the creation of specific local characteristics of each commercial core
and the link between some of these and some of the more tourist-oriented sites
the commercial dynamism of the region will be preserved and increased.

396

D. ANIMAL WELFARE
Finding
Our country has 1.167 million and 1.974 million chats66 dogs. Often member
full family, a household spends on average 848.90 euros per year for the
animal, more or less half of food. The market for pet products is
estimated EUR 1.5 billion.
The animal does not have to be considered as a toy. Possession leads
obligations and responsibilities which are unfortunately sometimes minimized by
owners. The animal must have a feed, care and accommodation which
suitable to its character and its own needs.
Moreover, in the world of scientific research, where experiments on animals
are sometimes the only way to carry out some projects, sustained attention is
reserved to ensure the welfare of animals used. The various measures by the snuff
Belgium in recent years have contributed to lower than 10% in two years the number
Animals used by laboratories.
Balance sheet
- Plan Cats: sterilization multi-year plan of domestic and stray cats.
- Compulsory registration of dogs and cats: so far, this provision
was applicable only to dogs.
- Prohibition for shelters to introduce animals from abroad saw
their current overcrowding.
- Creation of the legal basis regulating the arrangements for the organization of training,
the organization of examinations and the construction, layout and equipment
slaughterhouses.
- Establishment of the legal basis to mandate the King to determine the conditions
to which experiments on animals projects must meet to be
authorized and in addition, to determine that these conditions can contain bonds
against project managers. The horses are held outside power
be returned to a stable or, failing that, have a natural or artificial shelter.
Proposals

66

•

When regionalization, ensure that the competence is entrusted to the Ministry
of the environment. Indeed, the health aspect remains within the competence
Federal, it is no longer justified to let the animal welfare in the lap of
Ministry of Health.

•

Continue promoting best practices relating to animal welfare
not to undermine the competitiveness of our companies. We will continue to

Source: FPS Economy

397

defending the correct and full transposition of European directives (cages
for laying hens, transport of live animals, etc.).
•

Implement mandatory training for industry professionals to
they can best inform consumers about the animal and its needs.

•

Provide for the obligation to inform the buyer about the particular characteristics
adult animal he wishes to purchase as well as the living space necessary to
this last.

•

Supervise the detention of "New Pet", taking into account
the welfare of these animals, but also the necessary protection
biodiversity.

•

Increase in cases of animal abuse, the fines (100 euros
1,000 euros instead of 26 euros to 1,000 euros). In case of recurrence within three
years of the previous conviction for the same offense, the maximum
the term of imprisonment is increased to two years and the fine is worth
doubled.

•

Allow the prosecution to give a seized animal as freehold
in many cases, abused animals are not entered by the service
Animal welfare but by the prosecutor made aware of cases of abuse by
the local police. The prosecution will only intervene "where appropriate", ie if the
Service Animal welfare does not take measures.

•

Establish the States General "Animal and Society", to review the same status
of the animal and, in accordance with Article 528 of the Civil Code, considered
furniture.

•

Continue to work to the welfare of farm animals while ensuring
preserve the competitiveness of Belgian producers.

•

Ensure that periods of extreme cold, pet owners living in
outside make available their (s) anima (ux) l a dry place where it can
sunset and where their drinking water will not freeze.

•

Take stock of the situation of shelters and target their needs to provide them
appropriate responses.

•
•

Ensure full operability of the Belgian Centre of Alternative Methods.
Introduce the requirement to indicate on the packaging of each packaging
Cosmetic and detergent offered for sale, the product has been developed
item with or without recourse to laboratory tests on animals.

•

Provide a formal accreditation system for dog training centers.
398

•

Problem of aggressive dogs and their coaching
-

-

List the aggressive breeds, a census and statistics,
particularly through accidents recorded in hospitals, taking into
Account dogs are crossed.
Regulate their possession, via a "passport for aggressive breeds"
issued to the owner.
Their obligation to follow a socialization process and make their
a test of socialization to a veterinary behaviorist.

399

THE STATE FAIR
The MR supports a State refocused on its core tasks, activities which freed
are not comparable to public service missions.
We want "better state", that is to say more vis-à-vis citizens transparency
including fiscal and tax matters; more democratic control, there
including through the strengthening of direct democracy; more efficiency in
carrying out the tasks which are those of public authority: security, education,
justice, health protection, preservation of the living environment, social solidarity.
The MR, fighting against the financial and banking crisis, managing the state budget,
ensuring better governance, ensured the conditions necessary for a federal state
effective. The time is not the institutional reforms, but to action. To curb
populist, to protect society from a dangerous demagogic skepticism it
need a fair and effective state.
The diversity present in the heart of our society should no longer be the source of tensions. This is
why we must fight strongly against abuse in immigration, and to
create the conditions for successful integration. Living together can be learned, and is
possible only in the respect of fundamental values, which can not suffer any
accommodation.
Liberal democracy is for all our citizens the most precious common good. The MR
wants to strengthen its effectiveness in the service of each and everyone.

A. BUDGET - FINANCIAL SANITATION
Finding
During this Parliament, nearly 22 billion in savings were realized. After
the economic and financial crisis of 2008, it emerged as essential to respond to
reduce the debt ratio of the Belgian state and government deficits so by
meeting our commitments to the European authorities.
As for annual deficits, Belgium managed to rank among the best
Countries in the euro area. Belgium, with a deficit for all authorities
Public reduced to 2.7% of GDP at the end of the 2013 financial year, made better
terms of financing balance than some of its neighbors, significantly better than the
average of the euro area (3.12%). Thanks to the efforts of the Federal, an observed
improvement in the balance of funding equivalent to 1.3% of GDP between 2012 and
2013 (from 4 to 2.7%) for all public authorities. These efforts are all the more
appreciable they were achieved despite a deterioration of 0.5% growth at
Throughout the budget year between forecast times the initial budget for 2013 and the

400

effective implementation of the budget. For the first time since 2009, the deficit of our
country passes under the 3% of GDP.
The state debt (almost 371 billion euros at 31 December 2013) had risen
significantly under the effects of the 2009 crisis, the European Commission requires
keep the debt below 100% of GDP. This threshold is obviously very important for
get the confidence in the financial markets and therefore enjoy rates from
correct repayment of our borrowings. At December 31, 2013, the Belgian debt is
99.7% of GDP.
The interest expense of the federal government amounted in 2012 to 12,860,000,000 euros. It
is a significant amount also that the state must repay. We must act
actively on interest rates in order to use the funds to conduct other policies
for citizens. After 541 days of political crisis, the new government under
the impetus of its Minister MR budget has reduced its debt ratio of more than 2%.
In December 2011, the average of the OLO 10-year rate stood at 4.64% and were even
peaking at 5.69% in November of the same year, while during the crisis
2009 Economic and Fiscal applied rates were close to 6.5%. 2 years
Later, the medium is lowered this time at 2.35% (February 2014) after achieving
historically low interest rates in the course of April 2013 (1.91%).
In other words this means that the Belgian State, to finance its public debt, borrowed
at the beginning of this Parliament at higher rates to 4% and it borrows
now 2%. This finding makes sense when you consider that the State
refinances seventh annual Belgian debt, borrowed 55 billion, a
decrease of 1% per year rate represents a saving of over half a billion
euros per year. This saving will relieve the taxes collected to the detriment of
taxpayers.
Relocations and closures experienced by our economy and that have weakened our fabric
socio-economic in the last month more than ever revived the debate of
competitiveness of our companies. Everyone agrees that measures
large magnitudes raises must be conducted quickly. Excluding this can not be made
feasible only if the finances of our country that are sufficiently healthy
to clear the surpluses needed to finance them.
In the case of Belgium, it is clear that the tax burden on labor is an
brake on job creation and reduces our competitiveness vis-à-vis enterprises in countries
foreigners. Outside, in a fiscal consolidation plan, necessary for our countries,
is often the dilemma between introduction of new taxes and deleting
certain tax benefits on one side and cuts in public spending measures
the other. The MR is clearly against the introduction of measures which would reduce the
purchasing power of the people who work or may lead to new
Bankruptcy.
Added to this is the growing number of older persons in the Belgian population
generates strong pressure on the financial viability of social security. It is urgent

401

take that arm body problem now or risk seeing the generations
future prey to very serious difficulties.
Good management of public funds thus proves to be a crucial challenge. Savings
conducted by the federal government under the leadership of the Liberal budget minister have
helped keep the public finances of the state afloat thus ensuring resistance
stronger our economy to do with the crisis. Aware of the risks, the MR wishes
go further by proposing structural measures that will say the last
spending reductions over time. Belgium, viewed as a whole (that is to say all
combined power levels) does not provide sufficient feedback effect. The empirical observation,
based on a compilation of data from the OECD and the World Bank, shows
weaker performance of our budgetary resources than at least twenty
other industrialized countries and mature.
Fiscal and parafiscal revenues (including social contributions) total (all
powers combined): 51.0% of GDP
Overall primary spending excluding interest expense (all authorities):
51.6% of GDP, divided into two: 26.0% for social benefits and 25.6% for
other expenses.
Although the public debt ratio is kept below 100% of GDP, new
EU rules require us to reduce debt to 60% of GDP within 20 years. What
means that from 2015, the goal of Belgium will be to reduce by 2% per year.
Proposals
After the savings that have been made especially in reducing spending, the efforts of
Fiscal consolidation should be pursued by attempting to make the structural,
repetitive as indicated by the European Commission in its opinion with regard to the
Belgium during the European Semester.
We must place our priorities on the search for efficiency. That is to say, providing citizens with
the same quality of service (or higher) using the least possible resources.
It is by pursuing the war on waste of public money that the measures persist
in time.
Apply positive motivation to the public sector
In the present circumstances, those responsible for the implementation of policies
(managers, officers and top managers) are not rewarded according to the
budgetary targets to hold. Therefore, they prefer to seek ways
new rather than face complex issues to solve and unpopularity
the services they manage. For their part, the budget controllers are incapable
to stem these requests because they are not in operation and therefore ignore some of the
possible alternatives.
If companies materially reward their managers for results
reaped, why not seek to introduce a similar system in the area
public? With performance indicators, we need to establish a system of
financial motivation relative to predetermined targets (government declaration:
objectives set for the duration of the term).
402

It must be to allocate a portion of the compensation due to the currently mandatairesgestionnaires and top managers based on the achievement of concrete objectives by ensuring
avoid direct conflicts between managers and citizens.
The MR wants the application of this measure field is as wide as possible: it
is not only the central services of the federal state, the Communities and
Regions, but even including local authorities, institutions
education, public companies and even of parliaments (for budget
internal).

Resetting priorities for expenditures incurred
Perform cost-benefit analyzes of policies and encourage those whose
benefits are most important for people and affecting more
stratum of the population. We must refocus the state on what to do direct service
citizens.
Setting up a budget level administration of the Walloon Region
It is for instance inconceivable that the Walloon Region has no system
management control nor a budget administration, moreover, while the Region
Brussels is provided.
Extension of the control of the Court of Auditors at local level.
Develop a macro view of all the subsidies granted to
non-profit institutions to better control their assignment.

•
I.

Regional finance
Finding - Review

In the coming years, the federated entities must participate
sanitation and the fight against aging.
Efforts to be made:
2015
2016
2020
Walloon Region
300.0
609.0
736.0
Federation W-Bxl
92.2
185.4
256.6

efforts
2025
936.0
486.6

As we see, even after the transfer of skills (and means) that should
increase the budget of Wallonia to nearly 13 billion in 2015 (considering the St.
Emilie) and that of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation to almost 10 billion are dedicated effort
therefore still remains. Indeed, it will amount to the end of the decade to close
5% of the Walloon budget and more than 2% of the Federation's budget.

403

Needless to say that choices must be made and policy optimization
Public (less waste, more efficiency, examine each euro spent ...) is
essential.
However, note that if you globalizing expenses of the Region and those of Part
"Walloon" of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation (territorial optical), it appears that the
Walloon region spends about € 250 / inhabitant more than Flanders. This is to be
account.
Following European recommendations, the federal government asked the entities
federated to reach the budget target set for 2015 in 2014 (ie one year
in advance).
2014 The objective of the entity I (federal government and social security) is fixed at - 2.25% of GDP.
2014 The objective of the entity II (federated entities and local authorities) amounted to 0.1% of GDP!

If the regional budget in 2014 to suggest that the balance could be facially
reached (this is always an "ex ante" exercise), it must, however, deplore the low
structural measures adopted in order to achieve that result. No reform
depth, exercise is more accountable than prospective. Difficult to do
highlights the priorities and proven to meet the choices (probably difficult) operated.
Example: chronic under-consumption of the Marshall Plan 2.vert.
Multiplication, sometimes to the extreme, tools, agencies or other bodies
pararegional has consequences:
- A dispersion of resources because each organization inevitably leads to charges
operation (staff, buildings, ...). In addition, each agency must justify its
existence.
- Lack of transparency notably inconsistent with the audit work
parliamentarian.
The Walloon debt is a reality that it is vain to underestimate. A recent report
the Court of Auditors has valued at nearly € 12 billion at December 31, 2012.
This is a consolidated debt, that is to say, integrating debt underwritten by a
series of public bodies included in the scope and Walloon this scope is growing more and
more over the years.
We must, more than the level of debt, deplore the opacity lies in what is called
modestly "alternative financing" which are de facto part of the regional debt.
Moreover, now, the funding of expenditure by borrowing will impact directly
as the overall balance of the Region that debt. The change
404

"Accountant" is not without consequences, the launch year of the program, the
deficit and debt administration or public body.
The estimation of north-south transfers, at large, is far from unanimous, but
note, however, that Wallonia is beneficial up, according to studies,
€ 5.5 billion to € 8 billion. The range in terms of the transfer in favor of
Brussels is between 0.3 and 2 billion €.
In five years of the Walloon legislature revenues grew by almost one billion €,
15% of the income budget for the south.
II.

Proposals - Guidelines
The zero-based budgeting (ZBB)

The BBZ is a technical and budgetary decision-making that aims to allocate
resources in the most effective manner possible "rethinking" each expense. It
opposes the traditional procedure for establishing a budget that is to be considered as
acquired the previous year.
The relentless struggle against waste of public authorities
Eliminating the waste of all kinds is an ethical obligation that derives itself
of paramount value: responsibility. She is none other than the actual translation and
visible a mindset, a new culture of public management. That is why we
urge a flattening of regional finances and an unbiased review
the financial position of Wallonia.
Optimizing public management
Can we still afford to manage the TEC group with 85 administrators and 11
Directors General and Deputy Directors-General, while De Lijn has only 11
6 directors and general managers while carrying passengers to double?
Is it conceivable in this context to have cut the TEC Walloon region in five areas
and therefore have made six boards of directors and as many directions committees?
It must indeed add SRWT that caps everything.
At the same time the RATP (Paris) carries eleven times more passengers and is controlled by
27 directors and four general managers!
Social housing also presents him with pockets of potential savings. In Wallonia, the
1104 Sector is managed by 68 directors for housing corporations (that is to say,
68 general managers, financial managers, legal ...) barely managing 96,000
housing. At the same time, the region of Reims (France) has established a single company
caring for 40,000 homes with 24 directors, a director, ...

405

Can we admit communications spending more than 18 million € over the
first four years of a legislature?
It has become necessary for everyone abandons its taboos and other "sacred cows." The
is no time to retreat into ideological conflicts from another era.
It will now do more with less. This induces otherwise
to address issues like mobility (eg public transport: renters
Private versus force account), nurseries (private versus autonomous guardians nurseries
"Public") or social housing (home ownership through social credit or
use of social housing agencies versus social housing) The ...
least expensive route for regional finances, equal result is imperative
be chosen.
Modernizing the Management of the Walloon public accounting.
This would increase the monitoring of expenditure through more monitoring tools
performing.

Develop a macroeconomic vision of all the subsidies granted to
non-profit institutions to better control their assignment.
B. FINANCIAL REGULATION AND PARTICIPATION

1. Observation / Record:
The economic and financial crisis of 2008 has highlighted the limits of the financial sector and
necessitated intervention by the state to save our economy
domestic and Belgian citizens during this period.
At the time, the MR, through its Minister of Finance, had assumed its responsibilities taken
difficult decisions such as anti-crisis law and allowed our country through these crises
preserving the interests of our citizens.
Relations between the State, society and the financial world have changed dramatically. By
Therefore, a more binding regulatory framework should make its appearance. Similarly, in
the future, supervisors should be better equipped to perform their tasks.
In order to ensure our well-being and that of future generations, the Government decided
under the impetus of the Reformer Movement have the means to protect themselves with
systémique67 against serious risk to avoid that as was the case a problem
market is reflected successively on the banks and the real economy, with
focus on prudential supervision. Prudential supervision is more particular subject
67

Systemic risk is commonly defined as the risk that the failure of one or more credit institutions triggers
a crisis of confidence in the banking and financial system as a whole, the country or even internationally.

406

to ensure that each individual financial institution is solvent, liquid and profitable
and is organized and managed in such a way that it is able to adequately manage its
risks and meet its commitments.
We see at present that in these industries the lessons have been learned
and abusive practices have clearly declined in the profession.
In control of rules of conduct, legislation has evolved
considerably during this Parliament, especially since the adoption of the Law of
July 30, 2013.
The Act of 30 July 2013 aims to enhance the protection of users of products and services
financial as well as the powers of the Financial Services and Markets Authority, and
containing various provisions (I) is a continuation of the reform which
the Belgian financial sector control architecture has been, from a model
integrated control towards a bipolar model, called "Twin Peaks".
The changes that this legislation brings to the existing legislation are continuing mainly
two objectives.
→ Improve the existing legal framework to increase the efficiency of monitoring and
enable better protection of users of financial products and services.
→ Increasing cross consistency rules to protect
users of products and financial services.
A range of measures have been proposed in the final report of the National Bank
Belgium on structural banking reforms in Belgium at the request of
Government. These measures should be implemented according to the schedule
European in a new banking law, rewriting the law of 22 March 1993, will aim
including strengthening the "resolvability" in case of failure of banks and limit
risk of having to appeal to taxpayers
Drawing lessons from the overall lack of capitalization of the banking sector and insufficient
regarding liquidity requirements at the time of the financial crisis, the amendments
had particular: the strengthening of bank capital as under
quantitative and qualitative angle to ensure better protection for savers and
a greater margin of safety in case of crisis, cash requirements more
important to manage short-term liquidity risk and long term,
the emergence of standards to prevent the distribution of dividends and bonus or
increasing the lending violate the prudence and soundness or
Again, the establishment of a leverage ratio between capital and assets as well as better
taking into account counterparty risks related to exposure to derivatives.
The new banking law provides, in addition, the strengthening of rules on
governance of banks and their supervision.
To the Reformer Movement, good governance within banking institutions
is a priority and it is therefore pleased that it has been particularly planned to ensure the
CA's independence from effective management of banks via the presence
407

non-executive directors, including at least one independent director with
limiting the number of directorships, to require in-depth knowledge of the activities
Banking on the part of the directors or the extension of the role of the Council
particularly of Directors on important transactions or
of risk appetite. Also, strengthening the means available to the authorities
control to supervise banks represents another significant step forward and
beneficial to the community. All this in order to strengthen the management oversight
bank by the Boards of administrations themselves.
The MR has always attached particular importance to the protection of investors. It
reflected particularly in the creation of new capital cushions leading
a significant increase in regulatory own funds of banks.
Finally, limitation see the removal of subsidies in some cases for institutions
having benefited from public money.
2. Proposals
The fact remains, that the MR is aware of the positive role played by organizations
Banking on the real economy and refuses to lead to a situation where their margin
maneuver would be too fragile. Keep in mind the crucial contribution of investments
for the remuneration of savings and the need to leave a healthy
diversification of activities within banks had respect to the protective role they play
on the sustainability of organizations. Therefore, the MR is satisfied with the planned changes
in the new banking law and refrains from excessive interventionist likely to lead to
a form of asphyxiation activities.
State participation in the bank "Belfius"
Dexia Bank was acquired by the Belgian State in October 2011 in order to secure Dexia
Bank Belgium and isolate risky assets. The idea was to isolate the problematic activities
activities that are profitable to avoid the whole bank is found
facing solvency problems and that it can continue to operate, which
is important economically as it is to continue to extend credit. TO
Currently the Belgian State owns 100% of the company.
The role of government in the banking sector is to create a climate of trust,
guarantee legal certainty and ensure that all banks are subject to the
same rules. The Federal government has therefore not intended to remain indefinitely owner
bank. For the Reform Movement, it is normal that once the company's stability
found and safety provided to new investors, the company once again become an actor
private.
Stake in Dexia Holding
In the company owned 60.5% by the Belgian State, found alongside the products
many toxic products with long maturities and therefore quite profitable whose
conservation by Dexia was incompatible with a turnaround of the situation at the time
408

of the crisis. If he were to part at present, the state would lose money. This is
Therefore, the MR advocates the conservation of its stake in Dexia Holding, for
moment.

C. GOOD GOVERNANCE
1. Good governance as a public policy management mode
A. The finding in Wallonia
When installed in July 2009, Olivier committed to emerge, one in Wallonia
company based on a new dynamic model and mobilizing development
sustainable, human solidarity and deploy it to a shared energy, with
the objective of providing a place and a future to everyone, to profoundly change our ways
of life, consumption and travel, energize and optimize public action.
The ambition was great, we were in the time of great promise. This
Government has in fact never really been the most productive in fields
determinants for Wallonia and the Walloons.
L'Olivier pokes fun to have brought reforms to the governance of Wallonia through
some media measures do nothing to meet the expectations of citizens
employment, housing, economy, easing the tax burden and
administrative, of places in nursing homes or day care centers, etc.
Bad governance 'testimonies multiply within the Government: in
reflected the accumulation of budget balances, increased debt, delays
payment of public institutions sometimes exceeding 100 days, the delays,
mistakes and reversals on many issues management for which the majority
had trouble agreeing (TEC management contract, Natura 2000, tram in Liege, arms licenses
senior center for elite athletes, photovoltaic panels, wind power setting, etc.).
The land and environmental planning policies suffer from a stalemate
Complete both administrative complexity and lack of political will are manifest
which penalizes the development of Wallonia and many projects.
This is a recurring observation: among the obstacles often cited the Walloon recovery,
the valuation of the initiative and the creation of activities, individual development
include the weight and complexity of regulations and procedures but also the
multiplication of structures and institutions in all areas of privacy and
professional. Despite the frequently heard speeches and promises, past
years have not resulted in a truly global simplification measure of reality.

409

B. Proposals
•

Implement a regional employment policy putting a high priority on
the real issues of Wallonia: respond quickly and effectively to the
absolute need to reduce structural unemployment plaguing Wallonia offer
young people real opportunities and actively support the employment of more than 50 years.
This requires in particular a comprehensive reform of FOREM and tools
training.

•

Create favorable conditions for economic investment, particularly
adapted to the space available to those who want to create their activity,
invest or expand their business, and diversified manner. According to the Minister
Walloon Environment, Spatial Planning and Mobility, there
enough space for companies in Wallonia for 20 years. This
conclusion is not shared by economic actors courses (IDE UWE, FEB, ...).

•

Further streamlining the landscape of financial tools to facilitate Walloon
access to corporate financing.

•

Conduct a broad flattening operation, item by item, to eliminate
systematically waste, the misused budgets, redundant or not
priority, excessive and arbitrary spending to identify ways
budget and allocate to real needs.

•

Initiate a vast movement of simplification based on three major axes:
Simplification of key laws and procedures which are
exposed citizens in their daily life in the area of ​​permits and
premium (standardization and longer periods of validity of licenses,
authorizations, registrations and approvals, shortening deadlines,
removing excessive formalities ...). We really must enter
in a legislative and regulatory recession phase leading to a
real rationalization of the framework after thirty years of development
continuously following the emergence of the Region. This simplification must also
involve the vast field of administrative relations and funding
between the Region and the municipalities now mired in a multitude
regional support to local policy tools, each source
excessive administrative complexity. We must emphasize the human rights system
draw, streamline the landscape plans, programs and measures proposed
to municipalities to accelerate the political and investment
communal participating in the economic development of our region.
The complete computerized traceability of all procedures that
citizens must follow to their construction records, investment
energy, modernization, investments. For each procedure, the
citizen or company should be able to know his every moment
contacts, know the status of his case, when it will grow and succeed.
410

Systematization of strict time limits in all procedures
allows any applicant to know from the beginning of the application date
decision-making and in default of decision, the fate of his request or
the remedies available to him to bring his claim, if any
with sanctions against defaulting authorities. The MR filed a
series of proposals. These strict time limits should also apply to
payment delays by government bills, period to be
reduced to 30 days instead of 72 days now and the payment of
subsidies and bonuses granted to citizens.

2. Good governance as a rule of conduct for political appointees
A. The finding in Wallonia
If the proposals did not miss the start of term, few have succeeded.
Serving on a corporate function it would facilitate adoption of measures to oblivion,
for example, to clarify the conflicts of interest be it agents from
chiefs of staff, Commissioners of Government or professions such as auditors,
legal advisers, consultants?
It is surprising that some cases were unsuccessful and even changed little
as the establishment of a Conduct and Ethics Commission, the establishment of a
benchmarking leading positions in public companies and limited
their remuneration and the creation of a Court of Walloon authorized accounts
control all institutions dependent Wallonia.
The advances in governance are they therefore limit to a symbolic action
which is the cumulative limit between a local function Executive (Mayor, Deputy Mayor,
President CPAS) and mandate Walloon MP?

B. Proposals
There are some 240 legal provisions that prescribe, in respect of the agents
policies, or incompatibility of the various prohibitions, all levels of power
confused. In this context, it is clear that inconsistencies exist and undermine these
principles. Consequently, a consolidation of all incompatibilities, all
confused legislation, is required and participation of all stakeholders, what
that is the assembly where they sit, is essential to the full and thoughtful redesign
system of incompatibilities, essential to the establishment of a genuine governance
policy. This could be the work of one of Conduct and Ethics Commission
Wallonia whose mission would be to evaluate and harmonize the rules on incompatibilities
and conflicts of interest not only political but also agents of some
professions (lawyers, auditors, consultants, etc.). It would also be responsible for
411

receive the declaration mandates and elected heritage and to inform the prosecutor
if no return for possible prosecution. This Commission
also to know the issues with which the Ministers have a financial interest
staff and see to it that they can not deliberate.
In the same vein, it is essential that the chiefs of staff can not exercise
directorship, management or presidency in a public entity under
the competence of their Minister. Similarly, it is inconceivable that the Commissioners
Government sit in a public body under their tutelage.
For the sake of policy coherence, synergies between federal entities and good
management, it is important to promote as much as it can double-hatted Ministers in their
assigning complementary skills from one entity to another (eg training and
RW job with teaching FWB).
A. Findings in Brussels
In a democracy, that the citizen elector to understand who is responsible for what
is essential if we are to increase the degree of trust and public support
while constantly improving the quality of public service.
Admittedly, these goals are particularly difficult to achieve in the
Institutional maquis that characterizes the Brussels-Capital Region.
This is primarily the result of successive reforms of the structures that have
Belgium to develop a very specific type of federal state.
A predominantly French-speaking Flemish majority countries of the Region
Brussels is the main obstacle to split ambitions of the country but
as the crystallization point of our institutional complexity and this mainly
to meet the demands of Flanders.
This was true both in the matter of fixing the boundaries of the
Region and its ties with its natural hinterland than in the structures and
heavy and expensive mechanisms are set up to protect his minority
language (see number of parliamentarians in Brussels, double majority mechanism
coexistence of three community commissions, splitting many positions
executive officers, etc.).
Do not neglect the effects of the propensity of the parties of the current government
Brussels (PS-CDH-Ecolo) to increase para-regional bodies (33 to date!)
the utility are often questionable to resettle their affiliates.

B. Proposals
Rationalization, clarification, efficiency and transparency of institutions and services
public while respecting the subsidiarity principle are fundamental objectives for the
MR.
In this context, the objectives are fourfold:
412

-

Reduce and simplify the Brussels institutions while strengthening ties
the hinterland through the implementation of the metropolitan community provided for in the
6th state reform;

-

Ensure transparency in the use of public money as a concern
constant war on waste of all kinds;

-

Ensure the neutrality and objectivity of all our administrations must be
really serve citizens and businesses;

-

Objectify and depoliticise appointments to high public office.

While sitting in opposition to the Region, the MR obtained or permits:
reducing from 33 to 15 the number of real estate companies public service (SISP)
who manage the social housing stock in Brussels;
the suppression of the function of Governor of the district of Brussels-Capital (while at the same time the Brussels government has appointed a
new Flemish Vice-Governor ...)
deletion, on the proposal of MR, tens of statutory mandates
accounts in intercommunal because they had become totally useless since
that the company law requires the appointment of auditors Commissioners
professionals.
reducing, for the issuing of planning permission, the number of
files to be submitted to the Region following a favorable opinion of the Committee
communal dialogue. This results in considerable time savings for
seekers.
In addition, the MR wants:
•

Delete a post of Deputy Mayor in each municipality.

•

Include the Chairman of CPAS in communal Colleges.

•

Reduce the number of para-regional bodies (now more than one
thirty regardless of intermunicipal and sectors managed by three
community commissions) by conducting an assessment "costs! -
benefits "of each of them and bringing synergies and clusters,
This will reduce again the number of representatives and leading officials.

•

Ensure effective control of compliance with the rules on cumulation of
mandates accompanied by real sanctions for those who do not comply.

•

Prohibit the cumulation between a management position within an intermunicipal
(CEO, Deputy CEO or CFO) and a mandate
Executive within an associated joint.

•

Codify all incompatibilities in order to make effective control possible
compliance with rules in the matter.

•

Sure, like what was done to the Federal Government, Transparency
Compensation of inter leaders (to be published in an annex
413

Annual Report) and capping thereof taking into account the levels of
responsibility.
•

Apply proportional representation based on the results of elections to
the bodies (Board of Directors, Executive Committee, etc.),
institutions depending on the region for a better democratic control
in all spheres of the regional public authority.

•

Anticipating the opening of Parliament in early September to strengthen control
government and improve the parliamentary work.

•

Enforcing equal and neutral services model

•

•

It is for this reason that the MR made the clear choice to not allow the
wearing of signs expressing religious beliefs, philosophical and
policies in the exercise of a public service function at any level
either while respecting various memberships each of which can
claim in the sphere of his private life.
Establish an annual public cadastre and all beneficiary associations
subsidies with the amounts and justification for their use.
This requirement contributes to the will of the RM of transparency in the use
public money ... the importance of the amounts allocated each year in
the most diverse areas is often left to the will of ministers
load.
Widespread introduction of strict time limits for organs to approve
requests for authorizations or appeal with reduction of delays
procedure.

•

Consolidating some services performing joint or similar skills and
to end the creation of institutions that are most often duplicate
existing services.

•

Promote synergies between public authorities at local and regional level
(eg creation of a central purchasing for supplies and standardized services,
establishment of technical and logistical pool common to the 19 municipalities and CPAS
to assist in missions such as the development of specifications
specific, translation, etc.).

•

Complete rationalization of inter in the water sector by the
Vivaqua Hydrobru reconciliation and to end the confusion of roles
currently existing.

•

Pursue the clarification of responsibilities for public cleanliness (which
does what where?) prerequisite to finally improve the deplorable appearance offered
often the Brussels region, particularly foreign visitors.

•

Reforming regional and local elections in order to promote more
transparency in terms of issues and respect the choice of the voters.
In this regard, the establishment of a two-round electoral system, as it
practice in France, with complete clarity allows to choose between various projects
presented and designate unequivocally teams that wear them.
414

•

The choice of the Minister-President for the Region and the Mayor in
towns could thus operate more transparently and make
not release to the opposition party who received the most
votes and thus elected as was the case several times, including the
Region.
On another level, the Region has acquired the organizational autonomy, the MR
wishes to reintroduce a debate with all democratic parties,
French and Dutch, to reduce the number of
Parliamentary Brussels, to discuss the possibility of filing lists
bilingual and reform the system of substitutes like what is planned
in this connection by the municipal electoral law (accession to the mandate to be filled
by replacement of the actual first unelected candidate).
Redefining the role of our towns.
In a democratic close attention and efficiency into account a
subsidiarity applied at the regional level, the MR wants to maintain power
premises often more responsive everyday to many expectations
population.
In addition, the MR wants to encourage municipalities to identify these synergies
to manage public services and thus have the necessary critical size
to be better equipped and therefore more effective.

3. Public Companies
For professional role of the state in its holdings in public companies
The organizational model
Finding
At present, the shareholder structure of the Belgian state is not, strictly
speak not one of the models identified by the OECD, which are: the centralized model, the model
decentralized and the dual model.
The Minister for Public Enterprise has four companies under its responsibility
(Infrabel, SNCB / NMBS, Belgacom and bpost) currently operate as
autonomous public enterprises and, for some, were privatized in part
making their control by a public shareholder very tricky given the environment
competition in which they operate.
Besides these companies, there is obviously a separate holding company which is the Federal Society
Participations and investments and who is under the responsibility of the Minister of
Finance and which the Belgian State is the sole shareholder. This holding company acquires participations
in public and private companies (17 entries in 2012), invests in certain
societal value companies (26 entries in 2012) and acts on behalf of the government for
implement specific projects (11 participations in 2012).
Add to this a host of other public organizations under the responsibility of
sectoral ministers.
The Belgian organizational model has several weaknesses:
415

•

A lack of transparency in the organization of interests makes this
the identification of the actual final shareholder very ambiguous in some cases.
• Some opacity on the part of some ministers
• The current fragmented system is not conducive to the development of a function
professional and consistent shareholder State
• A perfectible communication between the State and administrators
• Lack of clarity about the actors acting on behalf of the state to fill
shareholder missions.
• An omnipresent political dimension prevailing considerations
strategic, economic and commercial
The Belgian shareholder model therefore lacks coherence with companies that
are the responsibility of several ministers or entities and private building
more synergy and thus add value for public companies.
Proposals
The MR will take the steps that will lead to a model of interests
the Belgian State with greater professionalism and greater efficiency.
For all companies whose main shareholder is the state, establishing early
of each legislature a policy statement concerning
public companies and the shareholding strategy to better clarify
long-term strategies and objectives.
Reorganize the organizational model. Based on good practices
international, we must drag a dual model with a clear separation of
public enterprises and commercial enterprises providing
essentially public services. The ambitions and objectives will be
significantly different depending on whether the public company either vocation
commercial or not. A distinction based on degree of commerciality is
essential to achieve better efficiency in business management
public.

FINDING BALANCE SHEET
With the liberalization of several sectors, public enterprises and corporations
anonymous public law must be examples of good governance and continue
their strategy focused customer satisfaction.
In competition with other private companies, these public companies must
continuously improve the quality, innovation, effectiveness and efficiency of their
services at competitive prices to the benefit of all citizens, businesses and
the Belgian economy in general.

416

In this context, their financial health, their strategy of growth and diversification,
the availability (minimum service) of their public services should remain at the heart of
concerns the next government.
In addition, for the MR, these companies must be an example of ethics and budget
good governance. Thus in 2011, the MR pleaded, through its representatives in the
various boards for the development of new pay scales. In
2013, the Government has fixed the maximum amount of executive compensation
at the gross annual salary of the Prime Minister (290,000 euros) with
variable part, linked to performance criteria and limited to 30%. Severance
were lowered to a maximum of 12 months' pay. This remuneration may
be higher if the company is owned more than 25% by private shareholders. This is
the case of bpost and Belgacom CEOs whose salaries were divided by a factor of 2-3
to a total amount of 650,000 euros.

The SNCB Group
(see more details on the priorities for rail in Chapter Mobility)
-

The government restructured the SNCB Group. This reform must be today
implemented to better meet the needs of passengers and to ensure
more coherent management while achieving economies of scale.

-

In this context, the SNCB Group will pursue the following objectives, including:
improve the quality of services in particular the punctuality of trains;
improve the Group's financial position;
accelerate the Belgian rail safety;
maintain the network of the mesh?

-

In 2013, the management and unions of the SNCB Group finalized an agreement to share
prevent wildcat strikes. So, today, an alarm bell procedure must
be engaged by the unions in case of problems. Management then has three days to
react and if nothing is done, unions can then file a strike notice. The
Text reduces the minimum period of notice from 10 to 8 days. Despite this first step
the right direction, the MR advocates the introduction of a minimum service as
already exists in other European countries.

From 2007, the MR has filed a bill to ensure continuity of service
as part of public service missions and missions of general interest. This
proposal seeks to include in the management contract that the minimum benefits
must be guaranteed by providers of services which are the subject of an intervention
State financial; financial penalties for obstructing service continuity and
repayment terms to customers who have paid in advance for services
were not fee or.

417

BPOST
In recent years, under the impetus of the opening of the postal market, to have the Belgian Post
seize this opportunity and improve the quality of services to clients by transforming
deeply. Dozens of change projects have been set up to improve
service quality and effectiveness of the company's business processes. Culture
Enterprise also has changed dramatically.
For MR, must Bpost
- Ensuring a quality service accessible and affordable and identical price for all
Belgian residents;
- Continue diversifying its business while offering nearby public service
citizens and businesses;
- Further develop its network Points-Poste outlets to be more
close to citizens and companies throughout Belgium
BELGOCONTROL
Belgocontrol faces two serious problems.
First, Belgocontrol faces to the European policy of the establishment
a 'single sky', that is to say the reconfiguration of air navigation services
either function of state borders but according to "functional blocks" based
on the reality of traffic. This requires a strategic positioning for Belgocontrol but
also attention on the company's competitiveness.
Furthermore, Belgocontrol is penalized by the conjunction of the Cooperation Agreement
1989 (which provides that Belgocontrol has the benefit of free Prester airports
Regional services provided in 1989 by RVA) and the European Regulation (which prohibits
recover costs landing / take-off en-route). This leads to a loss
structural 15 to 20 million per year.
For MR, the priorities are:
-

organize control of air navigation performance and effective for
costs;

-

faithfully implement the decisions taken by the government in 2012 and 2013 which
apply the agreement of the Council of Ministers of December 19, 2008 and February 26, 2010
under the management of noise pollution at Brussels National Airport;

Following the recent agreements reached with the federal government on standards of winds, the MR
ensure the installation of priority, an independent control authority nuisances
sound-related overview of dwellings from the Brussels National Airport.

418

D. PUBLIC SERVICE
The Public Service performs key tasks in the service of governments,
citizens and businesses. To accomplish its tasks, it needs to attract
skilled and dedicated people by offering them career opportunities
interesting.
The statutory system is the guarantor of the independence, equality and integrity
public function. Efforts to improve the efficiency of the administration should
consider the missions of its own and that are not comparable with those
the private sector.
A modern public service should be listening to citizens. The sense of general interest
and ethics must be at the very heart of the administration. Excellence must be
rewarded and punished fouls. The very high share of public expenditure in
our economy indeed requires optimal management of human resources. Finally,
the administration must show impartially, as against that of his administration
agents.
Finding
Career progression will now be based on annual evaluations. Mobility
agents has been improved, allowing a better distribution of tasks within
administrations. A real career development is now possible for agents
contract with a view to their inclusion in the statutory scheme.
The federal government continued to gradually reduce the number of officers through
to advances in computerization and better resource allocation. These
changes allow Directors to consider a longer-term composed of
Officials fewer but better paid, working under a stable status and
modern.
The government will continue these efforts while tackling the problems that
remain. The politicization should no longer distort administrative career agents, there
including the higher grades. Regarding the system of mandates for the positions of
direction, their allocation must be objectified to the maximum to avoid demotivate
statutory employees.
The Selor recruitment procedure raises many criticisms that need
answer. It should be parallel improve the training of officials. The such training
as organized by the IFA has shown its limits. Must be developed within the administration
technical skills and sense of ethics in order to provide citizens with a service
public quality.

419

Balance sheet
The outgoing Federal Government has made the following reforms:
The evaluation of federal agents system has been overhauled to make
The most common and effective evaluations.
New career policy: accession to another salary scale
now linked to the evaluation. Those that are positively evaluated a number of
both can access more quickly to a higher salary scale in their
rank or class. Indeed, several consecutive assessments with the mention
'exceptional' can cause an acceleration of the careers of employees. There
mobility federal agents has been strengthened.
Contract staff: recruitment of federal contractual employees was entrusted to
Selor to make this more transparent and impartial procedure, including
by passing an examination. Meanwhile, contract workers can now
have a career and gain access to a higher salary scale.
Federal statutory employees who wish are now allowed to work beyond 65 years.
Proposals
Objectify promotions and appointments of officers to senior
administration, and for the allocation of mandates.
Selor improve recruitment procedures. Some tests are outdated or too
abstract. Reviews should better reflect the specific skills required
for each function.
Introducing a minimum service of the public service during strikes.
Improving relations between ministers and their administration. Upon its entry into
function and for the duration of his mandate, the Minister would appoint the chairman of its
administration. The missions of ministerial offices could then focus on
communication, relations with Parliament and the negotiations between members
government.
Create a High School of Administration delivering comprehensive training and
cross for new staff. This could also High School
offer various degrees (bachelor, master) in Administrative Sciences paving the way
career. This high school could finally improve the continuous training of
medium and high administration.

420

Language Setting: language legislation that ensures a balanced representation
Flemish and Francophones, must be fully respected in all
departments. The officials "Acting" should also be designated
and recognized according to their linguistic role.
A code of ethics should be adopted to improve the relationship between
official and the citizen. Thereof should be uniform throughout the function
Public.

EN WALLONIE
A. Finding
The share of the public service in Wallonia (nearly 40%) is such that to achieve with
success of new reforms, it is essential to be able to rely on
efficient administration, quality, resolutely forward-looking, listening and
serve the people, businesses and local authorities of Wallonia.
Since the beginning of the legislature, despite the regional policy statement is its beautiful
intentions, we can say that there is no real political will to implement
mutations to be undertaken by the Walloon government. The challenge function
public is to make a better service with means that are likely
decrease over the years.
Unfortunately, today we are content to manage small-time and made
a lot of noise around key themes electorally but even if they are
interesting (teleworking, access to the public service for non-European, diversity ...)
eventually neglect the real problems are:
- Political intervention in the daily management of human resources;
- Hyper legislation which prevents the administration to be effective ("Too many
rules kill the rule "). The Public Service Code is inapplicable if we want
effectiveness;
- The inability to reward individual efforts or imposing effective sanctions
Officers whose work is unsatisfactory (which is a source of
demotivation);
- Lack of management indicators for officers (dashboards);
- Rigid IT services that are not listening to their customers and
are more brakes than aid;
- Payment delays unacceptable bills;
421

- An imbalance between the individual rights of workers and the interests of
administration in favor of the first (a consequence of the cowardice of authority
deal with union partners).
The proportion of contract has grown, unfortunately revealing sign
a greater tendency to politicize the administration in Wallonia. Under this term,
the share of contract staff in Wallonia Public Service increased by 476 units,
an increase of 13%, while the share of statutory employees decreased
258 units, a decrease of 4%. The relationship between contractual and statutory agents stable
until 2011, then changed significantly from 37/63 to 41/59. Within Organizations
public interest, 82.4% of staff reports to the contractual regime so that in total (SPW and
OIP) in the regional civil service, nearly two thirds of the workforce are contractual
(61.5%).
Another unique feature of this legislature, the use of increasingly important to agents
contractual qualified experts. These are 209 experts who were engaged with 25 left
administration. They enjoy an attractive remuneration and commitment does
not the subject of a rigorous recruitment procedure, entirely objective and subject to
ranking.

B. Proposals
• Training of civil servants
A modern and effective governance requires administration of quality and therefore
motivated officials, impartial, and trained in adequate numbers for missions
and objectives. Therefore, we want to focus on training
Officials, whether in regional, local or para-regional,
and improve the skills of public administrations. The introduction of a
demanding training, and motivating objective should reduce the overt politicization of
public services and significantly enhance the service provided to citizens. It must be possible
public action based on dynamic and competent human resources. To
to achieve this, public services need to devote the financial resources
adequate. Training investments must reach 2% of payroll in
Walloon region while they now account for just under 1%.
• The objectification of hirings and promotions
Defending the end of the politicization at all levels of government is illusory. He
more important to finally redefine roles: policymakers, firms and
leaders of Directors. The role of the cabinet should be limited to policy preparation
records and the implementation of the policy that the Minister wishes to follow. Furthermore,
relations between the most senior department and the Minister must be
marked by mutual trust. This leads almost inevitably the director
General be appointed by the Minister.
422

If one accepts the partisan in the appointment of senior officer, this
is conceivable only if the person has approached the skills and qualities
sufficient to fill the position. The issuance by high school administration
Public management of a public certificate is in this need verification
skills. This high school must still provide all the guarantees of impartiality
and equal access to public service.
Training future potential officials assured by universities
speaking at a cost: the first two cycles, each hosting 70 people
intended to supply the pool of candidates for functions subject to term (those of
Director General, Deputy Director General and Inspector General) will return to
Region and the Community to 1.56 million euros, or 11,000 euros per candidate!
For all other positions of the administration, the statutory commitment must
become the rule in the entire regional public service. Besides the fact that
imposes objective recruitment procedures, it enables the engagement of people
have the qualities and skills required for the function.

•

A constant and objective evaluation, but overall steady

Evaluation should be a source of motivation for staff and enable
limit the politicization of appointments and must become an instrument of management
careers.
Evaluation is often positive and automatic. It should break this way
be lax and use the appreciation of everyone's work as an instrument of
promotion. The satisfaction of users / clients to service provided to them must
enter the relevant criteria for evaluating agents.
In this context, the Walloon Region should have an active and humane policy
fight against absenteeism which leads to worry about the reasons why
officers be absent or frequently or for a long time and develop a
approach to reinstate the officer who has been absent. This approach will address
the difficulties that cause absenteeism and those to which the agent is again
exposed when he returns after a long time. Absenteeism means reviewing
service organization, is an additional source of stress for agents
must endorse the work of the absent agent, a source of motivation and loss
Economic and quality for public services.
We support the generalization of audit structures: a specialized body achieves a
"Scanning" regular services both operationally and financially and
accountant. This service is integrated fluoroscopy in both engagement letters
the officers and in assessments of performance in terms of quality and
Satisfaction of the population.
423

• Optimisation of administrative work
If our officials are better trained and therefore more qualified, more efficient and
assessed without complacency, efforts can be made in return in terms of
valuation of their remuneration which should further consider the
skills, further education, experience, goals and
efficiency deployed. In the same spirit, it should promote effective mobility
agents including between different levels of power.
This revaluation necessarily also involves a more appropriate use of
human ressources. One must ask how the service to the public may be more
efficient: increasing quality for a lower cost. This implies that one particular
simplifies careers, which fight against the public absence and the deletion of the
systematic replacement of late career agents.
•

The continuity of public service

Ensure continuity of public services during strikes through effective organization
a minimum service. It is not to undermine the strike principle agents
public but to seek to mitigate the effects of a work stoppage in the function
public or in specific departments.
•

The limitation of public enterprises executive pay

Cap in a interests of sound management, the leaders of Remuneration
public companies so that they do not exceed the gross remuneration of a
Minister of the Walloon Government. The variable part of the remuneration, provided
whether provided for, shall be justified and related to the achievement of performance targets
previously fixed precisely and especially in the management contract between the institution
to the Walloon Region. Moreover, the amount of variable compensation, as well as
benefits in kind, should be reasonable and correspond to an adequately
of the fixed remuneration.
To avoid situations that have arisen in the past, prohibit leaders
use a management company that would receive remuneration for them. These
last may be granted only to natural persons.

IN BRUSSELS
A. Finding
The decade corresponding to the management of the Brussels Region by the majority "Olivier"
shows inflation of organizations and personnel without the citizen to the service is not
improved. On the contrary, the current proliferation and the multiplication of bodies
make the obstacle course for an even harder valuable service.
424

The bulimia is found at all levels.
Thus, government decision in 2004 (from the MR) to increase
some 50% of the number of office employees and uncap the
treatment of such personnel was the first symptom of the change in approach
regarding the entourage of ministers.
Having recently reduced by 10% this expense category diminishes
the rise marginally intervened.
In terms of administration, mainly the Ministry of Region
Brussels, the staff grew from 1,550 members in 2001 to around
1,800 agents today, an increase of 250 people.
The phenomenon is similar in para-regional and particularly BruxellesEnvironnement.
This increase in staff is accompanied by the establishment of a series
of association that duplicate completely or partially the regional services.
Examples include the creation of a Development Agency
Territorial whose field of activity is similar to that of the Directorate of Studies and
Planning for the regional administration of land.
We can do the same goes for the Brussels Enterprise Agency.
This proliferation of institutions and organizations in charge of public service
Regional entails significant additional and complex procedures and the citizens
companies.
B. Proposals
•

Return, for reasons of economy and efficiency standards in force before 2004
material composition of ministerial cabinets;

•

Ending the colonization of para-regional associations and countless
diverse and varied that depend mainly by persons having the
same political label, namely that of a francophone party present without
interruption in power since the creation of the Region;

•

Objectify promotions and appointments to management mandates
the regional administration and its many satellites;

•

It is not normal to see colonization by a representative party between
20 and 25% of French voters over 75% of posts
management;
Reviewing basically based on actual needs, the system
totally opaque allocation of contract agents subsidized jobs
(ACS);

•

Delete duplicate service that coexist in the same field for the sake
savings, equity and consistency across the public service;

•

Mentor, objectify and legitimize the designations in the senior civil service.

425

The MR deplores the opacity that has surrounded, especially in the last
Legislature, the appointment of persons to carry on
important responsibilities to the head or in the pararégionales public structures.
The MR proposes that, in the future, in addition to a public call for candidates, these
designations are legitimized by a hearing of the nominee and
sanctioned by a vote in committee.
•

Propose that the Brussels authorities to be certified ISO quality standard
to ensure an effective public service in Brussels, efficient quality.

E. EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES

Equal opportunities, just as equality between men and women, still a
long way to go before being fully effective. In general, equal
Opportunities for people of foreign origin, immigrants or LGBTI progresses
in our country but not enough and not fast enough. Discrimination remain all
as stereotypes and clichés that still die hard. Furthermore, recent
years there has been an upsurge in anti-Semitic acts, xenophobic and
homophobic, these acts are unacceptable in a constitutional state such as ours. We do
remember never enough but racism is not an opinion, it is a crime that must be
sanctioned. As liberals, we must continue to fight against all forms of
discrimination and promote equality between all citizens.
Even today, women experience inequality in all spheres of life
economic, social, political or cultural. Poverty, part-time decay more
often women with direct consequences on health, for example, and too
many women in our country and elsewhere, who experience violence
unacceptable as rape or domestic violence. Some hundreds of small
girls, immigrant, also run the risk of excision for the holiday
in the country of origin.

Financial gaps persist (salaries, pensions, ...) and women continue
less represented, whether in the world of finance, in politics, in
trade union delegations or in decision-making bodies and forums
leadership whatsoever.
In accordance with the resolutions taken at the 4th World Conference on Women
held in Beijing in 1995, the European Commission has committed to mainstreaming the
gender in all its policies and that under Article 8 of the Treaty of Lisbon.
This article calls on the European Union to seek not only to eliminate
inequalities but also to promote equality between men and women in all
his actions and the implementation of all its policies.
The objective of integration of the gender perspective in all policies
levels of power (gender mainstreaming) is reflected here by the adoption of the Law of
426

January 12, 2007 at the federal level and the decree of the French Community of 19 December
2002 require such executive to report regularly the actions taken
accordance with the objectives of the Beijing Conference. The Walloon and Brussels-Capital regions have also legislated in this area and introduced gender mainstreaming in
all their policies.

Balance sheet
During this legislature, the 'gender mainstreaming' appearance has clearly amplified. So
within each public service, (e) Coordinator (trice) "gender mainstreaming" was
put in place. The Wallonia and Brussels Parliaments also voted applying
Resolutions of the 4th World Conference on Women. Note also
integrating the "Test Type" on the same principle as the "Test kafka" for all
Bills decided within the government.
One of the major advances made in this legislature consists in interfédéralisation
the Centre for Equal Opportunities and the current one for the Institute for Gender
women and men. Given the cross-cutting nature of these issues and
to ensure consistency, it was necessary that their actions may extend
to all the powers of the Federal State and the federated entities, which required the
an agreement of cooperation between levels of government.
Now, therefore, the Centre can intervene in all areas and all policies
whether carried out at federal, regional and community level which
represents substantial progress for the respect of anti discrimination laws in our
countries.
The federal government has also invested in strengthening the fight against
sexism by reviewing the Act of 10 May 2007 to fight against the discrimination between
women and men to develop a closed list still allowing in
certain goods and services as objectively justified discrimination contest
beauty, access to health etc.
Just a few months the VRT had aired hidden camera in the report "Women of the
street "of a young student Sofie Peeters Flemish. This report showed the insults,
often floods, whose victim was a young woman in the streets of Brussels. He had
triggered a veritable shock wave and a healthy awareness of sexism
rampant and commonplace in our capital and more generally in our society. Following that, the
Government has announced measures and struggle against sexism plan. From now on
sexist behavior can be criminally reprimanded. We can only get
rejoice. Indeed, this text legally defines sexism concept for the
Suppress and thus to support victims, often women, and affirm freedom
to come and go safely in the public space which is a fundamental freedom
our rule of law.

427

After the law on municipal administrative sanctions (SAC) which came into force on
January 1, 2014, to fight against incivility and allows to punish insults
sexist, it's a new milestone that was reached on the matter with this
draft law which strengthens the Act of 10 May 2007 in the fight against
discrimination between women and men.
The new law consists of two parts:
•

The sexism of incrimination under criminal law:

Now, a new offense "sexism" is provided in the specific component
criminal. It is defined as: "any act or verbal or other behavior, which
clearly intended to express contempt for a person, because of its
gender, or considered less or substantially reduce
its sexual dimension, bringing a serious affront to his dignity. "
•

Punishment of harassment on public roads for civil:

1.
The concept of harassment is now extended into the sort law, public space,
understood as "any place accessible to the public."
2.
Thanks to this legal change, victims of harassment or behavior
sexist, will - with the help of the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men - is
see compensation for damage suffered. This compensation will be based on a fixed system,
This will avoid the type of sentences "symbolic euro".
3.
Having to prove discrimination often discourages victims to file complaints.
Henceforth, the rules of evidence will be lightened in particular by reversing the burden of
evidence against the author in case of addition of similar facts and recurring)
4.
The victim may directly enter the civil courts regardless of prosecution
This will speed up the process and facilitate the compensation of victims.
5.
The Institute for the Equality of Women and Men will sue for
victim.
Also, always tending toward more Man-Woman Equality, Parliament voted on
Bill to allow the choice of the family name of both parents for children
unborn and thus ending discrimination against mothers for centuries.
Now, parents can freely choose any name they wish
give their child: the father, the mother or both. Belgium joined since
the group of European countries with the greatest freedom regarding the choice of name
of family. If the family has opted for a formula determined at birth of first
children, sisters and brothers will automatically receive the same name. Family names
existing will not change and will remain as they are. If they do not make
choice or if there is a disagreement between them, the civil registrar will assign the name by
current law.
Belgium also launched its second national action plan "Women, Peace and
Security "on the implementation of Resolution 1325 of the UN Security Council
United for 2013-2016.

428

The fundamental objectives of 1325 relate to the promotion and protection
women's rights, still too often victims of discrimination and many
violence in conflict situations. In addition, it aims, in these difficult contexts,
increase their participation in decision-making.
The development of 1325 and its implementation are part therefore
in the promotion and protection of human rights to which Belgium attaches
great importance, as well as the universality of these rights and their respect in the world.
Wars and other armed conflicts have always held women another impact
on men. If men are more often directly involved in the conflict,
Women also experience the effects, whether indirect, because of the conditions
difficult and dangerous, direct, when they become civilian casualties or that
are deliberately being targeted in the context of rape used as weapons of war.
On the other hand, women often experience longer than men
consequences of a conflict once it is completed. Indeed, they are only too little or
not at all involved in the peace talks and preparation of reconstruction.
Therefore, their specific needs are not related, or taken into account. Moreover, the
consequences of sexual violence committed during conflict situations
(dishonor and exclusion from the community, pregnancy, health problems ...) do
not disappear with the conflict. Worse, sexual violence often continue
after hostilities. Finally, a different approach to the role of women in conflict must
be considered. Do not consider them only as victims and promote their
involvement, will offer them the opportunity to actively participate in the prevention of
conflict and peacebuilding.
The Government has also signed on behalf of the Belgian State, the Convention of the Council of
Europe on the prevention and fight against violence against women and violence
home.
At the federal level, the government supported the implementation of a Plan of Action Interfederal
the fight against homophobic and transphobic discrimination: the MR is fully
contributed via the Foreign Minister Didier Reynders, and assured advertising
this progress in terms of human rights at international level whether at the UN
or via partner countries in development cooperation. At the initiative of MR, the
House also passed a resolution to decriminalize homosexuality in
world.
The Walloon Region has also been active in the field of equal opportunities including
Decree providing equal and alternating presence of women and men on the lists
of candidates for municipal and provincial elections held in 2018 Region
Walloon that the MR was also co-signed and voted. The Walloon Parliament also voted
the introduction of the clause of the most favored European and the European clause
position of the most favored disability. Again the parliament has integrated the gender dimension
in all regional policies.

429

The Brussels region has also strengthened the fight against discrimination in
employment between men and women, developed the "intergenerational housing" and
like the Walloon Region, it has integrated the gender dimension into policy lines
and the alternating presence and equal between men and women on the lists of
candidates for municipal elections in the Brussels-Capital Region.
The Wallonia-Brussels Federation has adopted legislation in 2008 on the fight against
some forms of discrimination and launched various campaigns such discrimination and
intimate partner violence or gender stereotypes among young people. An Action Plan
for equality and diversity in the broadcast media has been adopted, and a
Government action program for the promotion of equality between women / men,
intercultural and social inclusion in 2005.
The situation of women in business, and total equality that must ensue, is a
MR priority. A study by the World Bank in 2013, women produce
66% of the world work, but receive only 10% of revenues. In Belgium, the situation
is little envious. According to the Institute for Gender Men-Women, under 15% of
directors of leading European companies are women. In
Belgium, the Council of Ministers of 29 March 2012 adopted a royal decree on women's underrepresentation in the public service. The number of women
senior positions within the federal government seems in fact to have fallen
over the past five years.
Similar work is also underway at the European Commission where
Commissioner Viviane Reding introduced and vote the proposal that the advice
Administration companies should be minimum of 40% composed of women by
2020 and 2018 for public companies. This 40% quota is no longer
an obligation, but a target for 2020 with the establishment of procedures
selection based on qualifications. It will be for States to punish breaches
either via administrative fines and the nullity or annulment of the appointment or
the election of non-executive directors. The Corporate Europe is still a
male universe: in the boards of major European businesses,
barely one in ten member is a woman, and in 97% of cases, the CEO is a man.
However, it is regrettable to note that the Commission requires companies to follow
rules it is not necessary to itself ... Chaired by two men, it has
only 9 women out of 27 commissioners ... Only two women have been appointed leader
firm and seven counts of deputies firms. It would be good for the next
Parliament, the Commission, as an employer, the example shows that it intends to impose
other ... this situation also applies to the ECB where the numbers are clear: the
ECB Executive Board, the body responsible for managing the daily life of the bank, that has counted
two women since its creation in 1998.
The representation of women is also changing slowly but surely, at
Belgian. After the Senate 30 June 2011, the Council of Ministers approved a measure
from late 2012 imposing a minimum quota of one-sixth of female directors on
Belgian public institutions. And from 1 January 2013, this quota was increased to a
430

third. The House of Representatives had, moreover, already approved this law. After
transitional period of six years for larger companies and eight years for the
small businesses, sanctions will be imposed for non-compliance with the legal quota: the
material and immaterial compensation of the directors will be deleted until the
number of women directors will be too low.
Following the federal example, the Walloon region has also decided to promote
balanced presence of men and women in advisory bodies (councils,
commissions, committees) with a maximum quota of 2/3 of the members of an advisory body
same sex.
However, quotas are only one instrument for fostering
women's access to the summit. They are often temporary and should disappear
once achieved goals. But a pro-active policy of gender equality consists
Also long-term elements. Yet between 2006 and 2011, the situation has hardly
not changed. In 2006, only 37.7% of companies had at least one administrator
female; in 2011, this proportion has barely increased to 38.5%. In 2006, 55%
BEL 20 companies had at least one female director. In 2011, the
figure rises to 72.2%. The proportion of companies BEL20 where the Board of Directors
includes over a woman doubled over this period. In 2006, they
represented 6.2% of the total number of directors; in 2011 this figure increased
to exceed the 10% mark. It seems that women will be added
mainly in the boardroom where already there is a director
feminine.
With a low presence of women on boards of directors of listed companies
stock market, Belgium is below the European average: in 2012, in the EU 14
% Average of the directors of the top 50 listed companies by country
were women. Outside the EU, Norway, where a 40% quota in effect,
records the highest score with 42%. It is mainly the larger companies
who are low performers: the top 50 on the basis of turnover, only
24% of companies included at least one woman on their board
Body in 2011. In other words, 76% of 50 companies generating sales
of the most important cases have an all male board.
The government and parliament have also made progress in the fight against
the wage gap. The technical report of the Central Council of the Economy, who directs
dialogue at interprofessional level will be complemented by a chapter on the difference
salary between men and women. As part of this consultation, agreements will be
concluded to combat wage differentials. Such agreements will be concluded
at sectoral level. The sectoral job classification systems will be examined
by the Federal Public Service Employment to verify their
neutral in terms of genre. At company level, employers occupying
usually average at least 50 workers must make every two years
an analysis of the structure of remuneration of men and women in
the company and communicate the results to the works council. Without board
Enterprise, the report is forwarded to the committee for prevention and protection at work
431

(CPPT). On the basis of this report, the works council or, where appropriate, the committee
determines whether it is necessary to establish an action plan to achieve a structure
remuneration and classify gender-neutral functions. The proposal
law also provides for a mediation phase in order to avoid court proceedings
work in this area.

Proposals
1) The fight against the wage gap
The wage gap between men and women is currently the largest
existing discrimination between the sexes. Equal work, the wage must be the same!
No justification can not explain this difference discriminatory treatment.
The differences in pay between men and women (base salary and
fringe benefits) must become a permanent theme of social dialogue. Of
measures must be taken in interprofessional collaboration,
sector and within companies.
Whether one speaks of gross or net salary, monthly, hourly or annual, full or part time,
the gap is not the same. In addition, the issue of wages is somehow taboo, it
is difficult to know the actual amount of remuneration of persons
interviewed. However it seems that the gap is between 10 and 25%.
According to the 2011 report of the Institute for the equality of women and men, based on the difference
a gross annual salary would be 10% but 25% would be in the private and among employees
17% among the workers. It is only 5% in administration where salaries are more
regulated.
There is also a horizontal segregation in sectors and occupations where
Women are over-represented where there is less to gain. We talk about vertical segregation
for the under-representation of women in leadership positions. Women
manage to break the glass ceiling face a significant wage gap. From
33% for general managers and 21% for managers and executives
specialized.
In addition, women more often work part-time than men. 82% of
Part-time workers are women, 35% full-time while men
65% of full-time and 19% part-time. The fact of working time
part has effects in terms of pension entitlements, allowances and unemployment
disease has a negative effect on the construction of wages over time (less seniority
, the less chances for promotion ..). These workers are not
always aware. Part-time work is not always chosen but suffered. The
Women are also more likely to work part-time when the wage gap can
up to 36% for both employees and for workers.
Single parent families make up a fifth of households. In 8 cases out of 10, their
head of household is a woman. There are of course consequences in terms of employment and
financial resources. Indeed, many women work part-time because of
432

solution to keep their children. In some cases, this is even a trap
employment. Indeed, the number of assets is higher among parents living in couple
among single parents (78.37% against 54.95%) and single parents have an unemployment rate
5 times higher than parents in a (32.19% against 6.46%).
The fringe benefits such as company cars, laptops or gsm are
usually attributed to men and women. These Non-wage benefits
professional work, are reflected throughout the career, in indexing, the
Calculation of alternative allocations, especially in the pension calculation. On average,
women earn, per year, across all sectors and regardless of the duration of
work, 23% less than men.
•
End the existing wage gaps and punish them if necessary
companies practicing these differences in treatment.
•
Making a cadastre of women working full time and part time
promote employment in areas where there are women deficiency. It will be necessary to
develop training and information to women about these
sectors. It will also be necessary to educate and inform sectors
concerned, enterprises and SMEs.
•
Pursue actions to support women's entrepreneurship. Number of
independent women also increases with 65% men to 35%
women.
•
Prevent discrimination in training, classification and
economic evaluation of skills by undertaking specific actions
•
Control, especially via the specialist committee of the National Council
Labour, the assessment of job classification systems is well done
by sectors
•
Publishing a detailed report on the fringe benefits unrelated to
professional work by the Institute of Man-Woman equality
•
As part of discussions on corporate governance, encouraging
the establishment of "audit committees" in companies with between other
in order to check the pay gap between women and men
•
Continue at European level the fight against the pay gap
•
Making a man shares / female social contributions if
reduction of working time. To provide that, for women who choose to
reduce their working time and during that period and provided that they are
married, a cumulation of pension rights made by their husbands or
realized with sharing between spouses of pension rights, to their left
discretion.

2) Women at the top and access to professions glass ceiling
1,173,000 is the number of women with degrees in higher education
Belgium against 1.031 million for men. If 54.8% of students from High Schools and
universities are girls, once in the labor market, only 56.5% of women
get a job, against 67.4% of men.
433

In recent years, Belgium, but also in many other countries
European, it denounced the female under-representation at the top of companies. Under
incitement of politicians and public opinion, it was decided to take
measures and initiatives have been launched to achieve a representation
more balanced. Most initiatives have grafted on measures to facilitate the
combination of work and family life by offering child care
affordable and quality and in making more flexible regulations on
parental leave. Other measures consisted in the establishment of quotas
female representation.
A recent international comparative study conducted by Mercer and which assessed
presence of women at the top of companies, revealed that most companies
had no strategy or concrete philosophy to achieve a representation
largest women at the top of companies. Other studies also give
a rather negative picture of the situation: less than 15% of the directors of
leading European companies are women.
The issue of the "glass ceiling", invisible and artificial barriers preventing
women's access to the highest responsibilities, both in the political field
economic, constitutes discrimination that comes in contradiction with the
Constitution prescribes equality between men and women. The glass ceiling is
unfortunately a reality.
A corporate head, there is an increase, limited but significant. Thus, in 2012,
the proportion of women on boards of listed Belgian companies
Stock Exchange and the top 100 non-listed companies was around 10%
against 6% in 2008. But atop the operational management of these enterprises,
presence of women is lower: 5 female delegates for administrators
2 listed and only for non-listed companies - a particularly low figure. We
can also awarded zero points for a five largest banks, none of which is headed
by a woman.
In 2006, the proportion of women in corporate boards
Important was 7%. This concerns both listed companies as
those which are not. CA many companies have no women.
Of all the listed companies, 62% have no women on their boards
of Directors. This situation should improve with the provisions requiring
presence of women in the CA public enterprises and listed companies
Exchange.
Also modest increase of women in universities. If their presence in
boards has increased from 21-23%, this apparent increase is due only ...
a decrease in the number of male directors. Positive, Ghent University
Rector has appointed a woman. While 54% of students and 57% of graduates
are women. In the Belgian French-speaking academic world, the feminisation of
student does not result in an increase in the percentage of women
434

the highest levels of academic careers and in decision-making. They
represent the majority of students, equal among the assistants but leave little by little
up to men. Women are only 10% among full professors, it
which represents a change of only 2% in the last decade.
The pinnacle of the judiciary also remains largely dominated by men. Compared to
2008, the situation has almost not changed: women are clearly under-represented,
except, again, in the course of work where 40% of women (two first presidents on
5) occupy top positions. Over 46% of judges were women in
2010. But the higher up in the hierarchy over the courts and, more presence
female becomes scarce ... In the labor courts 61% of judges and 52% of judges are
women. Within the Court of Cassation, the percentages are 19%, respectively
and 7%.
There are currently 2,439 magistrates in Belgium, 52% men and 48%
women. So there are, on the whole of the judiciary, a pretty good balance between the
number of male and female judges. Regarding the higher functions,
we find that female judges are routinely assigned a mandate
Chief body.
And public administration? A government decision required it, for December
2012, a minimum quota of women sixth. Since January 2013, a boss
public administration three should even be a woman. In public services
federal, this quota has been rigorously achieved for managers (16.7%). Status
quo, however, among the general managers: 11.6% - is still far in the proportion
one in six women ... In 2012, we only had no female chairs of
Management Committees (the highest office of the Belgian federal government). If 52% of
80,000 federal public servants are women, their representation in the various
levels of hierarchy is totally unbalanced. At the bottom of the scale, women
constitute 61.9% of the workforce. These are the cleaners, cookers, but the proportion
reverses as and as you climb in the hierarchy: 45% of women in
B and C, 40% at the lower level A. (D), they constitute 61.9% of
workforce. This is, inter alia, cleaners and many people working in
restoration. The higher you climb in the pyramid, the higher the proportion is reversed. Of the 170
managers of the federal government, 16% are women. Worse still among the top 14
managers, a single woman, retired now, presided over the destinies of the Interior.
The imbalance is evident in the participation of women in the workforce and their
virtual absence in decision-making positions, both in the public sector than in the sector
private.
One of the instruments to encourage the presence of women in functions
above is the introduction of quotas to achieve a minimum representation or
equal of women in top management. But quotas are controversial. Some of its
Critics fear that the best people are not necessarily
named because of quotas. Others find this discriminatory measure. Starting from

435

principle they imply that women occupy a position because of their gender and
not because of their abilities.
But quotas are timely and effective instruments to break the "ceiling
of glass ". They are a necessary evil for the leadership of businesses
become a reflection of the gender distribution within the organization.

•

•
•

Continue quota policy launched in the CA and private companies
Public Law with the 2011 EU proposes quotas of 40% women in
CA from 2018, go in this direction. The state should set an example by
as an employer.
Continue the development of female entrepreneurship
Promote feminization of certain professions, such as through making
provision of social rooms (changing rooms, showers, toilets etc)

3) Violence against women

The violence affects one billion women in the world and one in five women in
Belgium. In Europe, they affect about 45% of women with more than 20%
victims of domestic violence. Rape is punished too few (only 1 in 10).
About 70 women die each year of beatings by their partners. Saying
this is still far in the number of women victims of domestic violence
daily. Not to mention the psychological abuse and / or authoritarian behavior and
tyrannical.
15% of women and 10% of men report having been victims of violence
their partner. Inter partner violence takes different forms: verbal, moral,
psychological and physical course.
The violence in the couple affecting all social classes, all ages and all
cultures. While victims are predominantly women, men are not
excluded from this phenomenon. The entire family unit is generally concerned the
including children.
FGM affects nearly 135 million Africans. Phenomenon
less known, these mutilations are also increasingly victims in Europe
immigrant families. These practices lead to numerous health hazards of these
women and girls. The numbers are lacking to the extent of the phenomenon
Belgium. However, talking about 3,000 victims and about 300 potentially girls
victims because born of a mother from a country where FGM is practiced.
In our country, the law condemns and punishes all sexual mutilation practices
Women: Excision of the clitoris, infibulation with Article 409 of the penal code which condemns
anyone who has practiced, facilitated or encouraged any form of mutilation of the bodies
genital of a female person, with or without her consent,
shall be punished by imprisonment for three to five years. The attempt shall be punished by
imprisonment from eight days to one year.

436

We propose :
- Intensify policy against domestic violence in particular by allowing each
Walloon province and the Brussels Capital Region to have a shelter
accessible 24/24 based on qualified staff to listen and support
victims;
-to raise awareness of domestic violence by focusing on prevention,
detection and assistance to victims
- Continue the implementation of the National Plan fighting against violence between partners
- Pay particular attention to this form of domestic violence that are
forced marriages, arranged marriages, gray weddings, but also the white Mutilations
female genital, so-called honor crimes
- Amplifier judicial policy of "zero tolerance" with a designation of magistrates
specialized by judicial district and application of circular No. COL3 / 2006 and No.
COL4 / 2006 of the Board of Prosecutors General.
- Implementation in place in hospitals a recording system cases
Violence between partners.
- Increase the number of emergency and transit host housing for women
Abused
- Supporting shelters to improve the specific treatment of victims
violence.
- Create a better regional regulations on housing Transit
particularly to frame the terms of access and output management, encourage
agreements between the social housing agencies (AIS), the communal land boards
and associations and shelters that support victims of violence
conjugal
- Encouraging the networking of associations, reception facilities and local authorities
- To strengthen communication on genital mutilation in the form of brochures
education and prevention, or any other suitable form, addressing one hand to
all health care professionals and social sector and secondly to all
of the families concerned, and this for the different language communities
-Allow Better reimbursement of care provided to women victims of
genital mutilation
- Ensure training on FGM in integrating
initial training of different professionals working with communities
concerned, especially in the hospitality sector and integration, the concepts
essential for the issue of genital mutilation
- Continue criminally and systematically condemn any person who participates in
FGM within the meaning of Article 409 of the Penal Code.
-support shelters to improve the care of victims of violence
- Establish the electronic tagging to avoid contacts or companions excompagnes with abusive partners and thus the risk of recurrence;

437

4) Fight against Homophobia and Transphobia
Under international law, all human beings are born free and equal in dignity and
rights. Sexual orientation and gender identity are recognized as grounds for
Discrimination prohibited. Transgender people are facing a cycle of
discrimination and deprivation of their rights in many States because of
discriminatory attitudes and barriers they face to get treatment
gender reassignment and legal recognition of their new gender. Therefore, the
suicide rates are relatively high among transgender people.
As liberals, the right to be different is a founding speech rights
the man. Any minority whatever the nature of what is to benefit from the minorise
identical rights. Sexual difference between consenting adults, love between two men
or between two women or between a man and a woman finally falls from
intimate reserved to which every human being has a sacred right.
Openness to others, in contrast, tolerance and respect are liberal values
par excellence. We consider equal opportunities as a foundation of liberalism.
Without it there is no democracy nor real freedom. Our company allows everyone
take charge of its future and contribute to its operation. This is true, however,
if, before anything else, we get rid of our prejudices, ourselves
and other.
Regularly cited as an example by associations of gay rights,
Belgium is one of the few states in which homosexuals have equal rights
particularly in terms heterosexual marriages and adoptions.
Further develop awareness actions against all forms of
discrimination against LGBT people, to the attention of the general public,
schools, businesses and governments, in partnership with the sector
associations (notably in the framework of the equal opportunities policy)
Raise awareness of youth on gender issues and
sexual orientation, especially through schools

According to figures from the National Register, 552 marriages were celebrated in Belgium between two
men in 2011 and 514 between two women, a total of 1066. Compared with 41 697
weddings pronounced throughout Belgium and from all sexual identities,
this represents 2.5%.
Who says marriage says divorce. It is the law of the genre and the homosexual community are
not escape. In 2011, 242 separations were imposed on a total of 23,128. These
Women are more divorced, proceedings against 103 139 in these gentlemen.
These societal advances have gradually created what may be called the "Rainbow
family "

438

The opening civil marriage, April 13, 2003, represented the beginning of a real equal
Rights: inheritance rights, divorce, declaration of common taxes, etc. A
difference remains, however. Where in a heterosexual couple, the woman gives
birth to a child, the husband is presumed to be the father. This is not the case for pairs
homosexuals.
The House passed 17 March 2011 a draft law that will, in the future, the
right to co-mothers take ten days off of birth. The law was adopted and
published in the Belgian Official Gazette on 10 May 2011. This law is a recognition of the reality of
lesbigayes families.
If the rights of homosexuals have experienced significant progress, it is clear that
not everything is perfect and unfortunately, acts of homophobic violence and
gaybashing are increasing in our country and notoriously in the territory of
Brussels capital. It is unacceptable in our eyes that people can be victims
voluntary violence solely because of their alleged sexual orientation. According to
a recent study of the FPS Justice, an LGBT 3 feels insecure at least once a
months because of his sexual orientation. Nearly 6 out of 10 have already been victims of violence
verbal and 20% have been threatened. A 10-LGBT has been a victim of physical assault.
These figures obviously reflect that reality based on complaints. And like
many victims refrain ...
Between 2010 and May 2012, only 26 facts folders "homophobic" arrived
with parquet floors. A relatively small number, while the number of motivated incidents
homophobic reported to police increased sharply to him in recent years, from
34 cases in 2008 to 85 in 2012.
fight more forcefully against violent against people
lesbians, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT). Under the Anti Law
discrimination, homophobic of aggression can be considered
as an aggravating circumstance of assault and brought to a person
allows the judge to impose a sentence increased. This principle must be
systematically applied.
Create a unit within the College of Prosecutors General (Parquet) that
coordinates the prosecution policy against people traveling
guilty of homophobic acts and collects all statistical data
necessary for future prevention and awareness.
Continue and expand the fight against discrimination against holebis
and further punish homophobic attacks.
Promote increased solidarity with those who advocate for the
recognition of a worthy sex life for LGBTI people within
different faiths from all persuasions.
Increase awareness against all forms of
discrimination against holebis to the attention of the general public, schools,
enterprises and governments, in partnership with the voluntary sector.
Support the development and the creation of specific support areas
and support for LGBT youth and adolescents who have difficulty living
their homosexual identity and train more medical and social staff
439

that question.
Promote the development of initiatives that enable inclusion and
the expression of LGBTI youth in schools but also in
sports, cultural and social associations.
Support research in high schools and universities on
issues of gender, sexual orientations and identities and support the creation
a Master in such a study.
Preventing suicide among young people. Today, even though the context
Societal has improved, it is still difficult for some to accept and live
their sexual identity
Educate law enforcement and preventive agents in
police on homophobic violence, particularly in police stations
near places where homophobic violence occur. The objective is
encourage victims of homophobic acts to come forward in case
assault, incitement to hatred and to monitor the evolution of
Gaybashing phenomena.
For MR, our international action must be based on ethics, respect for human rights
human, dialogue and tolerance. Therefore it is our moral duty to make this debate
one of the subjects on which our diplomacy will devote special attention. At that
As such, the MR group in the House vote defeated a resolution proposal to
decriminalize homosexuality worldwide.
Beyond the situation experienced in Brussels or in the 27 Member States of the Union
European, the condition of homosexual communities remains precarious and alarming in
many countries of the world where, often, homosexuality is forbidden or sanctioned such
a crime by criminal law. Sexual relations between consenting adults of the same sex
are still criminalized in 80 states, 7 of which even provide
they are punishable by the death penalty. This situation is incompatible with the right
International Covenant on Human Rights.
We welcome the adoption of the resolution "Human Rights, Sexual Orientation
and Gender Identity "by the Council of United Nations human rights. It's here
first time that formally adopted by the United Nations resolution aimed at
combat discrimination and violations of human rights based on the orientation
sexual. This resolution sends a strong signal to the international community and is
an important gesture of support with regard to the movement and advocates
LGBTI people.
Continue to defend and the adoption of texts tending to fight against
LGBTI discrimination and promote the Yogyakarta Principles which gathers
all provisions of international law that prohibit
discrimination based on sexual orientation internationally
particularly in our bilateral relations and in organizations
international
Draw up a precise inventory of human rights in the 18 payspartenaires cooperation that addresses the issue of discrimination
440

people because of their sexual orientation. The situation on the ground is
unacceptable in some countries that criminalize homosexual relations through
their legislation, or specific and targeted indirectly so: Algeria,
Burundi, Morocco, Mozambique, Senegal and Uganda.
Making sexual orientation and the rights of LGBTI a major theme
in political dialogue with countries in development cooperation
especially in terms of education, politics and health
political dialogue.

5) Fight against racism and anti-Semitism
If our country continues to provide substantial effort in the integration of
foreigners as to develop policies for more equality to benefit our
Belgian citizens of foreign origin: adoption of anti-discrimination legislation and anti-racist, creating and strengthening the capacity of the pulse Fund policy
immigrants, creation of the Centre for Equal Opportunities and the Fight against the
discrimination and its development into a center Interfederal, easing conditions
allowing the acquisition of nationality, establishment of Urban Policy,
implementation of information campaigns to prevent discrimination, etc., it is
found that real equality is far from over in practice and that practices
discriminatory in general, particularly affecting women, homosexuals and
people from the immigration remain an unfortunate reality.
The construction of effective citizenship through work and the spirit of initiative, willingness to
to equal opportunities at the heart of this process are all common values
MR will also continue to promote.
Acts of racism and anti-Semitism are unfortunately on the rise in
our country. Fighting against such behavior must be a priority and as soon as
young age. Racism is not an opinion it is a crime which must be punished severely that
or the fight against discrimination in employment, access to housing or incivility.
Fight against discrimination in employment
Discrimination related to the origin in the labor market is a reality in our society.
Despite his intolerable, Belgians of foreign origin and foreigners are often
victims of discrimination, direct or indirect practices, mainly because of their
nationality, supposed race, skin color, ancestry, national or ethnic origin.
The problem of discrimination in employment, in reality, a much overlap reality
vast as the binomial racist boss who refuses trained abroad. It also includes
the most precarious conditions of employment of foreigners or Belgians of foreign origin,
their dismissal easier, not to mention the many and varied they stigma
can be victims.
Ethnic stratification of the labor market which consists of a concentration
certain nationalities or origins in some sectors, such as cleaning
Industrial and office for example, and the risk of unemployment for higher or lower
certain categories of nationalities, are now proven quantitatively
(statistical) and qualitative (test situation). One could cite several examples
objectives with a degree in higher education, Belgians of foreign origin have
441

twice as likely to be unemployed than the native Belgians,
Turks and Moroccans six times.
It is through employment, much more than by any other measures that will adjust what is called
integration ; because once the job gains we believe address the question of the domino
housing, mobility and diversity of neighborhoods, and everything else. And it must ideally
this job it is sustainable, it is private, it multiplies in business and we
encourage independent activities. We must encourage mobility out of neighborhoods, including
young people to society, develop in them a taste for entrepreneurship and thus integrate
more to the economy.
It is essential to continue the mapping of foreign employment in Belgium to see
precisely the place of workers based on their history
nationality. The aim is to highlight the distribution of certain categories of
workers particularly vulnerable to discrimination on the basis of origin, creating
a ethnostratification the labor market. Such a device can track the insertion
professional people according to their migration dynamics: refugees
recognized and regularized or naturalized persons, for example. This would be a tool
important to enable the development of effective policies since we could see
clearly the shortcomings or areas where people of foreign origin are
overrepresented.
But it is nevertheless a change in mentality that must happen. To this end, the MR wants
including employers aware of the challenges of diversity and support
companies and unions in implementing the amended anti-discrimination laws.
Creating a diversity barometer to promote better decision
into account the diversity in both public and private companies. This
barometer will account for the economic activity of groups
risk.
Using the anonymous CV for the entire public service. The anonymous CV
is already implemented for contract jobs but it should be extended
statutory jobs.
Advocate for entrepreneurship becomes an integral part of the
integration policy and employment. Indeed, any person must be informed
self-employment opportunities, and not just opportunities
wage labor.
Continue information campaigns and the fight against the awareness
discrimination from employers and temporary employment agencies
Continue awareness and training on employment discrimination
Employment of Consultants and Forem Actiris
Develop with union officials and activists from employees and the
shares information and training on existing tools to fight against the
discrimination
Engaging regional media for information campaigns and
awareness at the entire population in its diversity
Provide in the tasks of employment counselors to report the Centre for
442
Equal Opportunities discrimination that job seekers
would communicate. The Centre for Equal Opportunities him decide, having regard to
expertise and skills, action to take upon the said complaints
Develop control of labor legislation: The Role of Social Inspection
who received control of discrimination Powers (federal and
region)
Remind the implementation of the CCT No. 38 on equal treatment in the
Procedure of recruitment and selection
Support the establishment of free zones system, which is to exempt
certain taxes companies that decide to settle in some
vulnerable neighborhoods and create local jobs.
Continue Monitoring of employment of workers of foreign origin

Extending the scope of the law of 23 March 1995 prohibiting
the denial, minimization, justification or approval of the genocide
committed by the Nazi regime.
Indeed, there is no objective justification not to include in the scope
of the Act, the deniers acts committed against other cases of genocide. Yes
we are attached to freedom of expression, however, we believe that free
opinions manifestations must be fought where, on the one hand, they threaten
our democracy tending to rehabilitate a racist genocidal ideology and,
First, they offend the memory of genocide victims and their survivor (s). Act on the
Holocaust denial must also apply to genocides recognized by a decision made
by an international court within the meaning of the International Convention of December 9
1948 on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide.
Suspension of political rights as any additional penalty
offense against the laws of 30 July 1981 to suppress certain acts based
racism or xenophobia of 23 March 1995 prohibiting the denial,
minimization, justification or approval of the genocide committed by the regime
German National Socialists during the second world war and 10 May
2007 on the fight against certain forms of discrimination
Establish reference magistrates and police officers
References to better fight against racist acts.

Evaluation of the National Strategy on Roma Inclusion
Belgium has about 20,000 Roma. At the initiative of the European Union, each country
has developed a strategy for the Roma. This ambitious plan that aims to integrate the population
Roma 4 components (housing health, education and labor) must be evaluated in order to see through this
monitoring areas for improvement.

443

IMMIGRATION AND ASYLUM F.

Finding
Globalization as the political, humanitarian, social crises are the basis
amplification of international migration affecting to varying degrees all
States of the world, including Europe. New phenomenon, these movements
take place both inside and outside Europe.
Globalisation can make the identity issue because while it helps to
shake, and she reinforces the need at the same time because the world is more
open, circulation and mixing of ideas, people, capital,
Goods are strong. Migration management is for all countries a challenge
and major concerns us all. We must have effective policies and tools and
flexible to reconcile these migratory flows which often result from a state of chronic underdevelopment or the disorganization of the state structure in countries
original both with the economic needs of the host country with respect for human rights
fundamental of all human beings.
This year we celebrate 50 years of the Moroccan and Turkish immigration in our
countries. At the time, these agreements "relating to the occupation of Moroccan and Turkish workers
Belgium "go relatively unnoticed. Yet they have shaped sustainably and
continues to do so, the face of our country. The crisis forced the coal sector later
these immigrant workers to move into other economic sectors such as
metallurgy, chemistry, construction and transport. As their economic contribution that
Cultural contributed and still contributes to the dynamic of our country and symbolizes
cultural richness, economic and social living together in Belgium.
Over the decades, this immigration was supplemented by family immigration by
through family reunion. The descendants of those first migrants are now
Belgian full citizens who brought their rich culture to our country and
has made Islam the second religion of our country. Professional successes and
individual are numerous in sectors such as the arts, science,
media, economics or politics but they are not sufficiently put into
value and does not have sufficient impact on the Welfare of others.
Besides his very successes, there are also to some extent a failure
the socio-professional integration, each of which needs to be aware. As such, the fight against
discrimination in employment and housing and the fight against racism are priority
because racism is not an opinion, it is a crime. And zero tolerance must be applied
in the matter. Low levels of education and training must be fought for
end the "professional and social marginalization" of some young people from
Immigration and fully plays for equal opportunities.

444

In 2011, net migration in our country has been positive than 85,000 people,
the equivalent of a city like Verviers, Mechelen and Ixelles. Without migration, the positive balance
be of 23 408 people. Nearly 10% is estimated foreign population, and 25%
population having 1 or 2 foreign-born parents. The Belgian population of foreign origin
represent between 30 and 50% of the total population by 2060. One citizen in five was born
abroad. The Migration Report 2012 produced by the Centre for Equal Opportunities Book
also a detailed typology of the foreign population in Belgium on 1 January 2012, the
United had 11,035,908 inhabitants, 8,980,073 Belgians of birth (81%) and
2,055,835 foreigners at birth (19%). Two thirds (66%) of the foreign population
United are from the 27 other states of the European Union.

For several years, the asylum and immigration policy has been redesigned in a while
coherent combining realism, firmness and humanism. It must also be fair
balance between the rights and obligations respecting those arriving and those who welcome.
The laws "Home" 2007 today asking the reception parameters of applicants
asylum in Belgium. The reception is characterized by an exclusively material assistance rather
financial assistance administered by the federal agency for the reception of asylum seekers
(Fedasil) and applications are examined on a case by case basis by the CGRA with many
possibilities of appeal for rejected asylum seekers to the Board of
Alien Disputes (CEC). Under this term, the asylum procedure has been
enhanced to be faster, on average six months to process a case against
13 months before.
Our country experienced a severe crisis in the home between 2008 and 2011. This crisis subsides
Finally since 2012 thanks to the structural measures taken by Maggie De Block and the
proposals initiated by the Liberals such as the list of safe countries and the exclusion of aid
Financial applicants.
In recent years, migration flows have changed, the Arab Spring, the
wars in Syria and Afghanistan as well as the increase in intra-European migration flows give a new face to these flows. Greater flexibility on migration
Economic must be considered to stem the number of people applying
Asylum for bad reasons. Thus annually, approximately 85% of applications are rejected
because it is not political refugees but economic refugees. Similarly
ideas, given the economic crisis and better management of our
asylum policies, it is clear that regulation must become a procedure
exceptional and not be seen and sometimes promoted as a new channel
migration a means of multiplying procedures.
It should also take greater account of intra-European migration movements
multiply because of enlargement to the east and the economic crisis that persists in the
Southern Europe. The political situation must take into account most of these movements and be
more responsive. Realistically, in such an interconnected world and with
ever greater imbalances in terms of wealth distribution, our country
can prevent immigration continue, but it needs to better control because
Another highlight is that we can not accommodate all the misery of the world without risking
deconstruct our society which already is struggling to preserve its social model, insert
its unemployed, Belgian or legal aliens in the workplace and to integrate
its newcomers.
445

In 2011, 65% of immigration in our country is a European immigration which 35%
the UE28, followed by Africa equally between North Africa and Africa
Sub-Saharan Africa. We must propose new policies to correlate
migration flows and needs of the labor market in our country.
Integration issues are most important in our country that almost 40%
our immigration based on family reunification that usually implies
a long-term project of life in our country. To say that the integration of immigrants in
our society is becoming more problematic is not shameful. Instead, we must
to accept with realism and objectivity, which is not going to be able to remedy
faster and give all the keys to emancipation in society and
successful socio-professional integration.
In this respect, we can only denounce double discourse of the left parties in
Immigration: they do not want a well-managed economic migration
(when they know that most of the immigrants come to us for reasons
economic) but they want a human Belgium that regulates its undocumented, few
important they have virtually no chance of finding work and depend for
many of them on welfare with an increased risk of falling into poverty.
Be realistic, but also accept that if we do not give any message
empowering to that the chance to come to settle in our today
countries, it is not surprising that it is natural to receive assistance from the state without questioning
on the indispensable solidarity to which he must take part, like any other citizen
our country to ensure the sustainability of the welfare state. Migration policy, by
against, under the sovereignty of the state and is based on two types of migration
major: first, economic migration and secondly, family reunification.
Regarding asylum policy, it is regulated by the 1951 Geneva Convention and by
European directives. These regulations require states to grant the status of
refuge to all those who are persecuted around the world for reasons of
race, religion, gender or social conditions. Faced with this very specific category
migrants, Belgium has duties (in particular in terms of reception) on which it
may compromise under penalty of judicial convictions. Migration channels being more
increasingly controlled, unfortunately many immigrants abusing the asylum procedure with
result that over 80% of asylum seekers are rejected because they do
not fulfill the requirements of the Geneva Convention and European directives. He
is in fact economic and not political refugees. Seeking asylum is a right,
must remain for those covered by the Geneva Convention.
With the impetus of the Liberals in 2012, 21,461 asylum applications were filed in
against our country more than 25,000 in 2011, a decrease of 15.8% year on year! It's here
first time in 5 years that the numbers decrease since 2011 it had received 25,479
files. Belgium had registered 2011 2.925 asylum seekers / million population
in 2011, almost 5 times the European average! This explosion in the number of
asylum seekers was such that Belgium had become the fourth European country in terms
446

Home. To realize the reality of the figures, in 2011, Belgium, 11 million
inhabitants, hosted 33,000 asylum seekers while France has welcomed nearly
57,000 for 65 million inhabitants and 53 000 Germany 80 million people ... The
difference is huge in terms of proportions.
Despite all measures taken to accelerate the asylum procedure, regularization
continue to represent the new way of immigration as each year,
average between 10,000 and 12,000 people are regularized in our country and to
discretion of the competent Minister. The regularization is ultimately a premium
illegality for those rejected asylum-seekers, who received orders
leave the country and have never obtempérés and all those living in
hiding from us in knowing more than all the procedures have been improved and that
very many remedies exist. This also gives the image of a country where non-lax
only its own laws are not enforced but where in addition, those who contravene
are ultimately rewarded with a permanent residence permit which opens up new
rights such allowances or family reunification.
As such, it is important to maintain the discretion of the Minister, it appears
inappropriate to fix in the law permanent regularization criteria in this area,
as demanded by the PS and the CDH. It may be for the inclusion of broad criteria in
law, to devote a virtually automatic right to regularization, leading migrants
imagine that simply staying illegally in the territory for some time
then a residence permit via regularization. This again would create an air of Appeal
Additional to Belgium. The MR wants the Minister continuous load
to exercise its discretion in a discretionary manner, reasonable and case by case
but it also report annually to Parliament on the number of
adjustments granted on the criteria applied to them and the number of
If it spread in the opinion of the Immigration Office.
The MR is the only French-speaking party to consider the urgent need for our countries to have
a genuine migration policy, human but firm, which also implies a
effective policy of return for failed asylum seekers or persons residing
illegal. Obviously we do not turn our backs on our international obligations and
moral in terms of asylum or immigration, but these flows should be supervised by
clear rules and all the fraudsters must be strictly punished because Belgium does
more can give the image of an Eldorado lax. It is also time to stop
this schizophrenic view of immigration and developing a migration policy
realistic that dares to open the debate on economic migration since it
could meet the needs of our labor market.
Assumed and properly managed, migration is a very positive contribution to our
Society as it is necessary for economic development and rewarding in terms
cultural and human. It can also benefit the development of countries of origin and
migrants themselves.

447

Balance sheet
With MR, many points on tougher asylum policy
immigration were obtained in agreement with the government as line
Driving the adoption of a human but firm immigration policy!
•
Managing asylum and immigration policy in the hands of one
Minister (reception, asylum, stay and return policy for asylum seekers
rejected and illegal) and optimization of data exchanges between
various bodies (CGRA, Aliens Office, Fedasil). Support
coordinate all of this material has identified a policy
Global necessary both in domestic policy and external and helped make
asylum policy and more efficient and effective migration, create
Clear and precise regulations that guarantee legal certainty and to ensure
they are implemented in a coordinated and consistent manner. It will in
Also to end the current dissolution of responsibilities on the part of
public authorities.
•
Creating a safe country of origin list: The list shows the countries in
which there is no question of persecution within the meaning of the Geneva Convention
or risk of serious injury during a return to the country of origin. The procedure
related to it is faster. Which can process within 15 days the
applications from nationals of these countries and thus decongest centers
Home. Currently seven countries are included on the list: Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina,
Macedonia, Kosovo, Serbia, Montenegro and India.
Between 2008 and 2011 the number of asylum seekers from these countries is 7
increased from 2240-7740 seekers. In 2012, through the adoption of this list, the
total number of asylum seekers from these countries decreased by 36%.
The establishment of this list has clearly helped unclog centers and
terminate existing air call when the Balkan nationals taking advantage of the
visa liberalization to seek asylum in Belgium and enjoy the welcome
equipment set up. This measure is particularly important that these
nationalities are characterized by a rapid and recent increase in applications
multiple compared to new demands.
In 2012, multiple applications accounted for 27.7% of total
asylum applications. However, 42% of new applications are declared inadmissible (because
containing no new elements). In 2011, Belgium recorded half
most (51%) of multiple applications in 2010. These multiple applications are therefore
mostly rejected and have the effect of lengthening procedures
therefore their cost, increased financial pressure on legal aid since a quarter of the
Pro Deo budget is used by asylum seekers and the maintenance in
centers.
It is therefore why a new procedure for multiple asylum applications has
was introduced. The procedure "filter" or "non-decision making
448

consideration "is now the exclusive jurisdiction of the Commissioner General
refugees and stateless persons and not more than the Foreign Office. In addition, the notion
"new items" is redefined such that it will more
account the elements themselves and the moment they were presented. Other
Moreover, these changes help streamline and thus treat in time
Shorter multiple applications since the Commissioner-General shall
will make its decision within 8 working days.
•
Recourse exclusively to material assistance rather than financial assistance via
CPAS: Now home in Belgium is done exclusively on a base
Hardware and not financial. The removal of the possibility of a financial Home
possible to reduce drastically the use of air engendered this type of intervention.
Henceforth, each refugee will have a material supplied either by the ILA Home
(Home Local Initiatives) through the CPAS or bumper reception centers Fedasil.
•
Creating a wing in the detention center of Vottem for people
illegal offenders
An order to leave the territory must be issued an order to leave the territory
respected and executed. Too many illegal advantage so far of system faults
and disappeared in the wild. Many have fallen into crime
including drug trafficking. For these people, a strong signal was finally
be sent.
•
Fight against human trafficking and enrichment by the organization
Networks: transposition of the directive sanctions
This law was passed March 4, 2013 and helps fight against illegal immigration. Of
sanctions and measures against employers of illegal setting up a
several liability system: companies are jointly liable if one of their
Contracting staff uses to black and the new law also provides workers
exploited, the payment of wages and contributions due next late penalties and
administrative fines already planned.
For the adoption of measures against illegal occupation of immigrants, the goal is to
reducing a pull factors of illegal residents. The central provision
this directive is the ban on holding of third country nationals with
no residence permit. It also asks a series of minimum standards
sanctions and measures against employers who infringe that prohibition.
Belgian law already provided for criminal sanctions against employers who occupied
of third-country nationals staying illegally. This change in the law requires
however explicitly the employer to check if the worker has a residence permit
valid before using it. Besides financial and criminal penalties already exist,
the employer must also pay the full salary still due to the national of the country
third. A rebuttable presumption is introduced there, whereby an untitled worker
legal residence is considered to have worked for three months his employer and must therefore
449

while also receiving a salary for that reason. The employer must also pay tax
and social contributions thereto. The text also introduces a system of accountability
solidarity for the main contractor contractors or intermediaries.
This means for example that a valid residence permit without a worker is entitled to demand
salary still due in full to the prime contractor and not only
his direct employer. However, if the direct subcontractor confirms in writing not to occupy
of third-country national staying illegally, the main contractor or intermediary
escapes this several liability unless he can prove that he was in
aware of this fact. To meet the requirement of an effective complaints mechanism
asked by the Directive, it is also possible for third parties as organizations
union representative and the Centre, to institute legal proceedings in disputes relating to
field. The worker can naturally also appeal himself in court,
but will not receive temporary residence related to the length of the procedure
•

Transposition of the Return Directive: Return and Repatriation

It was transposed by the Law of 19 January 2012. Since this law, a distance can be
accompanied by an entry ban between 3 and 5 years on the country if the national accounts
a serious threat to public order or safety. A coherent migration policy
through strict enforcement of return decisions either voluntary return or
forced return. An order to leave the territory must be an executed order! The return
voluntary asylum seekers is encouraged and, in the absence of cooperation, the forced return
is organized. Priority is given to the expulsion of offenders illegally for
a return to their country. The first results of this new policy are already
visible since the return figures are increasing. For years, our country has been
reputation as a lax state, a paradise for illegal migrants. This state of affairs
must stop. Also since July 2, 2012, third-country nationals
receive an order to leave the territory may also be notified of a ban
input. In 2012, 11,386 persons were repatriated against 10,313 in 3011 and only
8537 in 2010! just like the law of 15 March 2012 allowing the return of foreigners
were convicted and imprisoned.
•

Implementation of Directive Blue Card

Entry into Belgian law September 10, 2012, it allows a foreigner to third countries,
to obtain a residence permit which serves as residence and work permits. This
directive concerns only the highly skilled can earn more than
€ 49,995 and a higher degree of at least 3 years. Proof that the immigration activity
weak economic Belgium, no application has yet been filed.

•

Law toughening the conditions of access to family reunification.

42% of legal immigration in Belgium is a family immigration through
family reunification while the European average is only 29%. Recent
years, numerous abuses were recorded. Abuse that created pressures
450

significant financial and budgetary our social system. This new law,
the initiative of MR, restricted the beneficiaries of family reunification to the nuclear family
(the asczendants are now excluded in most cases) is to ensure that the
Applicant reunification can accommodate candidates in Belgium in a dwelling
Decent, he has regular income and sufficient to meet the needs of
new arrivals. Following the tightening of conditions for the desired Family reunion
by MR, the numbers are decreasing. So 41,336 in 2010 against 36,828 in 2011 and 30,096
in 2012.
Family reunification with a Belgian fell by 50%. According to statistics, two
times more women get family reunification visa, mainly in the
bracket 20-49. In 2012, 45% of decisions for reunification visas
Family refusals were against only 29% in 2011. In 2012, 52% of requested visas
by Belgian or European citizens were refused against 32% in 2011. This
proportion is almost the same for foreign nationals requesting
family reunion with 41% of refusals in 2012 against 26% in 2011.
The MR obviously does not undermine this fundamental right. However, it is
essential to specify the terms for, firstly, limit the abuses that have been
recorded (white / gray marriages, forced marriages, adoptions or fictitious contracts
fictitious common life) and secondly, better protect immigrants (in terms of housing and
financing) in order that these people can fit better in our society and
under the best possible conditions. With MR, several major advances were
added in the law:
•
Income conditions: the applicant must prove that he has
sufficient resources to enable it to provide for his family
without them becoming a burden on the community 68;
•
The majority of applications for family reunification is introduced by
Belgians. In order to fight more effectively against increasing abuse, it was
Belgians decided to submit to the same conditions as nationals
outside Europe.
•
The applicant should have a decent home and a assurancemaladie;
•
Within one year of legal residence in Belgium before they can introduce a
request to bring his or her partner;

68
The reference amount is set to be able to consolidate 120% of the social integration income (RIS) rate burden family or
€ 1,184.5. The means from additional support systems such as RIS and guaranteed family benefits and assistance
granted by a financial social CPAS will not be taken into account, as well as waiting allowances and allowances
transition. However, unemployment benefit can be taken into account provided that the spouse or partner concerned may
prove that he is actively looking for work. It is not acceptable that people enjoying a family reunion
find themselves in charge of the community, both for the State must assume this private decision financially, for the person
arrived in Belgium and finds himself in a situation of dependence and impoverished in a social environment not conducive to a
successful integration. The income requirement is not however maintained for those who are bringing their minor children

451

•
The grouping is limited to spouse or cohabitant and children
minors. It excludes ascendants;
•
The age limit for benefit of family reunification is increased from 18 to
21 years old. This is an enhancement age for fight against pressure
Family for arranged marriage;
•
The period during which the conditions can be checked, and
residence permit, eventually removed, is extended from two to three years to 5 years
for Belgians and Europeans;
•
Criteria to qualify a sustainable and stable relationship are
introduced. The monitoring period is extended from two to three years.
•

Medical regularization





the granting of aid and social integration income of CPAS.
•

Reform of the asylum procedure with casework in 6 months

With 21,461 asylum applications (totaling 28 285 persons), the year 2012 is
breaking with previous years since records a decrease in
asylum applications (16% less than in 2011). Applicants are mainly
from Afghanistan, Guinea, Russia and the DR Congo. Some Balkan countries
in the list of "safe countries" (Kosovo, Serbia and Albania) are still among the ten
first country of asylum seekers.
The question of reception of asylum seekers is one of the cornerstones of
coherent asylum policy. A body of rules of international and European law,
corresponding to the humanist values ​​of our society requires not only Belgium
the organization of an examination procedure for each asylum application lodged but
Also the availability of a host device during the duration of the procedure.
Over the past four years, the influx of applicants was such that the host network
was saturated forcing the government to open new non-stop seats
home, sometimes in hotels, which created a substantial increase in the number
applicants and Fedasil budget that has nearly doubled in 4 years!
The asylum procedure has been reformed to make it more efficient and faster all
guaranteeing the rights of asylum seekers. New changes
reception procedure designed to handle cases in 6 months (13 months on average before) to
fight against multiple applications and promote voluntary returns:
452

o
Exclusion of material aid after a second asylum application not
based (no new elements in the file). In 2012, applications
Multiple represent 27.7% of the total number of asylum applications. 42%
new applications are declared inadmissible (for excluding
new elements). In 2011, Belgium recorded over half (51%) of
multiple requests in 2010. This measure will result in
reducing multiple asylum applications which result
lengthening procedures and retention centers.
o
Course back: A rejected asylum seeker will be offered a
return trip by Fedasil. In case of non-compliance, OE will conduct a
forced return.
o
Possibility of issuing an order to leave the territory immediately
CGRA after refusal without waiting the use of CEC
o
Streamlining of procedures concentrated in CGRA.
•

CPAS reform law

The law of 19 January 2012 amending the legislation on the reception of asylum seekers
inserted a new article in the law CPAS of 8 July 1976. This article limit one hand
social assistance for EU citizens and their family members, which is not due
during the first three months of residence or for a longer period for the
job seeker. It provides further that the CPAS are not obliged to grant
Using interview before obtaining the right of permanent residence. This new section will be in
practical implications for every citizen of the Union applying to be registered as
a worker, independent, student, job seeker or nonactive have
sufficient resources and therefore receives a request for a registration statement.
Depending on the profile of the European citizen, the limitation of the right to social assistance will last three months
(maximum) or more.
No fewer than 2407 citizens of the European Union have been expelled from Belgium Year
last for breaches of duty in social security. More
exactly, 1918 on the basis of an unreasonable burden on the security system
489 social and withdrawals residence for fraud. This is a very significant increase. The
number of European nationals who have been ordered to leave the territory
for social fraud increased from 502 in 2010-1542 in 2011 and then to 2407 in 2012. This
increase is due to the crossing of several databases as Dolsios,
Inasti, the Carrefour bank etc.
In addition, the law allows extension of 3 to 5 years of control of Europeans and the
deprivation of the right to social assistance (CPAS) allowed foreigners to stay on the basis of
Article 9a if the authorization has been issued due to the existence of a work permit B.

453

•

Revision of the Nationality Code

The Law of 4 December 2012 has profoundly altered our code of nationality. It will
expect 2013 to compare statistics. On 1 January 2012, there were 1.169.0654
persons of foreign nationality. The number of foreign nationals who obtained
Belgian fluctuated in recent years at around 40,000 per year, without
large variations since 2003. It is important to note that from now on nationality
will be considered as a tool for integration as an end but as
the culmination of a successful integration. In 2010, 34 636 people acquired
nationality.
Since its creation in 1984, the Nationality Code was amended on 6 occasions. Our code
was one of the most lax in the world. Thus, one could apply for naturalization after 3 years
whereas, for example, the EU 28 will allow the free movement of foreign nationals
after 5 years of legal residence ...
It was therefore important to review the code in depth, highlight the criteria
integration including knowledge of a national language but also the
economic participation in our country.
The reform hardens the access to citizenship by introducing strict conditions
(knowledge of one of three national languages, proof of social integration; proof
its economic participation). The system is streamlined retaining only 2 large
the nationality of acquisition channels in a short procedure (after 5 years of legal residence)
or long (after 10 years) and now reserving naturalization (granted a favor
by the House) to very exceptional cases.
Major advances: 4 procedures to become Belgian as from 1 January 2013
1. Acquisition of nationality: foreigners born in Belgium. In this case, nothing
exchange. Foreign born in Belgium and has stayed there since it was legally
birth can become Belgian by declaration of nationality at the age of 18. We
is here based on a presumption of integration; there are no other conditions.
2. Acquisition by the shortest route: Foreigners legally resident for 5 years. They
may acquire Belgian nationality to 3 cumulative conditions:
to. Demonstrate knowledge of one of the three languages
national.
b. Proving social integration >> For a diploma or certificate
issued by an institution approved by a community. Or by
professional training of at least 400 hours. Or proof of having
followed an integration course. Or, again, having worked for five years
without interruption; The set of criteria is reciprocal to
except when the integration process that has moved past
in before 5 years of residence to the territory of another authority

454

competent to determine the path of integration, in which case it
adds a language test.
c. Prove his economic participation. The stranger must have worked at
Over the past five years, for at least 468 days of work
(one and a half full time) as an employee or as
official or paid contributions for at least 6 quarters as
independent. The duration of training has been followed in five years
preceding the application is deducted from the period of professional activity
required. An exception to the "absolute condition" of participation
Economic was scheduled for abroad whose spouse (with whom he
cohabiting for at least three years) is Belgian or has a Belgian child where
where working time is reduced to 234 days or 3 quarters. Another
exception is made for the handicapped, disabled or have
reached the pension age in which no condition is applied but 5 years
legal residence.
3. Acquisition by the long road: Foreigners legally resident for ten years. For
the lengthy procedure of declaration of nationality, the criteria are less strict
but knowledge of a national language is requested and must
prove "its participation in the host community" from a point of view
economic or socio-cultural. Given the time, integration is assumed.
4. Acquisition by naturalization. Soft underbelly of nationality, procedural
Naturalization was increasingly used as it should be a
for exceptionally meritorious given to people by the House of
Representatives will finally be completely modified to meet the original intent
this procedure are: a favor reserved for foreign citizens
"honoris causa". The person concerned must be able to testify to Belgium's merits
exceptional in the scientific, sporting, cultural or social, and thus
Indeed, "to make a particular contribution to the international reputation
of our country. "Again, integration and knowledge of languages
national will be required.
•

Schengen reform to Parliament

The European Parliament voted 12 June 2013 reforming the Schengen Code here are the
main points:
• Unannounced visits at internal borders: For the first time, teams
Inspection will be permitted to pay unexpected visits to control any
attempt to introduce illegal internal border controls. In case of visit
a team at external borders, the Member State concerned should be informed
least 24 hours in advance. The inspection teams will include experts from States
Member of the European Commission and EU agencies and bodies.
• reintroduce border controls only as last resort: The code
Schengen borders already allows the reintroduction of border controls
455

interior in exceptional circumstances that could pose a
serious threat to public policy or internal security.
• According to the amended Schengen Borders Code, the reintroduction of checks at
internal borders should remain an exception and a measure of last resort to
take for a strictly limited time. This reintroduction will be based on
criteria specific objectives and an assessment of its necessity which should be
conducted across the Union.
• In case of serious threat to public policy or internal security,
controls could be imposed again for a period of 30 days, which
could be extended up to 6 months. If unforeseeable events
require immediate action (eg a terrorist attack), Member States
could reintroduce controls unilaterally for 10 days
maximum. Any extension will be monitored at EU level. The migration is not
considered a threat.
•

Common European Asylum System (CEAS) to the European Parliament

The European Parliament has also agreed in 2012 on better
harmonization of asylum procedures in Europe. The current European law requires
no specific deadline for Member States to make a decision on a
asylum. To address the differences between national procedures
matter, the new rules introduce common deadlines for
processing of asylum applications (generally a period of six months, with exceptions
limited), stricter rules on the training of staff in contact with the
asylum seekers, as well as new clauses specific needs
unaccompanied minors and other vulnerable persons.
o
Minimum reception conditions
A brief list of the reasons for detention of asylum seekers, better conditions
life and retention, evaluation prompt medical and psychological needs of
seekers, and faster access to the labor market (nine months after introduction
the asylum request) are among the key improvements to the 2003 Directive
on reception conditions. Generally, if an applicant for asylum is held in
retention, it will be in a specialized center.

o
No transfer to countries that have difficulties in managing inflows
Dublin Regulation determines which country is responsible for processing an application
Asylum (this is usually the state in which the applicant is entered for the first
Once in the EU). Under the new rules, asylum seekers will not be
transferred to EU countries where there is a risk of inhuman or degrading treatment.
These rules will also introduce an early warning system to help fight
against the problems that appear in the national asylum systems before they
turn into crisis. Clearly possibility for problems at the external borders
reintroduce internal border twice six months after approval of the commission.
456

o
Access to police databases on
asylum seekers (Eurodac)
After much debate, the police forces of Member States and Europol will have access
fingerprints of asylum seekers contained in the database
Eurodac, to contribute to the fight against terrorism and serious crime. On demand
MPs, stricter rules will apply in terms of data protection and
new backups are planned in order to ensure that data is
only used for this purpose.
MR proposals:

•

Fight against social dumping: Directive Detachment

The free movement of citizens is one of the freedoms guaranteed by the European Union and
it is one of the four components of the internal market. Under the principle of non-discrimination on grounds of nationality, a migrant worker should be treated the same
way as national workers in access to employment, conditions of employment and
work as well as social and tax advantages. Community law does not provide
harmonization of legislation on the rights of mobile workers but more
exactly, coordination of national legal regimes to preserve freedom
movement of European citizens. According to the European Commission, a worker is
detached considered if he works in a Member State of the European Union because
that his employer sends temporarily continue its functions in that Member State
for a period of six months, renewable once. The particularity of the worker's status
detached lies in the continuity of his employment relationship with his original employer. The
very principle of maintaining the membership of the social security system of the country of origin
represents a significant advantage for those Member States where social charges are
lower. The directive "Detachment" unfortunately allows many abuses
in our country it is necessary to correct.
Give legal and human resources to the labor inspectorate allowing him
to carry out checks on weekends and public holidays and condemn
immediately fines companies that violate the Directive.
Strengthen the quality of controls by the labor inspection, implement
requirements of the Court of Auditors on Social Security.
Provide opportunities for social partners to complain face
violations of the directive.
Proposes the creation of a declaration of subcontracting, non-exclusive to
statement made by the company which posts employees in order to compel the donor
order to declare the use of a subcontractor
Strengthen our national legislation in order to make a responsible donor
Order liable for errors or fraud committed by a subcontractor
Live in Belgium
Ahead of the final agreement between the Council and the European Parliament and
transposition of the directive by strengthening our national legislation,
including:

457

o joint and several liability of all subcontractors, and
this in all sectors,
o limit the number of secondments within a company,
o non-compliance of the directive must become a nullity clause
obtaining a tender
Create a map of the European worker, electronics, that allows to control more
Easily employees and companies and empowers all stakeholders
relevant economic
To be effective, these proposals are also complemented by a set of
measures to be taken at European level:
set up in each European state and on terms as are
own, a minimum wage of interprofessional or professional reference to
socially harmonize detachment conditions;
improve interaction between the authorities and establish
administrative cooperation procedures between Member States faster, sincere,
effective and of good quality to fight against possible violations of the
Directive;
establishing a European Agency of labor inspection which will develop a
"Blacklist of companies and unscrupulous service providers", on the model
black lists that exist in civil aviation, prohibiting a company
would be condemned to punishment for fraud the posting of workers or,
At least, that would not have fulfilled its obligations with the effect of the prohibition
respond to calls for tender;
regularly assess compliance with the spirit and the legal content of the directive,
given the developments in labor costs between countries of the Union.

•

Transpose the Directive single permit

The general framework directive ("single permit") was adopted on 13 December 2011. This
Framework Directive aims at granting third-country nationals a single residence permit and
working via a single application (see below) and defines a common set of rights
economic and social fundamentals, with the aim to treat in the same way
EU nationals and third-country nationals working in the EU in any
legality. Today, a third-country national wishing to work in Belgium,
must go through two procedures. First, his future employer must ask
a license of occupation to the competent Region. This demand leads
automatically apply for a work permit B match. After receipt
this work permit, the worker may then introduce a visa type D asks for
to stay in Belgium as a worker. This application must be submitted
with a Belgian diplomatic or consular post. This double procedure
complicated and takes time. It must also be observed for the renewal
already obtained permits. On 13 December 2011, the EU adopted a directive
effective. Directive more commonly called "single permit". This directive must be
transposed by 25 December 2013

458

The directive "single permit" has two objectives. First, it aims to introduce a
single application procedure for obtaining a residence permit and combined work
for workers. It should help to make the one hand, the most effective procedure
and facilitate other hand, control of the legality of stay and employment in the State
member. This directive is therefore limited to the procedure for obtaining a residence permit and
work and defines a common set of basic economic and social rights, with
aims to treat in the same way EU citizens and nationals of
third countries working in the EU legally.
But when state reform, economic migration was regionalized. The agreement
Government of 1 December 2011 provides that the Regions are competent for
migration criteria for the job, but the federal remains competent for granting
residence permit. A one-stop shop should be established. With a system of this type,
the worker could for instance make the application for a residence permit and work
to the Belgian diplomatic or consular post or at the municipality of residence
legally. This position or municipal administration could in turn transmit
asks the competent Region and OE decision. A single window system
should also be able to manage the extension of combined licenses.

•
Demonstrate a basic knowledge of a language of the country before
arriving in the territory
Many countries have already adopted this measure: Great Britain, Germany and the Netherlands.
This measure should be applied at home by being coupled to an integration course
(as in other countries). This would show during a screening at
the visa for long stay, to prove his knowledge of languages
National before emigrating to Belgium particularly in the context of family reunification.
Everything must be done for people who want to start a life project
our country is really involved in their life project and has all the cards
from the outset and are empowered on the life that awaits them in our country. The test
language may be arranged directly with the embassy and related, according to the
places, with the collaboration of the Embassy of France and the Netherlands who practice this
system. This should be seen in parallel with the integration process (as
in the other countries) on arrival in the territory and will be fully in charge of the national
abroad.
•

Widespread Obligation Certificate of No Impediment to Marriage

When a Belgian citizen plans to marry in a foreign country, where local authorities
the wedding will be celebrated frequently ask the person concerned produces a "certificate
no impediment to marriage. " This is a document from the authorities
Belgian diplomatic or consular accredited to the country concerned showing that the future
spouses meets the requirements of its Belgian national law for marriage.
This certificate must be established and widespread in Belgium to any marriage between a Belgian and
a citizen outside the UE28. Every marriage contracted abroad should be
459

carefully reviewed and analyzed to detect the maximum attempts
gray weddings and marriages and other abuses related to residence permits. Thus attention
Belgian consular authorities will have to be focused on respect
Article 146a of the Civil Code and therefore verifying the intention of creating the future spouses
a sustainable living community. The goal is to prevent people marry to obtain
benefits in Belgium related to social benefits and / or advantages in
stay.
Ministerial Instruction of the circular of 2009 on non-impediment certificate
also provides that the chief contact the prosecutor to request its opinion in case
doubt. This systematic referral to the Prosecutor must be removed and no longer exist
when there are doubts on the part of the Embassy of the real will of the spouses.
•

Create System "deposit return"

A deposit will be required by the consular authorities for short visas and
average stays "at risk". In the case of a visa with a risk,
Consular authorities may provide the applicant to pay a deposit. This deposit
the return would be restored in the country, seen by consular authorities.
In case of no return, the consular authorities could then prevent service
immigration.
•

Temporarily reintroduce at European level if visa procedure
substantial immigration

There is a correlation link between visa liberalization and migration
including asylum. So many citizens from the Balkans have benefited from the
abolition of visas for traveling to Belgium in our country and a drop off
asylum application creates an intolerable pressure on the Fedasil reception network and causing
a substantial increase in asylum policy and budget return policy.
If not found steady flow, this possibility needs to be used at
the UE28.
•

Optimize consular work

A more effective fight against fraud requires a visa issuance policy
visas greater solidarity between Member States including the establishment of visa centers
common and widespread use of biometrics.
On migration, the pro-active role of our diplomatic and consular network
essential. Unfortunately, it is regrettable that all too often each embassy works
for his part without informing others of "best practices" implemented, methods
work placement or detection of new cases and illegal migration attempts
In other countries.
o
Better exchange of information among embassies and
the CGRA about the investigation followed on asylum seekers
o
Better communication between stations and consular agents
better exchange of information in the Belgian diplomatic network.
460

o
Exchange of best practices between embassies
o
Increase the price of applications for residence permits from the
second request to deter multiple applications that clogs
the network.

•

Complement and strengthen the list of safe countries

This list provides accelerated return procedure in 15 days for nationals of
these so-called "safe" countries. Currently only 7 countries are included on this list namely Albania,
Bosnia and Herzegovina, Macedonia, Kosovo, Serbia, Montenegro and India. This list, initiated
thanks to MR, has proved effective since the seven countries concerned represent in 2011,
4,687 applications for a number of 2998 applications in 2012 following the introduction of this
list. A decrease of 36% in a year of requests from these 7 countries. This list is
a good start but is still largely incomplete.
•
Managing asylum and immigration policy
One minister must continue to manage asylum and immigration policies (reception, asylum,
stay and return policy failed asylum seekers and illegal) and
optimizing data exchange between different authorities (CGRS Office
foreigners, Fedasil)
•
Report the Additional Protocol of the Amsterdam Treaty
Belgium is the only member state to have this provision. Belgium must return to this
protocol that allows all EU citizens 27 to file an asylum claim
Belgium. Although, for now, there are few cases (200 cases in 2010), there is a
risk with future accessions (Serbia, Turkey, Roma population ...) which will
yet only increase the impact of the protocol in terms of attractiveness. It is absurd to
EU level that has the highest standards of democracy, which has legal instruments
internal in cases of discrimination and may eventually be a time bomb: 12
million Roma are EU citizens 20 with freedom of movement, with future risks
Potential extensions etc. To prevent abuse, any application for asylum should in future
be filed within 5 working days after arrival in the territory of nationals
foreign nationals including members of the UE28.
•
Evaluate all SPEs Fedasil including the
medical expenses
Fedasil is the central nucleus of the reception of asylum seekers. Given its budget more
more Therefore, it is essential to conduct a monitoring of expenditure management
as well as agreements with various partners (CPAS / Red Cross / NGO).
This device is subject to a flat-rate daily financing and is not subject
the same rules of operation that centers directly managed by Fedasil. In a
consistency and good management, we hope that these structures are submitted
an assessment of their practices as well as an objectification of their funding. This
Home network audit should be conducted by the inspection of Finance or by the Court of
Accounts.

461

Medical expenses are constantly increasing in Fedasil. A monitoring
thereof should be performed. In case of abuse, fraud or neglect, sanctions
with care providers need to be taken. It will also ensure and consolidate
conventionner all care providers (hospitals, doctors ...) and
pharmacists.
•

Create a database of the guarantors of medical expenses

It is essential to establish a database of people posing
as guarantors to ensure that the medical expenses incurred by a third party on our
territory can be effectively passed on to the guarantor to limit
Weight abuse our social system.
•

Fight against Fraud Recognition of foreign children

The children of fraudulent recognition is one of the new migration streams often
used by men who claim to be their father while he has no connection to the child.
Several steps can be taken:
o
Creating a database using the national registry by the
Through the reference to paternity recognition.
o
Possibility for prosecutors to suspend the act of declaration
paternity
o
Establishment of penalties for false paternity recognitions
•
Create a centralized database on MENA
The Mena, unaccompanied minors who are detained must be
systematically recorded. The information collected will prove invaluable in case of
disappearance or repatriation. An appropriate legal framework would ensure that the data
stored in this database can only be accessed by the services
involved (respecting the privacy of those concerned) for the sole purpose
ensure the MENA monitoring. It should also resort to age determination tests
faster to limit abuses in this field and young adults who pose
for minor

•

Linking social benefits to learning language

Social benefits either unemployment or the CPAS is essential to ensure
"Safety net" "needed in our society. However, they are not
a right granted without consideration to be. Thus, as mentioned in the law,
candidates will be required to work. As such, the knowledge and mastery of
national languages ​​is essential to find work. And social benefits
must now be conditioned to respect the host contract by which the
including immigrants engage in learning French. People do not fall
in this learning process will be deprived of these social rights.

462

•

Regularization: Redevenir an exceptional procedure

In 2012, 4412 people (3387 records) were regularized on humanitarian grounds
(9a) and 319 under medical adjustments (9b) while a total 16 412
people had filed an application for regularization (7767 regularization files
8745 medical and humanitarian regularization cases). These numbers are declining because
on average, each year 10,000 to 12,000 people are regulated by the Minister
competent.
These people are foreign nationals illegally residing in the territory
This is because they came in Belgium clandestinely or because they have a
time, received a temporary residence permit (asylum application, students, workers ...)
but have chosen to remain in Belgium after their expired as often despite
many orders to leave the territory. Illegal are people who, to a
time or another, have chosen to illegally and knowingly chose to ignore our
various laws. It is therefore important in order to send a clear signal to industries
illegal migration and the system should become stronger and become a
exceptional procedure.
There must be an end to abuse and this procedure should become an exception, favor
offered by the state. We must not delude ourselves, regularization is not a policy
humanitarian, it is above all the proof that the state is unable to enforce its
own laws.
Nor can be no question of establishing permanent regularization criteria
may spend an almost automatic right to regularization and a "premium" to
illegality leads migrants to imagine that simply staying illegally
territory then get a residence permit. This would result in the creation
yet an additional air call to Belgium and give the image of a country
attractive for people residing illegally in our country. It is also necessary to end
regularization campaigns such as those of 2000 and 2009.
-

Medical adjustments 9b

Many abuses have been detected in medical accruals that have seen their numbers
applications explode in recent years. Steps have already been taken to reduce
the phenomenon of abuse, including the establishment of a "medical filter" but it is important
to know the precise causes and budgetary impacts. Several measures can be
considered:
o
A complete audit of the cost of medical procedures, treatments and
CPAS expenses resulting must be done immediately. Nearly 50%
regularization requests are 9b while it must be a
exceptional procedure.
o
Decouple the status of subsidiary protection and 9 ter. Ideally,
people receiving 9b should have short type visas,

463

renewable. The EU does not oblige Belgium to organize this procedure via
subsidiary protection
o
Remove legal residence and financial assistance during the phase
Cross-examination in order to reduce the attractiveness.
-

A study on the 2009 regularization

It is necessary to have a map of the evolution of those regularized in
2009 knowing that few of them have been regularized through work. A similar study was
made following the 1999 mass regularization This study showed that 10 years
Later, half the regularized is either unemployed or the CPAS ... which is not without
impact on the state budget. Knowing also that the regularization leads to other rights:
social rights, family reunification and, ultimately, the possibility of access to nationality.
What is changing in terms of integration and inclusion of this category of
migrants? Is really regularization sesame employment as says the
collectives of undocumented migrants? Is not it time to assess the practical impact of certain
political decisions? Not to mention that the mass regularization gives the wrong signal to
migratory pathways and reward somehow those who have decided to live in
illegality and did not comply with orders to leave the territory assuming
he just wait a few years to get the next adjustment ...
•

Prohibit the multiplication of procedures

For many years, the government is working to improve and accelerate
asylum and immigration procedures. As such, many have appealed to the CEC
possible so that those rejected may enforce their rights. In addition,
Government has implemented a personalized voluntary return path for each
unsuccessful or illegal person. Once these procedures exist and that human
voluntary return path is set up, it does not appear normal to multiply
procedures to try to stay longer in the country. Just as it appears
not normal to refuse the voluntary route project to try his luck by opening a
new procedure for regularization and voluntarily falling into hiding.
Not to mention that this multiplication of procedures has a significant impact in terms of
financial and administrative burden on the federal budget.
So too can easily multiply in Belgium procedures related to asylum and
immigration. So many people now being déboutées of the asylum procedure
systematically file applications for regularization or other benefit from a visa
stay short and sometimes long stay to apply for regularization of
family reunification or asylum. Henceforth, it should prevent the accumulation of
procedures. Clearly, it comes with the territory a single residence permit corresponding to a
purpose. The adjustments can not be that exceptional procedures.
It is not acceptable that much of the adjustment applications are filed
by people who already have other pending proceedings or simultaneous deposition of
two types of adjustments. Thus, 65.5% of regularization applicants have already received
464

an unfavorable response in other proceedings. 42.8% of applicants have already 9a
turned down in the same procedure. 51.6% of applicants have already wiped 9ter in
9ter least one refusal.
Persons filing only one process become the exception ... The law allows
Unlimited introducing 9a and 9b as simultaneous requests that successive, you must
to end this system. This shopping attempts to exploit the specific benefits where they
find. What relationship with people who invoke the same time things
as different as asylum, humanitarian stay and medical stay? These requests
multiples are harmful for Belgium because in a large majority of cases, they
do not succeed and make the return more difficult.

•

Continue Return and Repatriation Policy

We must strengthen the return policy. In 2012, 11,386 expulsions were carried out. A
order to leave the territory must be an executed order. Preference will be given to voluntary return
but if necessary, we will pass to forced return. Particular attention will be paid to
persons residing offenders. Priority is given to the expulsion of
offenders illegally for a return to their country.
It should also improve the repatriation of illegal aliens who
subject to an order to leave the territory even if their application for regularization is
pending. That is why strengthening the SEFOR service is the Immigration Office
necessary. Indeed, SEFOR, created in 2011, allows municipalities, local police areas
and the Office for Foreigners to better collaborate and better track orders
leave. Priorities must be set to be the best possible,
including through priority over people known to the police and
Justice.
From 1 June 2012 to June 2013, 2,259 people were held and about 85%
they have been removed from this project. This is increasingly often migrants
known to the police and justice (they accounted for 40% in 2013) for problems
public order or criminal acts. Among this group of people known to the police and
of justice, since the launch of SEFOR, 101 serious criminals have been removed.
•

Develop Readmission agreements

Belgium alone or in cooperation with its European partners, must continue
establishment of illegal readmission agreements with countries of origin. The negotiation
of such agreements requires a constructive dialogue with consulates and administrations
competent in the country. Illegal must be repatriated and priority must
be given to foreign prisoners should serve their prison sentence in their country.

465

•

Develop synergies between migration and cooperation
development

Encourage developing countries to build capacity to facilitate remittances and maximize
their impact on the local socio-economic development. Adapted solutions
saving and microcredit must be explored to guide those transfers
money into income generating activities or projects that have an impact on the
local socio-economic development. Indeed, in Africa especially, these money transfers
often operate through informal channels and are used for consumption
to constitute a direct or wool socks without productive effects for local communities
and therefore without effect on reducing poverty. Furthermore, each agreement signed between
Belgian development cooperation with partner countries will set up a
readmission agreement for nationals of partner countries.
-

Fight against marriage / cohabitation gray / white

If white marriage unites two people who do not like by mutual agreement, the gray made
an injured party in favor of his spouse. The gray marriage is a phenomenon likened to the
practice a "sentimental swindle". These marriages as one of
spouses, sincere and good faith, deceived by the other. It is difficult or impossible
detect a gray marriage because the common life is real, not artificial, since even
years and so there is no error scenario.
The "mock" wedding covers, in fact, two cases since article 146 bis of the Code
specifies that civil marriage can be canceled as well if both spouses
agree to divert the marriage of its purpose, as in that where one of them
only pursues this objective that is to say a gray marriage. The marriage of convenience,
as it is precisely defined in Article 146a of the Civil Code is indeed a
example of misuse of the Belgian legislation and abuse on the part of persons
there resort. The institution of marriage in this case is not used for the creation
a sustainable living community between spouses but for the sole purpose of obtaining
an advantage in terms of living on the part of at least one of the spouses.
Much more difficult to detect, such marriages are based on deceit, naivety and
love fraud since one spouse enjoys the feelings of others and their
credulity, love is blind is well known for the benefits of the law
stay (naturalization, family reunification) and term to acquire Belgian nationality. The
Victims often naive before the promises of eternal love, emerged exhausted
nervously, emotionally and financially this fool's game.
It is estimated that 5 of marriages are celebrated day in Belgium. In 2011,
the Foreign Office has registered 10,728 marriages "suspect", 15% more than in 2010.
In 5909 cases of which the Foreign Office has been warned in 2011, couples had yet
marry while for others 4819, the ceremony had already taken place, often abroad
where controls are less stringent.

466

•
Regular communication with travel agencies, the
Police and Civil Status officers
•
Introduction into law the aggravating circumstance for
Authors gray weddings
•
within three years of life should be extended to five
years allowing the foreigners to be able to control Office
for a period of 5 years
•
Transpose text of the 2005 circular on the exchange
information between the civil state officers and the Aliens Office
on the occasion of a marriage statement about an alien.
EO with a "database" on the foreign national
repeating its previous requests for regularization before
marriage in question, which is an index for the state officer
civil.
•
Annulment of the registration in the criminal record
because the procedure is civil.
•
The prosecuting authorities must pursue every time. Must also
extend the investigation of the prosecution time from 2 months to 6 months
and a reference magistrate following these records must be designated by
judicial district
•
Uniformly organize the fight against sham marriages
in each municipality and Outreach Officers of Civil State.
•
Standardization of practices relating to marriages
European level to prevent abuse. Creating a DB in
European on marriages;
•
Giving more powers to the consulates for
marriages contracted abroad. The officer of the civil state and the floor
can / should also require their opinion;
•
Creating a DB white wedding Fraud / gray at EU level 28
•

Organize economic immigration

The legal economic immigration is the weak link of the Belgian migration since it
represents only 7.6% of economic activities (eg against 42% for the
family reunification) in 2011. In total, in 2011, 33 420 residence permits were issued
for professional reasons. Belgium is lagging behind in these matters. Thus, by way of
comparison, this rate is 19% in the Netherlands and 17% in Germany. It's the same
for student immigration which represents only 6.7% of visas issued there too far
laggard in relation to other European countries like Germany with 25%
or the Netherlands with 20%.
Work permits are primarily renewed in Flanders (60%) to Brussels (20%) and
Wallonia (just under 20%). Economic immigration is closed since 1974 except
certain conditions. The Royal Decree of 9 June 1999 implementing the law of 30 April 1999 on
the employment of foreign workers provides that for work in Belgium, a
foreign national must have a work permit (B). This license
467

Work is granted on the basis of an occupancy permit for an employer if
several conditions are met: the authorization request must be made before the
came to Belgium and is granted only after the examination of the labor market (ie the
check that there are no job seeker on the labor market that could
fill the job within a reasonable time even after training). This license is limited
to countries with which Belgium is linked by international agreements (Algeria,
Macedonia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, Morocco, Tunisia, Turkey, Serbia and Montenegro).
•
When the effects of the economic crisis on the unemployment rate will
faded and it will not be possible to find on the Belgian and the European market
workforce to fill the job shortage, it may be considered
encourage economic immigration duly adapted to the specific needs of
regions.
•
Strengthen labor inspection services in order to fight effectively against
the exploitation of illegal workers often engaged in conditions
deplorable and better fight against the risks of occupational accidents seen
conditions under which it is sometimes exercised.
•
Denunciations of bilateral agreements 60s that allowed the
except in terms of migration regimes for certain countries such as Italy,
Spain, Greece, Morocco (1964), Yugoslavia, Tunisia or Turkey.
In 2014, it is against-productive to link the jurisdiction for a job on one condition
nationality. Economic immigration for trades shortage must be
open to all countries.
•
Remove C permit people become illegal
•
Immigration optimize high-value, including facilitating
living conditions for researchers or foreign students

•

Ending tax credits for asylum seekers

Asylum seekers are included in the waiting register dependent on the national register.
Or are subject to PIT residents included in the national register. As such, the
seekers also the National Register asylum are required to complete a
tax return and can claim a tax credit. Many of them are
likely to receive a refund via including tax credits because they
have children. Now asylum seekers are entitled to material reception where everything is taken
load during the procedure. Procedure 85% of them will be rejected. Benefit
tax credits (often by having children) therefore seems illogical anyway
with the exception of asylum seekers working. We must therefore stop this
practice by removing the national register of waiting registry so that the tax authorities
sends more "at source" of tax returns for asylum seekers.

468

•

Adapting the Nationality Code and the forfeiture

Thanks to the action of the MR, the Nationality Code was revised and the vesting conditions
nationality were tightened. As for naturalization, it becomes a procedure
exception for people bringing added value to the country. Now nationality
will no longer be considered as a tool for integration but as the culmination of a
successful integration. Evidence of integration including knowledge of languages
National economic participation but also in our country are becoming essential to
the acquisition of nationality.
One of the great fears of our Western democratic societies, and one of the great
challenges they face, is to protect and fight effectively against
threats or acts of organized international terrorism are committed by groups inspired
by extremism, fundamentalism and fanaticism of all other edges. It is necessary
also guard against "domestic" terrorism more like this
the attacks in London, Boston and Paris have recently proven.
Our legislative arsenal deprivation of nationality matters should be adapted and
strengthened as part of this struggle. This possibility of forfeiture also presents interest
to allow the extradition of perpetrators of terrorist acts condemned at home and forfeit
their Belgian nationality. The system put in place since the end of 2012 is
certainly a significant democratic progress which should allow the disqualification
their Belgian nationality, more effective and more systematic, whole panel
individuals whose behavior unworthy and / or dangerous in terms of our institutions
democratic, no longer justify that they can continue to claim nationality
Belgian.
Deprivation of nationality should become automatic and not optional in
framework related offenses in Article 23/1 of the Code of Nationality, including
acts of terrorism.
Remove the possibility to deprive only during a period
10 years after obtaining Belgian nationality. The general unworthiness that attaches
the acts, facts and behavior concerned, and their incompatibility with the incontestable
maintenance of acquired Belgian nationality, does not diminish with time
elapsed since the acquisition of that nationality. This time reserve must
disappear.
Individuals convicted on the basis of the Law of 30 July 1981
suppress certain acts motivated by racism or xenophobia or
condemned, whatever the type of offense concerned, as a repeat offender
must be regarded as a serious breach of the duties of presumption
Belgian citizen.
Amend section 15 of the Nationality Code to allow the suspension
of the grant application for nationality where the marriage of the foreign spouse
with a partner of Belgian nationality is the subject of a judicial procedure
dissolution of marriage on the basis of Article 146a.

469

At the naturalization procedure: Besides the sporting merits,
cultural and scientific, add consideration of the economic merits for
allow obtaining naturalization.
•

Continue the establishment of a common European asylum system

In June 2013, major advances have been acquired at European level, in terms
harmonization of asylum policies. Gradually, significant disparities
the national provisions of the Member States will be erased to achieve that
each Member State has a standardized system. Clearly, apply for asylum in
Portugal or Belgium will be equal. This harmonization will reduce air appeal
to Belgium and will enable the development of major quality standards for
Refugees in Europe. It is crucial that an asylum seeker, regardless of the Member State
in which he submitted the application, is offered the same guarantees in terms of both
processing of his application for asylum in respect of its reception in the Member State.
Harmonization of asylum policy also helps prevent or reduce
secondary movements ("asylum shopping ') within the Schengen area and
increase mutual trust between Member States.
This harmonized system based on five legislative instruments: the Directive on
reception conditions, the Directive on procedures for granting asylum, the Directive on the
Qualification as regards minimum standards to be met by nationals
third countries in order to qualify for refugee status, the Dublin Regulation which determines
the criteria determining the State responsible for processing an asylum application and settlement
Eurodac setting up a database of asylum seekers.
•

Remove from the possibility of regularization of a visa for a short stay

The stranger holds a short-stay visa can regularize his presence there in a
long stay. It is often used to divert procedures including
made to bring his ancestors, from traveling to Belgium for treatment in
Belgian hospitals.
•

Educate local authorities

It is essential to sensitize local authorities to the importance of
systematic and careful review of the various documents received from legalized
abroad, notably to require full copies of birth certificates have reason extracts,
not to accept as sufficient evidence attestations of poverty alone, charge
Family or non-payment of taxes and to produce documents relating
the civil status of persons who move to Belgium via family reunification.
•

Reforming emergency medical assistance

An estimated 130,000 the number of illegal living in Belgium. Anyone living
illegal and do not have financial means to pay her own medical expenses
can ask the CPAS's place of residence to take care of these costs.
The Royal Decree of 12 December 1996 states that the "Emergency Medical" covers care
470

curative, but also preventive care and monitoring. The drugs, consulting a
generalist or specialist, ... can also be supported by the CPAS. This
measure applies to both outpatient medical care for medical care
in a residential nursing facility (hospital, psychiatry ...).
The general regulation says that if consultation with a general practitioner
or specialist, surgery, drug purchase, the person ...
must first obtain the agreement of the CPAS's place of habitual residence.
But in unforeseen circumstances, that is to say, if the medical condition is likely to
make it impossible to prior request for a payment commitment from the CPAS
the place of stay, the person requires medical care provider may inform the
care of the situation. The provider will then ask its CPAS
bear the costs.
In accordance with Article 57§2 of the organic law of 8 July 1976 on the CPAS, the
illegal residents are entitled to medical care through the procedure 'Aide Médicale
Urgent 'if they meet certain conditions to stay in the country illegally and
CPAS territory and not having the financial means to pay for their own care
medical. These are the doctors who attest that they need medical care
mention on the certificate, "emergency medical care".
In case of positive decision, the CPAS will provide the aid applicant or a medical card
indictment with which he can go to the doctor of his choice or
doctor on the list of providers that collaborate with the CPAS. In case of
negative decision or absence of a decision within a period of one month from
the date of the application for aid, the applicant has three months to appeal
with the Labour Court. In this area, numerous abuses were observed.
Measures are needed to limit abuse. So if in 2003, the AMU has cost 17.6 million
Euros. In 2009 this amount was 39.8 million increasing.
This general law allows many abuses, particularly in the care treatments
dental or prosthetic. The term "Emergency Medical Assistance" and misnamed seen
it covers all types of same preventive care. We believe this helps
must now focus only on the "urgent" character and not on access
Free to all and systematic care.
Standardization of practices at the various CPAS. Each CPAS must
obey the same rules of operation regarding the AMU to avoid
air calls to certain CPAS considered more "generous" than others.
Systematic verification of the financial status of applicants. Prohibition
request in connection with the RIS. The cpas also check systematically
the existence of health insurance or a guarantor responsible for paying
medical care.
Introduction of a medical card for illegal on which appears the name
the physician to whom the person may apply to ensure that they are addressed
directly to emergencies.
Foreigners wishing a visa to Belgium to prove that they
have travel insurance to cover any costs of repatriation on grounds
Medical and hospital care. Data from this insurance must be
471

centralized in Belgium for the cpas can recover the cost of care
health. Health care insurance entered into a data bank
centralized data must be consulted by cpas. Same with the obligation
Assumption which was signed by a guarantor under a visa
cde and for a period of two years. During this period, the guarantor undertakes
vis-à-vis the Belgian State to defray medical expenses, residence and
repatriation abroad. Allow consultation of this case will allow the DB
to recover the costs of accommodation and care. Recovery of medical expenses
with insurers and individuals should be entrusted to the PPS Social Integration and
not CPAS.
Empowering CPAS: AMU should be supported 100%
by the Federal State. Only greater financial accountability CPAS
will lead to a better management of files and applications
refund.
Implementation of binding agreements between healthcare providers
(doctors, hospitals) and the CPAS. Illegal people will seek treatment
as these contracted providers. These agreements also enable to offer
better using first complete online and prevent illegal if
have systematically to emergencies which represents a cost
additional.
Introduction of user fees for each medical application for € 10
to better channel the abuse, including the proliferation of medical visits
for regularization 9b
Prohibit the CPAS financial intervention for all that is not
reimbursed by the SPP I.S. (Category D drugs, infant milk,
optical glasses / spectacles frames, extractions or dentures ...).

G.INTERCULTURALITE
1. The hazards of communitarian withdrawal
Historically, many states are built around the principle of "one people, one
religion, language ". It is clear that this model is no longer one around which
our society is evolving and no longer allows at present to meet the challenges
inherent in the new socio-religious composition of contemporary states.
Even more than yesterday, the acceleration of social and migration, as well as
the ever closer integration of our European societies in a globalized world,
condemn the State "monocultural" it substitutes a new model in which
coexist many cultures, many languages ​​and many religions. Carrier wealth,
This diversity can also lead to a phenomenon of radicalization identity. This
Radicalization is all the more dangerous as it leads to a rejection, stigma
and the other, pushed to the limit, a clash of differences.
This raises the central question: what kind of society do we want? Given the stakes, a
clear and marked choice should prevail. The MR was clearly in favor of a company
472

multicultural where citizens are treated equally and share a heritage
common fundamental values ​​unlike multiculturalism. This promotes
the idea that everyone benefits from rights differentiated by membership
religious, cultural or ethnic. Multiculturalism represents the door open to
accentuation of identity differences leading ultimately to a form of "Babelization" of
live together. We can not accept that groups, often minority,
claiming their differences before claiming membership in a set of values
municipalities.
In its most extreme sense, multiculturalism gives way to communitarianism:
the individual does not exist independently of its cultural, ethnic backgrounds,
religious or social. Individuals are essentially defined by reference to their
difference and, on this basis, organize a separate system of institutions and values.
Interculturalism is the expression of a will to live together while
communitarianism is the choice to live separately according to specific rules.
Multiculturalism leads to the emergence of micro-societies that challenge the
common acquired in the name of what some call "cultural relativism". This last
argues that the fundamental rights are unique to a particular culture, that all
cultures have the same value, they are equivalent, and no can not arrogate
entitled to define the values ​​of another or the judge. For MR, if the various cultures
right of citizenship and are worthy of recognition and protection of a democratic,
this recognition and protection can find only apply to the condition
their accounts with fundamental rights.
As such, we refuse the establishment of reasonable accommodation. Under cover
reconcile society, reasonable accommodation divide. Dispositions
Current Legal such anti-discrimination laws, and guarantee freedom of expression
equal treatment and are largely sufficient to the need for legal framework for
diversity. The MR denies the establishment of reasonable accommodation whatsoever
for example the days off in differentiated instruction, time-shifted
pools, biology course waivers Darwinian or application of provisions
Special family law.
The creation of a multicultural peaceful society also involves the school and education.
At present, the formal education schools must be able to organize six courses
religion, a secular ethics course, and soon a Buddhist ethics courses,
between which students are forced to choose. Parents' associations and unions
Teachers have long called for this to change, partly because
that children are grouped by denomination and are obliged to identify themselves religiously
from the youngest age.
Schools should promote openness to difference and promote living together. That's the reason
for which, since 2004, we call for the establishment of a philosophy course and
history of religions compulsory for all children. This course could start early
in the curriculum. The many parliamentary work has shown, especially with
the hearing of constitutional law professors that such a course is not only
473

desirable but necessary. The concrete modalities - duration, organization ... - are
obviously debating widely. The leaders of cults elsewhere, in a
common approach, proposed the establishment of a joint commission that would be charged
this mission.
2.

The right to be different but not the difference of rights

Cultural diversity must be accompanied by government to paths
a "living together" respectful of all and everyone. It is possible to live together
if it manages to gather citizens around common values ​​respected by all.
Society must foster integration by recognizing each person's rights and
equal duties.
Our societal choice is clear: to uphold the individual and his rights and freedoms on
cultural, philosophical or religious ties. We want a social model where
the rights and duties of citizens are based on their affinities or his origins
ethnic. A model also postulates that a society can not be built and
conducive to the optimal integration of all if citizens share a common heritage
fundamental and universal values.
We wish to remind strongly that certain values ​​inherited from the Enlightenment and which
presided over the introduction of democratic societies, are of universal significance. These
values ​​include sealed in safeguarding the rights of European Convention
Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and its Protocols. It's about
personal right of every individual to decide their own way of life and their right
inalienable emancipation, freedom of conscience, equality between men and women and
separation of church and state. These values ​​are not the prerogative of a culture or a
time. These are values ​​that are binding on every State which seeks emancipation
all its citizens.
Crop diversity is valued by the State, provided they fall within the
respect for fundamental values ​​and the European Convention on Human Rights.
For MR, integration does not mean assimilation: the open and inclusive society
defends the right to be different but refuses the difference of rights.

3.

The impartiality of the State

The public authority must be uncompromising on neutrality because it is one of
the most powerful engines of integration, social inclusion and the company's success
multicultural.
Respect every individual is allow him to break free and express its diversity. There
neutrality of the state, not the rejection of religion but respect for beliefs
each. Only the impartiality of the state can give the guarantee of freedom of worship for all.

474

Observe the company is to respect universal values ​​and make them his own. This applies
equality man - woman, not of secularism in its philosophical sense but
good policy and the necessary separation between church and state. Catholic, Jewish,
Protestant, Muslim, atheist or agnostic, everyone should practice his
philosophical beliefs without suffering discrimination by public authorities and, in the
Meanwhile, it can not, by its conduct, have attitudes which respect
not the laws that govern life in society.
The MR filed in all parliaments of concrete proposals
interculturalism. These texts are intended to ban ostentatious wearing of any sign convictionnel,
that is to say suggestive of a religious, political or philosophical in
public service, polling stations and compulsory education for students and
teachers. Unfortunately, these proposals have been swept a backhand by hand
the left parties who refuse to legislate, and thus to clarify their positions on the subject.
For MR, parliamentarians exert institution's representative function
and elected officials in charge of executive functions, such as Ministers, Mayors, the
And Aldermen CPAS chairmen and the / the President (e) of the City Council must
also refrain from wearing conspicuous signs convictional. Unfortunately there
Also, we have not been followed by the parties of the Olive Tree. However, political parties
must play a leading role in promoting the core values ​​that underpin
we live together. It is their responsibility to promote the presence in the assemblies
women and male carriers of these universal values.
The Liberals were also the first to call for the prohibition of the burqa in space
public. The bill, initiated by the MR, was adopted in 2010, which has made the
Belgium the first European country to ban the burqa in its territory.
4.

The fight against radicalism

For several years, European democracies are facing the rise of different
forms of radicalism, including religious. Spread of radical ideas via the Internet
or satellite channels, including preaching Salafi extremist Sharia 4
Belgium imports of certain foreign conflicts on Belgian soil and more recently exodus
dozens of young Belgians, including minors, parties enlist voluntarily
Syria. Radicalism threatens living together and inclusion in society. This radicalism
Religious must be fought with the help of different Muslim communities
in our country because Muslims are the first victims of this religious fanaticism as
in our country and abroad.
Prisons are often a reflection of our societies and a great indicator of democracy
in a country. Thus the rise of sectarianism in society also affects
on life in prisons. The conditions of detention, deprivation of liberty, promiscuity,
endangering the psychological balance are important parameters that provide
breeding ground for fundamentalist excesses in our prisons. The prison administration shall
take the necessary steps to ensure respect for all beliefs. There
full equality among religions in prisons should also be ensured via
475

the largest commitment of Muslim chaplains to counteract the audience
radicals. In a state of law, we can not stand by and watch a "buying the
tranquility "against the practice of Salafi Islam in prison. We can not tolerate that
inmates feel obliged to practice so that others do not harass. With the
as a result a number of prison people with a clear trend
fundamentalism that they had not before.

The MR has made concrete proposals to fight against radicalism:
- Penalize more severely, in addition to existing offenses, incitement to
hatred, violence or discrimination based on alleged race,
origin, gender, age, disability, sexual orientation, conviction
religious or political when this incentive by its nature or context is to bring
affect the rights and fundamental freedoms guaranteed by the State (3-5 years
imprisonment);
- Apply a safety period of not less than two thirds of the sentence and
confiscation of documents collected in the context of the offense against the
person convicted of an offense under the preceding paragraph;
-

Penalize the usual consultation and without legitimate reason prompting the Websites
hatred, violence or discrimination as well as sites that glorify terrorism.
Constitute legitimate grounds consulting such sites the normal exercise of
profession whose purpose is to inform the public, the pursuit of scientific research
or the establishment of evidence intended to be used in the context of court proceedings
or criminal;

-

Allow forfeiture of Belgian nationality on the part of people who are
guilty, by nature or context of their intervention, incitement to
discrimination, hatred or violence aimed at undermining the rights and freedoms
Fundamental guaranteed by the state;

Following the election in 2012 of two municipal councilors who claim Brussels
clearly the adoption of Sharia in our country, the MR group in the Senate filed
proposals to revise the constitution. The purpose of the MR is to succeed organization
living together in which guarantees every fellow citizen the full exercise of freedom.
The Islamic party is a danger in a society of people who have
different beliefs. Our responsibility in a liberal democracy is that all
can live together in mutual respect and safely.
This is why two bills were filed to ensure the neutrality
the state and to put Article 30 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in
the Constitution, article stating "nothing in the Declaration may
be interpreted as implying for any State, group or person any right
to engage in any activity or to perform any act aimed at the destruction of
rights and freedoms set forth herein. "This measure helps to fight against extremists
476

liberticidal who invoke the very principles of the Constitution and the Declaration
Universal Human Rights in order to act against the rights and freedoms. We have to
protect our democracy against those who want to undermine the universal values ​​which
is based.
5.

Interculturalism and State

1. Ensuring the neutrality of public authorities by banning the wearing of signs
convictionnel
Public services have a duty of neutrality in the performance of their service duties
public and in their relations with citizens. The administration and public services,
their function of service to all citizens must exercise the utmost neutrality
material convictional signs. An official, whatever his rank, shall observe
strictly, in the exercise of his duties with regard to citizens, the principles of
neutrality and equality of users. This desire for neutrality also reflects an obligation
of equal treatment. The citizen must have the feeling of being treated objectively.
To achieve this goal, we believe that federal agents, regional,
community, working for local and provincial government structures need
refrain from any manifestation philosophical, religious, or partisan community.
This obligation also applies to parliamentarians who exercise a function
representation of the parliamentary institution and the people in charge of functions
Executive (Ministers, Governors and MPPs, Mayors, Aldermen and
CPAS chairmen) and the / the President (e) of the City Council). This ban
Port convictional signs also concerns public hospitals since the
Staff participate in his profession to a public service mission.
This will naturally same school for both pupils and teachers
the official network of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation and the official network
subsidized.
Though firmly rooted in case law for over a century, the obligation to
strict neutrality which requires public service employees is enshrined
no law. To better protect both agents that users, it is recommended
to include this principle in the general statutes of the civil service and extend it to all
contractors and employees of public administrative services.
It is essential to defend the impartiality of public authorities in respect of convictions
religious or philosophical of all citizens by adopting clear legislation in the
relating in particular to the organization of official ceremonies, pecking
protocol at official events, the presence of religious symbols in
public buildings. The Constitution mentions only the neutrality of the state. In view of
the socio-cultural development of our country and the evolution of religious diversity, it is
necessary to include secularism in Article 19 on Freedom of Religion.

477

Political parties must play a leading role in promoting the values
essential that underlie our living together. It is their responsibility to promote the representation
within elected assemblies of women and men carrying these values. Us
recall that the universal values ​​such as non-discrimination and equality between
Men and women do not have price and can not be sold off.

2. Establish a mandatory induction program for all newly arrived
Integration has become a priority of our policies and is the prerequisite to
development of multicultural peaceful society. Errors, expectations, policies
ostrich, hesitations marked to this day the policies pursued by the parties
left. Integration is a long process that is only possible if many
actors - state, citizens, civil society and, of course, people being integrated
themselves - accept, in the acts of every day to make concrete and efficient
this insertion.
Obviously the first integration factor is the knowledge of a language
National and basic values ​​of our democracy. The MR argues forcefully since 2004
for that, like Flanders, the other regions should establish the home journey
mandatory for newcomers consists of learning the language, courses
civic and civic integration, awareness of law and a plan
socio-professional insertion.
The reception path must first be understood and seen as a social springboard
allowing newcomers to find employment and to benefit as well as for
their descendants, the "social elevator". The primo arriving has rights but also
homework. The home course must be part of these duties.
3. Expand the obligations of neutrality in the public or private structures sectors
social, medico-social or early childhood charged with a public service mission
or general interest.
This obligation of neutrality must be present in nurseries, nursing homes but
as hospitals. The hospital is a place of life that sees increasing numbers multiply
of incidents of identity connotation. Patients or their entourage invoke grounds
a religious order to refuse certain medical procedures or planned to challenge certain
medical personnel, notably because of their gender. Hospital staff
itself sometimes violates the principle of neutrality (rejection of diversity, conflict with other
staff members or with patients, wearing conspicuous religious symbols in the place
labor, etc.).
o
Patients have rights but also duties: challenge ban
practitioners and carers for religious reasons or discriminatory (gender,
ethnicity, etc.);

478

o
In each recruitment in a medical / paramedical or manages a
public service mission or general interest, a commitment to the principle of
Neutrality must be signed.
o
This same respect for the neutrality should also be imposed on third parties: volunteers,
Associations patient assistance.
o
Extending the principle of neutrality prevailing in primary education and
Secondary crèches and other childcare facilities have also an important role to play
in the development and child education
4. Respect for freedom of expression: counter the anti-blasphemy laws
Freedom of expression is consubstantial to liberal democracy. But like any
freedom, it must have its limits and sanctions must be taken if the limits are
exceeded. Access to foreign media unrestricted certainly a
wealth and progress, but can also become a formidable weapon in the hands of
some. Extremists wear multiple technologies to convey messages that
is not part of a harmonious coexistence of peoples and cultures.
Thus the will to prohibit the right to blasphemy or apostasy can not be tolerated nor
Semitic messages, xenophobic, racist, sexist and hate speech. Access now
increasingly easy communications modes exposes society to the risk that
to measure and neutralize if necessary. In France, the State Council banned the channel
Television Lebanese Shiite Hezbollah, Al Manar because of the repeated broadcasting
anti-Semitic messages. Belgium should seriously consider enrolling in such
approach and seek with the judiciary the best way to punish
disseminating messages offender to Belgian laws and universal values.
5. Improve the supply of multi-faith cemetery
The live together better suppose it allowed everyone to practice freely
religion in accordance with the laws and principles of law including during rituals
Funeral The funeral ritual is an integral part of freedom of worship. We must allow
the development of multi-faith worship cemeteries so that each can be
plots to allow families to bury their dead and their relatives on the ground
Belgian.
6. Organization of non-denominational funeral
Should be encouraged to make available common room so families
can organize a tribute worthy of the name to a deceased relative, outside a framework
religious and denominational. Currently too few municipalities have places
appropriate and funeral parlors are still spacious enough to accommodate it
ceremonies.
7. Revise the Constitution to replace the current wording on marriage
The law has so cryptic that civil marriage before the religious marriage. There
Constitution should be clearer about this. The MR submitted a proposal for revision
479

of the Constitution aimed at replacing the current language by the requirement that
only civil marriage creates rights and obligations for the spouses.

8. Adoption of the "Charter of citizenship"
This Charter would inform everyone on their rights and obligations and resume large
principles of the rule of law, human rights and the Citizen and Democracy. A "
citizenship guide ", designed as a teaching tool, could be based on the
Charter to promote and develop the principles. This Charter will also
be adopted by any person wishing to become Belgian.

9. Fight against racism and discrimination
Equal opportunities, just as equality between men and women, still a
long way to go before being fully effective. In general, equal
Opportunities for people of foreign origin and immigrants in our progressing
countries but not enough and not fast enough. Discrimination remain as the
stereotypes and clichés that still die hard. In addition, in recent years, it has been
see an upsurge in anti-Semitic acts, xenophobic and homophobic. These acts
are unacceptable in a constitutional state such as ours. We must continue to fight
against all forms of discrimination and promoting equality among all citizens.
Openness to others, in contrast, tolerance and respect are liberal values
par excellence. We consider equal opportunities as a foundation of liberalism.
Without it there is no democracy nor real freedom. Our society must allow
everyone to take charge of its future and contribute to its operation.
Our country continues to make efforts in the integration of foreigners all
as to develop policies for more equality in favor of Belgian origin
foreign: adoption of anti-racist and anti-discrimination legislation, establishment of the Centre
for equal opportunities and the fight against discrimination and its development into a center
Interfederal, relaxation of conditions for the acquisition of nationality, set
up of urban policy, setting up information campaigns to
prevent discrimination, etc. It is clear that substantive equality is far from
gained in practice and that discriminatory practices in general, touching
including women, gays and people of immigrant origin,
unfortunately remain a reality.
The construction of effective citizenship through work and the spirit of initiative, willingness to
to equal opportunities at the heart of this process are all common values
MR will also continue to promote. Fighting against such behavior must be a
priority right from an early age. Racism is not an opinion it is a crime that must
be severely punished as discrimination in hiring, access to housing
or incivility.

480

Discrimination related to the origin in the labor market is a reality in our society.
Despite his intolerable, Belgians of foreign origin and foreigners are often
victims of discrimination, direct or indirect, in particular because of their
nationality, skin color, ancestry, national or ethnic origin. The problem
discrimination in employment, in reality, cuts a much larger reality than the binomial
racist boss who refuses trained abroad. This also includes conditions more
precarious employment of foreigners or Belgians of foreign origin, their dismissal
easier, not to mention the many and varied stigma which they can be
victims.

10.

Check the foreign funding of cults

The MR is the only party to have tabled a text on the subject. It seeks funding
Islamic associations or Belgian mosques via oil monarchies or emirates
Arab practicing a rigorous Islam contradicts the values ​​of the rule of law,
and which may influence religious practice in Belgium. By funding organizations
cultural, structures, mosques, Saudi Arabia and the oil monarchies have
managed to promote and introduce a Wahhabi and Salafi Islam in our country in particular
via the CIC (Islamic cultural center). How? By distributing the money to build
mosques, train imams, etc.
Other countries, such as Turkey and Morocco, largely funded mosques or
Islamic cultural associations wherever they have strong communities. This point
is to highlight the weight that try to have these two countries on the practice
Islam in Belgium, particularly through the Muslim Executive (through the Islam
embassies) or via the European Muslim Council of Ulemas that frames the faith
people of Moroccan origin in Europe. Turkey also plays a big role in terms of
financing since nearly a third of Belgian mosques is Turkish Islam through the
Milli Gorus network with funding provided by officially taking a
voluntary tax to the faithful and, secondly, the network Dibit14 (Diyanet) whose
Belgian mosques are property of the Turkish state. The imams of the Diyanet, seconded
Belgium for a period of three years, are in turn directly paid by the Turkish state and
have the categories.
The recognized places of worship must have accounts controlled by the Regions. But
What about the risk of secret funding, including places of worship not
recognized? Better control must occur. To be transparent in fund
received from abroad, you must allow foreign funds to the construction and
maintenance of places of worship must pass through a national foundation for
construction of places of worship, worship each creating its own foundation.

481

11.

Ministers of Religion and Preachers

By their function and their social role, ministers of religion have a separate and important role
within their respective communities. As such, their training and knowledge of
countries in which they practice are essential.
Sometimes, some Ministers of Cult from abroad have knowledge
inadequate Belgian and European context and speak no or very little language.
Now well-trained church ministers can play an important role on the road
integration and living together. To meet these requirements, while Belgium
interest to work more intensively with the countries of origin where some come
For example clergymen Morocco and Turkey.

Recognition and adoption by all Ministers of Religion of the Charter of
Citizenship adhering to the values ​​of the rule of law and the Belgian democracy: each
minister or preacher must be respectful of democratic values ​​and
citizens of the rule of law: neutrality, gender equality, freedom
religious (including the right to blasphemy).
Knowledge of language: this knowledge is critical to establish the
dialogue with its community and especially young people. )
Better implementation of Article 268 of the penal code which punishes ministers
worship "in the exercise of their ministry, by speeches in
Public Meeting, will directly attack the government, law, order
Royal or any other act of public authority '

12.

Preach in places of worship in one of the national languages

Currently few rules exist to better regulate the practice of different religions
recognized in Belgium. But apart from the reading of sacred texts, rituals and all
the sermon should take place in one of the national languages.

Interculturalism in compulsory education and subsidized official
The school is often the barometer of the state of society. Privileged transmission
knowledge base and core values, it is also a potential target for all
those who intend to challenge them. It thus subject to claims
identity increasingly strong as religious cause absenteeism, refusal
participate in certain courses (physical education, science) or the negation of content
Some courses (history, biology etc).

482

1. Prohibition of wearing signs convictional
The school must also be the place par excellence that fosters openness to difference and
meeting of cultures. The affinities between students should be encouraged unrelated
with cultural sensitivities, religious or political. The expression ostentatious signs
convictional is not conducive to such an approach. Rather, it involved
a form of segregation of students, that is to say, their grouping on the basis of
their common belonging to a religion or a culture.
The school is the vector and the guarantor of the base of common values. It can not therefore be
question, in formal education, to compromise on the requirement of neutrality and
banning the wearing of signs convictional for both pupils and
teachers.
2. Any derogation from the curriculum content and the respect of the principle
gender diversity on the school premises shall be excluded from the outset.
It can not be assumed that the private school students or some knowledge
verified and proven on the grounds that they may offend religious beliefs. Of
scientific knowledge included in the curriculum are being questioned and
revised in certain religious movements. So, on behalf of their membership in a
religion that advocates of theories such as creationism, for example, some students
claim the right not to attend biology classes. In addition, some
History teachers are reluctant to approach the study of the Holocaust in order not to have to face
the opposition - sometimes violent - some students influenced by revisionist ideas
antisemitic. The story, which is currently without doubt the most disputed matters must
be the subject of special attention to avoid self-censorship on the themes
more sensitive (history of the Holocaust, slavery, colonization, decolonization, the
migration, etc.).
In addition, all students should have access during the physical education and
swimming which are an integral part of the curriculum. It is the same for
extracurricular activities (excursions, school camps, cultural visits ...) organized under the
responsibility of schools. We consider it necessary to strengthen the
control truancy and certificates based on current exemptions
medical.
• There can be no exemptions to compulsory education. Avoid development
selective schooling: the practice certificates of convenience, especially during
religious holidays, must be denounced and punished systematically (order
doctors should be seized of this issue).
• Teachers must be better trained in intercultural and receive support
concrete and adequate. We must provide training to teachers and intercultural
specifically the management of cultural differences among students, as part of
their general education. The so, teachers have new tools

483

student understanding and will be less isolated in their work to facilitate links and
the meeting of all students.
• The history of peoples and foreign cultures and the history of migration and
exile must be addressed in an open concern.
3. No religious differences in school canteens
In the open and tolerant society that we know, each individual is free to
follow the food choices and religious prescribed it wishes within its sphere
Private. Regarding school feeding, just for practical reasons
organizational and cost, it is impossible to offer a la carte menus (Halal, Kosher
etc.). The first concern in this regard is to provide healthy and balanced menus
at democratic prices.
A school canteen is not a restaurant. There is obviously no question of scratching
School menus of certain foods just because one or the other religion wants
no. The prescribed of some does not have power to influence others. That said, for
public health reasons, it is important that every child can receive a hot meal
by day. The Reformer Movement does not rule against the principle of
differentiated food in school canteens, for instance, for reasons of
health.
4. Compulsory education from 5 years
The right to education is a fundamental right enshrined both in the Constitution that
international treaties. In Belgium, compulsory education covers all minors age
compulsory education, domiciled or resident in Belgium. The minor is subject to
compulsory education from 6 years. The MR is for lowering to 5 years
compulsory education with registration requirement from the age of 3 years. School attendance is
essential, and that, from an early age to develop the knowledge, mastery of
French language children's sociability and learning to live together. Since then,
it is essential to assess the feasibility of a financial penalty (suspension of payment
Parents allowances and booking amounts into an account for the interests
of the child) in case of non-compliance by the parents of this school obligation.

H. FEDERALISM A SUCCESSFUL FUTURE FOR BELGIUM
In 2010 and 2011, our country experienced the most profound institutional crisis in its history.
For over 500 days, it was impossible to set up a government. Debate
posed to the political question of the very existence of our country.
During most of this time the choice was made to negotiate with the NVA and without
the Liberals. It was not until our return to the negotiating table, without the VER, which has
could establish a dialogue leading to what is called the sixth state reform.

484

This reform has led to behind a number of issues
Institutional which prevented our country to devote political energy to
socio-economic matters. Questions BHV and determination Brussels
as full area of ​​the law but also funding or just sharing
competences between different levels of government were able to find solutions.
Two major principles through policy choices that helped unlock
location: the empowerment of different levels of power and solidarity organized
between them. Now everyone has the means and skills to fulfill clear
fully the policies. Accountability is an important and given to
Regions with economic levers. They therefore acquire the means
needed to meet their ambitions. Particularly in employment.
But the regions and the federal state are also linked by a strong bond of solidarity that it embodies
new Belgian federal model. It has clearly chosen a mechanism confirming
value added of Belgium, relying on cooperation and avoiding competition between
regions. A cooperative federalism. A place in solution of federalism and a up
confrontational federalism almost destroyed our country.
The MR also said no to the regionalization of Justice and corporate tax
had nevertheless been accepted before arriving at the negotiating table.
For now our country is free from these issues. Priority is whole tour
to the socioeconomic with strong regions to help them meet the challenges
pose.
In this logic, the MR said no to the idea to start after the elections a new discussion
Institutional give birth to a seventh state reform. This desire for peace
Community and making the forefront of social and economic concerns of our
countries does not weaken our vigilance against any attempt, at what level
power whatsoever to limit the right of Francophones in Brussels and its outskirts.
Balance sheet
The sixth state reform has allowed the MR to implement a large part of its
institutional claims, respecting the rights of francophones and in the interest
General of the country. This reform has strengthened institutional linkages between Brussels
and the municipalities with facilities but also between Brussels and its large periphery. These links
also been concreted in the Constitution:
A split of the BHV electoral district respectful of the rights of
Residents of municipalities with facilities that choice can vote for lists which
exhibit on the Brussels district or the district Brabant
Flemish.

485

A new procedure for appointing the periphery forcing mayors
the Flemish government to rule within 60 days and gives a
effective remedy before the Joint General Assembly of the State Council against the
Decisions of non-appointment. The decision of the State Council will be worth appointment of
mayor. The Joint General Assembly at the same time becomes the "judge
natural "administrative litigation to linguistic character in public to
facilities.
The courts have been split linguistically on the entire territory of 54
municipalities of Brussels-Halle-Vilvoorde, but the district has not been split.
The bilingual requirement is alleviated, which will recruit more easily
Francophone judges. Only the floor was divided between Brussels public prosecutor
(19 towns) and a floor of Halle-Vilvoorde. The framework of the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office
composed of 80% French-speaking judges and magistrates of 20%
Dutch speakers. That of Halle-Vilvoorde is entirely composed of judges
Dutch but 1/3 of them are bilingual and Francophone judges
are appointed as reinforcements. Duplication of jurisdictions on the split of BHV and
parquet have been accompanied by a significant increase in the number of
Magistrates in Brussels and its outskirts, which will reduce the backlog
judiciary.
Strengthening the rights of francophone litigants of municipalities with facilities
who can now more easily obtain a change in the language of the
procedure. In the rest of the Brussels judicial district (which includes HalVilvorde), parties may now choose to appear voluntarily
directly before a French court. Finally, there is an appeal against the
decisions of the judges regarding language changes. These new guarantees
are "concrete" constitutionally throughout the judicial district of
Brussels and will no longer be changed by a special law.
A refinancing of the Region of Brussels-Capital to 500 million
euros.
The creation of the Brussels Metropolitan Community which ultimately closer
the capital of its "hinterland" on the economic territory of the former Province
Brabant
A transfer of powers to the Brussels-Capital Region on
training, tourism, sports and culture, which embodies the vision of Brussels
as "wholly Region".
The increase in the constitutive autonomy of the federal entities and obtaining
this same autonomy by the Brussels-Capital Region and the Community
German.
The introduction of popular consultations at regional level.
The concordance of federal and regional elections and the extension of the
federal legislature to 5 years in order to bring more political stability.
486

The modification of various articles of the Constitution to allow
in-depth reform of the status of the provinces up to their
removal and their possible replacement by supra-communities.
The consolidation of several skills in employment and health
level of the federated entities to create packages of homogeneous skills and
thereby enhancing the coherence of policies.
Senate reform that will now be composed of elected representatives of indirect
Regions and Communities. The Senate becomes a true meeting of
Federal entities, such as exists in most federal states.
The Holy Emilie agreement has helped consolidate the skills
Social Health at the Walloon Region and the COCOF. These entities had already
received in 1993 some of these skills as the approval of establishments
care and support for people. The sixth state reform has transferred to
Communities important new social health skills
as part of the funding of hospitals, nursing homes and
Family allowances. To maintain the consistency of policies in the
French-speaking part of the country, these competencies were transferred from the Federation
Wallonia-Brussels to Cocof and the Walloon Region. A consultation structure
was created by a cooperation agreement between the three entities. This agreement
cooperation enables a convergence of policies and particular guarantees
these transfers of competence will not create administrative hassle
for citizens. Ste Emilie agreements donc materialize the vision of the MR
a Belgium-centered regions working together with Links
strong solidarity.
Proposals
Work actively for the conclusion of the cooperation agreement between the three
regions that provided by the Law of July 19, 2012, to give life to
Brussels metropolitan community and extend its skills to
transregional matters such as the economy, employment, mobility and development
the territory. Metropolitan Community could then seize records
such as bus lines or tram STIB, of Tec and De Lijn crossing
the three Regions, the layout of the ring, the airport of Brussels National, the
coordination between operators of employment (Actiris, FOREM and VDAB), etc.
Create a federal riding to elect part of the federal Deputies on
the whole country. It would allow one hand to the inhabitants of Commons without
ease of also cast their vote for French-speaking candidates for
federal election and another to all citizens to sanction or
approve policies at the federal level by Representatives from
Communities of other countries.
Ratify the Framework Convention of the Council of Europe on the protection of minorities
national.
487

Making Interfederal Centre for Equal Opportunities competent to handle
complaints about cases of discrimination based on language.
Encourage the dissemination with a translation subtitled television programs
produced by VRT and RTBF. This will allow citizens to better know the life
political and cultural life of the other community while facilitating learning
national languages.
Enforce the law of domicile in the Brussels periphery and throughout
Flanders, based on European or international treaties.
Stay alert to possible attempts to circumvent legislation
language including through circulars of the Flemish Government and
introducing if necessary actions before national courts and
international authorities. It should also ensure that some services
public, such as emergency call centers, are also available
French in the municipalities with facilities.
Allow the Federation Wallonia-Brussels ensure the sustainability of
education and Francophone culture in the municipalities with facilities
-

Broadening the scope of the Cooperation Agreement between the Wallonia-Brussels Community
and the Flemish Community in order to finally allow Francophone associations
Flanders being subsidized.

-

Promote access to primary schools in the francophone municipalities with facilities to all
and take account of the special situation of francophone students from the periphery
secondary school to enable them close to home schooling.
Ensure compliance with linguistic executives in the Federal Public Services in
IOPs that depend on and within the Ministry of Defence.

I. BELGIAN FOREIGN
An estimated 500,000 Belgians living abroad. Mainly in countries
or bordering the European Union.
Despite the remoteness, most of them want to maintain close ties with
Belgium. The number of Belgians who have administrative procedures for participation
the federal elections of 2003, 2007 and 2010 amply demonstrates.
The MR wants to promote and develop these ties. He believes that the Belgians living abroad
must be able to fully exercise their rights, as well as Belgians residing on the
country.
488

However, at present, expatriates face administrative difficulties, sometimes
important, both for the expression of their vote than to simply get
certain information or documents. These burdens cause a loss of energy
and an unnecessary financial cost. Another injustice, now, they can only vote for
federal elections.
Despite a special attachment to their political rights expressed by many Belgians
from abroad are denied the right to vote in regional elections, and even
European when residing in a country outside the Union. The MR finds it
unacceptable that the Belgians are deprived of their most basic rights because of
their life choices or family or professional hazards that led them to emigrate.
Geographical distance should not in principle have any effect on the exercise of rights
policies.
We want a strengthening of citizen participation in the operation of our
democratic institutions, an extension of the right to vote and simplification
administrative. Belgians abroad, like all other citizens, are entitled to
demand conditions for the actual exercise of their basic political rights
such as the right to vote which, remember, is a constitutional obligation.
Need I remind you that, historically, the Liberals are successively involved in
the achievement of universal suffrage, its extension to women, European nationals
for local elections and foreign nationals in Belgium for the same
elections? It is therefore natural that the Liberals intend to grant the full exercise of the right
Belgians to vote from abroad.

Record / Finding
For over 10 years years, the MR application simplifying the procedures for exercising
Voting from abroad Belgians in federal elections including the
amendment of Article 180bis of the electoral code so that the lists of constitutional rules
voters are identical for all Belgians, they live at home or
abroad. The legislation applicable to foreign Belgians still suffers real
tape.
The first victory on the tape was obtained in the last
government negotiations where the Liberals have finally got automatic enrollment
the consular or diplomatic lists of Belgian voters residing abroad, of
so as not to force them to multiply approaches and, a fortiori, during each
ballot.
So now, the obligation to re-registration, in each election on lists
Consular is deleted. Now, each time in a post registration
consular, it will be automatically offered to register on the electoral roll with
489

Accuracy of the common attachment according to clear criteria (home, place
birth, parents' home ..) and the desired voting system.
Proposals
Grant the right to vote in European elections for Belgians residing endehors a country of UE28
Belgian expatriates in the EU can take part in European elections in
their state of residence. No provision granting this right to Belgians residing in a
Non-member State of the European Union. The Belgians are faced with differentiated rights
according to whether or not resident in a Member State of the European Union. It is right to
remove the discrimination and place the Belgians on an equal footing by granting it
voting for Belgians residing outside the European Union.

Right to vote in regional and community elections
Following the various reforms of the state, the power center of gravity in Belgium
gradually moving to the regions. With the various reforms of the state, pieces
Whole skills were transferred to the regions and communities such as
employment, education, family allowances, or the environment etc. These topics
Essential are likely to arouse, on the part of Belgians abroad, interest and
desire to influence the political composition of federated communities
Introduction of electronic voting
The introduction of electronic voting by correspondence may cause a higher rate
turnout. This process will meet the democratic requirements and
ensure both the confidentiality, security, the secrecy of the vote. Voting
electronic correspondence may be made either directly from any
computer or from a computer installed in a consulate or an embassy.

J. DIRECT DEMOCRACY
•

Direct Democracy and Local Authorities

The arrangement of Walloon institutions, the quality of its governance, the effectiveness of its
administration, the strict operating his Government are elements
who can participate in the prosperity of our region.
It is high time to put an end to device malfunctions
public, the heaviness of a niggling and burdensome bureaucracy, unbridled politicization in
legal insecurity, etc. On behalf of the ethics course but also because
Region, a state, can not find the path to recovery and competitiveness in a
Ultra-regulated framework, in constant change and where the dice are loaded.

490

Relationships of trust between citizens and politicians have achieved
side alert. To restore confidence and strengthen the legitimacy resulting from our
representative system, our region and our country must build institutions that
architecture and operation are clearly identifiable.
Introduce majority voting and the direct election of the First Minister
This is because we want to arm offset the issue between the body
citizen and the political debate that we propose the direct election of presidents Ministers
Wallonia and Brussels. This direct choice for the one who will preside over the political
Region could undoubtedly make the voter a decisive decision-making role. Debate
election and focus on the concrete regional project that each party proposes to achieve.
A rotating Presidency of the Government of the Federation Wallonia-Brussels would
established between the Walloon Minister-President and Minister-President of Brussels.
This is also an opportunity to start a debate on the evolution of our system
proportional.
The proportional system we have now led to give the body
electoral competence to directly elect the Walloon and Brussels parliamentarians.
However, when it comes to tie the government agreements, the debate is fully
confiscated by the political parties. This second round is therefore immune to citizens.
We are therefore in favor of introducing a system that allows voters to
be determined for a coalition government and therefore a majority of project
regional. The idea is not to reverse the gains of the proportional system in terms of
Parliamentary representation but to enable citizens to play an active role in
the determination of the political project that must be completed in its region.

The removal of the devolutive effect of the head box
In 1999, the weight of the head box has been halved, at the request of the Liberals.
The removal of the devolutive effect of the head box is intended to better reflect the choice of
voters.
A voter who has no preference for a particular candidate can still vote
box head and his voice will be taken into account fully for the sharing of seats
lists.
The regional referendum
The disinterest of citizens in public affairs is largely due to the fact that
latter is required to rule only once every four, five or six years, during
of elections. Allow citizens to express themselves on an ad hoc basis
social issues and thus indicate their willingness to representatives of the Nation,
491

will undoubtedly contribute to better motivation of the population and give him
greater political consciousness.
At a time when there is much talk of direct democracy, enhancing participation
citizen in the political decision-making mechanism, the time has come to go further in
this feature of a democracy that is the direct consultation of citizens on subjects
concerning him.
Indeed, institutional negotiations leading to the sixth state reform
endorse this claim. On January 6, 2014, the Constitution was revised in this direction and
now allows the organization of regional referendum. She has to be
by decree adopted in the regional parliaments.
So it is now up to the regional assembly to determine the terms and
the organization of the referendum. A proposal for a special decree meets
the invitation by the new Article 39bis of the Constitution was therefore filed this
Friday, February 14, 2014 the Walloon parliament by the MR group.
Participation in the referendum is not required. Each member is entitled to
a voice. The ballot is secret and can only take place on Sunday. There shall be at
counting only if 10% of voters participated in the consultation.
Participants will have to decide yes or no to questions that their
or be asked to make a choice among two or more texts of their proposals
will be submitted.
When the Walloon parliament decided to hold a referendum, the President of
the Assembly Government to support the practical organization of the consultation.

Lowering the voting age to 16 for local elections
Grant the right to vote at 16, at first at the municipal elections, would
a way to revitalize democracy, to make the policy more in line with its
time awareness and interest more young people in the political, social and
our economic society. Giving voice to those who are worried about their future
will change the way we approach problems, highlight other priorities. Yes
we want to restore hope, we must make young people the belief that they can
actually change their society. The MR is therefore open to a debate on lowering the
majority, but the debate should consider, for the sake of consistency, both the majority
electoral and criminal responsibility, citizenship involving responsibility in terms of
rights and duties.
To inform future adults on their role as citizens, we advocate the same time,
to establish an introductory course in citizenship in the school curriculum.

492

Common: an engine for the revival of Wallonia
C. The finding in Wallonia
The important role played by cities and towns for the citizen is no longer in doubt.
The town is the level closest to the citizen democratic power. She must
satisfy its needs through quality services.
Moreover, besides communal services, most municipalities and provinces
are involved in one or more inter. These structures form
associations, are increasingly used to meet the needs of the population such as
distribution of water and electricity, the collection and treatment of waste,
cable, economic expansion, social medicine, etc. and guarantee their service
adapted to new technical and economic requirements. The municipalities must therefore
seek to ensure a quality service and the cost is mastered for the individual.
It is clear that cities and towns are experiencing a financial crisis without
precedent and that the effort is asked of them, given the responsibilities they need
assume, is significant especially as the municipalities suffer the consequences
Budgetary decisions taken at other levels of power whether reform
Fire and rescue services, the unemployment exclusions, mandatory criteria
social housing, etc.
The 262 towns in Wallonia, these are:
II.

120.000 agents;
the biggest investor in the country: 50% of the investment effort of all
Government is EUR 815 million;
71,730 km of roads 85% of the road network;
60% of the financial resources of local police and 90% of spending
fire;
nearly one billion euros for environmental protection which represents
57% of these expenditures;
206 industrial parks that host more than 4,500 companies employing 115,000
persons;
240,000 students: 50% of the French offer;
9,200 childcare places for young children: 42% of supply in Wallonia;
120.000 offered social housing;
€ 550 million in social aid, 45% of social integration income;
6565 nursing home beds (20% of supply Walloon Region) and 5,833 beds
nursing homes and care (MRS) (40% of supply);
9724 hospital beds (46% of supply in the Walloon Region).
MR proposals

A. Quality services
The responsibilities and obligations of municipalities are increasingly
and many increasingly complex. To meet the challenge that is theirs, namely
answer closest to citizens, local authorities should be able to
493

rely on an efficient administration, specialized, motivated and enjoying
continuing education both in public procurement, land use
and urban planning, respect of the various standards and rules. This requires objectification
recruitment and dynamic personnel management (assessment, training, development
career).
Quality service requires the best reception of the citizen and by information and
communication between him and the administration, that is to say, by an efficient website, the
online forms, a communal log information, etc.
The MR advocates a genuine management policy and evaluation of the quality of
services to citizens and businesses.
The services offered by the communes also pass by intermunicipal. There
Reform in Wallonia intercommunal was initiated by Charles Michel in the
1999-2004 legislature. The majorities that followed the following two terms were
committed to continue at two levels: reducing the number of intercommunal,
the introduction of new rules of good governance and management.
But to date nothing has been proposed. Yet the news (Tecteo) reflects a necessary
handling of the case.
We propose :
To favor maintaining the management of local interests within structures
administrative directives subject to local elected assemblies and
controls use of public funds. It is therefore necessary to fight against
multiple creations of local non-profit organization benefiting from substantial transfers means
financial, human and other mission and having all or part of the management of
some local interests.
Finalizing the reform by streamlining inter active in sectors
Walloon strategic for the development (economic expansion, gas, electricity,
etc.).
To establish rules of particular advantage in terms of good governance,
transparency and publicity, and professionalization of the administrators
development of adequate and mandatory training.
To establish a register of salaries of mandates and limiting compensation
leaders so that it does not exceed the gross salary of a
Minister of the Walloon Government.
B. More effective social action centers
Next to the municipal administration, services constitute a second CPAS
communal interlocutor with its own budget, a specific staff and a
separate operation. In a strengthened desire to synergies, efficiency and savings
scale, we call for a rapid integration of all the non-Social Services
CPAS to cities and towns: general administration (procurement, personnel, etc.),
Recipe Heritage Service, service archives. Secondly, after
office integration, certain social services "derivatives" could also
494

integrate towns and municipalities: services that affect the home care policy
placement in rest homes, housing policy, health, home of
children, etc. Thus, a highly autonomous decentralized administration, the CPAS
evolve progressively towards the specialized social service of the City. Functions
Chairman of CPAS and Alderman for Social Affairs should ultimately be met on a
same person. The advantages are considerable: personal gain, gain
terms of committee operations (reducing the number of meetings of bodies
management), gain in operating costs (common procurement, etc.), gain
buildings and rationalization and efficiency of services (single unit desk, desk
single employment / reintegration).

C. Respect of the voter choice: direct election of mayors
The cities and municipalities are the closest political and administrative level
citizens. The action of local officials is analyzed and appreciated more than anyone
any other elected. The issues on a more waisted territorially allow more
adopt entrenched positions and in this sense, appear clearer for
citizen. It follows that elected or local majority are more likely to be
renewed if completed projects have improved the living environment of citizens and answered their
requirements or, otherwise, most likely to be punished. Therefore, we
advocate a more direct democratic representation system that best meets the
choice posed by the voters to know that the list having obtained the largest number of seats
either maneuver to form a communal majority and the mayor is
the one that got the most votes on that list. This reform ensures transparency,
prevents any post-election negotiations to release an alternative majority and
therefore guarantees respect the vote of the voter.
D. good governance and training of elected
Local authorities should also focus, at all levels, rules
basic for good governance and conflicts of interest and ensure that
ensure the legality, the town clerk and receiver, perform their duties in complete
independence.
Over the years, an institutional complexity, of legal or fiscal
local institutions appeared. In this context, the chosen function considerably
evolved: the skills required to take sole mission of elected municipal or
Provincial are increasingly numerous and varied (public procurement, planning
Accounting territory, etc.).
It is therefore necessary for municipalities, regardless of size, power
receive specific training to their elected representatives.
The MR proposes that in-service training of elected representatives be included in the regional allocation
and it becomes an obligation for local authorities. These will necessarily
provide in their budget amount dedicated to the training of elected representatives.

495

An amount equivalent to 5% of the amount of salaries of elected officials seems limit
reasonable not levied on local finances, while allowing to provide training
quality.
E. Simplification: merging the Walloon municipalities
Article 7 of the Constitution provides that: "The limits of the State, the Provinces and
common, can not be changed or corrected by virtue of a law. "
Designed to streamline the public administration, the merger of the towns intervened
in 1976 took away more than four in five towns.
There are now more than 262 towns in Wallonia against 1409 before the merger. Since
1989, the Walloon Region exercising, with provincial Colleges, guardianship over 262
Walloon municipalities.
Since, due to the considerable development of certain lines (self) Road, assault
railway (TGV) or even changing sector plans, the limits of some entreelles have proven to be poorly designed or that they no longer correspond to the lives of
people. The arbitrary setting of these boundaries has resulted in adverse consequences for
become the inhabitants of some of these municipalities.
However, verification of membership of people affected has to Boundary
never held so far, despite many protests.
Certainly, since the merger of Commons, many anomalies were identified. Should
provided redraw the boundaries of some municipalities?
If for the sake of territorial coherence, it may seem appropriate to review the boundaries
of certain common so that it is better taken into account their economic,
social and cultural, it must however be careful not to create more differences
particularly in terms of tax revenue.
The population figure of a common being a staffing allocation criterion
Annual Fund allocated by the municipalities to which must be added the additional PPI and
the additional property tax, which alone can account for more than
half of the tax revenue of the municipality, it is important to be very alert to difficulties
which could face financial municipalities with a portion of the
population would be transferred to neighboring entity.
We therefore wish to allow voluntary amalgamation of small towns
would jointly achieve a certain threshold of population.
F. municipal finances
The important role played by cities and towns for citizens, independents,
businesses, the economy is considerable. Common sources are
496

investment and provide a very large part of equipment and services
in the most diverse fields.
Currently, municipalities are stuck in a multitude of regional tools
supporting local policies, each source of excessive administrative complexity and
suspicion in their grant. So as to better anticipate and accelerate political and
municipal investments involved in our economic development
region, we must emphasize the system of drawing rights and streamline the landscape plans,
programs, subsidies and measures to municipalities.
The grants represent 30% of municipal revenues. There are numerous, more
150, and almost as grant procedures. We advocate a simplification
Administrative magnitude that would generate savings and transparency: consolidation
subsidies in the corresponding programs to major policies (environment,
territorial development, employment, medical and social, childhood, youth, culture, sport, etc.) and
Application of the drawing right in principle to grant.
The draft law system based on the three-year plan of the granted subsidies
by the Walloon Region on the basis of objective criteria. This system enables predictability
of revenue, resulting in fewer revisions, thereby reducing costs and time and allows
to grant more work. Currently, this principle is applied only for
roadworks. Given the weight that represent the municipal investments,
the Walloon economy would be boosted if the lever was optimized. We must therefore show
more ambitious and extend initially drawing rights to buildings and
energy savings. And then why not set up a generalization of this
mechanism that would become a "common fund for investments" reducing
local and regional administrative burdens and simplifying and speeding up procedures
grant.

GERMAN-SPEAKING COMMUNITY K.
Introduction
The DG is very close to Wallonia and Francophones
Belgium. On the course geographically, but also on the relationship map
interpersonal.
Yet if you look at it both from a historical point of view and from a point of view
cultural, it would be wrong to say that the German-speaking Walloons are expression
German. But we can certainly rejoice between Walloons and French,
on the one hand, and German, on the other hand, there reigns an excellent agreement.
This has especially been made possible by the particular institutional architecture
our country. Taking the characteristics of the German Community - which
represents an area of ​​854 km², with a population of about 73,600 inhabitants, there is indeed
the latter, which has a parliament, a government, an administration and a
own budget, has clearly compared with other minorities in
Europe, a remarkable autonomy, amazing view in the eyes of foreign observers.
497

This autonomy, direct consequence of the federal structure of Belgium, is a
great chance for German-speakers in Belgium. But it also raises a
number of questions.
What autonomy for the German-speaking community?

The powers of the German Community:
The autonomy enjoyed by German-speaking Community has undoubtedly been cut out
able for it. It falls, we said, in the process of federalization
Belgium, started in the late sixties.
Thus, the powers granted to him by the Constitution and the law of 31 December
1983 institutional reforms for the German-speaking Community are, overall,
identical to those transferred to the two other Communities. Historically, therefore,
the autonomy of the German Community has been largely determined by developments
country's overall institutional.
In this context, certain specific needs of the German Community could
be encountered. Fortunately, negotiated under the leadership of the Liberals, Article 139 of the
Constitution expressly allows the parliaments of the German Community and
the Walloon Region to transfer the exercise of the powers of the Walloon Region in
German-speaking Community.
On the basis of this text, it was possible to allow the German-speaking Community
to assure itself of the material management of monuments and sites, as well as to link
employment and training, which constitute a coherent whole.
It will be recalled that since the implementation of the Special Law of 13 July 2001, a
series of matters relating to local authorities were transferred to the federal state
Regions.
The German authorities have immediately taken various steps to
the Walloon Region to consider a transfer of skills management
local authorities. This is the fund of municipalities, subsidized work and Guardianship
Ordinary administrative. The aim of the German-speaking Community was to have the
political and financial control in respect of 9 towns that compose it and gain
and greater autonomy. Furthermore, this transfer of allowing some simplification
little institutional landscape on the part of German-speaking citizens. Finally, it simplified the
task of regional authorities, faced with various difficulties, the most important being
undoubtedly the need to bring every deed or send in management
Records 9 German-speaking communes.

498

Prospects
To promote the development of the German Community in view
a more coherent policy, Parliament, through several resolutions adopted
unanimously calls for the proposed new transfers of competence, more
particularly in the areas of land use, housing, and
the exercise of provincial jurisdiction.
In this respect, the Reformer Movement wants a deep approach to be taken
to identify, among the powers of the Walloon Region, for which a
specificity can be released and whose cooperation, reinforced cooperation or
transfer to the German Community, represent added value.

499

EUROPE - INTERNATIONAL - DEFENSE

A. EUROPE CHALLENGES

The EU is going through decisive moments; she is at a crossroads in its history. Never in history
of European integration, the EU has been central to the felt events
by citizens such as the financial and economic crisis.
The next 5 years are decisive. The next EU leaders will have to
huge face challenges that require more European integration: reviving
the economy, the fight against unemployment, the relationship faced with powerful neighbors (Russia)
economic competitors (China, Brazil, India, etc.), the management of migration flows, etc.
The European project must renew, reform, change, find new life
and be managed differently. It is the only way forward and should aim to establish
a true European democracy.
We must convince those who resist change and fight those who grow
fear, give in to the lure of populism, barricade themselves behind hypothetical borders.
We must opt ​​for a resolutely optimistic approach, hoping to motivate his reappropriate
destiny.
For us not deceive ourselves, let's not throw the baby out with the bath water. Europe ahead: These
recent years we have managed to set up a European economic framework, we
have established the scope of the banking union, we have drawn the consequences of the crisis
sovereign debt and we have broken the vicious circle that linked banks and state debt.
We continued the integration of the single market, only able to help revive a
industrial policy, creator of growth and employment, generating research and
innovation.
The crisis that we experienced must give us the courage to raise new
dynamic, renovate Europe. For us to give us the means to pursue policies
European ambitious that meet the concerns of citizens; ensure
respect for and defense of democracy and human rights; to take measures
necessary to preserve our energy independence, in a word to move towards more
integration in areas where the European Union has a clear added value.
Militate for an ambitious vision of European integration based on principles
clear, putting the human and solidarity at the heart of its concerns and advocate strongly
for the construction of a more integrated Europe. The opponent of the MR has one face: that
nationalism that feeds fears and longings, which leads to the withdrawal and the
rejection of the other.

500

Our ambition is to explain, to convince a European federation only
capable of weighing globally. Europe is more than ever to confront the solution
successfully the great challenges of tomorrow.

I. Growth that creates sustainable employment
Europe is facing the triple challenge of a major demographic change, a
Skills mismatches with the labor market requirements and competition
increased global. She is facing a problem both quantitatively and qualitatively.
Excluding some 20 million men and women in the labor market, Europe
deprives considerable talents. The challenges in employment are numerous:
Young people are neither adequately trained nor sufficiently inserted; Qualified seniors are
left behind, women suffer from inequality and exclusion and immigrants
do not all arrive to integrate. We must establish a partnership governance
all socio-economic actors and bet more than ever on the human capital and
skills.
1. MR wants to make employment and the European social policy its real
priority of the next European legislature (2014/2020):
•

•

•
•

opting for "flexicurity": the MR calls for market policy
active employment: enable job seekers, but also arm the workers
against rapid changes, periods of unemployment and periods of
transition; learning throughout life to maintain employability
workers through training; modern social security, which combines
mobility on the labor market and a good safety net;
by establishing a minimum wage at European level to the fight against
social dumping (we speak of principle, a common amount: keep in
mind that the average salary in Sofia or Bucharest is less than € 500 per
months);
requesting that social protection should be extended to all workers, including
including the self,
by more effectively using the European Social Fund by granting 3 million
technical assistance euros in favor of young entrepreneurs and
social entrepreneurs;

The Liberals also argue for:
•
•

•

improved working conditions within the company: the
employee participation in profits and better safety.
the establishment of "knowledge alliances" at European level: it is
to develop cooperation designed to bring together companies and
education and training institutions to develop new
education programs designed to address skill shortages and
better match with labor market needs.
an extension to the independent social rights;
501

•
•

a European policy based on the return to work with an approach
Overall: coordinated drop in the Member States of taxes on wages
and social security in general, enhanced control of seconded employees.
An inclusive European policy aimed at greater integration issues
disabilities in Community policies, and improving accessibility
all.

2. The Liberals promote true mobility of workers
The European Commission estimates there are 2 million job openings due to low
intra-European mobility. If we compare the mobility of European workers
compared to that of American workers, who do not hesitate to cross the continent to
find a job, we are lagging behind. Only about 3% of the workforce
European lives and works in another Member State of the Union. And only 1.5% of
Europeans living and working in a foreign country.

For liberals, Europe's interest to encourage greater labor mobility to fill gaps in its labor market. This is not to fall
populism on the free movement of workers but to dare
state that "capping the number of migrant EU citizens not only undermines
one of the greatest achievements of European integration and one of the main
fundamental values ​​of the EU, but also means the blocking of European growth and
of wealth creation "(G. Verhofstadt).

Nevertheless, the Liberals want to be credible on these sensitive issues and recall that:
• All European governments, without exception, involving all major
political families, voted for that temporary restrictions on
Romanian and Bulgarian workers expire on 1 January 2014,
• there are only 2.8% of EU citizens living in another country than their own,
these mobile workers are for the vast majority of net contributors
economies and budgets of the receiving countries.
• It is wrong to attribute to the freedom of movement of workers, a founding principle
EU responsibility for possible abuses of social security systems being
As the responsibility to fight against social fraud rests with States
members, that these abuses are committed by their nationals or by those of other States
members.

3. A company, industrial activity in the employment service
80% of innovation is rooted in the industrial sector, each post created in the
industry leads to the creation of a two positions in the service sector.
The share of the EU in the competitiveness of our companies is significant: Europe
represents the period from January to November 2013, 75.8% of Belgian exports or
502

247,309.5 million; This represents 65% of Belgium's GDP and 73.5% of imports
Belgian or 229,604.5 million.
Create a favorable business climate for SMEs in priority-TPE (very small
companies)
•

A third of small and medium enterprises (SMEs) fails
get the funding that is necessary for their development. This
situation contributes to stifle any prospect of strong recovery in Europe.

•

Europe has taken some steps early 2014 as increased public support
European SMEs and mid-cap companies with a goal
clear facilitating their access to finance. The revival of the economy by the
Investment is also the fact of the European Investment Bank has
increased its business by 40% in Europe.

•

We must now create the conditions to facilitate access to investment
Private particularly for young innovative enterprises.

•

We must encourage workers to retraining when certain sectors
are job creators, for example by supporting the adjustment fund
globalization. This fund allows people who have lost their jobs
result of major structural changes in trade
International because of globalization (eg when a large
business or farm production is relocated outside the EU), or
Because of the global economic and financial crisis, to receive training.

The Liberals formulate strong proposals for SMEs:
o Enabling environment for the development of very small
companies, 69 start-ups oriented sectors of the future and
new innovative technology companies;
o Strengthening the European Investment Fund;
o Promote equity raising for innovative SMEs to
to boost competitiveness and support the creation of emplois70.
o Establish a significant administrative simplification reform
towards SMEs;

69

defined as an enterprise which employs fewer than 50 persons and whose annual turnover or total
annual balance sheet not exceeding 10 million euros.
70

The crisis has greatly affected the investment in innovative SMEs, companies benefited from 5421
capital raising in 2008 against 4,848 in 2012 with a fall of 17 billion euros. Yet it is one of
reasons for the "success story" American in the digital economy. Europe must reverse the trend and make
equity for an industry lever to SMEs.

503

o A clear choice in the policies and priority given to the cohesion
social, a common industrial policy, innovation and research
(a multi-year budget of 70.2 billion euros that is shifted to the
Most innovative SMEs and avoids the "brain drain").

Relying on a strong and competitive industry
•

Because industries have a future in Europe and in Wallonia. Industries
Strong is one of the remedies to the problem of unemployment, because the industry creates
always one in four jobs and employs some 34 million Europeans. Other
evocative figures: 75% of EU exports consist of goods
industrial and each industrial job generates approximately two additional jobs
in the areas of distribution and services;
The Liberals will:
o promote the development of a real European industrial policy
R & D, innovation and coordinated industrial policy
including funding by each member state 3% of GDP
Innovation and R & D;
o facilitate the development of enhanced cooperation in R & D,
innovation and industrial policy between Member States
o complete the integration of information networks, energy and transport;
o simplify access to the European patent;
o create a "Made in Europe" voluntary for European products to
ensure product traceability citizens and prevent businesses
having too much outsourcing segments of their activities
Production;
o create a "European cloud computing" 71 independence
technological and more effective protection of personal data
citizens.

•

Making the industrial revival of the steel industry, a reconquest basic
European:
The MR proposes the creation of a European Commissioner post in the strategy
Industrial who would be responsible in particular apply for the European plans
renewal of various essential industrial sectors in Europe, as the die
the steel industry.

A plan to develop around three axes:

71

Providers of "cloud" based in the US, including Amazon, Google and Microsoft, now account
nearly 80% of world markets.

504

o Reduce the exceptionally high cost of energy and materials
first by a harmonized policy less dependent on energy
imports;
o Promote the deployment of low-carbon energy sources, to
encourage their rapid integration in the electricity market.
o Support the request through the strategic development of key sectors
using steel, such as construction, automotive and infrastructure in
transport.
•

Maintaining our competitive companies, ensure the safety of
procurement, and development of green energy in
a balanced energy mix

No European state can not guarantee these three objectives alone. The stakes go beyond the
borders. Energy policy must be conducted in an integrated and transversal way.
The European Union must implement a strong policy aimed at
lower prices and the total energy consumption in the European space.
This policy can not be to the detriment of the environment.
The Liberals will:
•

•
•

•
•

finalize the internal market by giving it an energy market; promote
transnational investments in order to interconnect different
markets;
support the creation of a common energy policy which could be a
new grand unifying European political project;
ensure the EU's energy independence by investing worldwide, in
Through its investment bank, in transnational large-scale projects
(eg the pipeline TAP / Trans-Adriatic Pipeline); speaking with one voice on
Internationally, as is the case for trade policy
international; by granting the European Commission a mandate to negotiate
with third countries all energy contracts.
work towards the establishment of an operational trading scheme
emissions to reduce CO2 emissions;
encourage the private sector to invest in renewable energy, increase
investment in research and development and expand partnerships
innovative public-private.

To achieve this, the MR advocates the establishment of a common energy policy, and in case
refusal of participation on the part of some Member States, the establishment of a
enhanced cooperation.

505

Regarding the climate-energy package, the Liberals want:
•

a realistic climate policy that allows Europe to speak with one voice and
to foster an agreement with binding targets at the conference on
climate (COP21) in December 2015 in Paris, after the successive failures of the last
Cancun summits since 2010.

•

a coherent plan to reduce the cost of energy, which remains a factor
crucial to ensure the development, competitiveness and sustainability of the industry
in Europe.

•

a policy to save energy because obviously it is cheaper
to save energy than to produce it. This is where innovation comes into its
direction (eco-design of products, buildings insulation, etc.)

Liberals are committed to the Brussels and Wallonia regions both in Europe
which to live better.
Overall Belgium knew better withstand this serious crisis that many five-year
other member countries: Belgium resources and should be welcomed.
However, high unemployment and persistent in both regions, backed by a number
record of corporate bankruptcies in Brussels and the Walloon government's inability to reduce
Debt remind us that we have a problem of governance.
Hainaut and Brussels-Capital Region are part of the unenviable category
regions in which the employment rate is less than 60%.
Yet the European Union helps European regions through policy
cohesion is the third European budget after the Common Agricultural Policy and the
dedicated to research and innovation.
In Belgium, no fewer than 4 provinces (Hainaut, Liège, Namur and Luxembourg) are
eligible under the new category of regions called "Transition", the rest of
territory under the category of regions "more developed". In total, more
€ 2 billion that the EU will devote to regional development in Belgium over the period
2014-2020.
Liberals call:
•

conducting an audit of the use made over the period 2007-2013 funds
European Wallonia and Brussels.

•

At the same time, a more efficient allocation of € 2 billion aid
European for regional development in Belgium over the period 20142020.
506

4. A bank governance, financial, economic and tax

The 2008 crisis has imposed deep reforms. In 5 years, an impressive set of
reforms have been adopted to improve the governance of the euro area. These reforms
aim to strengthen fiscal discipline, but also to boost growth and strengthen
solidarity between Member States of the Euro zone.

a) Credit Union
The Liberals are in favor of a banking and monetary union that protects
savers.
•

The Liberals defend first investor rights:
The Agreement of 20 March 2014 between the European institutions, a mechanism
single resolution of banks facing bankruptcy with the creation of an authority
single European resolution and a single fund is in line with a
wider investor protection. Indeed, the fund is financed by banks
to avoid to use public money for their "rescue", as was
made during the crisis in some countries!

•

The MR favors a banking union based on simple principles:
o Application of the principle of solidarity between states and the pooling of
debts;
o The single banking supervision in the euro area with the Bank
European Central;
o Healthy and fair competition between large and small banks
retail banks in access to raising capital on the markets for
finance activities engaged with the real economy;

•

This pragmatic approach to banking reform preference MR.
- According to many experts, the European savings was heavily penalized
by the financial crisis. We recorded a loss of interest income law
about 18 billion euros for households in Belgium for the years 2009 to
2013.
- Investors were somehow the "collateral victims" of the crisis
financial, it is fundamentally unjust. We must remedy this situation.
Because it is unfair that savings interest rates are lower than the
Inflation in Belgium as elsewhere in Europe, the Liberals defend a
regulation of the level of interest rates on savings accounts at EU level.

507

b) EU budget and fiscal harmonization:

The Liberals are in favor of:
• the establishment of a true budget for the euro area. The multiannual financial framework
represents barely 1% of the combined gross domestic product of the Member States of the
Eurozone, figure compared to the annual budget of the United States (22% of GDP);
•

adopt new own resources (which represent less than 20% of the budget)
and avoid the budget of the Union remain too dependent on
Member States' contributions;

•

persevere on the path of fiscal convergence eventually
tax harmonization through the adoption of voting by qualified majority;

•

a tax on financial transactions that would be assigned to the EU general budget
including in development assistance.

reach

c) Economic and monetary union
The reforms initiated since five years have had the effect of transferring considerable power
the institutions of the Union in particular to the Commission and the Central Bank
European. This transfer is the question of democratic legitimacy. It must
be through the European Parliament together with our national parliaments.
The Liberals are favorable:
•

the maintenance of the Commission's central role in the governance of the euro area.
The possibility for the Commissioner of compliance for the Union
Economic and Monetary veto national measures
would endanger the euro area should be considered.

•

to fair negotiation between the members of the euro area (18 Member States);
member countries aspiring to enter (pre-ins), and those who want to stay endehors. It is very important for the proper functioning of the Union to ensure compliance
roles between Member States who want to be limited to a reduced integration
internal market and those who are willing to go further in integration
European;

•

the establishment of real economic governance allowing, together
with monetary policy, to guide Europe on the path of growth.

The Liberals that the return to growth in Europe requires management measures
responsible by:
•

a pooling of debt ("eurobonds" or "euro oblibations"). Real
concrete application of the principle of solidarity between Member States, this measure
508

allow them to borrow at lower rates, and reallocate money
allocated to the payment of interest for the development of job-creating sectors.
•

The issuance of European bonds, which would be guaranteed by the entire
European budget to finance specific projects ("EU project bonds")
eg investment in infrastructure.
d) Completing the single market and help businesses seize the opportunities created
by a large common area of ​​distribution:
•

The proper functioning of the internal market must be transposed
correct European legislation, within the time and in the spirit of
the law, and a simplification of the legislative framework;

•

We must dare to play on the competitive advantages arising from liberalization
services including transport, energy, telecommunications.
This liberalization allowed both consumers and businesses
benefit from lower prices and new services. She also gave
our companies the means to be more competitive.

•

The MR supports a strong competition policy, including in the
service sector, to create a healthy environment and to avoid abuses
of dominant position and state aid that distorts competition.

•

We must move forward together towards the establishment of the four unions: Bank,
fiscal, economic and political.

II. A social Europe:
The crisis can only be truly resolved only if it includes a strong foundation
social policy. This basis, we have in Belgium. We service
quality public and private, an educated population, a strong industrial base.
1. Education and training:
Despite low skills available to the European Union on
education and training, the Liberals defend an ambitious reflection for
youth to enable them to better cope with the current situation and thus declined six
major proposals:
• A European strategy to integrate systematically dimension
European in school curricula. The course of history, literature,
philosophy, civic education are sectors in which the dimension
EU is fundamental. It is therefore vital to promote it further. In addition,
role of the European Union and its operation are elements too often
swept almost instantaneously in school curricula. We wish
encourage more teachers to make it a central theme in the educational curriculum.
509

• Increasing capacity + Erasmus mobility programs. The Liberals want
to provide opportunities for all young people to have an experience abroad because
European mobility is essential not only from an economic point of view but
also to enable every citizen to live his European citizenship.
• An ambitious European strategy for
considerably their foreign language level.

the

young people

to increase

• A more systematic recognition of diplomas at European level while
strengthening the Bologna process to ensure greater consistency. This
would particularly encourage young people to undertake a second course or
Additional specialization in another Member State.
• A revaluation of personal experiences in the training curriculum.
• The establishment of a "fifth freedom": that of knowledge and through a
increasing mobility of students, academics and researchers.

Youth unemployment
Current challenges for youth are considerable. One in four young people in Europe
located in unemployment.
• The main objective of the Liberals is to avoid inactivity of young people leaving college
or training. Thus the Reformer Movement, in addition to its many
Proposals at national and regional level, warmly welcomes the "Guarantee
Youth ". This is a major focus of the Union in its fight against unemployment
Young to help EU countries to offer young people up to 25 years a job,
back to school, training or retraining within 4 months
the end of their schooling.
• The Liberals are also supporters of continuing the reform of the EURES network, the network
European jobseekers allowing to increase job mobility.
• The Liberals are mindful that too many young people fall into a cycle
endless accumulation of experience through internships, training, etc, never
however see a real job offer to them. Encourage businesses to
engage youth and strengthen youth entrepreneurship are two key elements here
which the EU could contribute by creating an effective strategic framework.
Unemployment at all ages remains a worrying situation in the EU. This is why
we want to lead a stronger action in the fight against discrimination by
age, which is one of the determining factors in the difficulties of returning to employment
seniors.
510

2. Skills development and employment suitability

Faced with the Posting Directive
The directive on the posting of workers in 1996. Introduced to facilitate
border provision of services and protect the rights of workers, Directive
worked well in the Europe of 15. It is no longer adapted to a Europe of 28 states
members where the disparities in economic development levels are important. However, if
Measures have been taken to the free movement of people, nothing has been done
for the freedom to provide services. That is why we went detachments
of "real" companies, to company detachments "mailboxes".
Currently, we are faced with a lack of effective control and coordination
information or systematic exchange of information.
Community law does not provide for harmonization of legislations rights issues
mobile workers, but more exactly coordination of the systems to
preserving free movement. A worker is posted when the employer sends
temporarily pursue his duties in another MS for a period of maximum 2
years, unless an exception. The posted worker remains affiliated to the country's social security system
but original benefit of the salary and working conditions of the host country.
The Liberals undertake to correct the many abuses that this directive engenders creating
including electronic worker card that allows easy control of employees and
Business to empower all economic actors.
The Liberals will:
• establish in each European state and on terms as are
own, a minimum wage of interprofessional or professional reference,
to harmonize social detachment conditions;
• improve the interaction between the authorities and establish
administrative cooperation procedures between Member States faster,
sincere, effective and of good quality to fight against possible violations
of the Directive;
• establishing a European Agency of labor inspection that will develop
a "black list of companies and unscrupulous service providers," the
model black lists that exist in civil aviation, prohibiting a
company that would be condemned to a penalty for the posting of fraud
workers, or at least, that would not have honored its obligations, resulting
banning answer calls for tenders;
• Regularly assess compliance with the spirit and the legal content of the
Directive, given the changes in labor costs between different countries
the Union.

511

III.
1.

Civil liberties
A respectful European asylum and immigration policy dignity
human

Immigration "zero" does not exist. Europe is a continent of immigration and will remain so.
The European Union acts as a magnet for poor and victims
oppression, while the aging population will result in the
coming decades, real migration needs to bridge the age pyramid.
Circular migration
The Liberals see migration as an opportunity. The Union will continue to
facilitate the temporary legal migration, for example for senior executives, workers
posted by their firm or seasonal workers and encourage mobility of
researchers and European and foreign students in European universities.
Asylum
The Liberals want to develop an asylum policy at European level based on
Once on solidarity, but also the responsibility and the equitable sharing of tasks. In
2012 Belgium appeared in the top 5 in terms of the number of asylum applications. It
also included in the top 5 countries hosting Syrian refugees. We have to
ensure that throughout the EU, there is a high standard in terms of reception and
processing of asylum applications in order to avoid "shopping asylum". We must both attend
countries that are at the forefront of migration (accommodate 10,000 refugees on a small
as Lampedusa island, with 6,000 inhabitants, is an impossible task), and develop
a fair system between Member States, so as to prevent some states are
overloaded while others are almost never solicited.
Illegal immigration
We also need to fight against illegal immigration and trafficking of human beings in
arise, particularly against smugglers and organized sectors. From the moment when
internal borders between Member States are abolished, vigilance and monitoring
external borders must be strengthened.
They will:
•
•

facilitating legal migration channels, for example the entry and residence
foreign workers posted by their companies;
ensure uniform application of the new standards policy
asylum;
512

•
•
•

•

substantially strengthen the role and the resources allocated to Frontex;
advocate for strengthening of border control, including
Greek-Turkish and Italian;
continue the development of illegal readmission agreements with countries
original. The negotiation of such agreements requires a constructive dialogue with the
consulates and the competent authorities in the countries of origin. The
illegal residents must be repatriated and priority should be
given that foreign prisoners must serve their prison sentences in their
countries;
encourage the EU to develop more targeted policy news on
development assistance and humanitarian law especially in Africa
Saharan (eg Horn of Africa)

Visa policy
The Liberals also agree to:
•

•

•

facilitate the issuance of visas to bona fides travelers and travelers
frequent, including more frequent use of multiple-entry visas
a longer duration;
make use of laws (Visa Code) for the issuance of visas
humanitarian and resettlement to stop the trafficking of human beings and
prevent tragic deaths at sea;
strengthen mobility partnerships with the Mediterranean countries to
that they also develop a real migration policy.
2. A closer judicial and police cooperation

The security aspects, human rights and solidarity among States
undoubtedly interrelated. The policy of justice and home affairs is
This envisaged at European level as a coherent whole.
Since the beginning of the legislature, the EU has made considerable progress at the levels of
border police cooperation, the fight against terrorism, or at
the Common European Asylum System. Progress has also been made in
criminal law, particularly through directives on the right to information and the right
the interpretation and translation.
The Liberals are committed to strengthen the judicial and police cooperation program
terms of consistency and efficiency.
To do this, they will support:
• improving the training of actors and stakeholders (judges, lawyers ...);
• strengthening coordination and governance through better
coherence of EU documents, greater collaboration between
European institutions and agencies (Europol, Eurojust, Frontex ...) and in words,
creation of a European security agency;
• the creation of a European Public Prosecutor, if necessary through enhanced cooperation;
513

•
•

the establishment of minimum penalties for fraud against the financial interests
the EU;
a strengthening of the missions and resources (€ 83 million / year) 600
Employees of the European Police Office in The Hague (Europol) to facilitate
exchange of information between national police authorities.

In the area of ​​civil justice, the EU now has the recognition system
mutual, civil cooperation and most advanced administrative world. However,
some improvements can be made to make a difference in the lives of
citizens.
The Liberals will:
• encourage training for judges and lawyers to further a
"Common judicial culture";
• support a codification of existing standards and regulations, including
divorce and child custody;
• support a process of determining the responsible EM in cases of couples
binational who encounter situations such as divorce, inheritance, etc .;
• defend the creation of electronic procedures in order to improve cooperation and
reduce costs.
In its relations with third countries, the fight against illegal immigration or
organized crime is impossible without effective cooperation.
The Liberals undertake:
• advantage of exchange of information to improve the coherence
Judicial between Member States and third countries;
• to involve new structures such as the European External Action Service
in the development of strategies;
• to further include human rights in our foreign policy
European.

3. The rights of Internet users, enhancing privacy and right to be forgotten
digital

Liberal MEPs are at the heart of all battles for
defense of freedom, which sometimes take new forms, because they are expressed
on the web, an area in which the rights are not yet clearly established.
The Liberals give the following objectives:
o make it easier for a person to manage their data on the web;
o promote awareness and education of users;
o facilitate the management of the data published by the user himself;
514

o adopt specific information measures for minors;
o establish an abuse reporting tool and / or office
European claims;
o secure data transfer;
o improve collaboration of provider with judicial authorities
European;
o develop a real expertise in the fight against crime
IT by giving sufficient resources to the European Centre
against cybercrime.
o optimize the accessibility of Web content for people suffering from a
handicap and senior
The Liberals want to promote net neutrality in all legislation related to
digital world in order to keep the net accessible to all, and not to create
competitive disadvantages if not monopoly situations. They resolutely commit
for fair access for all users to the Internet, and in favor of a more
competition on the net, with a differentiation between the trade providers
access and that content providers.
The Liberals are committed to defending the confidentiality of data: data access
private European citizens should always, depending on the type of data supplied, to
be a simple procedure allowing citizens to give or not their
consent, while respecting the principle of proportionality in order not to overload
citizens and businesses with the bureaucracy.
The Liberals defend the right to digital oblivion which gives the right to anyone
rectify personal data concerning them, delete them when
are obsolete or where consent was not given.
The Liberals want to improve collaboration with providers in order to
clearly identify a minor on the internet. The search for agreement on
Juvenile protection measures at EU level should include a process
identification of these vulnerable people.

4. Faced with extremism
The last few months a worrying trivialization, on the whole territory
European, racist acts encouraged by a selection of speeches inciting hatred and
Violence against various types of populations, mainly on the part of elected officials
anti-democratic political parties. To prevent the "brown plague" from spreading in
minds and polls, we must combat these noxious ideas, first field
policy, and then on the judicial front.
The MR asks strengthening the legal arsenal at EU level to fight against
Racism, xenophobia and anti-Semitism, through a strict application of the Framework Decision
Council of 2007.
515

Liberals believe essential, on behalf of the imperative duty to remember that the EU establishes
Holocaust denial a crime of the Holocaust and other genocides.
The Liberals want the European Monitoring Centre on Racism and
Xenophobia in Vienna to establish a "roadmap" against homophobia and European
discrimination based on sexual orientation.

5. The fundamental rights within the EU:
Fundamental rights and European values ​​can not be treated as
distinct and circumvented subjects. Their application must be constant and horizontal.
Liberals call:
• to close the EU accession process to the European Convention on Human Rights
of man;
• to close the EU accession process to the European Social Charter;
• adhere to the conventions of the Council of Europe on human rights;
• to establish the "Copenhagen process" under the aegis of a moral
commission wise. This would provide a guarantee for the Member States to be treated
equally, fair, transparent and objective one hand and the citizen to be
respected in their human rights;
• establish a mechanism for monitoring respect for the rule of law in all
Member states. Such a system would include an early warning system in case of
violation (eg manipulation of the constitution in Hungary in 2011), and
recommendations, and in case of non-compliance thereof, the possibility of recourse to
the suspension of voting rights in the Council
• the adoption of the anti-discrimination directive.

The right to be different.
The Liberals defend the right to difference as the expression founding rights
the man. All minorities should enjoy equal rights. Openness to others, to
difference, tolerance and respect are liberal values.
The Liberals undertake:
o to continue the fight for full protection of all human rights;
o to continue to be on the forefront of the fight against all forms of discrimination.

On crime
The Liberals are in favor of a balance between respect for fundamental rights
European citizens as expressed in the Charter of Fundamental rights, and security.

516

They insist on respect for the opinion of the European Court of Justice on balance
between respect for fundamental rights and the requirements of national security.
The Liberals also insist on proportionality of judicial instruments on
respect for procedural rights and a system of "checks and balances" to ensure
the balance between respect for fundamental rights and the fight against crime.

Facing the democratic nature of the EU:
The Liberals argue for a strengthening of the EU's democratic character; what
assumes greater involvement of the European Parliament and national parliaments
in decision-making, greater transparency in negotiations and votes
in the Council and the European Parliament. For example, they remind the Liberals
achieved despite initial opposition from the socialist and conservative, establishment
of preferential votes in parliamentary committees of the European Parliament, that
allowing greater transparency of the vote.
Faced with Belgians living in a non-EU Member State:
Liberals believe that geographic distance does not have any effect on the exercise
political rights.
Currently, the Belgian citizens living in a non-EU member state are deprived of
their right to vote in regional elections and European elections.
The Liberals are in favor of:
• granted the right to vote in European elections for European citizens
residing in a country outside the EU 28 to eliminate any discrimination between
EU citizens;
• introduce electronic voting from a computer is installed in a
consulate or an embassy.

IV. Quality of life: health, consumer, agriculture, environment

1. Europe concerned about your health
Faced with fraudsters who endanger the health of citizens
Besides the scandal of horse meat sold for beef which hit the headlines in
early 2013, many cases of food fraud were identified by authorities
European recently: road salt sold as food salt, alcohol use
containing methanol in spirits, incorporation of the contaminated fats
dioxin for the production of animal feed. As many security breaches
517

food involved mistrust of citizens towards the food they
consume.
The MR is in favor of the hard way that goes far beyond the objective of making it mandatory
the mention of the origin of meat in prepared dishes.
The Liberals are in favor of a more active hunt for food fraud via:
•

the creation of a food anti-fraud network "that would strengthen coordination
between European bodies ", mainly Europol (for the police)
Eurojust (for justice) and the Food and Veterinary Office (FVO);

•

heavier penalties, "at least equivalent to twice the estimate
the desired economic benefit, as well as criminal penalties for commissioning
public health hazard. "

Faced tobacco
The MR takes note of the new European legislation on tobacco products which will come
into force in spring 2016. A statute clarifies that nothing in the legal status of
electronic cigarette, at the discretion of the national authorities: Product
Consumer goods such as tobacco with distribution at tobacconists and other
similar outlets, or medicine with exclusive sale in pharmacies.
Faced with the blindness of the health authorities in some Member States, such as those of
Belgium, that stigmatize over 100,000 users by allowing only Belgian
the electronic cigarette without nicotine, whereas the new product is an effective tool
reduction or exit of smoking, the MR made two proposals:
•

The Liberals continue to defend free access to cigarettes vapoteurs
e of their choice. This, in an obvious public health concern since
this product is far less harmful than conventional cigarettes.

•

Liberals advocate the introduction to the Belgian and European level of a
observatory for a free and responsible use of the electronic cigarette.

2. A Europe respectful of the earth

The European agricultural model is the best in the world and must remain so!
Regarding agriculture, the MR believes that the CAP reform intervened in 2014 did
not put enough emphasis on self-sufficiency and food quality, especially as the
seven-year budget allocated to Walloon farmers is slightly down: a little less
€ 300 million per year.
518

The MR reiterates its confidence in farming and wishes from all sectors, as
Europe find solutions to two major problems:
•
•

The transfer of farms between generations;
Pressure from large retailers and some large cooperatives
the fixing of agricultural prices.

The MR believes that the CAP must seek to ensure a fair standard of living for all
European farmers. This is a prime element for the sustainability
food production and balance of rural areas.

It will be extremely attentive:
•
•
•
•

appointments set by the abolition of quotas in the dairy sector (2015) and
in the beet sector (2017);
management of potential crises that could meet during the parliamentary term;
that in international trade negotiations, quality standards
European are met;
the level of imports, as European standards are
followed by suppliers of non-European countries

V. Europe in the world
Liberals want a Europe which is to enforce internationally
To have a real external policy must establish a European defense. It's about
further pool the forces and military means EM to be able to
participate in international missions of peacekeeping or humanitarian missions.
The Liberals want to prevent division of labor that would entrust the tasks to NATO
military and reduce the EU to support the civil crisis management
With foreign policy, humanitarian aid, development cooperation or
trade policy, the Reform Movement believes that the Europeans must
acquire all instruments, including military, to be an international player
responsibly and effectively able to project away from the European continent. The multiplicity
EU action gives it its own specificity, which was intended to become a force
International world peace.

519

In strict budgetary period, we believe that cooperation is more
imperative than ever.
The Liberals want:
• that European defense is an efficient instrument for a policy
European foreign ambitious, proactive and peacemaking;
• the establishment of permanent structured cooperation (PSC). CSDP can
build variable geometry, each State involved in the operations or
capability projects according to their needs and within its means.
• the creation of a true "Defence Council" within the EU and promote consultation
NATO's European members.
• drafting a White Paper on European security and defense that poses as
final objective the construction of a European army;
• strengthen the role of the European Defence Agency (EDA) to quickly
bridge priority capability gaps: refueling, support
A400M common (pilot training and mechanics), to drones
civil and military purposes, ...
• the creation of a "European Interparliamentary Assembly and safety
defense "permanent.

Liberals favor trade agreements
An EU-US axis seems important to counterbalance the influence of powers
better known as the emerging BRIC (Brazil, Russia, India and China). An agreement
lair free trade the EU and the USA is at hand. Despite disagreements
punctual, Europe and the United States share the same values ​​of freedom and security.
Such an agreement, based on a very dynamic partner would likely boost
the European economy up to 120 billion euros per year.
The US is already the EU's largest export market. A new pact would offer
the new EU companies opportunities to export to the United States and
encourage US companies to invest even more in Europe than they
do now. Therefore, the agreement should help generate taxes that
fund public services across the EU, health retreats.
The agreement also benefit the rest of the world could bring economies
Latin America, Africa and Asia up to 100 billion euros per year. It would help
also strengthen the rules for world trade.
The Liberals support the conclusion of a free trade agreement with the United States on
a balanced basis, while respecting the traditions and cultures, in particular by excluding
foodstuffs negotiations to venir72

72

Europeans are largely and legitimately against food standardization that prevails on the ground
US and overwhelmingly reject certain business practices like grain production to
GMOs, that of chlorinated chicken or beef hormones.

520

We will remain adamant on certain issues that affect our traditions, our culture.
Mentioned here, not only the cultural exception but another form of
cultural heritage, the gastronomy based on quality and safety courses
food.
The MR is of course a strong supporter of the variety, short circuits, products
soil and the food chain traceability to ultimately ensure the free choice of
consumer. The Liberals will ensure that the EU-US Treaty contains no
that would prevent them from taking health and environmental measures
protect its citizens.

•

Europe must reach out to China and Africa

If the partnership the United States / European Union is essential today, the EU does not anticipate
sufficiently large global trends for next 20 years: China and Africa
and do not appear high enough in the hierarchy of European priorities. Europe
must urgently find a way to deal with China, a partner whose weight
economic and political keeps growing. The EU must strike a balance between a
hand, a more resolute defense of its economic interests in China, as it has
recently started to do so, and also the development of a cooperation
constructive around common interests that are many.
In Africa, where China is almost home, EU action is limited. Europeans
not measure the enormous economic potential of the continent. Africa is a
major and essential partner for the industrial world.
The Liberals are committed to supporting the efforts of governments for good
governance; to encourage the private sector to invest in Africa; to propose policies
specific support to the creation of SMEs; to promote access to credit policies, the
technology transfer, technical and vocational training and management.

•

Europe must deepen the political dialogue with Russia but stressed
firmly on the need for the country to respect the territorial integrity of its
neighbors.

Europe must continue to deepen its dialogue with Russia is a power
Eurasian geostrategic unavoidable, its largest neighbor and its third
Business Partner.
Their collaboration is crucial not only in trade but also in
safety, particularly with regard to terrorism, crime,
illegal immigration, trafficking in human beings and drug trafficking.
The Liberals are committed to supporting political dialogue with Russia, open but firm
especially regarding the territorial integrity of the countries neighboring Russia, human rights
Human and Syria.
521

•

The Liberals should promote political affiliations in the South and
Eastern Mediterranean (SEM) / Union for the Mediterranean

The beginning of the Arab Spring in 2011 was a watershed in the southern and eastern region
Mediterranean, ending authoritarian and repressive regimes in
many countries. The Arab world and currently still crossed through many
upheavals. The body of these revolutions is not a call to war but
a cry for democracy and for a more just world. But democracy is not done
not in one day. It is the fruit of a slow maturation.
Liberals believe that it would be constructive and mutually rewarding foster
political affiliations so that the various countries of the South parties and eastern Mediterranean
build relationships with European parties in order to discuss social projects.
•

The Liberals want to increase the EU's influence in international affairs:
o creating an additional European seat on the UN Security Council and
in other international fora;
o involving the EU Member States to the euro zone to form a
single representation in the IMF.

Liberals recognize the reality of enlargement
Enlargement policy is one of the main tools of foreign policy
the EU, allowing the EU to contribute to the stability and economic development
many of its neighbors, especially in Central Europe.
However, the Liberals are finding that the European Union has reached a stage where it
can continue to expand without being reformed under threat of slipping into stagnation and
see its institutions become non-operational. However, Liberals believe that
greater integration of European policies and a concentration on policy
socioeconomic precedence over future enlargements. It therefore
offers a break time of a legislature.

The Liberals have a long tradition of development
Development assistance has a key role to play in the redistribution of wealth and
in the fight against inequality. It contributes significantly to the financing
global public goods and to the preservation of peace and global stability. It is
can separate our interest in the welfare of developing countries,
threats we face today such as illegal immigration, terrorism
armed conflicts that are destabilizing entire regions.

522

The Liberals will:
• uphold fundamental rights in the region, particularly in terms of
reproductive rights or gay rights,
• Continue to achieving the MDGs by 2015 and continue that effort after 2015; They
are attentive to the proper conduct of election observation missions and above
to follow up on recommendations;
• encourage training courses and exchanges;
• promote the development of budget support;
• assist in the conclusion of economic partnership agreements;
• support the B-Fast initiatives;
• advocate for the proceeds of the tax on international transactions is affected
partly to the official development assistance to enable EM
to reach 0.7% of GDP or the fight against climate change
developing countries;
• making sexual orientation and the rights of LGBTI a major theme in the
political dialogue with developing countries;
• to strengthen the civilian management capabilities for EU crisis and use its experience
to ensure stability, the rule of law and principles of good governance.

Be careful --------------------- is not possible: many reforms require amendment
European Treaty!
•

The harmonization in the fiscal and social fields is impossible without abandoning the
unanimity in the Council and the use of the veto, usually by
British government. But the MR will make every effort to move towards more
convergence in these two areas.

•

The choice of a single seat for the European Parliament, in order to prevail
legitimate right for any parliamentary assembly to choose their workplace and
also to limit mismanagement, is also related to a modification of the treaties and
lifting of the veto on the French Parliament in Strasbourg.

-------------------------------------------------- ----- The path
"Europe quarrels, you know, Europe is realized, we do not know" Jean Rey

Begun 60 years ago, the construction of Europe remains an ambitious political project
which Belgium must continue to be involved to help ensure the prosperity and
peace on our continent.
In this year of commemoration of the beginning of World War I the capacity of the
European project to restore and preserve peace, recognized by the Nobel committee
523

2012 must not be relativized. Ukrainian crisis demonstrates to those who doubted that
peace on our continent is not yet achieved, it remains fragile and its maintenance
requires a total commitment of institutions and Member States of the Union.
Under the leadership of the founding fathers (Schuman, Monnet, Adenauer, Spaak, De Gasperi), six
States created in 1951 the ECSC (European Coal and Steel). S'en
followed, the European Defence Community in 1954, the European Community
Atomic Energy Community (EURATOM) and the European Economic Community established by the
Treaty of Rome in 1957. With this treaty emerges the first step of an economic Union,
political and social since the objective is to create a common market allowing the free
movement of people, goods, services and capital.
Also thanks to the common agricultural policy (CAP), the first common policies
the Union originally founded on price controls and subsidies to farmers
food self-sufficiency of Europe remains guaranteed.
The EU today is a sui generis organization of 28 states populated 507 million
inhabitants and is the world's largest trading power. And this success, it is due to
economic integration of the Single Act. With this treaty, the European competences
are extended to the fields of research, technological development,
environmental and social policy.
In 1992, the Maastricht Treaty instituted a political union, which took the name of Union
European and began work on the creation of an Economic Union
Money with a single currency the euro. Established in 1999, it now has
18 states in the Eurozone.
With Maastricht areas of EU competences have broadened: environment,
vocational training, public health, industrial policy, services, culture, transportation
European, education and consumer protection.
Regarding European defense, the Petersberg tasks stared in 1992 as part
cooperation and intervention in the "crisis management" common to the WEU, NATO and
the European Union. In February 2003, with the implementation of the Nice Treaty the EU
integrate WEU operational skills.
Besides the deepening and widening of EU powers, the Treaty of
Maastricht also put in place European citizenship and allowed to move and
reside freely in the countries of the Community, the right to vote and be elected in the State
where you reside for European and local elections. It was completed in 1999 by the Treaty
Amsterdam which established an "area of ​​freedom, security and justice. "The Treaty of
Nice, which came into force in 2003, gave more power to parliament, who became co-decider
and co-legislator and devoted the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
Since November 2009, the EU is regulated by the Lisbon Treaty, Structure
EU community is preserved as regards the legislative process:
European Parliament elected by direct universal suffrage, and the Council of Ministers composed of
Representatives of Member States to legislate on the basis of proposals submitted by the
524

Commission. The European Council is an intergovernmental institution apart
full composed of Heads of State and Government and headed by a president
Standing (Herman Van Rompuy).
The attractiveness of the Union vis-à-vis the outside world is undeniable. 6 countries in 1957, it
today has 28 members with opportunities for future accessions of countries
Balkan region. European countries meet the economic and political criteria and
having integrated the acquis communautaire are eligible for membership. It is then
passed unanimously by Member States.
Given these developments, the Reform Movement continues to push for a
ambitious vision of European construction based on clear principles.
Belgium, Belgian citizens are an engine of European integration. 64% of Belgians
said they are optimistic about the future of the EU (EU 28: only 51%). 62%
Belgians believe that the EU will be stronger in the long run (only 54% of citizens
European express this opinion). 70% of Belgians polled feel citizens
European (EU28: 59%).
Based on this fact, the Liberals intend to play the card of further integration
in areas with a clear European added value, with candidates
rely on both a balance sheet and a vision.
We want to advocate a liberal Europe which is opposed to the loss of influence of Europe
in the world, the loss of wealth, loss of sovereignty, that is to say, the loss of
ability to decide our own future, to exert real influence in a world
globalized.
We want a Union that is more effective and which deals with problems that can not be
set at national level: trade, climate change, migration, management of a
single currency ... and not a bureaucratic, centralized super-state.
We want to fight against simplistic solutions (the "there is only ...") parties
extremists. The Liberals are betting without taking responsibility discard, and a
More integrated Europe.

525

B. Belgium worldwide

Belgium is actively involved for many years on stage
International. The weight it occupies is not commensurate with its size. Brussels
as the capital which sit the bodies of the European Union and NATO is
became over the years a "hub" unavoidable diplomatic, with over 5250
diplomats, the highest figure in the world. Brussels is the first city in
European Conference and the second city in the world behind Singapore. This pivotal role
Brussels must of course be maintained and encouraged as the capital of Europe
(since the Edinburgh Summit in 1992) and international capital.
Our country is a tireless advocate of peace, values ​​of democracy, the rule of
Law and Human Rights. This model, we intend to promote and defend
on the international scene. Belgium is a founding member of an impressive number
international institutions established after World War II. These institutions
Like the UN, the EU, NATO, OSCE, or the WTO, the IMF OECD, and
World Bank favor multilateral dialogue and are guarantors of respect for the rule of
law, democracy and prosperity of its members. A globalized world calls
common solutions, respecting the specificities of each.
Multilateral fora are also essential instruments to enable the
Belgium to strengthen its action where it can act effectively alone. Alongside
institutions mentioned above, it would highlight the essential tool for our
diplomacy that also represents the Francophonie. The International Relations
Wallonia-Brussels Federation, the Walloon Region, the Brussels region as well as
the European Union should become the cornerstone of Belgium's action on the stage
International.
As a liberal and democrat, the MR remains particularly committed to the promotion and
protection of universal rights and values ​​and advocates global action, determined and
pragmatic internationally in order to improve the situation tangibly
human rights.
Finding / Conclusion: Belgium and the world
In recent years, new conflict areas were added to the list of
oldest conflicts. In each of these conflicts, Belgium has made its voice heard and played
map multilateralism favoring political and diplomatic solution to action
military. It was true of the Arab Spring countries, Africa Great Lakes where
Belgium pulls its weight in resolving the conflict in this region as
in the Syrian conflict and the long process of negotiations between Israelis and Palestinians
should eventually lead to a two-state solution sustainable and safe.
When the political solution is not possible, our country takes its responsibilities and
intervenes militarily as a member of the Union or loyal NATO ally or UN
526

and its means whatsoever to fight against piracy off the coast of
Somalia in support of the French army in Mali, Libya, RCA or by
Afghanistan with the ISAF forces.
Belgium also contributes, particularly through the EU, to rebuild
post-conflict by taking part in many civil and police operations areas
Belgium and the EU
Belgium is a founding member of the European project. Many personalities
Belgian, including liberal as John Rey, Paul Henry Spaak played a role
fundamental in the development of this project of peace, society and prosperity. Belgium
today continues to hold a major role in the development of legislation
daily of the European Union and the project itself. As proof, the launch
the Spinelli Group in 2010 by Guy Verhofstadt and many others, supported by more than 110
MEPs, and aims to advance the project of an increasingly federal Europe.
If the MR has such great faith in European integration and the need to go
always towards greater European integration is because the EU is more than
international organization with distant institutions is much more than a project
economic, it is a project of living together. It is a communion of values.
As Victor Hugo said, "Do not let us be more English, neither French nor German. Let
European. No longer be European, to be men. Let humanity. "
We must open ourselves to the changing world, the dialogue of cultures, transfers
enterprise and employment. Globalization is a positive phenomenon provided
humanize. With social networking we became beings connected or
hyper-connected. We must face the two pillars of this new world that is
immediacy and universality.
The world is globalizing and multilateralism aims to establish a growing rivalry
different interests and visions on the world stage. The MR, aware of the issues, favors
deepening of the European Union including in international matters.
Defend our interests and our values ​​on a global scale also requires a
strengthening the presence of European united. Alongside a deepening
institutional and capacity building of the Union, the MR advocates appealed more
systematic diplomatic missions, humanitarian, civilian, police and military
European. This will not be to the detriment of the Belgian presence but contribute to
contrary to reinforce the interests and values ​​that Belgium wishes to defend it.
This is why the MR is convinced that Belgium and the European Liberals
must become drivers of this change.
The MR is above all that all citizens are reclaiming the European political project
because only Europe can bring real ambitious and reassuring answers to our
uncertainties, our doubts, our fears but also to our expectations and our ambitions.
527

Belgium and the reform of international institutions
It "must dare to think about the world," as Jacques Attali said. It takes a "political space
global dimension ". It takes" a State world. "The growth of the world is run by
weak institutions without regulatory power. No comprehensive decision can be taken
to impose a course of action. There is no "universal right". Learning from the
global financial crisis, it is understood that the construction of a government
Planetary must be part of the continuity of corporate globalization by giving it
a political dimension. A planetary government should propose, coordinate and control
States with global development issues who can not deal with
the scale of nations.
The Bretton Woods institutions (IFIs: IMF, WB)
from the war much needed to be reformed to be in line with the
reality of the present world more integrated economically, financial and technological
but more fragmented in terms of power, influence and decision making.
Developing countries must be involved in all decisions that the
concern, that is to say most decisions on the course of business
world.
Specifically, we consider it essential to:
•
•

•

•

•
•
•
•

ensure better representation of developing countries in the
Bretton Woods institutions;
régionales- strengthen the role of organizations such as the African Union - in
the overall architecture. They must be part of the discussions at the G-20; must also
reform their status within the Board of the Bretton Woods institutions;
create a body within the United Nations, which has expertise in real terms
economic coordination. This can be done by transforming ECOSOC or
transforming the G20 "Economic Security Council";
redefine complementarity between the Bretton Woods Institutions and Banks
regional, such as the African Development Bank; we must arrive at a
real division of labor and skills, respected by all;
push to the fight against unemployment, which affects over 200 million people
in the world ;
pushing the global banking reform;
push IMF reform, launched in 2010 and to double the capital of the fund
(quotas) and a redistribution of share to emerging countries
reduce inequality in men and women, and push to the empowerment of these
last.

Similarly, despite considerable results on the preservation of peace and security
International, the United Nations (UN) needs urgently a
large-scale reform to make it more democratic, transparent,
528

responsible and able to face the challenges of the contemporary world. The Board of
safety, the most powerful body of the UN no longer reflects in its current composition,
geoeconomic and geopolitical realities of today, but reproduces the constellation
powers at the end of World War II. Its legitimacy and its suffering
efficiency.

A solidarity Belgium: Development cooperation
Our country has a strong tradition of solidarity, based on the will of its citizens to tender
hand to the poor. The fact that we spend a significant portion of our
income on development assistance in the least developed countries and Africa
particularly evidenced. Whether in times of humanitarian crisis or a
support to longer term, Belgium has proved itself a reliable and effective partner.
Development assistance has a key role to play in the redistribution of wealth and
in the fight against inequality. It contributes significantly to the financing
global public goods and to the preservation of peace and global stability.
The Belgian aid must make our partners an economy and a political environment
stable that would offer its citizens the means to develop, in accordance with their
fundamental rights and democratic values. We must redouble our efforts and
vigilance in the fight against waste, bad practices and violations of freedoms
fundamental citizens of developing countries. Particular attention should
continue to be paid as good governance and the fight against corruption
all countries in which Belgium is involved directly or indirectly in cooperation.
Development aid is not a blank check. The values ​​are those of the
Belgium, like democracy, man-woman equality, respect for differences,
Human rights, good governance and the rule of law must be respected by our
partners. In countries or regions where deficiencies are found in particular
for reproductive rights or gay rights, Belgium must show
farm with partner countries to improve the situation of citizens of these countries.
In the bilateral area, Belgium has focused on 18 countries and partners
two sectors by country, so as not to scatter its resources and thus offer a
effective and sharp offer. One can indeed claim to be effective in spreading a
budget on a multitude of projects, sectors and countries. Focus is ensuring
impact. It is also important that the Belgian aid goes to the poorest countries, such as countries
Central Africa and West Africa but also in middle-income countries with whom
Belgium maintains a strong relationship, such as Morocco. In these countries, Belgium
recognized for its expertise and know-how. We must maintain this level of excellence.

529

Proposals
Promote diplomatic career women.
For too long, diplomacy remained a man's. We must make a
Maps of employment by gender in diplomatic careers and establish
gradually 40% women in diplomatic posts including in
posts of ambassadors and consuls.
Push to the conclusion of bilateral agreements to promote the work of partner
(man / woman) in particular allowing it to maintain its status
diplomatic

Effective management of the cooperation funds and partner countries
It is essential to control every euro invested in development aid. The
principles of good governance and fight against corruption must be applied. He
must continue to make aid more effective by reducing the number of partner countries (18)
and by further specializing sectoral aid. During the next term, our
commitment at the UN Millennium summit to devote 0.7%
of GNP to official development aid should be maintained. Human rights,
democracy, the rule of law and the fight against corruption must be parameters
unconditional in our approach to our partner countries.
Develop and promote alternative financing of cooperation: Initiate
Development of the tax on international financial transactions

Since 2008, the UN said developing funding "innovative". These, for the control
against poverty and disease, already have already found application with UNITAID, the
tax on airline tickets. It is also within this framework that was to come Tax
international financial transactions. In Europe, some already donate a lottery
of their revenue to development projects. The EP also approved a
European tax on financial transactions in 2012. Alternative financing may
be a solution to widen. Example: Innovative financing enabled the
GAVI development: an equitable and accelerated access to vaccines in developing countries via the
International Finance Facility for Immunization (IFFIm), which converts
long-term commitments of governments in financial resources immediately
available by issuing bonds on the financial markets. Since 2006, IFFIm
collected more than $ 2.2 billion.
Strengthen the role of local actors and coordinating financial strategies.
Avoid focusing donor domination and thus maintain addiction
South countries towards North financial flows. This "top-down" approach is one of
causes of the failure of international aid as a means of reducing disparities. It is necessary
develop small structures, which are more flexible and integrate better with
organizations of local civil society ..
530

Linking agreements of development cooperation in the human rights and
readmission agreements
This measure could be taken at the Belgian level but also at European level. A certain
number of files is already linked to the financing of cooperation as gender equality
women or respect for the rights of homosexuals and sexual and reproductive rights
of the woman.
Promote and strengthen multilateralism
Belgium is a pioneer in regard to multilateral processes with the creation of
Benelux. With its tradition of multilateral diplomacy, Belgium must continue
strengthen ties with major ensembles such as Mercosur or ASEAN. The
multilateral fora such as the UN, NATO, the IMF, the World Bank, the Council of
Europe, the OSCE are also tools that should enable Belgium to strengthen its
Action where it can act effectively alone.
Guarantee the respect of linguistic pluralism within organizations
International.
We must preserve the use of French as a working language in the institutions
European and international. French is one of the three working languages ​​of the bodies
European with English and German, it must rely in the same way that
two other working languages ​​of which tends to be less and less the case.
Belgium and Africa
Africa, the cradle of humanity is a continent of the future. Its population is growing at
rate of 2.5% per year, twice as fast as the middle way in other countries
development. At this rate, SSA should have 1.8 billion
in 2050, one and half times India today. Its middle class
could represent 280 million people in 2020 is a mobilizing factor.
Set in a positive dynamic, Africa has known for 10 years growth
dramatically exceeded 5% on average. Independent and courted by both
traditional powers as emerging powers, Africa finds its place
the international political and economic arena. It is an integral part of this
globalized world.
The economic crises, financial, food, climate, delays in supply
energy, the needs of the research are the responsibility of
governments. That is why African countries need to develop faster
"impartial public power design"; one that brings access to education,
culture, administration, justice and social and health services that forges the
dignity. The implementation of eco-sustainable funds, food safety, coordination
an energy and climate governance, resource management policy
531

Natural are examples requiring state involvement to avoid
excesses and excesses.
The major challenge in Africa is that of governance, both in terms
political than economic.
On the political front, governance is contained in the idea of ​​"just state", a state
guarantor of democracy and impartial guarantor of fundamental rights of all
citizens of every man and every woman.
The state must guarantee social cohesion of a people, managing resources so
responsible and impartial, to ensure an equitable redistribution.
Without social cohesion, it is unrealistic to count on the commitment, voluntarism, the
active contribution of citizens of a country. What is fundamental in the eyes of MR
is the feeling that every citizen should have the right to be treated with fairness, justice,
respect, and dignity.
An investor State a regulatory state, a state guarantor of the social contract and
democracy must allow faith to give back to those that globalization or
worried or discourage innovation.
Economically, the financial requirements to meet the challenges faced by
poor countries are significant and well above the growth prospects
official development assistance. 1% growth in Africa relates to more
Africans that all public assistance received by Africa. Therefore, if nothing
justifies a reduction in official development assistance, it is essential to
find complementary funding sources.
The MR proposes to (e):
•

use a substantial amount of public aid to finance conditions
economic development. With the EU, it takes a lot more focus aid
public towards the emergence of an African economy boosted by a
more pro-market economy, one that could bring prosperity
Economic and finance social services essential to
the development of citizens.

•

improve the business by supporting a state based on law
ensuring justice for businesses, an impartial legal framework, a context
Macroeconomic promoting private initiative.

•

establish a tax system based on the fiscal capacity of citizens on
fair compensation in a transparent exploitation of natural resources
exploited, giving States the means of their missions.

532

•

promote legal security of investments. The international private sector
is prepared to accept significant samples and take risks
provided it has a minimum legal certainty. Investors
will commit more readily if states set up institutions and
policies respecting human rights and strengthening the fight against
corruption.

•

encourage support specific policies to the creation of SMEs,
essential to promote employment. Access to credit policies, the
technology transfer, vocational training and management
must become priorities.

•

ensure honest and fair exploitation of natural resources. This element
is essential in a global economy to avoid both
debt, looting, inadequate remuneration of resources
exploited. This means strengthening the legal arsenal to ensure
better traceability of minerals from illegal exploitation by a
control instrument of the international market of natural resources
could build on the Dodd-Frank Act, passed by the US Congress.

•

ask companies operating in developing countries to subscribe to a code of ethics,
Referring in particular to the social responsibility of legislation
business and whose implementation must be evaluated and verified contract.

•

propose action emerging triangular cooperation as
China, India, Brazil, ... so as to enable more virtuous approaches.
The impressive development of the economies of emerging countries is a
inspiration for African countries. As donors and recipients
help, they occupy a unique position in terms of development.

•

promote budget support rather than project aid. Budget support strengthens
the governance. It increases the consistency of the national budget and above
empowers states in the priorities and the results it fixed. It allows
full ownership by each country of its own development.

•

promote regional integration as an engine of economic development.
We must push for the rapid conclusion of the Economic Partnership Agreements
(EPA) enabling developing countries to benefit as quickly as possible the benefits of
globalization.

•

Invest even more in education that is to say an education
good quality, gender equality including access, capacity
human resources, free school meals, the development of
innovative approaches such as traveling school, the multi-level teaching,
book unique and alternative forms of education.

533

•

towards a standard minimum level of social protection.

•

Promoting culture remains the highest expression of the identity of a
people and the foundation of social cohesion

•

International relations of the Federation Wallonia-Brussels
Francophone country, Wallonia and Brussels, have realized the importance of being well
represented internationally. Our agencies and our posts abroad must
effectively coordinate their work to represent our business interests and defend
our strengths to potential investors.
Serious changes are expected in the years and decades to come in view
the various crises: food, economic, financial. By acting in
common and close complementarity of their regional expertise and
Community that their international action will be the more carrier face
socio-economic, commercial and cultural objectives
Economic diplomacy was mainly driven by our representatives
consular, the WBI delegations and permanent seats of AWEX. Increasing
our trade volumes attests to their effectiveness.
Since 1 January 2009, the Wallonie-Bruxelles International entity (WBI) centralizes
entire Francophone representation and international relations WallonieBruxelles abroad. Its reach is growing wider as its
This network delegations around the world.
The role of WBI commissioners abroad will first focus on the political aspect
their presence in the host country but also and especially on a work
external relations for the economic, social, cultural and
sustainability of our regions, Wallonia and that of our partners including
the FWB and COCOF. Our economy depends on it. Their economic importance is
therefore proven.
The convergence of views and actions among Francophones, between Wallonia and
Brussels, is essential for our development in general and the interests of
Francophones in particular. Economic development of Wallonia is taken
supported by AWEX (Walloon Export Agency and investment) and its
109 economic and commercial attachés at the disposal of companies
Walloon.
As for Brussels Invest & Export, it is the strategic partner for exporters
Brussels and foreign investors in their internationalization. As
its Walloon counterpart, it helps companies to expand into new
markets and encourage foreign companies to settle in the capital.
534

However the issue of operating costs and real profitability
presence of these delegations abroad as well as those who work there remains
crucial. The costs of diplomatic representations like those delegations
WBI should not be neglected at a time when we know that public money
is counted. An effort should also be possible from both sides so that
each public euro spent is a euro that is most useful.
This applies both countries and regions which over time have become basins
employment and growth in the image of German states. In this context and in view
Development of the Regions of Europe, particular attention must be
representations made to our region and to the Community
the European Union, with members and future EU member countries.
Relations with emerging countries, better known under the acronym BRIC,
are no exception to the rule. The structure of international trade has completely
changed either at the very nature of exchanges that the nature of the
international trade barriers: tariffs fell sharply
(global average rate: 5% China EX. 20% to 4% by 18 years) as well as
quantitative restrictions with the emergence of non-tariff barriers. The latter,
like the standards, norms, quality references or requirements
regulatory compliance, have gradually become the main obstacle
in world trade. The challenge in the future will lie in how to find a
field of harmonization of these non-tariff barriers.
Both bilateral and multilateral relationships should be promoted and at large
scale, both to the northern countries as to those in the south. Of course, for reasons
obvious geographical proximity, the 28 EU countries are partners
Preferred as the countries of the Great Lakes region for reasons
obvious historical. But aside from these "traditional" markets of our
economy, our regions must be open to emerging BRICS countries and a
general the South.

Francophonie
Belgium is actively involved for many years on stage
International. The weight it occupies is not commensurate with its size. Brussels
as the capital which sit the bodies of the European Union and NATO is
became over the years a "hub" unavoidable diplomatic, one of the centers
the most important diplomatic world. This pivotal role of Brussels should of course
be maintained and encouraged as an international capital.
Our country is a tireless defender of the values ​​of democracy, the rule of law and
Human rights. This model, we intend to promote and defend on stage
International.

535

Belgium is a founding member of an impressive number of institutions
International founded after World War II. These institutions like
UN, EU, NATO, WTO, IMF, World Bank or the OSCE
favor multilateral dialogue and are guarantors of respect for the rule of law, the
democracy and prosperity of its members. A globalized world requires solutions
towns, respecting the specificities of each.
Multilateral fora are also essential instruments to enable the
Belgium to strengthen its action where it can act effectively alone. To this end, the
Francophonie is an indispensable tool for our diplomacy. International relations
Wallonia-Brussels Federation and the Walloon Region must become the cornerstone
their action and development.
It is therefore essential to define an international strategy for Wallonia-Brussels. The
Diplomatic Network Wallonie-Bruxelles International, with 17 delegations will
renovated in depth to be a reflection of this strategy.
It is also essential to set priorities for international action WallonieBruxelles. In this respect, Africa and the Francophonie must be at the heart of its action.
Africa is indeed the continent of the XXI century. The continent's economic growth
remains at high levels for several years. Many countries (China, of course,
but also Turkey, Morocco, South Korea or Brazil) have increased strongly
their links with African countries in recent years and are investing heavily.
Belgium, Wallonia-Brussels and in particular, should be aware of
opportunities offered by the economic takeoff of Africa.
The French language and culture are the matrix of the Federation Wallonia-Brussels. This is
a unique heritage that the MR intends to defend and promote. French is the ninth
spoken language in the world behind including Mandarin, English, Spanish and
Russian. Today, French is one of the few languages ​​to be spoken on all 5
continents. Over 200 million Francophones speak in our language through
world and this number is growing particularly in Africa. The defense of the language
French does not mean withdrawal. Rather, it is part of the defense of the
diversity. If even the French, with its privileged location, is unable to be
hear is a bad signal to other under-represented languages. This
specificity must become our strength and must be preserved, in particular through actions
conducted by the International Organisation of the Francophonie (OIF) and an increase
Note visibility on TV5 Monde. Each year, the Wallonia-Brussels Federation contributes
to the tune of approximately € 7 million to TV5 Monde budget. Given the amounts
engaged, this contribution should now be conditioned to a better visibility
Wallonie-Bruxelles in TV5 Monde programs, which gives too often
the impression of being a French chain, not speaking.
The FWB is the third largest financial contributor of the OIF. Contributions thereto totaled
each year about 5 million. As such, it must be more
536

ambition and make its voice heard within the Organization. Special attention
should also be given to the recruitment of Belgian officials within the OIF.

PROPOSALS:
1. Streamlining costs
Wallonia-Brussels representation abroad is a showcase of French expertise
the need to promote. We must improve synergies with the entire diplomatic network
Belgian consulate and to allow a better rationalization including costs
operating costs related to buildings, staff remuneration etc.
2. Define a genuine international strategy for Wallonia and Brussels
for the Francophonie
The Francophonie must become a priority of the diplomatic action of the federation
Wallonia Brussels and we have to strengthen our role in the OIF where we are the third
financial contributor. The same goes for TV5 Monde in which our visibility will be finally
at the height of our financial participation. Defend the francophonie is not limited to
only promote the French language, but also to defend "some idea" of
World (Alexandre Najjar)

As for the diplomatic network of Wallonie-Bruxelles International, he will have to be renovated
to be a reflection of this strategy. We must rethink our strategy abroad,
rationalize certain positions and create new ones especially in emerging countries
such as Brazil, Russia, India, South Africa and the Asia-Pacific region
including Vietnam, Cambodia, Laos or Thailand. We must deepen
Wallonia-Brussels ties with Africa, and especially Central Africa.

3. Conduct an audit on Belgian Francophone representation abroad
This audit will be conducted by the Court of Auditors and will have a mapping
efficient use of public funds abroad knowing that investment
abroad should always be done with the idea of ​​a return effect and an increase in our
exports. Periodically evaluate all services existing Delegations
also offers greater flexibility to better deploy or redeploy our network
the delegations abroad.
4. Develop synergies with the federal and the federated entities
Each business Walloon, Flemish or Brussels should enjoy the same
services seamlessly. Promoting our image and our talent is the price
and is a matter of common sense. This also requires the development of better
consultation between our various levels of federal and regional power so
optimize the promotion abroad of our country and our regions.

537

5. Foreign Trade: Expanding trade with emerging countries
Our economic growth is strongly influenced by market opportunities and
openings that arise abroad. The FWB is to develop a diplomacy
strong economic and strategic that responds directly to the needs of our companies, and
especially our SMEs who need support in addressing foreign markets.
6. Continue the commitment of Belgium at the highest level within the Francophonie
OIF.
7. Set up a volunteer program, primarily focused on Africa,
allow young French-speaking Belgians live a professional experience
year in a foreign country, in the Wallonia-Brussels diplomatic network
International, an institution of the Francophonie or a Belgian company with
activities abroad.
8. Strengthen the weight of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation within the OIF since the
federation is the third largest financial contributor. As such, it is normal that the voice of
FWI is better heard in this instance and that special attention be more
made to recruit Belgian officials within the OIF.
9. Condition the involvement of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation to TV5 budget
World a better visibility of Wallonia-Brussels in TV5 programs
World.
10. Promote within the OIF enhanced cooperation between MemberStates and all topics related to this organization

International relations
Goal:
Francophone country, Wallonia and Brussels, have realized the importance of being well
represented internationally. Serious changes are expected with regard to
various crises: food, economic, financial. In addition, the many challenges
expect due to climate change, demographic movements, etc. This is
by acting jointly and with a close complementary skills
regional and community as their international action will be the more carrier
address the socio-economic, cultural and educational goals.

1.

WBI delegations abroad

FINDINGS
WBI is 212 people working at headquarters, 17 delegations in
of which 126 are occupied with 20 agents with diplomatic status, the Centre
Wallonie-Bruxelles in Paris, a cultural center in Kinshasa, six Wallonia-Brussels Offices

538

managed in partnership with APEFE a Representative Office in Baton Rouge, Louisiana,
40 positions players and trainers in the EU and Israel.
The AWEX, economic branch of the regional representation abroad is attached 109
economic and trade available to Walloon companies (which weigh 25%
Budget AWEX), 20 of which are the basis of the representatives of the Brussels Region or
Flemish Region.
The role of commissioners abroad WBI focuses first on the political aspect of their
presence in the host country but also and especially on a work External Relations
for economic, social, cultural and sustainable development of our regions, the
Wallonia and that of our partners including the FWB and COCOF. Our economy
depends on it. Their economic mission is no longer to prove.
However the issue of operating costs and real profitability of the presence
these delegations abroad as well as those who work there remains fully
crucial. The costs of diplomatic representations like those delegations from WBI
should not be neglected at a time when we know that public money is counted. A
effort must be possible from both sides so that each public euro
one euro is spent that is most useful.
Goal: To achieve maximum savings by not losing sight of their role of proximity
important in the context of promoting our image abroad and relationships
External, a cornerstone of our industrial activity related to our exports. In addition,
foreign investment should always be done with the idea of ​​a return effect.
The MR always fight all forms of wastage of public money. It's a
question of political responsibility, the cornerstone of citizens' trust in the
public representatives.
PROPOSALS:
Improve consultation with the Belgian embassy for more relevance of
presence of a delegation and better management of their numbers. We can
consider an evaluation system with a backdrop of a more rational management
operating costs of the delegations: costs related to buildings, Compensation
agents and levels of positions. Establish an objective and independent audit system
Budgetary resources made available to these Belgian representations abroad.
Avoid at all costs redundancy and duplication with certain positions in embassies
respect of public funds allocated in the Administration of "Foreign Affairs"
Wallonia-Brussels, called Wallonia-Brussels International (WBI).
In other words, it is important to assess periodically so
much more transparent all benefits of existing delegations. This
Assessment would possibly jeopardize the very existence and
relevance of a delegation.

539

2.

Effectiveness of regional economic missions abroad for some kind of
para-diplomacy

FINDINGS:
In many economic missions abroad, too often we hear talk
Brussels, capital of Europe, as the main "trademark" Belgian. We
also intends to say very often that the federated entities are not promoting
brand "Belgium" as such. Based on these comments, it is time
to reflect on the organization of relations between the federal and the federated entities on the map
trade and promotion abroad. We believe that besides diplomacy
Ordinary must be given the means to para diplomacy or better consultation between
both.
Economic diplomacy was mainly driven by our representatives sometimes
Consular, sometimes by our delegations WBI or the permanent seats of AWEX. Their
effectiveness should be measured by the increase of our trade volumes.
A lack of maturity is felt on the international level between our levels
able. We can not ignore how important it is for our country to have a
effectiveness on the ground which is optimal when economic mission abroad. If not,
why bother to go there costs involved.
We must remain very vigilant about the way our political representation to
Foreign evolve concomitantly or not so, maturation of our federal country.
PROPOSALS:
Establishment of better cooperation between our various levels of regional power
Federal and so as to achieve a kind of advanced federalism in politics
Promotional abroad to our country and our regions. Both regions should
refer to Belgium that the Fed should boast regional assets.
Ensure the best use of diplomatic services by a consistent policy for
closer cooperation and efficient as possible for the benefit of users
businesses.
Also encourage transregional cooperation on more promising markets in this
dimension.
When traveling abroad, be sure to organize our contacts with our delegates
shopping on site if any, in order to optimize our appointments and our
on-site meetings.

540

In addition, diplomats and business representatives on site should consult more, work
synergistically. On the ground, the values ​​of Wallonia must be exploited at best
combining our ambassadors to the efforts of the regions.
We wish an Agreement between the Federal and Federated, which would ensure to practice
more effectively greater complementarity in the organization of our missions
representatives abroad.
Organize most effectively reinforced a kind of skill system where
each, by tradition and expertise can add value to all. This would involve
promote our country in our region but also in one movement: a kind of
Para diplomacy and economic diplomacy where economies of scale would be
completed (measured by a periodic growth rate of exports following the
economic missions abroad).
The MR also defends the idea that any business Walloon, Flemish or Brussels should
enjoy the same services seamlessly and that, whatever the origin
of the service: the Walloon, Flemish, Brussels. Example, as part of a mission
Economic abroad organized by the Walloon Region, the Flemish companies
Brussels must be able to take part. It is a matter of common sense and good
governance.
3.

Performance of our regional parliamentarians at the European level

Over 70% of the Walloon legislation derives from European standards. Our meetings
Federated stand to gain by strengthening the monitoring of European issues. A better
organization and a better consideration of the interventions of regional deputies to
their comments and questions in the European decision-making and legislative process
affects our daily lives, are needed.
FINDINGS
Too often in the legislative process at the federal entities regarding Agreement
Cooperation and International Treaties, a sense of "last wagons hooked
the train already running "hovers over the heads of our parliamentarians and that, in addition
the existence of many different committees and representative offices as
Committee of the Regions, inter-Parliamentary Council, the Conference of Meetings
European Regional Legislative, the Committee of Regional Notices responsible for matters
European.
Ultimately, the texts are presented in our meetings in the form of projects
assent of Treaties which we know full well if they were ratified or not
other levels of power upstream. Therefore, where still lies the "power" of our
regional deputies in these matters?
The problem is essentially political. Too often, a sense of
frustration rises to the throat of our deputies who, well aware of the votes already taken in

541

European assemblies are forced to vote the same way as their own
political group at these levels.
This is the political game, will you tell us. But it is not a constructive argument.
A democratic deficit is too often experienced by this lack of flexibility.
In addition, our members are starved of information, while one of the objectives
first of the Lisbon Treaty was to give them more information.
PROPOSALS
Strengthen the role of Parliament in giving eg more power in the Council
Inter Parliamentary within the Greater Region. This would allow
Parliamentarians have more influence on government decisions.
Our regional members more involved upstream of the process of negotiations
International treaties, trade agreements or various international Partnership
both bilaterally and multilaterally.
Consider in this context, a broader consultation of our local MPs and
Community in the work of specialized configurations of the Council of Ministers
the European Union but also with MEPs. How?
•

•

For the Walloon Region, allowing them to meet the competent Minister who
Members present members of the Review Committee, the Walloon position in
European issues have a major impact for Wallonia (Ex. Reform
CAP or Structural Funds (see above), the European legislation
energy and environment, in the negotiations for the making of
European budget by contacts before a European Summit of ECOFIN, a contact
could be held with the Regional Minister of Budget or the Minister-President,
for their position).
Favoring bilateral contacts of our regional and community members with
MEPs in the context of their work and debates in assembly.

Deepen the democratic participation of regional deputies in the framework of the Union
defending European values ​​and principles of regional democracy. It's here
way open to greater involvement of our regional Parliament in decisions
European, for the welfare of clusters:
For example, in the Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance
(TSCG) also called the European Fiscal Compact, Richard Miller filed in
Walloon Parliament resolution proposal to deepen control
the democratic implementation of the fiscal compact. It invites the Walloon Government
to get involved with dynamism in the creation of an Inter-Parliamentary Conference
bringing together representatives of the relevant committees of the European Parliament and

542

national parliaments to discuss fiscal policy and other issues
governed by the Treaty on stability.

4.

European and Wallonia reindustrialization

In a context where the regional dimension is becoming increasingly important, both
in Europe and in our country there is Wallonia's interest to take advantage of its proximity
with the European institutions to maximize the various initiatives
European that can support the policies of Wallonia, and generate an effect
significant leverage.
FINDINGS:
In recent months, Wallonia was marked by a significant number of closures
restructuring of companies or mainly in the metalworking sector
have directly or indirectly affected thousands of workers.
All these restructuring impose a wider reflection which should be conducted in
Wallonia but also at European level. If we compare the economic performance of
the Walloon region with the other regions of Europe, Wallonia produces less
value than others which makes it more vulnerable.
She's tail ranking in terms of GDP / capita with 88% of the average
European (EU27), 80% from the EU-15 without forgetting the marked disparity between its
five provinces.
Apart Brabant Wallon where GDP / capita far exceeds the European average
and Flanders, Walloon provinces all have observed a deterioration of their
economic performance over the past 10 years. The most worrying case is
the Province of Hainaut with a GDP / capita rose from 83% of the EU27 average in
2000-78% in 2010, barely 70% of the EU15.
While Wallonia has a less dense industrial fabric as observed in the
other regions, it has an exceptionally efficient in the industry
sense that the productivity of its workforce surpasses virtually every other.
However, we must note that the trend towards de-industrialization of Wallonia
is well and truly established.
The industrial crisis is not limited only to the automotive, steel
or textiles. It also relates more sectors with high technological content.
However, 80% of innovations and 75% of EU exports come from industry. Us
we need industry and its development can be assured that if we endow
an industrial policy for 28 rather than 28 national policies.

543

Faced with these findings, the MR is convinced that any reflection on the implementation of
reindustrialization strategy has to go through the European dimension in which the
Wallonia is fully involved.
PROPOSALS:
Based on a precise diagnosis of the situation of Walloon industry, we want:
•

Establish a comprehensive action plan based on an integrated strategic vision and
Cross to support and enable the growth of our industry.
We must consider that this can not be done properly without the pro-activity of all
EU Member States and all regions.
•

Integrating European aspect in the Walloon action and reflection:
-

-

-

Reflecting on new common investment oriented
key enabling technologies (nanotechnology, micro and nano electronics,
advanced materials, biotechnology) and new goods and services and
products in the areas of clean vehicles, sustainable construction,
smart grids and space;
Participating more and more efficient and proactive in the work and
initiatives undertaken at European level;
Operator more European works and transposing them into
regional policies;
As part proactively in the initiatives launched by the
Commission and to ensure its dissemination to all stakeholders
concerned;
Ensuring synergies between community and regional policies so
to maximize the leverage, in particular with regard to all
Field research-innovation-supporting SMEs and entrepreneurship;

•

Federal support any initiative to improve our competitiveness, both
reducing labor costs, orienting corporate taxation towards support
productive investment, or taking any other decision within its
skills that would support the recovery of the industrial sector.

•

Make every effort to act on the root of the problem are offshoring
business as intra-European and extra-European:

- Reducing production costs in the less competitive countries like their
labor costs, costs related to energy and the environment;
- Stimulating demand through the creation of a label "Made in Europe" encouraging
the most promising sectors, flagships of the European economy;
- Encouraging innovation, through the European patent (...);

544

- Favoring the "Level Playing Feld" common that promotes convergence tools
business to all business partners by working all actors
together and that gives absolute priority to the legislation on the internal market (eg.
mutual recognition of professional qualifications).
- Promoting the cycles of negotiations (bilateral trade agreements,
or multilateral;
- Advocating the European tax harmonization avoiding relocations
Intra-European single for tax reasons, many and improves the seat
European deal on more favorable tax systems (USA, Asia, Latin America, ...);
•

Calling on the social level, the European Structural Funds by streamlining their
use by creating an "interdepartmental task force" which would follow the main
case closures or major restructuring of factories;

5. bilateral and interregional approaches
FINDINGS

Internationally, the space Wallonia-Brussels has a public interest organization
integrated since 1 January 2009, the Wallonie-Bruxelles International entity (WBI). This
administration took over merging the previous charge of politics
outdoor Wallonia, the Wallonia-Brussels Federation and the COCOF, it is therefore
a single agency representing Francophones on the ground overseas.
The convergence of views and actions among Francophones, between Wallonia and Brussels, is
essential for our development and interests of francophones in general.
WBI is the focal point of the internationalization of Wallonia and Brussels with operators
orientation to the user is the operator, the university, the student, the association, the
southern populations, ... Either, all persons to whom, by whom or based on
the Institution which services are organized or provided.
WBI is also the focal point of support for the various international approaches
public operators in the region and the FWB (see the Interdepartmental Committee).
The economic development of the area Wallonia-Brussels is supported by AWEX
(Walloon Agency for Export and Investment). It is the focal point for
the internationalization of companies.
Throughout its policy of international relations, space WB is trying to remove a
Maximum strengths and opportunities by promoting action programs
enforcement is shared between the potential WBI and that of AWEX working so
Further by the most appropriate approaches (bilateral, multilateral,
industry ...).
545

First, for a small entity like ours, financially modest approach
Bilateral international relations is vital, as with the countries of the North and countries
emerging on the one hand with the countries of the South.

The bilateral action is an action recognized by all players at both the
quality of interventions and results, and in terms of visibility on the scene
International. It mainly works on core programs that integrate
bilateral aspects, multilateral, European and sectoral as appropriate, taking into account the
better integration and complementarity of these different aspects.

PROPOSALS:
Based on our skills and our needs but also based on those of other countries,
we must maintain this type of action by targeting priority countries.
In a Europe of 28 members, with seven other countries pursuing negotiations
membership, we must strengthen our relations with countries that want to pursue
Political Union, countries with which we have historical relations and privileged
the countries of Central Europe and Central Africa (DR Congo, Burundi and Rwanda) with
which we want to develop special relationships.
This bilateral approach allows finding key partners to act in the
European programs.
These partners can be countries, but can also be regions. On this subject
for example, we must remain attentive to the fate of some programs
European cross-border such as INTERREG IVA Programme Greater Region
(Saarland, Lorraine, GD Lxbg, Rhineland-Palatinate, the RW, and the FWB Cté
German). They are carriers for territories like ours. They represent
springboards for exchange of regional assets. These contacts are carriers of growth
through exchanges of experience in areas as diverse as are
education, training, research, innovation, technology, energy,
the environment, ... Either you can remove these exchanges as many advantages as the number of
own regional expertise.
In this context, particular attention should be given to representations
our Region and the Community to the European Union from countries
members and future EU members.
6. Relations with emerging countries:
In general, it is very important for the space to Wallonia-Brussels
everything on his side (exploration, international partnership networks, assignment
economic, exchange information with operators, universities, studies, etc.)
546

to become known internationally but also know himself areas
strong growth, particularly in emerging countries.
FINDINGS:
The structure of international trade has completely changed either at the
very nature of trade ("made in the Word") that the nature of the barriers
international trade: tariffs fell sharply (world average:
5%, EX. China: from 20% to 4% by 18 years) as well as the quantitative restrictions with
the emergence of non-tariff barriers, main obstacle to world trade, such as
standards, standards, quality benchmarks and requirements of compliance with
regulation. The difficulty is to find a field of harmonization of these barriers not
tariff. However, for the EU, 90% of the additional demand over the ten years to come
will come from outside the EU and particularly the area of ​​emerging countries such as BRICs
and MINT (Brazil, Russia, China, Mexico, India, Turkey, Nigeria, ...).
PROPOSALS:
Given all these facts, we have to be aware that the choice of our markets
are critical to our economic future. That is why we
recommend to favor our presence in these markets by creating genuine
showcase of our region by providing on-site comprehensive information on the WB area
and the country. Although the overall potential supply is still unknown (although missions
economic organize more and more in these countries), it can be questioned for
exporting our products. In addition, thanks to our central location in Europe, these countries
considering using Belgium as the spearhead of their European presence.
Meet up the needs of investors from high potential markets
consumption. Either allocate budgets efficient in terms of tools for action
devoted to identifying growth markets for Wallonia.
7. Relations with the developed countries and southern countries:
FINDINGS:
For the former, WBI Standby especially to meet the needs of development
economic, social and cultural space Wallonia-Brussels.
For the latter, the dimension of solidarity and cooperation should be preferred.
PROPOSALS:
As part of the bilateral policy of our international relations, we must ensure a
good partnership with multilateral and sector departments WBI as APEFE
(Association for the Promotion of Education and Training Abroad) for countries
AWEX and South for northern countries.

547

In most areas of their direct responsibilities, Wallonia and FWB
are made to represent Belgium in various European bodies and
International (UNESCO, OECD, UN, Council of Europe, OIF ...
In order to optimize the presence of Francophones in these instances, it is necessary to
coordinate efforts conducted to determine the most efficient locations so that
their presence is sufficiently active according to the priorities set by these two
entities.
Example: In terms of research and innovation, WBI has developed a Platform
Research and Innovation has an important feature of Scientific Liaison Officers
(ALS): 7 ALS are planned in total. At present, five were appointed and funded by the
Marshall credits. They are installed in Sweden, Brazil, the USA and Germany. The last
has yet to see his assigned post. After 10-12 months depending within WBI, they
settle abroad.
For all positions and all such designations which are very costly to society, the MR
wishes to establish an objective and precise evaluation system of the effectiveness of these posts
by also measuring the seriousness of the criteria for selection of countries where they had better be
implanted for maximum profitability.
The authorities of Wallonia and FWB are primarily responsible for facilitating
Interconnection own networks to the relevant authority with their counterparts
European and international.
EU Structural Funds
Transparency of the Walloon Government in programming and in the use of
EU Structural Funds
FINDINGS
The Multiannual Financial Framework (MFF) Europe plays a leading role on financing
our regional development policies. It sets the expenditure ceilings for
seven years in the EU (2014-2020: 908 billion euros).
Inherent in this context, we find the policy of cohesion within the European Union.
It is funded by the European Structural Funds. Their allocation is paramount for
development of our region, both in terms of investment, employment,
research and development, energy and environment, etc.
The regional investment policy, the funds allocated to research and
development, quality training are all elements that are highlighted
Goals in Europe in 2020 and which determine the economic health of our businesses
Walloon. This element is not to be neglected.

548

The MFF 2014-2020 as negotiated to this important new stage:
1) A new category of regions: regions in transition, where GDP / capita
between 75% and 90% of the European average. This element challenges us
since four of the five provinces of Wallonia in it.
We must consider the fact that this category of regions will receive more funds from the ERDF and
ESF.
2) Revisions and adjustments along the way. It was also planned to review in
Along the way the European budget which will be adjusted as needed via a
PSC rehabilitated in midcourse.
Each economic actor or every citizen is entitled to be knowledgeable about
the use of structural funds by the Walloon Government.
When analyzing the 2013 budget, within the framework of European co-financing, it is
note that since the beginning of the program in 2007, the cruising speed
programs is quite slow.
If one believes the payments made and the amounts paid entered in the budget
2013, the following table shows this:

2007
2008
2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
2014 20
10,000,000 17,792,000 139,438,000 138,111,000 139,729,000 180,000,000 175,164,000 * 0
0
The normal operation of a European program yet teaches us two things:
1. The very big part of the commitments takes place in early period
programming. Here mainly on the years 2007-2009;
2. Payments must climb sharply from year to year power.
Failing to register in this double schema, a program can not meet the prescribed
the rule "N + 2" ("N + 3" for the new 2014-2020 programming).
In addition, the already consumed credits and projections of the amounts by 2015 we
indicate a cumulative amount of 800 million euros. Or, if one wants to consume
the entire envelope of 2015, a cumulative total of 1.2 billion euros should be
released by the Government.
The Government will have to find by 2015, an additional $ 400
million euros (1.2 billion = + 800 000 000 400 000 000) to honor its commitments
European projects.
The transparency of our Ministers on their allocation and about the pace of
Consumption of these funds is a matter of political responsibility to the citizens.
We get tired to hear or read in the press that the Walloon Government is not
sufficiently transparent in this regard. Sometimes "elected" by the Task Force projects
549

created for this purpose did not benefit from these European funds to support other projects
"Unelected" and that, by subterfuge.
Just see what happened again in mid-July 2013 during the negotiation of the
Olivier majority of the second adjustment to the 2013 budget and that being
2014 negotiations.

PROPOSALS
It is important that our Assembly can in earnest, measured, efficient and
transparent debate on the means available to the Region and thus participate
indirectly to the allocation decisions of the European Structural Funds when
ie they are taken during Funds programming negotiations between
Region and the European Commission.
The MR wants more transparency from the Regional Ministers regarding
the use of these funds that condition our economic health, and those companies
citizens. We propose that the Government communicates periodically
automatically Walloon Parliament a scoreboard of the use of Fund
Structural. You should know that if they are not spent in time (the rhythm of the N + 2 rule
or the N + 3 in the new period), we lose altogether the
EU co-financing of the projects concerned for that period.
This can become very annoying.

550

DEFENSE
Ensure for the medium and long term of a successful defense, making decisions
strategic matters of major investments, evaluate opportunities to focus
the military tool on his heart craft
The Reformer Movement believes that the Defence remains an essential component
our security concept that clearly exceeds the connotation 'defense
territory "of a still recent past.
Security is much reference to populations, which are not
necessarily confined to the country, certainly in the globalized world
ours. Security is often further comprises indirectly: the links
between a situation of tension and security of our state are not always easy
noticeable even if they are very real.
Moreover, the threat to Belgium and the European Union is not only gone
where she was for decades in the Soviet empire and its satellite states glaze,
but it is no longer exclusively military. Rogue states, areas without state,
terrorist movements or certain mafia groups are perfectly
which could threaten our vital interests. Just as may otherwise flow
uncontrolled migration, as well as vast areas of political instability or those burdened
of misery and famine, which in turn cause political chaos. We see, security is
more difficult to ensure the defense. The armed forces, to keep an essential role, there
however, have more exclusivity. They must first be expected to carry the bulk of
their mandate in remote or very remote Belgium. They must
Then learn to cooperate closely with the police and intelligence services,
with civil security, with major multilateral political institutions as well as with
humanitarian organizations of all stripes. So much for the context and key actors.
What about the real nature of the threat? The few years preceding us
already allow enough precisely predict the types of threats to which Belgium all
as its EU partners and NATO allies will face. Although
various kinds of threats are still many to list, it is clear that the
terrorism in its modern forms that is to say when it replaces the state in
the exercise of violence (Afghanistan of the Taliban, the trans-Sahelian Africa ...)
particularly by making use of weapons of mass destruction nuclear type
bacteriological or chemical (CBRN). It should undoubtedly also add the
cybernetics, which is an area where the threat already present, will
presumably growing.

551

It is therefore necessary, even if it is sometimes complex, be aware that a situation
not instantly affect the security of Europe can be much more or less
quickly and more or less directly, a real threat to Europe and for the
Belgium.
It is still a kind of response to the threat, different from what has just been described, it is
particularly sensitive to process politically, namely a country on the brink of
complete destabilization which threatens the legitimate authorities or the massacre
population (eg. Libya of Colonel Gaddafi). In this case, if the legitimacy embodied by the UN
may be embodied in a diplomatic compromise, the international community
States will mandate to act on behalf of the responsibility to protect ("Responsibility to
Protect or R2P "). Is it only a humanitarian intervention or interest
Geopolitical do they hide behind this impulse of altruism? A bit of both probably
but anyway, this diplomatic tool is fragile because relatively few
conceptualized. Moreover, it gives rise to very different interpretations depending on whether
either American, European, Russian or Chinese.
How, for a relatively small country like Belgium, successfully contribute its
military action to take on international challenges as difficult safe? It goes all
First of self that we act almost never alone except in some cases assistance
Military bilaterally. Operations, we participate through the UN but especially
NATO or the EU. So what we must achieve to do is to have capacity
fully interoperable with partners and allies. This means not only
work side by side effectively, which has never won at the outset, but especially
reach integrate our forces in a military structure set up for the occasion
and each participating State has to undertake a mission. Even if it means that we should
depend on other armed forces for support (logistics, medical ...). This
Interoperability is the reflection in the field of what should our mindsets for
development of military capabilities. It has been said again and again, budget constraints
hit all of us will force us to more cooperation in the development and use
equipment. Some beautiful examples already exist with our armed forces and those
neighboring countries but it is still very far off in terms of a real
EU or NATO dynamics.
EU or NATO? That is the question. What is ultimately the alliance need to focus
for the integration of our security? The answer is simple: the two, General! There
Belgian security is more European that Atlantic Atlantic or more European.
We need a strong alliance with the United States and they need a
Solid and well integrated European Union. The multiplicity of tasks that the distribution
between NATO and Common Defence and Security Policy (CSDP) of the EU is doing enough
easily. For the long term, however, will require that EU states will always fit
more militarily to end up being a real European pillar of the Alliance
Atlantic. This is not political rhetoric, it is a diplomatic and military reality
which alone can guarantee us the security to which the Euro-Atlantic space
rightfully entitled.

552

FINDINGS / RESULTS
Our project must necessarily be based on an inventory, a balance sheet. We wish
therefore present the situation of the Belgian Defence as outcome of political choices
recent decades.
1. Personnel
In very general terms, defense increased from almost 100,000 men -
including conscripts - an army counting 30,715 professionals in uniform at January 1
2014.

The law establishing the annual quota of the army gives us the following information:
Years
2007
2008
2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
2014
Averages

Military
39330
38553
37728
35969
34108
32458
31126
30940

Difference

Delta%

- 777
- 825
- 1759
- 1861
- 1650
- 1332
- 186
- 1199

- 1.98%
- 2.14%
- 4.66%
- 5.17%
- 5.08%
- 4.10%
- 0.60%
- 3.39%

In 2014, the abolition of Voluntary Suspension of Benefits (SVP - early departure
legal term of five years with at least 75% guaranteed salary) slows the reduction of
staff, but the average remains impressive: each of the last eight years saw
the departure of 1,200 soldiers!

The continual downsizing have made without redundancies, through the
attrition and specific measures such as SVP or made available and
553

transfers, including the federal or local police. Between 2009 and 2012, the second wave
these measures concerned 4744 military personnel (153 officers, 2,217 NCOs and 2374
volunteers). More importantly, it is a youth recruitment policy budgetarily
Limited which has contributed to a remarkable downsizing.
By double perverse effect, currently held by the effective finalization of Plan
Transformation (30,000 soldiers) is more realistic.
On the one hand, the aging of the age structure induced by this personnel policy
(average age above 40 years, one of the oldest European armies) is
a large mass of all grades of staff will retire by 2020,
completely destabilizing the workforce. In 2025, the Defence will have lost 15,900 soldiers
currently in service, almost 50% of the current workforce. It just seems
IMPOSSIBLE - over the medium term - to offset these departures by new
recruitments.

Then Defense suffers from recurrent inability to retain young: nearly 35%
our young soldiers, despite a selection from an average of seven to eight candidates
open square, leaving the defense before the end of the first year under contract ... In total,
it's about 58% of the recruited soldiers who definitely left defense within three
years following incorporation. The reasons are many and complex to treat.
However, the facts have proven, so it is unrealistic to attempt to overcome the fall in
numbers recorded by an intense recruitment policy.
In addition, it is essential to calibrate the best recruitment efforts to feed the
age structure of adequate and healthy way, unless you want to reproduce in 35 years
current situation of massive departures ... The fair definition of recruitment parameters (in
This included the use of fixed-term status (BDL)) is a condition of success.
The units quartered in the remaining military quarters suffer from deficiency
effective, a glaring lack of major modern materials, the financial means to
work and train. Limited to combat units, we see that the ratio
between actually available and the projected enrollment size from under 67 to 77% for the battalions
light and para-commandos, and 76-87% for the median battalions, while this report
was between 90 and 100% in 2011 after the reorganization.
Demotivation of staff is only increasing, which incidentally is also involved in
This unusually high rate of youth involved leavers Defense.
554

The personnel changes of circulating tables of Defense confirmed the finding:
inexorably, the Defence for the military strength will fall "naturally" around
25,000 men in 2020 and, all other things being equal, around 22000-23000
men ten years later.
Another angle, the qualitative approach is even more alarming: the number of platoons
- The basics of combat units - operationally engageable do
represents 50-66% of the planned number.
Furthermore, given the cap on recruitment in recent years and
mass exodus to the pension of the oldest and experienced (remember that 15,900 military
currently in service will be retired by 2025), it is likely that the deficit
in technical functions - including mechanics and transmitters - will very
quickly the major factor in the sub-operability.
In other words, lack of technicians, it will be quickly impossible to commit resources
major equipment such as, for example, the F-16.
2. Material
Its operational capabilities have undergone profound changes, from the means of
Many heavy and pruned to fight the Cold War to lighter capacities,
projectable and adapted to a more asymmetric threat environment in a low or
medium intensity.
Outline of Transformation Plan foresaw:
-

-

A consolidation of existing personnel and equipment into complete units
able to train and be engaged in operation with their own
means;
Sale of unnecessary infrastructure and maximum concentration
kept building;
The assumption that all acquisitions of major equipment would be provided was
performed, including and especially in favor of the transformation of Component
Highly dependent on land acquisition optional sliced
combat vehicles.

The investment plan for this presaged a fixed tranche and, in most cases,
optional two slices of purchases. Recent budget and future prospects have
limited and will limit investments to the fixed tranche only.
For example, limited to maneuver forces in equal structures:
-

2000 Strategic Plan includes the purchase of 700 AIV (Armoured Infrantery
Vehicle - infantry fighting vehicles) and 100 AMS (Main Gun System,

555

-

-

equivalent direct fire weapon system to the "main battle tank" or "Main
Battle Tank "that was the Leopard 1), a total of 800 vehicles.
the 2003 strategic plan envisaged meanwhile, that the acquisition of 324 AIV,
included direct fire capability.
in 2004, the investment plan ultimately provided "sufficient minimum"
242 AIV or major equipment can be hired at the same time
accordance with the level of ambition.
Finally, according to the current investment plan, the Land Component should count
AIV 138 (64 by rifleman version 19 Version direct shot in 30 mm and 18 shooting Version
Direct 90 mm) in 2015, while these vehicles represent the "center of
gravity "and must cover simultaneously the training needs and
drive.

The other major component of the re-equipment of the Land Component based on the acquisition of
MPPV (Multi-purpose protected vehicle - multitasking protected vehicle). The initial plan
counted 352 vehicles. The fixed tranche was limited to 220 vehicles including 128 version ...
rifleman and 28 12.7mm versions.
Finally, 108 RRV (Rapid Reaction Vehicles - Rapid response vehicles) for
replace the Iltis Jeep still in use within the Light Brigade and elements of
Medical Component, but also the Special Forces teams, have not been acquired in 2013,
mortgaging, let's be clear, the implementation of rapid response operations including NEO
(Non-Combatant Evacuation Operation), or urgent humanitarian operations ...
The reason for this under-investment is not only financial, it is also due to
opposition from some majority partners. This has the consequence that the
current capabilities transformed by the latest plan will not lead to achieving
the goal of complete units fully operational, engageable with their own
means.
All operations have been and are being made possible by the intensive use
a material capital reduced in number. Many major weapons systems have achieved
(Leopard Milan) or quickly reach their deadline job. Some systems
weapons like Mistral anti-aircraft missiles, drones (16 BE-Hunter) or radars
monitoring of the battlefield are at end of life (2015 and 2017), with no prospect
replacement. Other even more expensive as mine hunters, the F-16 or
frigates together reach this limit between 2018 and 2025 and should be
a final decision in the next three years if Belgium wants to keep
these capabilities.

556

3. Budget
Meanwhile, the defense budget has undergone continuous and can be drastic cuts
considered the federal budget that contributed most to the long process
consolidation of our public finances.

Evolution of the defense budget
3000,00
2800,00
2600,00
2400,00
2200,00
2000.00

Appropriations for
Defense usable Budget
MEUR Crt
Appropriations for
Defense usable Budget
(conditions 2004)

Going back even further in time, budgetary developments of the last thirty
years chained 201173 euros, that is to say without taking account of price increases,
gives:
•
•
•
•

2009-2012: - 9.33% or - 3.11% per year on average
2007-2012: - 6.41% or - 1.28% per year on average
1995-2012: - 16.69% or - 0.98% per year on average
1981-2012: - 43.61% or - 1.41% per year on average

So we see a clear acceleration of degradation of the Defense Budget
last years.
Adding that the current and foreseeable budget for the coming years does not include
free margin for other major investments. This margin is currently engaged
in achieving the investments decided in previous legislatures. The first
A-400M should be shipped in 2019, the first NH90 helicopters have just been delivered.

Appropriations in M ​​€
Spending

Staff
Exploitation
Infrastructures
Equipment

Margin for initiative

73

Evolution of the free margin of Defense (off cuts 2013 and 2014)
2013
2014
2015
2016
2017
2682.7
2686.6
2697.2
2744.4
2789.5

2018
2836.5

2019
2893.2

2020
2951

1695.6
745.8
79.5
161.9

1673
740.1
75.8
197.8

1649.3
756.3
73.8
216.5

1646.4
771.5
95.9
228.4

1643.5
797
102.1
236.7

1629.3
803.8
106.6
234.2

1620.7
819.9
127.1
250.9

1608
836.3
87.1
283.8

-0.1

-0.1

1.3

2.2

10.2

62.6

74.6

135.8

Calculated using the technique of chained euros of GDP, which replaces and enhances that of constant prices.

557

4. Operations
Conversely and paradoxically, defense has never been as much engaged in operations
real as the last fifteen years.

There is virtually over military advantage that is not at least once in operation.
Since 1993, 80,400 soldiers have participated in operations including 35,600 in the Balkans
(1993 to 2009), 14,200 in Afghanistan (since 2003) and 5,500 in Lebanon (since 2006).
"Usury" of certain categories of staff is also problematic. This
intense operational engagement with the modern equipment acquired under the
"Sufficient minimum" accentuates the under-equipment of units stationed Belgium.
In summary, a constant budget, be it in effective terms and retooling, the
Defense is faced with a "wall" by 2020-2025. The MR can it
solve!
PROPOSALS
The MR considers it of utmost importance to anticipate this situation by
depth reflection on our defense tool, to be translated in a plane
Strategic develop early in the next Parliament. He will do it after
serious assessment and in full consultation with all stakeholders, including
military itself and the trade unions.
Integrating unfortunately unavoidable gives a workforce that is naturally reduced to 25,000
and men of the same budget in current euros, that is to say, including inflation, the MR
offers the following broad guidelines in order to generate the free margin
essential for retooling in major equipment:
A. Strategic Level
1. Strengthening the European Defence Policy and credibility within NATO
The organization of security of the European continent is a major issue in the wake of
second World War. It is based since 1949 on NATO and with our Ally
558

US. In parallel with the economic unit, the European Union has gradually
establish a defense policy.
With foreign policy, humanitarian aid, development cooperation or
trade policy, the Reform Movement believes that the Europeans must
provide all the tools to be a responsible international player.
The Reformer Movement wants the European defense allows the Union
defend its values ​​but also its interests. We are convinced that we must
help peace in the countries around us, and help pacify the countries or regions
in war, but also that the security environment is one of the foundations of our
own safety.
Therefore, we want the pragmatic pursuit of European defense, in
cooperation with NATO, based on dynamic national armies and multiplying
cooperation between them. In strict budgetary period, we believe that
cooperation is more imperative than ever:
-

A reflection on the threats that we face: a White Paper
European;
- Strengthening cooperation in education and military training;
- Joint planning for the purchase of armament programs;
- Constitution of major industrial groups, competitive, where our companies have any
their place ;
- Pooling of R & D;
- Establishment of a capacity of military planning and operational headquarters
unique in the EU;
- The establishment of joint operations, military as humanitarian (with
EU-FAST), with a solidarity financing;
- Pooling and sharing of critical military resources based on
principle of burden and risk sharing between Member States.
As such, Belgium has to concretely translate its commitment to integration
European defense capabilities. Investing in common capabilities like in a
multifunctional vessel strategic business projection or in the making
provision of a European database dedicated to sub-strategic and tactical airlift
to 400 M embodies this commitment.
The Reformer Movement wants to be a European defense
effective instrument in the service of a European foreign policy
ambitious, proactive and peacemaker.
2. Decide on future operational capabilities
However, do not put the cart before the horse is first decide what capacity
Belgium will retain, expand or delete 2020. This exercise
fundamental. Does not lead to the extinction of a simple non-upgraded capabilities
by wear and tear or obsolescence of materials. This reflection does not pursue a dual purpose:
adapt our future defense capability to actually available workforce and generate

559

simultaneously a large enough free margin to reinvest in hardware
major.
The scheduled end of the only remaining anti-aircraft system, the Mistral, or our unique
UAV capability, the BE-HUNTER, has never been a choice Capabilities "visionary"
but rather a simple observation of retirement of these major equipment at the end of
life ... We must reverse this logic!
A proactive strategic plan should define tomorrow's capabilities after
a well-documented analysis process. One of the "niche-oriented thinking
capability "that the Defence could offer internationally is developing the
light of the real value that our country can provide.
The Nation via the Parliament must be closely involved in these decisions, in order to
ensure democratic transparency and sustainability in the long term.
3. Focus on the heart and business efficiency
Apart from its traditional missions of collective defense under NATO or EU,
Defense ensures protection and evacuation of our nationals and participates in missions
Peace-keeping and aid to the nation disaster or when civilian means
are exceeded.
She also traditionally performs a number of tasks which do not fall
directly from the core business that could be run by civilian means.
The MR estimates that with such a small staff and facing the current budget impasse, these
tasks become a major handicap for the maintenance condition of our tool
Defense. This far exceeds the disability benefit derived from the maintenance of good
Nation-army relations.
The MR considers that all these permanent tasks that do not fall within
Using the Nation strict sense are reassessed in terms of their actual usefulness for
Defense.
In order to allow it to focus resources on the remaining missions
essential, the Reform Movement is committed to conducting a thorough review
the future of these tasks.

However, that does not mortgage creative new collaborations a real capital gain for all stakeholders. Examples include in particular possible
cooperations (acquisitions, operability, intelligence collection) between the Defence and
Interior for the possible acquisition of monitoring means that can be operated at
profit of Police, civilian airports, sensitive sites such as nuclear power plants or
even for ports. This also applies on cybercrime. The word
Order must be interoperability between military and civilian departments, the capital gain
shared and the sharing of costs.

560

B. Militarily, the national territory
1. Evaluation of the concentration principle
We propose to evaluate the effects of the last transformation plan which enshrined the
principle of concentration units.
Any new reform-related threshold effect on becoming an effective up to
25,000 people could be made without considering the impact of recruitment
subregional, welfare of military and territorial articulation of aid to the Nation
for the implantation of units.
In terms of well-being of our military, we are alarmed by reports
recently reported on offenses and the non-enforcement
Welfare causing the suffering of the Belgian military. We will seek an audit
external to the level of welfare of soldiers.
However, we believe that adaptations of medico-military legislation to
legislation on welfare at work are needed. Monitoring and deepening
Standing statistical wellness at work, particularly in the medical field and
psychosocial, should allow the necessary adjustments in time. Finally, the
Defense should take action to recognize by the FPS Finance affections
occupational far rejected (thyroid cancers in the Balkans,
leukemia and lymphoma for radar operators and BNIKE HAWK ...).
This important issue will also be addressed in the broader context of the future
Of particular concern to the medical component. An emergency recruitment
occupational physicians and doctors operational sufficiency seems necessary.
Finally, we are committed to conducting an evaluation of the new Staff
military and, if necessary, to make the necessary adaptations.
2. A fair distribution "North-South"
The MR remains a strong advocate of a balance in the distribution of units of Defense.
In our federal model, the defense system should be shared equitably and assumed
between communities. It is the same in the geographical allocation of capacity.
A young Belgian, whether Flemish, German or French should have
the opportunity to serve in all possible range capability, whether operational
or more technical.
It is in this sense that the MR wants to reassess the barracks in Belgium both
tactical transport (C-130 tomorrow 400 million and helicopters), as hunting (F-16
current, modernized or their successors). Finally, these decisions and prefigure
encourage amplification of multinational cooperation in terms of both
hunting than air transport. At this level, the MR has no preference or exclusive vis-a-vis of
each of our allies.

561

Business units of the Land Component are to gather in a composition
identical mirror type.
A restructuring of command levels is essential: the lessons of our
commitments in recent years operations show how modularity
our capabilities remains a must.
The concept of "battle group" is used to carve a realistic and ambitious way our
contribution to the international community. The modules may dial
"Battle groups" must be consistent, complete and autonomous in order to be gathered
the card when the actual operation is triggered. Within the "battle groups", each
maneuver element would be interchangeable, interoperable and deployable to
best match the needs expressed by the operational situation. Thus, depending
the engagement spectrum, internal organization of the "battle group" would be modified or
supplemented by other maneuver elements "battle groups".
This structure still requires a little effort in terms of acquisition of fire vehicles
Direct to remedy the minimum sufficient political plaguing Defense. It is necessary to
this topic, consider the acquisition of existing equipment on the market to make the structure
consistent both personal and material.
Finally, do not forget the importance of the BEST program (Belgian Soldier Transformation) which aims
to equip our troops engaged on the ground of a digitized equipment capable
evolving in hostile terrain optimal and interoperable way with our partners. This
program is essential not only for the protection of our military whose quality
Exceptional is recognized by our partners, but also for the credibility of our
land operational capabilities. It still has not been a final decision
investment. Otherwise, it will be impossible to eventually send our troops
task that some political parties are trying to make insidiously
systematically opposing programs to purchase hardware or reform
status, for example, medical technical body.

3. Restructuring deep staffs and logistics
With such a small staff, the staffs have become overcrowded. The size, structure
and location of the General Staff of Defense are reviewing in depth. The Queen Quarter
Elisabeth Evere more than 3300 functions ... The government agreement provided that
reductions would be made there. Nothing was done.
Even without strategic decision, the unique structure set up in 2002 will become
increasingly unsuited to the reality of staff available, especially that this is by
Nature functions for experienced executives, so in general older, who will do
Part of these massive retirements in the coming decade.
To optimize the structure, it is essential to move to a fully Staff
joint, that is to say "interforce" or "joint" restructuring commandments
562

Components and merging their functions within a single staff completely
Plan, in the image of that is done, for example, in recent years successfully
Denmark. The brigade level of command is also reassessing in the light of
reality of our operational commitments and the new desired territorial distribution.
The relocation of this reduced-Major State should be considered, especially in light of the
next release of NATO's current headquarters.
Logistical support in its broadest sense is to re-examine in detail, whether in
terms of efficiency in terms of efficiency. What impact on the concentration capacity
a handful of large bases of Defense will have on the logistics and territorial support? A
thorough review of different levels of logistical support, including arsenals, will
allow to adapt the number of functions that are assigned to the reality of staff
available. Support "front-line" will be promoted at the expense of support "back" which
maximum should be outsourced to the private, as is done systematically
actual operation, even by the US military.
C. Vis-à-vis the citizen:
1. Systematically integrate the dimension "security and defense industry" in the
Capabilities reflection
Major investments defense have a considerable economic impact.
Remember that the "saga" of the F-16 program and the development of a strong industrial hub
aviation in Belgium around this program, which are now 40 years
the most striking illustration. Thousands of direct and indirect jobs have been created and
depend. Many Belgian companies are at the forefront of technology
different areas, usually also dual-purpose (both civil and military).
Most of the security and defense related investment programs have an impact
our industry, either directly or through technology transfer.
This dimension should be better taken into account in future capability choices. It
beyond simple defense equation by expanding our socio-economic interests.
The MR wants the industrial and economic dimension is better taken into
account, like that regularly make our European partners
pay special attention to their own security and defense industry.
The same thought must be given in terms of arms export licenses
why we advocate the establishment of a non-discriminatory system for our
own businesses.
2. Consolidate Army-Nation relationship
The values ​​that constitute the greatness and uniqueness of the military profession tend to
fade naturally because the army is not immune to the discussions through the
society "post-modern" and individualistic values ​​that seem more reign there.

563

The link between the Army and the Nation is fully distended since the suspension of
military service. However, in a democratic state, that link is essential. Give citizens
dating opportunities with the military in order to raise awareness of the challenges of
collective security is important: the current voluntary military (EVMI) failure
terms of recruitment, no longer permits this link.
The civic national service, mandatory or voluntary, seems complex to set up and
expensive at a time when defense must concentrate on its essential tasks.
The MR wants to set up an Information Day for careers
Defense, which could be part of a "citizenship course". This day
allow many synergies between all stakeholders (federal,
federated entities and civil society).
3. Strengthening the veteran status, veteran and disabled veteran
Aware of the risks incurred by the staff of Defense, the MR will take initiatives
necessary to ensure the military who participate or have participated in operations
maintenance or restoration of peace or armed humanitarian operations,
fair recognition for their services and in line with what has been
done for combatants from both World Wars and Korea.
In this context, the MR defend granting to veterans the benefit of the management of
co-payments for health care and hospitalization insurance to the intervention of
IV-INIG.
It will also propose the creation, within the IV-INIG, a center of expertise on
physical or psychological disorders (PTSD), which may
appear as a result of missions abroad.
Furthermore, aware of the dangerous drifts for Democracy that appear slightly
throughout Europe and even in Belgium, the MR will propose a strengthening of the role of IVINIG for transmission of the memory of their sacrifice to defend
freedom and the values ​​of democracy and solidarity during conflicts in which the
country was committed.
As such, rather than considering the disappearance of this administration whose expertise
memorial is recognized both in Belgium and in the rest of Europe, the MR propose
strengthen and make the federal memorial pole, incorporating in particular the Service
war victims of the FPS Social Affairs, the tomb of the Unknown Soldier, the Memorial
National Fort Breendonk and National Resistance Monument.
The MR therefore wishes to strengthen the role of the Institute for Veterans - Institute
National War Invalids and expand its services to certain categories of
potential beneficiaries.
Finally, the reserve, which represents the only link-Nation Army, inexorably withers.

564

Redefining the role of the reserve in the direction of greater
complementarity with current missions and the real needs of defense
is required.
Compulsory day of defense would also help to strengthen the reserve.
Professional soldiers who leave the defense should keep bonds
military until reaching 45 years.
4. Rebalance linguistically Defense
The linguistic imbalance of Defence has been objectified by the House and
recommendations based on the findings of a working group interviewed the
key officials of the department, were adopted.
The finding remains as follows: from 2007, according to decision of the current year
Defense minister, and 2014, the percentage increased from Dutch general
61.5% 66.7% ... Most key functions (deputy chiefs of staff, commandments
component, etc.) are in the hands of general officers Dutch. A finding
like can be made for senior officers and elite NCOs. Only a
favorable imbalance exists at Francophone volunteers: everything happens
as if the Dutch head commanded Francophone legs ...
This can not continue. In a successful federalism, it is not acceptable that
linguistic community outrageously dominates a public department, especially a
authority department.
The MR can not accept the imbalance and wants a multiannual program
rebalancing. As an imbalance exists, all the promotions concerned by a
imbalance as well as all established in the structure of the General Staff,
must be endorsed by the Government.

565
