Eois
e
ourg e Suiss
B
i
t
r
u
q
i
Pa
t
to
ocr
Dem

Strengths

PBD - the new force
The great strength of our country lies in its ability to
reconcile different interests, needs and cultures. To maintain its unique cohesion, Switzerland needs politicians
reason and act constructively. She needs
a party - a new force - that engages so
relevant and weighted for a modern, progressive and environmentally conscious without
deny all conservative values.
The PBD embodies this new force. A young volunteer force which is reliable and does bourgeois center
not afraid to raise issues, to call things
by name by offering pragmatic solutions.
The PBD is proudly claims a constructive policy based solutions and offers a new way to
voters and voters who do not identify with
the increasing polarization of political debate in Switzerland.

COMPANY
FAMILY
TRAINING
Switzerland offers its inhabitants and
inhabitants a high quality
life, liberty, mobility, opportunity to grow and develop. The country is a fertile land
to innovations of all kinds,
with stimulating ideas and benefits uncommon. Each
and others are able to achieve the goals they set
and each individual is free to make its own contribution to the
successful Swiss model.

The family guarantor of the future

Prospects for all

The family is the foundation of society, today as yesterday.
The future belongs to our children and thus for families. Unlike other parties, the PBD is committed to family reunification of the different models and therefore do not play against each
others. Choosing a model belongs to the person concerned. The PBD primarily supports the model of "traditional" family, but does not exclude other particularly linked models
the fact that both parents work outside. Thus, the economy as the state must strengthen the support material supply. By choosing to create favorable conditions, they strengthen the attractiveness of a particular municipality and favor between
they healthy competition. Families raising themselves their
children should not be disadvantaged so far. The best
for the harmonious development of our society is that all
parents can, while enjoying the support of the community, take responsibility for education.

To guarantee access to good basic training and higher, is an essential factor for a poor materials Switzerland
first. Oriented benefits, training ensures the country
the ability to innovate and strengthen its competitiveness. Our system
balanced education, including vocational training as well as academic route, is one of the most achievements
important for Switzerland.
The PBD is that everyone can enjoy these opportunities. He is
in this sense just to stimulate and support those who are struggling to learn, just as it is necessary to encourage those
which require more themselves and / or which are particularly
gifted. They need to take advantage of new opportunities
to thrive. In this sense, the term elite - driving force
a competitive Switzerland - is not a derogatory term in the eyes
PBD. We recognize ourselves in this elite and are ready
to open up new prospects for the younger generation to
engage on the path to success. The PBD is pleased to see all
those who, motivated, enthusiastic and voluntary, aim and achieve results in the long term and do not simply
easy success!

FINANCES
ECONOMY
Everyday security
Switzerland, because there live, is a country and a place
appreciated home. This fact acknowledged attracts, apart from immigrants
skilled and motivated individuals to criminal behavior.
The PBD is clear: the citizens must
able to move in our country freely and feel
safe in everyday life. In Switzerland, is applied
certain rules of behavior and it is based
values ​​and strong traditions. Whoever transgresses must be
sanctioned. In this context, we are entitled to expect the
Justice more rigor. The sanctions must
be punitive and be perceived as such - by
population as by criminals. The abuse of asylum
must be combated consistently. In politics,
any form of extremism practiced contradict our principles and constitutional rules should be denounced and prohibited.

The great strength of Switzerland lies
in its stability. Our country has,
in a globalized world, keep
the place that is hers and defend
its values, such as the seriousness
at work, recognized competence
and confidence he showed
worthy. Competitiveness Plan
Economic goes without saying. It
must be confirmed and defended
each day.

A reasonable budget policy

For Economic competitive position

The PBD basic recipe for financial policy is as simple as effective: do not spend more than we earn.
Specifically, it is to submit its expenses to a strict analysis
and prioritize. This is justified in the first place for spending
related to fundamental duties of the State and investments directed towards the future: education, security and modern infrastructure.
By advocating a policy of reasonable expenses, the BDP wants to create favorable conditions for lower taxes
which should help prioritize middle-income families.
For the PBD, there is no question of increasing the tax burden
to impose new duties to the state and involve expenditure
superfluous that would not move an inch the country. In
the facts, too high tax burden only discourage
will and the entrepreneurial spirit. That said, the PBD is convinced
that loyalty and honesty with respect to taxes are values
essential to respect. There is no question that Switzerland
posing as a state favoring one way or another evasion or tax fraud. The shade made between evasion and
tax fraud must also be abandoned in favor of differentiation on the seriousness of the offense, the degree of premeditation and the desire to escape his tax obligations.

The PBD is to maintain and create optimal framework conditions and
assure the Swiss economy's competitiveness.
Attractive tax and a good communications network
ground and in the air are, with simplified administrative procedures, critical elements to achieve these
objectives. The autonomy and independence of Switzerland reinforce
its business location. This is one reason why the PBD
opposes the accession to the European Union. This commitment does not prevent to maintain good relations, in particular by
through bilateral agreements with our main partner,
the EU, without forgetting our partners in the global economy and other forms of collaboration.
The PBD is committed to an established and distributed economy
a productive industry and a healthy financial center, all
enjoying a wide and attractive range of services. He supports
also an independent and entrepreneurial agriculture, offering
our people with the highest quality products while ensuring the development and maintenance of our territory. Benefits of the economy must be recognized and supported so
fair. And also concerned about the future, the PBD is committed
for a successful research in Switzerland. Our country must be
leading the pack in many critical areas and all
effort to maintain it.

A spirit of conscious and responsible company
If Switzerland wants to continue to be seen as a serious country,
competent and trustworthy, it is necessary that it is based
on the fundamental values ​​that are honesty, credibility and
modesty, values ​​themselves linked to an ethical business conduct respectful. We need an economy
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable led by executives
aware of their responsibilities. Small and medium enterprises are the backbone of our economy. They offer number
great examples of innovation and dynamic
and must therefore be supported and encouraged flawless.

ENVIRONMENT
ENERGY
Layouts of
territory
The Swiss landscape is unique in
its beauty and its diversity.
He deserves respect and protection and
requires operation based on
durability. Fundamentalism
is not good advice to protect and maintain our environment intact. The theme of
energy is closely linked to that
of the environment. The foundations of our supply
energy must be based on
guarantee supplies, effective management and the degree of autonomy that we hear have.

Ecological Awareness
is lucky
Ecological awareness is not only a duty visà towards future generations, but offers the overall economy
enormous potential for innovations. The PBD will seize this opportunity
and resolutely committed to innovation enabling
more effective than voracious energy consumption. In this context, the economy must be stimulated in its effort to offer the
market products environmentally friendly.

Securing our energy future
Energy is the engine of our society, it is even more important it gains in efficiency while investing in
renewable energies. Another reason to bet on
Development of this type of energy is dictated by the need
to seriously reduce our current energy dependency
compared to abroad, especially in the field of fossil energy.
After the tragic events in Fukushima, production
electricity by nuclear power was basically handed
in question. The PBD first bourgeois party that defended a
coordinated and controlled release of nuclear, asked the Council
Federal not to authorize the construction of new power plants
Nuclear based on current technological knowledge.
The PBD exit scenario is now supported by the Council
National as well.
However, the PBD is that the abandonment of nuclear power is not done
not at the expense of the climate or energy independence
Switzerland, but is based on valid ecological and economic alternatives. To achieve this, we must not only strengthen
measures in the field of energy efficiency, but above all
create new framework conditions to promote hatching and
implementation of projects focusing on water power, wind or
solar.

We care about Switzerland
Responsible planning and a policy of suitable habitat contribute to the protection and respect of our
space. The territory of Switzerland is not expandable at will.
It is absolutely necessary, if we want to preserve the beauty and
the diversity of our country, to put a brake on our concreting
campaigns. The Confederation, cantons and municipalities should
take their responsibility in this area and manage
weight, measurement and determination of our campaigns and our soil.

Bourgeois-Democratic Party of Switzerland
PO Box 119, 3000 Bern 6
Tel. +41 (0) 31 352 14 82, Fax +41 (0) 31 352 14 71
mail@bdp.info, www.pbd.info
