" The Greens,
One step ahead "
Election platform
2011

IMPRINT
The Swiss Greens
Waisenhausplatz 21
3011 Bern
Tel 031-312 66 60
Fax 031-312 66 62
www.verts.ch
gruene@gruene.ch
PC 80-26747-3
2011 election platform

Contents
Préambule.............................................................................................................................. 3
1. Environment ................................................................................................................... 4
1.1. Green energy, not nuclear ........................................... ..................................... 4
1.2. Climate protection ..................................................................................................... 5
1.3 Means of transport environmentally ........................................ ... 6
1.4 Biodiversity ................................................................................................................... 7
2. Economy and finance ........................................................................................................... 9
2.1 ecological transformation of the economy ........................................... .......................... 9
2.2 A green agricultural policy for the future ......................................... ........................... 10
2.3 Planning .............................................. ........................................... 11
2.4 For sustainable federal policy on finance and taxation .................. 12
2.5 Corporate responsibility .............................................. ..................................... 13
3. Education, health and social ........................................... .................................................. ... 15
3.1 Training and research .............................................. ................................................. 15
3.2 Migration ..................................................................................................................... 16
3.3 Closing the gap between rich and poor ....................................... ...................... 17
3.4 Health .......................................................................................................................... 18
4. Foreign policy and international solidarity ........................................... ...................... 19
4.1 International cooperation ............................................... ........................................... 19
4.2 Structuring the external economy sustainably ......................................... ............. 20
4.3 A Europe verte........................................................................................................ 20
5. Democracy and pacifism ............................................. .................................................. 22 ....
5.1 The policy of peace ..................................................................................................... 22
5.2 Fundamental Rights and Democracy ............................................. ............................... 23

Election platform in 2011 Swiss Greens

2

Preamble
Election year - year of promises? The Greens
not go hunting for voters with promises.
Our desire is to continue to engage for a
policy that is based on sustainable development, or
the best balance between ecology, social and
the economy.
The multicrise that we face for some time demands
radical change of political action to be implemented in our country and that in
World. A radical change in the deep sense of that tackle
root problems.
A world that behaves as if it had the resources of several planets
met is a world doomed to destruction. This behavior exhausts the resources to
ever greater speed and accelerating the global warming and climate change
is simply irresponsible.
A world that scorns the aspirations of human beings to social justice, equilibrium
and peace is not enviable either livable.
The commitment to the environment, social justice and fundamental rights is what
which characterizes the commitment of the Greens.
Our election platform traces political action to be taken to the next Parliament all
referring regularly more distant goals. To achieve more or less
qu'auront capacity quickly according to our country, its people and its leaders to
strengthen political will to attack the problem at the root.
All this to say loud and clear that the defense of fundamental rights is becoming
longer a major issue in our country.
To those who advocate the exclusion, stigmatization of foreigners, while denying isolationism
the existence of multicrise and climate issues, those who have set up shop and
great means, we must remember the true Swiss values ​​as defined in the
Preamble to our Constitution:
"Conscious of their responsibility towards creation and she resolved to renew their alliance
to strengthen freedom, democracy, independence and peace in a spirit of solidarity
and openness to the world, determined to live all their diversity with respect for
and other equity, mutual learning and aware of their duties to fulfill their
responsibility to future generations, knowing that one is free who uses his freedom
and that the community's strength is measured by the welfare of the weakest of its members ".
Our election platform not only gives the tracks but made proposals
concrete for the policy to be pursued in our country for Switzerland green and inclusive. I
hopes that this document contributes to constructive debate for our country and the
strength of our commitment to convince an ever-greater voter to vote
Green - the original!
Bern in January 2011

Ueli Leuenberger, President

Election platform in 2011 Swiss Greens

3

1. Environment
For us humans, as for countless species housed the planet,
Nature is the only source of life: it gives us food and raw materials
we need daily, and offers us her beauty to relax us. But we
we serve increasingly as a dustbin. Energy production by
current resources and increasing mobility are severely damaging the environment and
disrupt the climate.
Greens argue for a change of course in order to achieve the company to 2000
Watts. They commit to a clean energy supply, that is to say not
polluting and safe, a moderate movement, modes of production and
consumption which provide natural resources. It is only on this condition that
we can preserve the diversity of life forms, a precious commodity which depends our
health.

1.1. Green energy, not nuclear
Nuclear technology is now outdated. Its complexity makes it very expensive to
implement, and its hazards are not controlled. An accident
is extremely serious at all possible. If the cost of this risk was recorded in the price
current, kilowatt hour would increase several francs. But the population is only one
take that risk. Additionally, after fifty years of nuclear power plant operation,
we still do not know how to get rid of any radioactive waste
security. In this area, our knowledge have not progressed an inch.
Considering the overall CO2 balance of the nuclear industry, from uranium mining
until the final deposition of waste in landfills, it is absolutely false to claim that
plants do not impact negatively on the climate. They make the dependent Switzerland
uranium imports from more than doubtful. Invested in production
decentralized renewable energy, the billions earmarked for the construction of
new plants would generate twice as much power. They would reduce
our CO2 emissions drastically and create tens of thousands of jobs.
The requirements of the Greens for the next legislature:
Energy savings and energy efficiency:
· An active policy on energy savings, in order to bring down
consumption.
· Binding energy efficiency standards setting energy consumption
maximum allowed for motors and electrical appliances. The principle of "top
runner "should allow to lower the maximum allowable values ​​for the
energy consumption based on advanced technology.
· More stringent requirements as regards energy consumption and durability
electrical appliances, and a ban direct electric heaters.
· An energy label on all consumer goods and indicating
clearly embodied energy required for their manufacture, transportation and their
elimination.
For green electricity:
· Since 2050, energy supply based entirely on energy
renewable.
· Doubling the current reinjected compensation, which must move from 0.9 to 1.8
penny per kilowatt hour.
· Intelligent power networks to handle distributed generation power
electric.
Election platform in 2011 Swiss Greens

4

· The inclusion of non-material interests (landscape conservation and biodiversity,
protection against noise) in the policy of encouraging renewable energy,
and adapted accordingly the compensation mode.
· Better interconnection with the European electricity market, allowing the
Switzerland to sell its capabilities pumped against the wind and current North
the southern solar power. Increased security for investments made on the
Switzerland in wind and solar installations.
· The prohibition to invest abroad in non-renewable energy for
Swiss electricity producers. If all investment projects were realized
as expected, the result several times the amount of CO2 emitted by Switzerland.
· A separate reporting obligation for the current imported by companies
Swiss electricity from non-renewable sources.
No to nuclear power:
· The fight by all legal means against the construction of new power plants
nuclear, in view of the abandonment of nuclear power.
· No extension of the operating license of the Mühleberg nuclear power plant.
· No discharge planning for waste from nuclear power plants as before
decision to abandon nuclear power has been taken. No doubt should remain as to
financing and strict monitoring conditions of deposits, and the possibility
recover anytime waste that would be problematic. Site selection
designed to accommodate new landfills must be done transparently. He ... not
should not occur without the populations concerned. We must ensure the right of
cantonal co-decision in the matter.
· Comprehensive cover risks of nuclear power stations by their operators.

1.2. Climate protection
During 650,000 years, CO2 concentrations in the atmosphere have always remained in
below 0.28 ‰; in less than a century they have increased 0.39 ‰ as a result of
human activities. The ensuing climate changes exacerbate conflict
and increase the pressure on the natural environment.
In Switzerland, 70% of the energy consumed comes from fossil fuels (oil, gas and
coal). This energy is responsible for 80% of greenhouse gas emissions
our country. Easily accessible oil reserves are running out, while demand
energy increases across the planet. The search for new deposits
fossil fuels is becoming increasingly dangerous and is mostly the
expense of the local population, often indigenous, and with major damage
the environment.
To limit the risks to which we expose ourselves ourselves and the
future generations, rapid and effective policy measures are essential. Three
strategies must be implemented: energy efficiency, reduced requirements
energy, energy production from clean renewable sources.
The requirements of the Greens for the next legislature:
Reducing emissions of greenhouse gases:
· A decrease of indigenous CO2 emissions by 30% from 1990 to 2020,
according to the objective of the climate initiative of the Greens,
· Increasing the CO2 tax on fuels, and the immediate charging at full rate
all fuels.
· The significant increase in customs duties on fuels, whose prices
should not be lower than those in neighboring countries.
Election platform in 2011 Swiss Greens

5

· Improving the efficiency of new vehicles with internal combustion engine,
to reduce CO2 emissions up to 85g by 2020. We must aim vehicle
so efficient that they do not emit any harmful substances. The vehicles
Electrical power should consume only the current from the energy
renewable.
· By 2020, the requirement for all new buildings to comply at least
Minergie-P-Eco standard or index of performance as comparable
the most advanced scientific knowledge. Incentives to
Energy sanitation older buildings. A program promoting
houses in positive energy balance. A reduction in energy consumption
heating (50% of energy consumption in Switzerland, 2/3 gas discharges effect
hothouse). Provisions regulating the insulation of buildings nationwide.
The ban and replacing electric heaters with heat sources
meeting the sustainability criteria.
Scientific research :
· The development of technologies such as geothermal and storage systems
Energy, while carefully analyzing the risks and benefits of these
technologies.
· In-depth studies to find how to reach climate goals and
environmental technologies through already known or developed.
· Support for scientific work studying the use of non-edible biomass
as energy carrier.
· Encouraging research on large-scale cogeneration applications.

1.3 Means of transport environmentally
Transport is the only economic sector in which CO2 emissions
increasing continuously. The growth of motorized traffic reached its limits and
is essential to the curb by a targeted policy of moderation. We must again
shorten distances between home, work, shopping venues and leisure by
economic, fiscal or land use.
Switzerland invests for decades in extending the road network, and it neglects
railways. They do each year receive three billion francs of
Confederation, while at the same time, the cost of damage not covered
by road traffic on the environment and health is around eight billion. Medium term,
these costs must be fully covered by users of traffic.
Several solutions have been proposed. But without looking at the problem in its entirety,
these proposals aggravate the situation on the roads. Despite the alpine and cross
Tax truck, rail is not sufficiently used for the transport of goods.
Modal shift The goal is also questioned by the project of building
a second Gotthard road tunnel.
Should urgently introduce new rolling stock able to increase the attractiveness
railways for transportation of goods, as proved wise
for those people. Ultimately, the depletion of oil reserves and the increase
fuel prices will give a chance to the rail. Prepare now for that
Transition means benefit from a competitive advantage when the time comes.
Pedestrians and cyclists also have their place on the road. Several cantons
municipalities have recognized and have taken targeted measures to increase their safety.

Election platform in 2011 Swiss Greens

6

The requirements of the Greens for the next legislature:
· For the financing of public transport, the study and implementation of measures
following: continued funding for VAT, urban tolls (road pricing), a
adaptation of the heavyweight performance-related fee (HVF), inflation
the motorway vignette, taxation of mobility (mobility pricing).
· Support for the initiative for public transport, which requires 50% of revenue
tax on fuel use are allocated to the rail. Ensures that all
regions are served by public transport.
· Changes of legislation on road traffic (LCR and OCR) to
promote soft mobility: Mandatory bicycle lanes on the network
primary, general permission to turn right on red lights and generalization
Preferential for cyclists, requirement of sufficient width for sidewalks, time
Waiting reduces pedestrian lights.
· Support from Confederation to the creation of new projects in the agglomeration
to stimulate the production of bicycle and pedestrian facilities.
· Prior to any increase in public transport fares, hedge
all costs generated by road traffic by the very people who are responsible
(increase in fuel tax, CO2 tax on fuel, road pricing).
· A 2030 Rail planning oriented shift from road to rail (and people
goods), with a view to avoiding an increase in displacement.
· An Alpine Crossing Exchange for the transport of goods.
· Trains tilting cargo (cargo-shuttle). This technological innovation
makes it more interesting for rail freight transportation.
· Remediation of the Gotthard tunnel without a second road tunnel and measures
to accelerate the modal shift on this occasion.
· The development of international rail links.
· The application of the polluter-pays to air traffic, which has to cover himself
costs it generates in terms of safety and environmental damage. No
public funding for the aviation sector.

1.4 Biodiversity
An intact environment is essential to the life of plants, animals and beings
humans. Species diversity contributes to ecosystem stability. Lists
red that identify endangered species yet getting longer. Only
2.2% of the Swiss territory are protected by federal law for species conservation
Important and their vital environment. Bogs, marshes and dry grassland are certainly
protected by law, but in practice, these provisions are not respected. The sports
Winter and certain leisure activities encroach ever more heavily on jusquelà unreachable areas, which once allowed the flora and fauna to grow
quietly. The pressure on water courses is also increasing. Space is lacking for
let extend the natural banks, whose ecological role is nevertheless essential. The
some shores that have not lost their appeal are involved in agriculture,
energy production and tourism. Application of the provisions on waste water
is progressing very slowly.

Election platform in 2011 Swiss Greens

7

The requirements of the Greens for the next legislature:
· A wide-ranging strategy for the maintenance of biodiversity, drawing on
effective instruments, with adequate financial means and people,
applying to all policy areas, particularly agriculture, land
planning and tourism: restoring diverse habitats and ecological networks
conducive to biodiversity, renaturation channeled streams, continued
efforts to reduce pollution of air and water.
· The setting for the study of new funding opportunities: increasing the share of
public budget devoted to maintaining biodiversity, creating a posting fee
Special encumbering the concreting of floors, fines for non-compliance
minimum legal protection of nature.
· The formulation of minimum requirements to be met in the protection of nature and
the landscape in the parks of national importance. The preservation of a network of islands
even in the heart of natural surfaces subjected to heavy use and densely
populated.
· A Confederation commitment of top predators, including protection
must be managed in the long term in line with the Council of Europe. The objective must be
distribution of animal populations throughout the country and their conditions
to reproduce. More incentives and financial support of
from the Confederation - and the Federal Office for Agriculture - to encourage
protection of sheep and guarding by shepherds.
· The implementation of the legal requirement of a forestry close to nature by
the formulation of minimum requirements applicable throughout Switzerland, including
on the tray. A firm opposition to the increasingly numerous attempts to relax
the legislation on the forest.
· The rapid and systematic implementation of the provisions for the protection of biodiversity.
This concerns in particular the implementation of existing inventories or habitats
new (peat bogs, marshes, dry grasslands). The Confederation should provide more support
cantons in this task, put enough financial resources available and
monitor implementation. In addition, sanitation measures prescribed by law
water protection must not rendered futile by authorized water projects
in haste.

Election platform in 2011 Swiss Greens

8

2. Economy and finance
If money rules the world, it can either destroy or build it in a way that
allows its inhabitants and its people develop it in moderation.
The interconnection of the economy and finance globally necessitates
global strategies. In parallel, each country is itself called to regulate these
areas to prevent them from harming the environment and society.
The Greens are committed to values ​​such as responsibility and solidarity, which does
Periment not with the end of the financial year. It is urgent that the economy and finance are
administered with greater transparency, and that they moderate their ambitions
find reasonable extent.

2.1 ecological transformation of the economy
The three sets of economic measures decided by the Confederation certainly provide
investments in the field of the environment, but to resolve the multicrise
World (finance, climate, food and biodiversity), a profound structural change
indispensable transformation of the economy and society on the principles of
sustainable development: it is time that we realized that our needs
can not grow to infinity and that we give an upper limit not
exceed, in a context of economic decay and sobriety: the measure
is not "ever", but that humans and the environment can
sustainably bear.
Designed as a "Green New Deal", the ecological transformation of the economy creates
jobs in branches promised to develop sustainably in the future. It
strengthens the competitiveness of the Swiss economy. Economic growth must be
decoupled from resource use and exploitation of raw materials strongly
decrease from goods production to waste disposal. In all
sectors, we must apply the principle of "polluter pays".
To realize this green economy based on moderation, we have
well-known instruments such as taxation of resource consumption and
banning particularly harmful industrial products and processes. But steps
innovative systems as incentives for sustainable sectors and companies
socially and environmentally responsible are also very useful. At
Internationally, it is to integrate and implement the principles of development
sustainable in bi- and multilateral agreements.
The requirements for the Greens ecological transformation of the economy:
· A coherent strategy for sustainable development in the long term. At the beginning of
each legislature, the Confederation defines objectives to be achieved during the four
following years to move towards a sustainable and efficient economy in terms of
resource consumption. Specific targets are set for each branch. We
shall in particular increase the life of the manufactured products and make them
reusable, repairable and recyclable, and to use the least amount of materials
hazardous to health and the environment or rare materials.
· Positive tax incentives and other incentives for products
and sustainable enterprises, as well as for companies agreeing to improve
environmental performance of their manufacturing processes or their products, and their
elimination. The constant adaptation of environmental standards Swiss standards
Foreign tougher when, on a "best practice Regulatory".
· The écoprêts preferential rates for young businesses and startups that exploit
new green markets.
Election platform in 2011 Swiss Greens

9

· Strict sustainability indicators for economic promotion and public procurement.
The study of the development potential of a functional economy such as
eg car sharing, and the establishment of an incentive strategy
this domain.
· Better information to consumers and consumers on the
sustainability of the products they buy, for example through a label guaranteeing the
longevity of an object and the possibility of repair.
· A tax penalty for luxury products whose production and disposal is
not sustainable.

2.2 A green agricultural policy for the future
Only by working with nature that agriculture can be sustainable. To preserve
soil fertility and biodiversity, to eradicate hunger and poverty on a global scale, it
must peasant agriculture as described by the report on the global agriculture
UN.
Free trade in agricultural products destroyed all structures and farmers'
national markets. Food and arable land become objects
speculation, mere commodities on world markets. This development benefits
to Northern industry and rich countries, while seriously damaging to the local population,
peasant families and the ability of countries to feed their own people. Where
the call for "food sovereignty", which resonates louder in all parts of
globe. The food crisis of recent years has reminded us with violence when
borders are open, even the daily bread is subject to the law of money.
In Switzerland, too, agriculture is at the crossroads. The falling price of
milk puts the peasant families in a problematic situation, a Parliament debate
new focus of direct payments and the 2014-2017 agricultural policy and the Council
Federal negotiating a free trade agreement with the European Union.
Sustainable production, ecological packaging in the region and transport
minimized are essential for the protection of the environment and climate, and
benefit everyone.
The requirements of the Greens for the next legislature:
· Maintaining a strong peasantry, diverse, able to take on the ecological functions
assigned to modern agriculture.
· Food sovereignty rather than free trade: a quality strategy that commits
all industry players to fight against rampant market opening
agricultural.
· An action plan to increase the share of organic agriculture, which must cover at
20% of cultivated areas.
· Systematic support for culture and multiplication of varieties of seeds
natives.
· Fair prices and direct payments-oriented and sustainable agriculture
respectful of biodiversity, and incentive measures for products
agricultural niche likely to gain market share in the future.
· The incentives to foodstuffs which are produced, developed and
consumed in the same area and which do not harm the environment, for example by a
energy label on foods.
· Incentives to consume less meat and fish.
· A method of allocating subsidies favoring the production of plant foods
grown organically rather than animal products.
· The inclusion of agriculture without genetically modified organisms in the Act
Agriculture after the end of the moratorium on genetic technologies.
Election platform in 2011 Swiss Greens

10

· The fight against the dependence of peasant men and women vis-à-vis large groups
agroindustrial who impose their genetically modified seeds they
hold patents.
· The renunciation of agrofuels whose production competing crops
food.
· No subsidies for agricultural exports, particularly those to
to developing countries.

2.3 Planning
Swiss territory is covered with buildings: nearly one square meter of greenery disappears
every second under concrete roads, shopping centers, parking lots and homes,
an area corresponding to ten football fields per day. Eleven hectares of land
arable are lost daily, and the trend is rising. Agglomerations
always encroach more on campaigns and outside urban areas, the urban sprawl
continues. Increasing population and increased surface needs are partially
responsible for this development. But the main cause lies elsewhere: the application of
provisions on land is severely lacking.
Switzerland currently has between 38,000 and 53,000 hectares of building land not
yet built. This reserve area provides enough space for about 1.4 to 2.1
million people. It should be added in 1820 ha of brownfields, military or
rail, which could accommodate tens of thousands of jobs (numbers of
Swiss statistics on building zones AER published in 2007). To ensure that these reserves
will be affected in a sustainable way, the Confederation and the cantons must cooperate more
closely in the planning.
The well-connected infrastructure and only partially constructed plots
could be used more intensively. In towns and villages with good
quality of life, the footprint and resource consumption decrease. The costs
Installation of public facilities can be lowered at the same time.
The requirements of the Greens for the next legislature:
· More skill Confederation in the land: it
must fulfill this task jointly with the cantons, and the instruments that have
their evidence should become the norm.
· No areas of expansion to build over the next 20 years, unless a
equivalent area is downgraded elsewhere.
· A tax imposed throughout Switzerland on the capital gain resulting from the classification of a
ground in building zone or better served by infrastructure.
· Measures to promote the densification of areas rather than expansion to
outside, and promote the development of villages and small towns in regions
Rural:
- An infrastructure planning which allows to work, to shop
and indulge in leisure near their place of residence. To this end, a
subsidy policy and encouragement from the Confederation
and the cantons.
- Tax incentives to do without car and live near their place of
work, transportation costs tax deductible only if the courses
are made by public transport.
- No building permit for shopping centers and facilities
like when they are located outside residential areas.
- Safeguarding the cropping areas and the conservation and development
value of natural and cultural landscapes.
Election platform in 2011 Swiss Greens

11

· The development in the study of taxing persons according to the living area
they occupy, the proceeds of which benefit the construction of social housing.
· The land use measures to ensure that areas are reserved
housing utilities, crafts and alternative forms of housing low
energy-consuming. Encouragement by the government of a policy
land actively pursuing that goal. The allocation of 200 million francs
Additional to the framework credit for working capital for the construction
social housing, which allows preferential loans.
· Limiting the share of second homes to 20% of the territory
communal.
· Protection of the Alps.

2.4 For sustainable federal policy on finance and taxation
It has been widely observed in the past that the private sector is usually for its
own interests, and little concern for the public good. It therefore falls increasingly to the State
completing essential tasks, such as environmental protection, safety
social, development of public infrastructure and education. The means
required to be obtained primarily through the reduction of state action in
areas where it is useless (army, motorway network) and also in a second time
by increasing revenue. Confederation finances should be a
scrutiny with regard to the durability test. The taxes and
Tax deductions are evaluating not only in economic terms but also
based on their ecological and social impact. The same applies for grants and
contributions. A fair tax policy operates the taxation of natural persons
corporations according to their economic capacity.
Rather than launch a third as planned reform of corporate taxation, we
We need an ecological tax reform. Switzerland pulls rather well compared to
international competition, and a technical perspective, the finances of the
Confederation are healthy. Low debt leaves a lot of leeway
to achieve the necessary improvements. It is therefore not appropriate to continue
lower taxes, both for businesses and for individuals, where
results in a decrease in revenue.
This is in contrast to protect public funds of institutes rescue operations
financial or companies facing bankruptcy. The "UBS case" should not happen again. He
is not acceptable that the stricter conditions imposed on large banks are
offset by tax cuts, which the people will have to finance through increased
VAT.
The requirements of the Greens for the next legislature:
· The abolition of tax packages
· The introduction of a national inheritance tax for the benefit of the AVS.
· A limitation of federalism on taxation. The equalization reform
financial and distribution of tasks between the Confederation and the cantons should aim at
reinforcing the elements that contribute to a rebalancing.
· The implementation of ecological tax reform, as laid Strategy
"Sustainable development" of Confederation. Tax policy of the Confederation,
cantons and communes must obey a series of ecological criteria and
social.
· The réévalutation of all taxes (including deductions) and all taxes under
the angle of sustainability.
· Consolidation of services rather than cuts in the federal budget.
Election platform in 2011 Swiss Greens

12

· Protection against public financial rescue actions like
conducted on behalf of UBS.
· An increase of the CO2 tax and its extension in all fuels.
· An individual taxation does not take into account the marital status of persons without
this affects the federal budget.
· Analyses and regular reports on the influence of the distribution of the federal budget
on equality between the sexes.

2.5 Corporate Responsibility
The financial crisis has clearly made us aware of the interconnection of
financial markets globally. The subprime crisis in the US triggered
a global financial crisis that has undermined national economies and forced states to
massively into debt. In other words, thanks to the support of states, high finance could
pull its chestnuts out of the fire. But communities still pay for years costs
of the crisis.
It is essential to put in place measures to prevent such financial crises
do not recur in the future and solve the business problem called "too big to fail."
This could be for example a tax on banks, similar to an insurance premium
in anticipation of a disaster. Such responsibility also lies groups
industrial whose dimensions pose a systemic risk, such as Novartis and Nestlé.
The design we have today of corporate responsibility calls
they obey the framework conditions controlled by the state. Standards should be their
imposed on environment and society. They can also freely
introduce labels that facilitate the choice of a clientele which includes powers
public. Their rating must no longer be based solely on economic criteria but
take into account social and ecological aspects.
The requirements of the Greens for the next legislature:
· Full responsibility for all Swiss companies in terms of risk and
social responsibility (CRS), and federal guidelines for this purpose, for a
internalisation of costs.
· The signing of the Kiev Protocol on responsibility and compensation
damage to industrial accidents with transboundary consequences.
· The requirement for listed companies and pension funds to submit an
Annual report on their efforts towards sustainability, according to the standards
recognized Global Reporting Initiative.
· The obligation for companies to assume their responsibilities when the health of their
employee-s and / or the public is reached.
· The right to bring legal action against attacks on the environment, as
the Aarhus convention.
· A global tax, or at least European, levied on transactions in the market for
products (similar to the Tobin tax), on the model of transfer tax: the more
title remains long in possession of the same person, the higher the tax rate
down.
· In-depth study of the influence that can have a dual banking system on
major banks, with the prospect of a reduction in systemic risk.
· A review of the legal basis regarding the banking secret protection
the identity of clients and bank customers must take place within the framework of protection
data, like medical confidentiality or secrecy of lawyers.

Election platform in 2011 Swiss Greens

13

· The guarantee of equal pay for women and men. An obligation for
employers to prove that they are actively taking measures to that end. A
Committee (state) for equal pay, empowered to deal with cases of abuse, conduct
controls and impose sanctions.
· Stringent measures to promote a fair distribution of mandates
women and men in politics, economy and public institutions.

Election platform in 2011 Swiss Greens

14

3. Education, Health and Social
For every person on Swiss territory can worthily lead its existence
independently, we must ensure that each and everyone has the same opportunities,
regardless of its origin, sex, age, religion or the way
live. Although the equality policy has seen several successes, women in
nevertheless continue to be disadvantaged in many ways. Migrant and
migrants are subjected to increasingly discriminatory laws, which gradually exclude.
Deep cuts in disability insurance budget threaten the disabled.
Ensuring equal opportunities for all and all requires strong social insurance
and sufficient resources to training and the health system.

3.1 Training and research
The Greens advocate for educational institutions that cater to all faculties
students value diversity and play an integrating role. The school not only aims at
impart knowledge, it must also foster social skills and
Creativity in a framework that promotes respect for human rights. The system
dual vocational training has proven with learning enterprise,
professional maturity and access to high professional schools. Evidenced by the low
Youth unemployment rates in Switzerland compared with other countries. This is why
all young people - including undocumented - should be able to perform learning
in order to have the best chance in the world of work.
Access to education should not be dependent on socio-economic conditions. The
Green undertake in particular for early encouragement, before starting school
child, for children from migrant families and those whose parents suffer from
mental illness or addiction, or do not have sufficient access to training. For
provide these children a better chance of future, we must act on their living conditions, for
Early encouragement, coaching or mentoring school. A good
education greatly reduces the risk that the social legacy of poverty is transmitted
from generation to generation.
Offers a wide and accessible training ensures that everyone will have the
opportunity to train for life.
The Greens are critical vis-à-vis the Bologna model. Its application should not
lead to submission of universities to economic bodies, or their
technocracy and their prioritization.
Quality training takes time and freedom. We must encourage research
science in universities and technical universities and ensure that it
remains independent. It must give priority ways to increase sustainability
our lifestyle and our economy, particularly through technology and models
social organization consuming fewer resources.
The requirements of the Greens for the next legislature:
· Equal opportunities in training institutions and the labor market. A
scholarship system which put education within reach all citizens and all
the citizens.
· An education for children beginning at age four or five years, with a level
Elementary lasting about four years. It should ease the access requirements
post-compulsory education, which should play an integrating role.
· A school system does not select operating from beginning to end of school
mandatory.
· The active search for ways to fight against school failure and illiteracy
illiteracy.
Election platform in 2011 Swiss Greens

15

·
·
·
·
·
·
·

·

·
·

More staff resources for the school.
Training opportunities for all young people, including young undocumented.
Incentives for companies that hire apprentice (s).
The right to lifelong learning for all. At least five days paid annually
reserved for this purpose.
An education policy that aims the strengthening of respect for human rights and
Fundamental Freedoms.
The integration of the theme of sustainability in all training courses
vocational and continuing education.
A budget increase of 10% per year for training, research and
innovation and a joint reorientation of priorities to areas affecting
sustainable development, with stronger and professorships
corresponding research programs in universities.
The strict application of the precautionary principle to all new technologies. Of
guidelines defining the procedure for estimating technological risks. The entry into
force as soon as possible legislation to regulate nanotechnology
to define the concept, the scope, the question of civil liability and
the reporting obligation, analogous to the GMO legislation.
With independent research relates to the effects of new technologies on
the health.
The complete abandonment of any research on non-sustainable technologies, eg
Nuclear.

3.2 Migration
Switzerland has for decades been a country of immigration, because labor
foreign is essential to our economy. While people who are not
Swiss represent 22% of the population of our country, they constitute 28%
assets, and therefore significantly contribute to our prosperity. Migrant and
migrants who fled their homeland for economic or political reasons are
less than 3% of the general population, but they live in conditions with Us
often very precarious and need our support.
Only an open migration policy is a humane policy; it goes hand in hand with
integration policy can strengthen social cohesion between all the inhabitants and
all the inhabitants of this country.
The requirements of the Greens for the next legislature:
· A law on integration which aims equal opportunity and respect for diversity
cultural. This law must define what is allowed and what is not; everything else is
matter of individual freedom.
· A federal law on the more liberal foreigners, who do not distinguish between
nationals and EU nationals and people from third countries.
· A regularization of the situation of undocumented professionally active and
their families, based on the principle that a job corresponding to the usual conditions
in a branch should allow obtaining a work permit. Removal
ban marriages for undocumented migrants.
· A facilitated naturalization procedure for foreign aliens and the second
generation. The acquisition of Swiss nationality to the majority of those
third generation.
· Standardisation of the naturalization procedure at national level, to address
large differences between the cantons. A timeout reduced to eight, as in
most European countries, against twelve now.
Election platform in 2011 Swiss Greens

16

· An efficient and fair asylum policy. Rapid integration measures when
return to the country of origin is not possible. The inclusion of new grounds
asylum such as sexual orientation and climatic upheavals. The study of
UNHCR requests for Hosting contingents of refugees.
· The uniform and consistent regulation of the financing of interpretation services
Community to facilitate dialogue between people and allophones
health professionals, social and training.
· Support of the Confederation organizations and non-profit associations
working in the field of migration.

3.3 Closing the gap between rich and poor
The gap between rich and poor is increasing. The big bosses pay wages
humongous, while according to a Caritas study, nearly 900,000 people in Switzerland
need of social assistance to live. Social insurance benefits are more than
ever necessary, so that the bourgeois majority has worked tirelessly to slash their
budgets.
The Greens are committed to strong social institutions and social security for all
and all. The unconditional basic income is an alternative to benefits help
social. It should be imposed in the future as a new form of social contract allowing
effectively reduce poverty and insecurity. Expertise in its
conditions of life opens to the human spaces of freedom to engage in
the organization of society and work. It has more time to assume
Volunteer tasks and show solidarity, which is essential in a democracy.
A strong public service is essential to ensure social cohesion and reduce
inequalities. It guarantees that basic services are accessible to all social groups,
regardless of their financial means. The Greens are resolutely opposed to the
reducing benefits of public services, such as mail and SBB. The Greens
do not support the relocation and privatization of public enterprises.
The requirements of the Greens for the next legislature:
· The development in the study of a basic income for all.
· The reduction in wage inequality. An indexed gross salary of at least CHF 22
time (monthly salary of Fr. 3800.- for 40 hours weekly, resp. Fr. 4000.pour 42 hours) to reduce the number of workers who must use
welfare. Measures to prevent excessive pay.
· Maintaining the accustomed standard of living for retirees having touched
modest salaries or means, thanks to higher payment of AVS and Pillar 2
(80% of final salary for salaries up to 5000 francs, 70% for salaries
up to 7000 francs).
The introduction of flexible retirement age for everyone in the revision of
AVS, especially for people receiving a modest salary to medium.
· No benefit cuts as part of the 6th revision of the disability. Objectives
realistic for the integration and rehabilitation of disabled persons in the world
work; no suppression of pensions for certain pathologies, such as disease
psychosomatic or those which are not manifested by symptoms listed;
assistance budgets for all people with disabilities.
· An adequate supply of child care facilities and places of welcome for children,
supplement parental care, at prices accessible to all families (y
including through financial support of the Confederation).

Election platform in 2011 Swiss Greens

17

· The working hours compatible with family life, notably through
the development of part-time positions also at managerial level, for
women and men. No old age pension-related harm to
people working part time. To this end, the Greens support the
suppression of the amount of coordination of pension funds.
· A general reduction of working time, holiday six weeks for everyone
and a better distribution of tasks and non-salaried employees.
· Additional benefits for families in poverty.
· The abolition of the maintenance obligation and reimbursement for people on
welfare
· Data protection also for recipients of social assistance
· Encouragement for self-help projects initiated by the unemployed,
recipients of social assistance and persons living in poverty
· Support for cultural associations, sports and other objectives with the
solidarity and the development of social links.

3.4 Health
The health policy of the Greens aims to quality care at a price accessible
all. Its pillars must be prevention and health promotion. Recent
years, premiums have experienced an unacceptable increase. The health sector is
increasingly governed by purely economic considerations. To curb
the explosion of costs, the Greens advocate for a public health insurance. They advocate
cross-regional hospital planning and opening of the generic market.
The requirements of the Greens for the next legislature:
· Maintaining the quality of medical care and guaranteed access to treatment
necessary for everyone.
· The creation of a health insurance fund public solidarity and fair compared
the insured income.
· Exemption from health insurance premiums for children and young people,
harmonization of subsidies for low incomes. The compensation
increased premiums by a corresponding increase in subsidies.
· Integrated care networks, centralizing advanced medical facilities,
interregional hospital planning.
· Independent studies on the health effects of new technologies
(electrosmog).
· A health promotion policy taking into account the specificities of both sexes
both in the prevention and in the treatment of diseases.
· The integration of complementary medicine in the basic insurance.
· Protection against harmful emissions; the promotion of healthy foods.

Election platform in 2011 Swiss Greens

18

4. Foreign policy and international solidarity
Among the Millennium Development Goals, decided in 2000 by the General Assembly of the UN,
Most important is to halve the number of people in extreme
poverty by 2015. This is an ambitious goal that is worth devoting great there
means. During the next term, it will be take the final step leading to its
production. Switzerland must engage frontline to support the populations
poorest of the planet. It shall promote development that is sustainable and benefits
all populations. International institutions such as the WTO and the IMF remain
are trapped by dogma and to reform from top to bottom.

4.1 International Cooperation
Poverty can not be fought by the agrofuel crop and large
monocultures for export. For the transfer of clean technologies, Switzerland
can help local populations to increase their yields and to adopt practices
innovative, strengthening their food sovereignty.
The consequences of climate change are more sensitive in the southern countries.
Why international cooperation must aim to establish a justice
Climate: a massive financial and technological support is needed to help developing countries
developing to reduce their emissions of greenhouse gases, in addition to
CO2 reductions nationally.
International cooperation is not the task of meeting the needs of countries
Western and local elites, often corrupt, but to enable a better life
the poorest populations, especially women and children.
The requirements of the Greens for the next legislature:
· A concentration of the means of international cooperation to the people
poorest of the planet.
· An increase to 0.7% of gross domestic product financial means that Switzerland
dedicated to international cooperation.
· A commitment from Switzerland in favor of the poorest countries in the negotiations
international climate, so that their efforts to maintain gas emissions
Greenhouse within reasonable limits or reduced are supported by
industrialized countries. The amount of this aid must be 160 billion
year. For the same purpose, Switzerland pays 1.7 billion francs in annual global fund
Climate during the 2013-2017 period.
· The defense of sovereignty and food security of the poorest countries
against the interests of large agricultural enterprises and huge price fluctuations
commodities on international markets.
· Access to drinking water for everyone as an essential condition of life
healthy.
· The free transfer of clean technologies to the poorest countries.
· More resources for achieving those Millennium Development Goals that were most
neglected: the reduction of infant and maternal mortality. To do this, we must study
the impact of gender on demography and systematically enforce gender equality
in development projects.
· The Swiss commitment to progressive production conditions in the
countries with low wage levels.

Election platform in 2011 Swiss Greens

19

4.2 Structuring the external economy in a sustainable way
The various crises that have shaken the world in recent years show that the system
globalized economy is not sustainable. These crises are the direct result
a policy of liberalization, deregulation and privatization conducted during
decades in favor of large multinationals. It is time to bring trade
and international flows of goods and services to new rules that make them more
sustainable. It's more to get as quickly as possible the best returns
investments, but to build economic relations that promote coexistence
Pacific peoples, alleviate poverty and misery, and maintain an environment
Natural conducive to life.
The requirements of the Greens for the next legislature:
·

·

·

·

A Swiss foreign trade that is not only focused on free trade,
but meets the requirements of sustainable development, and presupposes respect for
human rights and democracy in the partner countries. Switzerland must observe
these principles both in international institutions and in the agreements
bilateral.
Deep institutional reform of the WTO and the IMF, so that these
organizations can effectively contribute to a resolution of the multicrise. The
objectives of the Bretton Woods institutions should clearly target the development
sustainable.
Requirements to be met by the IMF for additional funding. The money must
be paid in priority to the poorest countries to help them achieve the objectives of
Millennium. These payments should be subject to conditions (credits
subsidized).
The active role of Switzerland in the fight against tax evasion and the establishment of a
International insolvency procedure. A commitment in favor of Switzerland
for strict international regulation of banks, significant contribution to the
economic and social stability worldwide.

4.3 A greener Europe
The European Union and its 27 Member States are far the most important partners
Switzerland - both because of the EU's political and economic weight because it
We are geographically and culturally close. Our destiny is inextricably linked to
one of our big neighbor, also the Greens they attach great importance to a
active European policy.
The policy that Switzerland has officially Europe vis-à-vis is characterized by
immobility. It should therefore be subject to a broad public debate. It should focus primarily
the maintenance of democracy, protection of human rights and consolidation
of the welfare state.
The bilateral approach has helped negotiate solutions to the map, but it is less and
less practicable. It does not open prospects of success for Switzerland, whose margin
Action will always be limited. The static nature of the bilateral agreements in
conflict with the development of European law. The EU requires a dynamic application of
acquired future Community (automatic integration of Community law in the
Swiss legislation), but our system is not compatible with such automation.

Election platform in 2011 Swiss Greens

20

The obligation to resume laws without having the right to participate in their development is not
an option. Switzerland must not be content with a purely economic cooperation
with the EU. It must be able to retain the fruits of direct democracy that are
Alpine transversal (NEAT), the Alpine Initiative and the moratorium on manipulations
Genetic even after a possible accession to the EU. The priority should clearly go
rail traffic, and we must ensure that the NRLA are connected to the European network.
The requirements of the Greens for the next legislature:
· No regulations relating to institutions in the framework of bilateral III, no
dynamic recovery of the acquis communautaire without any possibility of negotiation.
· A public discussion of points to defend as a priority during negotiations for a
membership.
· The opening of negotiations for membership in a favorable time for
Swiss.
· A commitment to direct democracy, fundamental rights and the welfare state.
· No dumping on wages and benefits in the EU.
· The preservation of Swiss neutrality in the EU - Switzerland must never participate
a European army.
· Participation in the ecological and social transformation level measures
European.
· No to EU barricaded in on itself like a fortress, yes to
migration policy respectful of human dignity.

Election platform in 2011 Swiss Greens

21

5. Democracy and pacifism
In 2009, 1.5 trillion dollars was spent worldwide on armaments,
military activity and warfare. The twentieth of that amount sufficient to achieve the objectives
UN Millennium Development Goals, and to halve poverty on the planet. The war
against terrorism "has also led to an unacceptable restriction of rights
fundamentals within civil society.

5.1 The policy of peace
The massive increase in global spending on the army during those ten
recent years is directly related to the "war against terrorism" - with exactly
the opposite effect: it reduces the chances to peacefully resolve the situation in the Middle East. But it also threatens the freedoms and rights of citizens in the West.
National defense in the conventional sense and compulsory military service are exceeded.
Internal security is assured by the cantons and the police. But one of the risks
important for the company is the large-scale distribution of firearms and maintaining
the weapon of home service.
The mass armies have become impossible to finance, as a debate takes place on the
Resize the Swiss army. Admittedly, the obligation to serve imposed
all young Swiss men does not make sense if only a small portion of the 40,000
Annual conscripts performs tasks of real use.
The requirements of the Greens for the next legislature:
· The refusal of any military engagement abroad - unless he is confined in
strict framework of a mission led by the UN.
· The termination of the cooperation with NATO in the framework of "Partnership for
peace. "
· Resistance to the ever-increasing attempts to transform the body of
border guards in a federal police force operating throughout Switzerland.
· The fight against the militarization of internal security.
· The prohibition of keeping military weapons at home. They must be registered
in secure arsenals of the army.
· The requirement for people wishing to acquire a weapon to prove that it is their
necessary and have the skills to use it.
· The abolition of compulsory military service.
· The creation of a civilian service on a voluntary basis for men and women.
· A stronger commitment on the part of Confederation in favor of peace and
against violence - within the country and abroad.
· Active participation of Switzerland in the international organizations, particularly
the UN and the Council of Europe, which promote peace, democracy, respect for
different cultures and sustainable development.

Election platform in 2011 Swiss Greens

22

5.2 Fundamental Rights and Democracy
The Greens are very attached to the principles of rule of law and respect for human rights
fundamental and democratic, each and everyone must benefit without
restriction.
Yet, under the pretext of increasing the security of the population, the state intensifies activities
Monitoring recent years and takes measures limiting certain massively
democratic rights. It intrudes increasingly into the private sphere of individuals. A
Additional hardening of the Internal Security Act would monitor
telephone conversations, emails and other communications
using paid informers and spies, without there being suspicion of shares
criminal. More than 200,000 new cards, electronic today, were documented
in October 2010. In the public space, the controls (cameras) and
repression increases. Adverse people in some areas have their
freedom of movement and reduced-gathering, for example at demonstrations
sports (Concordat hooligans). Monitoring also takes place in trains (Law
the Railway Police) and identity checks not carried the body of
border guards inside the territory. While the data collection and the apparatus
repressive develop increasingly, the office of protection worker data
continues to be under-staffed. In the cantons, the situation is no better.
The Confederation also supports the municipalities and cantons in the implementation of
prohibitions, ever more numerous, to demonstrate. The intelligence service
Confederation (CBC) regularly coordinate and supervise events security
large as the WEF. The army is still often used in the
civil sector. The Greens are fighting the militarization of internal security.
The Federal Council and the authorities intensively involved in referendum campaigns, it
which largely influences the verdict of the polls. In order to counterbalance the power always
largest of the executive over the legislative, the Greens defend the sphere
Parliament's influence, the public debate and control of institutions by the population.
Switzerland is one of the few democratic countries in which the party financing and
campaign is not subject to regulation that makes transparent. The
financial resources are very unevenly distributed among the political forces, giving
more weight to certain points of view, to the detriment of others, and is a threat
for democracy.
The people did not vote on initiatives that violate fundamental rights
and / or international treaties. They must be invalidated even before the collection
signatures has begun. Among European countries, Switzerland is no exception with
no supervisory body to ensure respect for human rights.
The requirements of the Greens for the next legislature:
· A firm opposition to the militarization of the "internal security". No building
services of civil and military intelligence, but effective introduction of a right
look the citizens in the data files compiled by
secret Service ;
· A resistance against the repressive policy pursued by certain populations
expulsion measures, perimeter bans and other emergency regulations.
· Support measures and projects promoting mutual understanding, tolerance and
respect.
· A strict data protection regulations and controls to prevent
conjunctions to obtain an overview on people.
· No limitation on the right to demonstrate and freedom of assembly.
Election platform in 2011 Swiss Greens

23

· No police delegation of tasks to third parties (private security services, bodies
military corps of border guards).
· Measures to ensure free access to information on the internet.
· The submission of the authorities to a duty of neutrality during elections or referenda.
· Ensuring equitable distribution of different views by media law
public in referenda or elections.
· A regulation of funding of parties and campaigns, so that the
transparency is guaranteed in this field.
· The establishment of an independent supervisory body higher (Tribunal / Court
it constitutional) laws allowing outgoing federal parliament and projects
initiatives to be controlled so that they respect fundamental rights and treaties
international, and can be realized.
· The creation of a national institution ensuring respect for human rights on the
Swiss territory, in accordance with the Paris Principles.

Election platform in 2011 Swiss Greens

24
