For love of
Switzerland -
courageously
and conviction.
2011 Election Platform
the Liberal-Radicals PLR.Les

Summary
Our Switzerland - the story of a success.

3

The extreme parties threaten the prosperity and stability.

4

2011 - our country faces a decisive choice for the future.

5

The liberal-radical Priorities 2011-2015.

8

> Initiate and create jobs.
> Clean up of social insurance to the brink.
> Ending an absurd bureaucracy.

8
12
14

Our Switzerland - the story of a success.
Switzerland is strong, prosperous and secure. Our citizens have almost all jobs, pensions
are still paid on time. While other states are indebted to the edge of
abyss following the unprecedented economic crisis, our country has a strong budget
through prudent financial policy. We are among the best: low crime
and quality environment. Our facilities operate with the precision of a clock.
These achievements do not go home. It owes both to past generations that the current will
of the Swiss population to contribute to the future of our country - whether at work,
within the family, associations or politics. Our success is based on the strengths and
proven values:

> Performance: with workers, intelligent and creative.
> Responsibility: by accepting commitments - for oneself and the community.
> Courage: to improve learning and innovation.
> Stability: a liberal economy and cooperation of all forces of democracy

concordance.

These forces and values ​​today are increasingly important. Indeed, Switzerland must
face significant challenges:

>

Changing world: Switzerland can not do on site if it intends to continue its on
the path to success for generations to come.

>

Industrialised countries experience competition from Asian powers in full expan sion: excellent training and new skills are always needed.

>

No bilateral agreements with the EU and new free trade agreements, Switzerland
could be isolated.

>

The debt crisis threatens currency and Europe and the United States. Switzerland,
exporting country, suffers the effects.

>

With us also, social security threaten to sink under mountains
debts if corrections are not decided and implemented on time.

> We must preserve our landscape and our natural resources without stifling the economy.

3

The extreme parties threaten prosperity
and stability.
The success of Switzerland is threatened. Instead of drawing judiciously benefit from our advantages
and tackle the challenges ahead, the policy is increasingly held hostage by
extreme parties.
In disconnection with reality, the SP wants to abandon the market economy. Those
working and saving would be bled dry. The PS wants to introduce a tax on
inheritance and capital gains, he also wants to raise VAT. Redistribution
according to the socialist model wants us to subsidize "the unpaid work
All "! The PS also wants to remove the army and thus put our security at stake.
Unfortunately, faced with these attacks in order from left bourgeois clan mobilizes
not unanimously. The SVP wants to isolate our country under a glass bell. It stigmatizes everything that comes from abroad and rejects all proposed solutions to
international problems. Whenever she can, she attacks the bilateral agreements
Yet wanted by the people. For our country, export-oriented, the party made
evidence of myopia and irresponsibility.
The threat is even more important when the extreme party combine. The UDC prefer
contribute to the success of the PS rather than supporting a solid bourgeois consensus. So,
this alliance against nature of extreme parties creates blockages. She not only
prevented the consolidation of AVS annual savings of 500 million francs,
it has also made it impossible to reduce costs in the health sector. There was thus
ruined years of efforts to find consensual solutions, characteristic
Swiss policy. Any reform of our army is deliberately impeded. In the context
UBS case, the extreme parties have played with fire on the Treaty with
United States, and thus involved the future of tens of thousands of jobs in Switzerland.
With controversy or arousing jealousy, extreme parties sow fear and
poison the political climate of our country. They despise our country be respected
those that led to success. They mock their political opponents and
of government. Some economic sectors are demonized, while they offer
employment to hundreds of thousands. Population of entire groups are
marginalized. Confrontation rather than concordance - Switzerland's values ​​are buried.
Without mutual respect and without commitment to openness and consensus, our unique culture
Concordance will not survive. Our political system - with its strengths and values ​​- is
threatened, while it has contributed to the success of Switzerland. We may lose our prosperity and stability

4

2011 - our country faces a decisive choice for
his future.
Federal elections represent a major challenge; in 2011 our country will make a decisive choice.
Switzerland can continue on the path of success if it is able to maintain the foundations of the strengths and values ​​that have led to success. Prosperity and stability, security
and success does not self-evident; Liberals, Radicals are fighting for the defense of these values.
On October 23, 2011, the electors can decide: Do They will want more
controversy and jealousy, over locking and treading water? They will decide to strengthen the parties
extreme and harm to our country as well? Or do they prefer PLR.Les LibérauxRadicaux support the Liberal cluster determined to make Switzerland a country where everyone collaborate
looking for serious solutions, a country whose values ​​are upheld and for love
which we commit against populist shows and jealousy?
Liberal force, the Radicals-Liberals PLR.Les fights for a modern and safe Switzerland. For a
country where entrepreneurship is valued at again, in which everyone has a
employment, a country that does not leave its collapsing social insurance and who renounces a
stifling bureaucracy. Switzerland should remain a country where they live, where people are
ready to commit and take responsibility.
The future of Switzerland depends on the willingness to conduct serious reforms: the political
Liberal Radicals ensures our successful model for future generations, as
our ancestors left us Liberals prosperity and stability. This is why the PLR.
Radical Liberals want serious solutions to the great challenges of the future and move forward
in the interest of Switzerland.
The PLR.Les Liberal-Radicals puts all his energy and undertakes daily. All are
work; thousands of communal councils and communes presidents, our
cantonal parliament and our advisers of States, our federal parliamentarians and two
Federal Councillors. No other party is also deeply rooted in the cantons and
the cities. Our credo is the militia system. Our commitment to the community is not a word in the air, but a conviction. Switzerland is exceptional. The PLR ​​is
fighting to keep it that way.
2011 is a decisive year. Every voice counts: the Swiss people have the choice of
strengthen the Liberal-Radicals PLR.Les, constructive force - love of Switzerland.

5

For love of Switzerland -
with courage and conviction.
What is the slogan for our members PLR?

"For the love of Switzerland. Because we libérauxradicaux, believe in the values ​​of freedom and responsibility, values ​​carried by men and women
which are the wealth of our country. These values ​​guide
State Councilor my commitment, especially in
my desire to meet the energy challenge by combining
development of renewable energy, economy
energy and security of supply. "
Isabel Rochat
State Councilor
Geneva

"Seit über 150 Jahren Pragen Liberale wir die Entwicklung unseres Landes. Diese Erfolgsgeschichte
werden wir auch in Zukunft mitgestalten. Wer na
treu Verantwortung trägt, der liebt! "
Peter Schilliger
Präsident der FDP.Die Liberalen Luzern
Udligenswil

"Switzerland was built through a balance: linguistics,
political and institutional. It is for love of this Switzerland
I threw myself into politics. The extremes are a brake
dialogue and consensus. My vision of the company is
not a confrontation between two poles, but building
realistic, responsible and innovative projects. Through its
ideas, the PLR ​​has always supported an open Switzerland, Modern
and dynamic. It is in this spirit that I wanted
Marlene Bérard
invest for my country .. "
President of PLR Lausanne
Lausanne Vorstand

"Aus Liebe zur Schweiz beschreibt für mich die
What und den Antrieb und Liberalen politischen
Handelns. Antrieb ohne diesen innovative wären
Lösungen unmöglich. "

Andrea Seiler
Vorstand Jungfreisinnige TG
Basadingen

"Like the winemaker vintner who cultivates its vineyards
secular and student and trade in wines high level,
my duty is to respect and build our democratic and economic heritage, promoting political values ​​of freedom, responsibility and
of entrepreneurship. They are socio-economic success of Switzerland and its people. "
Laurent Favre, National Council Corcelles

"Der Slogan erinnert daran, Wofür wir politisieren:
Wir wollen das Beste für die Schweiz und deren Bevölkerung. Für mich das eine starke bedeutet Schweiz mit
Freiheit und mehr Eigenverantwortung fürs Volk. "
Linda Brunner
Wahlkampfleiterin Jungfreisinnige Schweiz
Frauenfeld

"Aus Liebe zur Schweiz finde ich ein inhaltlich starkes Motto. Sagt es aus,
Wofür wir einstehen. Genau der Slogan entspricht meiner Motivation,
täglich mich zu engagieren persönlich. "

Martin Gredig
Parteimitglied
Tamins / Poschiavo

"Der Slogan gefällt mir, kurz und prägnant!
Die Aussage Slogans ist meine Motivation,
mich zu politisch engagieren. "
Kathrin Hayoz
Vizepräsidentin GGR
Lyss

The liberal-radical Priorities 2011-2015.
The commitment of the Liberal-Radicals PLR.Les based on traditional liberal values:
self-determination, freedom and respect. We mobilize to free choice, responsibility and performance for us and for our country. We are committed to a
liberal economic policy, financial policy and a responsible social policy.
We want a Switzerland where everything goes well for those who engage
with determination. Solidarity must intervene to those who, regardless of their
will, fail to take responsibility. We boldly approach the
topics that require difficult reforms and persuasion: globalization, migration, aging and the environment.
We assume responsibility for this exceptional Switzerland and we continue to
fight for more jobs, for healthy social insurance and less bureaucracy - by
Love Switzerland - so that in four years, our country and its inhabitants (s) are better
off today.

Initiate and create jobs.
The Liberal-Radicals PLR.Les wants to provide opportunities to as many people
in Swiss. This means above all the work. It is not the policy that creates jobs
but the thousands of SMEs and large companies in our country. So they need
give good framework conditions, it is the priority of the PLR.
The most serious financial and economic crisis of the past decades has been relatively spared
Swiss. Our watch industry, our machine manufacturers and drug manufacturers,
like our insurance and our banks are at the top globally. Thousands of
SMEs account for two-thirds of workers. A scientific study of the Swiss Union of Arts
and Crafts (SGV) demonstrates that Berne, PLR is the party that undertakes the most way
clear for the economy and employment.
Our companies and their employees will be severely tested in the future. A strong franc and the
ever greater pressure on the market by new actors such as countries
South American Asian require reforms that the torpedo playing on the left
jealousy entrepreneurs and putting into question fundamentally the economy
market. Conversely, PLR's policy promotes job creation:

8

www.plr.ch

PLR.Les Liberal-Radicals, PO Box 6136, 2001 Bern

Undertake, create
Jobs -
love of Switzerland.
Investing today in training to ensure future employment
young people.

> Knowledge is our main raw material: our children must acquire








which will be useful later in their professional life. The school's requirements to
University should be clearly strengthened, with notes at all levels and
mastery of three languages ​​at the end of compulsory schooling. Assurer.des places in gardens
children available or nursery schools from the age of 4 years is essential. The PLR
request an increase in funding for the next term because
Training is a priority.

>

No Overqualification: professional learning and continuous training need
keep their current value. It is important not to over-qualification, as is the case for
eg in the care sector.

>

More natural science students and medicine: pole universities
should be encouraged by reforms, competition and autonomy. We want
create more spaces for students in the natural sciences and medicine.

Work should also be rewarded for parents reconcile life
family and work.

> Improving the reconciliation of family and professional life: the increase in charges









work and family requires, often women to give up their jobs. But the
Women do not give up their jobs just to get on with their child, but
because it is not worth the trouble to work because of high taxes, a
insufficient reduction for health insurance premiums, or rates for nurseries linked to income. The
Parents should be able to organize their work and family life regardless of the
tax and price cribs. This is why a tax deduction of 24,000 francs should
be introduced for childcare outside.

9

> Reduce bureaucracy for nurseries: for our children to be well guarded, it is no need to build costly building requirements or to require the
staff with a university degree. It is up to parents to decide if a nursery is worthy
trust or aunt, grandparents or friends can care for children.
The state does not have to require courses or specific authorizations for relatives or persons chosen by the parents.

>

Yes bilateral, not
membership -
love of Switzerland.
www.plr.ch

PLR.Les Liberal-Radicals, PO Box 6136, 2001 Bern

Offer school care: working hours do not include timetables
school. Periods of compulsory education and child care offers must allow
our children learn or play without being left unattended.

Qualified employees through bilateral agreements - non for membership.

> Yes to bilateral agreements - no to EU membership, not in isolation: our growth







Economic flourished since the bilateral agreements of 2004. European markets
are open, the lack of qualified employees is reduced. These people want to fit in
home. The bilateral path is the path to success; UDC threat with its provocations
anti EU and the PS questions with his jingle on the deadlock in bilateral agreements.
We want to strengthen the bilateral approach and develop a targeted manner. Our companies
need highly skilled employees.

> Accept the specialists of the United thirds targeted way: despite the bilateral, the








10

problem remains the lack of specialists. The specialists of third States should be
accepted when demand continues, despite the intensification of the formation of the Swiss.
The best-educated foreign students in Switzerland are to receive a work permit
so as to secure our country their skills and the taxes they pay.
The FDP wants to reduce immigration of unskilled United third persons - particularly
related to family reunification.

More economic openness, more jobs.

> Opening the markets of the future: 80% of global economic growth will come








Asia and Latin America in 2015. These markets are a chance for an exporting country
like Switzerland. We are the only European country to have an export surplus
with China. We must open these markets to our businesses through WTO instruments
or free trade agreements. The protectionist trend to increase
USA and within the EU must push us to quickly conclude free trade agreements with new economic actors.

Innovation: Using the potential of new technologies.

> Utilize environmental technologies is a chance: our company is up








Today overcame all his problems through technological progress, without
Ban and without bureaucratic measure. The same applies to the environmental issue. Technological advances in electric vehicles, new
building insulation materials and increased efficiency of renewable energy
offer new markets to Switzerland. They also reduce the dependence of the economy
Swiss face insecurity of energy resources and price volatility.

>

Increase innovation: allocate more resources to the Commission for Technology and
Innovation (CTI) and the Swiss National Science Foundation (NSF).

Develop infrastructure targeted.

> Mobility is an integral part of freedom: the saturation of rail networks and







jams create pollution and cost money and time to
population and businesses. But limiting mobility is a bad answer. A network
dense transport and works like a Swiss watch is an advantage
strong comparative. Adapting our network to the needs of society is therefore a task
Central State.

> Prevent the energy shortage: the population and the economy will need energy for







affordable prices, causing low CO2 emissions and, if possible, produced
in Swiss. The security of supply and the growing demand for electricity are the greatest challenges of tomorrow. Consumption must be reduced by sanitation
buildings, renewable energy must be promoted, hydroelectricity
developed and nuclear power plants should be replaced.

11

Creating new jobs through flexibility of the labor market.

> Not to minimum wages, no to tougher laws on dismissal revendi







charged by the unions: rapidly growing companies create jobs. For
the good of the young elsewhere that can not be satisfied with repeating courses. With
3.8% unemployment Switzerland has virtually full employment. Swiss salaries are
the highest in Europe. The strike is virtually nonexistent. This should last, so we must
push firmly minimum wages and tighter laws on dismissal.

Remediate social insurance to the brink.
Few countries guarantee such as Switzerland, thanks to its social insurance, such security
its pensioners, unemployed and disabled her. Promises untenable and not fundable
and the accumulated debts demonstrate the difficulty experienced by the majority of States
literally from the brink. Even in Germany the accumulated debts to the promised pensions debt amounts to 250% of GDP.
Switzerland has a more favorable position, yes. But we have also committed
gross errors: 15 billion debt for AI, 8 billion for the AC, with increased
contributions and reducing benefits to the key, this is the result of these errors. If nothing is
Actually, it is the AVS, which will be in deficit in recent years. And the significant growth
social spending deprives Confederation financial means to invest in the future
transport, security and training. Without reform, 2 of 3 francs from taxes
will be allocated to federal social insurance in 2025.

Social Insurance
sustainable -
love of Switzerland.
www.plr.ch

12

PLR.Les Liberal-Radicals, PO Box 6136, 2001 Bern

We must sound the alarm and end the threat to our social insurance.
The AI ​​is a good example: in 2008, a Federal Councillor FDP took over and convinced the DFI
citizens to accept an initial reform of the IA. The number of new beneficiaries

annuities has since been halved. There is evidence that the basic principle of AI, "the
work rather than rent "works. Strict measures taken today will prevent
deterioration of benefits tomorrow - for the love of Switzerland.

AVS save from ruin.

> Determine the age of retirement: in 2010, the UDC and the PS have sunk the 11th revision








AVS with 500 million in savings to the key. Fundamental reform is necessary.
Everyone should be able to determine the age of retirement and the amount of his pension so
flexible. Working longer is worth. The scuttling of the 11th revision
AVS however, shows that the vast desired reform will not be an easy game. The PLR
Calls for a speedy harmonization of the 65 retirement age for men and
women and curb the spending of the AVS.

Clean up our pension funds over the long term.

> Occupational benefits of each employee must be protected against any












hint of whimsical redistribution: The 2nd pillar accumulates spared 600 billion francs
by workers and employers. But this money is at risk; the left wants to use
AVS to fill the hole. Each year, 600 million are provisions that allow to make up the lack of pensions coverage. The FDP wants to end it. Rather
Instead, we call for transparency on yields and on administrative costs,
increased competition and more freedom of choice in the 2nd pillar system. Rates
minimum interest and conversion should be aligned with life expectancy and rates
prevailing interest, but not on mere political promises. Increasing premiums based on age must be corrected because they penalize older workers
their job search.

Encouraging individual savings tax.

>

Encourage saving for retirement: the third pillar must be developed and the tax deduction
increased to 12,000 francs (6,000 francs now) ..

The work rather than the annuity.

> The 6th revision of the disability is urgent: the residual structural deficit of about. 1 billion








CHF should be reduced by saving on expenses because the temporary increase from 2018
VAT will expire. A sixth revision of the disability is therefore urgent. It must renounce
grant disability pensions in particular for the provision of packet comprising disorders
psychogenic and those related to living environment and work (up + 900% since
1986!) And replace them with aids integration and health. Annuities should be
reviewed periodically, abuse hunted.

13

>

Work rather than rent: who is able to work should be able to. For that,
he develop strict criteria for granting disability pensions and promote engagement
disabled people within companies.

>

The work before welfare: social assistance is in some cases more lucrative than the
work due to threshold effects. This vicious circle must be broken. Social assistance should be
taxable as wages.

Ending an absurd bureaucracy.
The Liberal-Radicals PLR.Les built our state - especially if the left is applied to
deform it. In the nineteenth century the PLR ​​fought for human rights and fundamental freedoms. For 50 years the left applies to torpedo, whether free trade
and industry or property rights. We must change course, introduce a substantive debate
on those freedoms that are threatened in many areas by a legislative absurd jumble.
The FDP wants to lead this debate. That is why we launched a federal popular initiative.
It gives the citizen a fundamental right to direct, simple legislation, understandable and rapid and unbureaucratic process. This is a fundamental right of the citizen
against the regulatory trend. It forces politicians to avoid dealing with each problem by
new legislation. Bureaucratic obstacles the race to get license
lead, for example, shows the regulatory excesses that all must suffer to pay
the faults of a few.
The regulatory hypertrophy weighs the state and reduced the liability and the area of ​​freedom of
citizen. The state must set priorities to be approved by citizens, not by
administration. Better services for the citizen rather than an extension of power
of State. Taxes must be simplified and reduced. The Confederation, cantons and

www.plr.ch

14

PLR.Les Liberal-Radicals, PO Box 6136, 2001 Bern

Stop the bureaucracy
absurd -
love of Switzerland.

municipalities must limit their activities; the administration and the courts must shorten
the procedures. Focused on its priority tasks, the state must assume efficiently and
determination. The FDP wants a state at the service of love for Switzerland.

The Liberal-Radicals want to reduce bureaucracy
Reduce and improve the regulation.

>

"Stop the bureaucracy" with our People Initiative we ask simple laws
and understandable and their rapid and strict implementation by the administration and the courts.
When legislating, the government and parliament should take into account the interests of
SMEs.

>

We offer a 12-point plan to reduce bureaucracy: more threshold values
high for accounting for SMEs, fewer state statistical questionnaires, a
administration simpler wages, a single rate for all social deductions
a unified VAT rates and 30 day payment period for the state and 10% default interest.

The simplest tax system and the lowest in Europe:

>

A tax return on holding an A4 sheet: we propose a limit of three or
four deductions, tax rates to a significant drop in rates
tax, removing exceptions for certain groups and a lowering
rates for everyone (depending on model Easy Swiss Tax).

>

The simplest and lowest VAT in Europe: the single rate of 5.5% is possible
by deleting the exceptions. The reduction of bureaucracy would gain
Economic growth of about 1%.

Reduce debts for future generations:

>

Debt brake: strict adherence to the debt brake, instrument made
proven.

>

Balanced Budgets: increasing state tasks can not exceed
Economic Growth.

>

Cost reduction: waiving of duties within the Confederation for
$ 2.5 billion.

15

For love of
Switzerland -
courageously
and conviction.
Dear fellow citizens, fellow citizens,
The controversy and fear are back in Switzerland. On the contrary,
commitment and sense of responsibility ensure its future.
For a country that moves, it takes courage.
For real solutions, it takes conviction.

> Initiate and create jobs.
> Clean up of social insurance to the brink.
> Ending an absurd bureaucracy.
Engage yourself ! For love of Switzerland.
www.paramourdelasuisse.ch
