A
SEVEN
FOR
CHILE

PRESIDENTIAL PROGRAM
Evelyn Matthei 2014 • 2018

A
SEVEN
FOR
CHILE

A
SEVEN
FOR
CHILE

PRESIDENTIAL PROGRAM
Evelyn Matthei 2014 • 2018
Alliance for Chile

SANTIAGO DE CHILE, OCTOBER 2013

A
SEVEN
FOR
CHILE

Open letter to Chile

Open letter
CHILE AND A
CHILEAN

E V E N LY. U N 7 PA R A C H I L E

3

Open letter to Chile

L

Chilean I can proudly say that we have made great
steps in recent decades. Poverty has fallen sharply,
the quality of life in the country has improved and problems

We are dealing with an ever larger middle class today and
demanding their rights.
The path that we have chosen has been successful, no doubt, and the
President Piñera Government has taken decisive steps to carry
Chile to development, reversing the stagnation of recent years

Chile developed
You must necessarily go
Hand of Chile
fairer, more equitable,
where we all feel
part of a project
common, inclusive.

the Governments of the Coalition. We must therefore follow the
care path of growth, because without it there is no good jobs,
deteriorate salaries and social policies lose their force.
But this is not enough, we can aspire to more.
Chile developed must necessarily go hand in hand a Chile more
just, more equitable, which we all feel part of a project
common, inclusive.
For this, my Government will urgently to dignify the public, for
that the vast majority of Chileans that caters health
public, studying in public education and to be mobilized in the
public transport, receive quality services. Utilities
good treatment, without long waits without segregation. We even go
beyond. We will ensure that the Chilean families can once and for
all live in safety, without fear of crime, and ensure us
that consumer rights are protected in an environment of
real competition and strong institutions.
Let's face it. Chileans are not for experiments. While
some propose to reinvent the country adopting radical measures
They have proved their failure in the world, what they will find in these pages
Reforms are necessary for maintaining growth and
stability, prosperity reaches every corner of the country, as
have made countries like Germany and the Scandinavian nations.

4

www.evelyn2014.cl

more than 300 professionals gathered in program committees, who
They identified the main problems of the country and sought the best
solutions to address them. These pages are also the aspirations of
thousands of people who came to tell us their dreams and proposals.

Open letter to Chile

The Government Program "A July for Chile" is the work of

A
SEVEN
FOR
CHILE

I will not rest until all Chileans have access to HEALTH
PUBLIC WORTHY, that has nothing to envy to private. A
Health no queues in hospitals and clinics, with availability of medical
specialists and to give everyone, not just the privileged, the
opportunity to decide where addressed. A good public health
treatment and respect for patients and their families.
I will implement an equitable EDUCATION AND QUALITY
CRADLE TO WORK. Higher education monopolize the debate,
but not to be missed, we know that the reforms should
point behind and beyond to make education really
a factor of social mobility. The starting point will be the stimulation
Early, the best vehicle to match the pitch and there
will extend to a training inspired by the German model
seeks to anchor the training to market needs
labor, achieving better salaries and job opportunities. In
school education, we want no child is left without Chile
quality education for not having the resources to pay. In addition,
We continue easing the backpack middle-class families whose
children go to college so they can study tranquil
without living the anguish of financing.
Santiago is not Chile, usually repeated, but in practice, the
regions have been postponed again and again. I was senator and deputy,
representing regions for over two decades and I know they are
angry because most of the decisions and resources are in the
capital. We propose a regionalization of truth, allow

E V E N LY. U N 7 PA R A C H I L E

5

Open letter to Chile

regions to enjoy the benefits of the productive activities
taking place in their communities and to define their own
investments with specific tax changes and transfer of powers
local governments.
I promise steady hand CRIME AGAINST WOMEN,
because I know that Chileans are bored of walking with fear
the streets and not feel safe in their homes. I say it straight:
We are to be in public safety. And I will not miss one minute:
I am on the side of the victims and not the criminals side
the police and not hooded. You will find in these
pages aggressive plan to stop the victimization of Chileans,
which runs from early prevention to rehabilitation to
who wants to change his life and imprisonment for those who will not do it.
We will require judges to give security guarantees Chileans
and we give them tools to improve their management.
Let rise for better JOBS, PENSIONS
Highest and greatest good for the Chileans. I was minister
Labour and I know that employment is much more than the salary for a
family's dignity and tranquility. So you have to keep growing and
while creating the conditions for women and young people who are today
out of the labor force, they can gain employment. There is no better
public policy to change the quality of life and give peace of mind to
families boss or head of household with dignified and quality employment. Is
For this reason, our first commitment is to maintain momentum
job creation in December 2014 meeting the goal
established by the government of President Piñera to create a million
jobs. Economic growth also secures the resources to
continue to increase pensions for our seniors
they can enjoy the break from retirement. To grow,
we must deal decisively with issues that have been dragging
long, as the high cost of energy affects today
business and soon passed to the electricity bill of Chileans, and
removing obstacles tied to entrepreneurs.

6

www.evelyn2014.cl

Open letter to Chile

In my Government will be respected CONSUMERS, THERE WILL
MORE COMPETITION AND GUARDS because we want a country without
room for abuse. We think competition is really
best weapon to ensure the Chileans that their rights are respected
and will strengthen existing institutions, an autonomous Sernac
which is independent of the government of the day, to enforce the law.
A MODERN CHILE, with a more participatory democracy, with
good quality of life in cities and an atmosphere of respect that no
leave room for discrimination is a yearning sense of Chileans.
A country that is recognized as intercultural, with a dynamic state
not ensnare citizens in paperwork and red tape.
A Chile as a key cultural values ​​in public policy
because it recognizes the value to those reading,
Heritage and the Arts. A healthy country life, with millions of people
doing sports to maintain quality of life for many years.
A modern Chile wants to persevere in the path of progress but
make the necessary changes so that nobody is left behind. Changes
we will do in peace, in harmony, without odium without jeopardizing
He won the tremendous stretch en route to the future.
You know me, I'm straight. Once in La Moneda, I will not leave
obstacles that stand in the way to ensure that each
Chilean feel in their daily lives a positive change because "A 7
FOR CHILE "should be 7 for each of the Chileans.

Evelyn Matthei
OCTOBER 2013

E V E N LY. U N 7 PA R A C H I L E

7

COMMISSIONS PROGRAMME

Growth, Entrepreneurship,
Investment, Productivity,
SMEs
Employment, Education for
Work and Retirement.
Education
Health and Addictions
energy
Environment
Security and Crime
Justice
Institutions: Reforms
policies, Rights
Human, Decentralization,
State Modernization and
Regionalization
Cities and quality of life:
Infrastructure, OOPP,
Transportation, Housing
Macroeconomics:
Funding
and tax policy.
Foreign affairs and defense
Inequality and Poverty
Indigenous Peoples
sport
Culture
Competition and Protection
consumers
Justice
Agriculture

8

www.evelyn2014.cl

Jorge Quiroz · · Anibal Pinto Jorge Hermann Hubert Berg · · · Ricardo Cifuentes Cecilia Maria Paz Paredes · Sebastian Figueroa Arzola · ·
Rodrigo Castro Paulina Daza · · · Rodrigo Troncoso Sebastián Bernstein Thomas Leisewitz · · · Karla Susana Lorenzo Jimenez · Alberto Espina
Max Pavez · · · Arturo Hernan Larrain Fermandois · · Guillermo Ramirez Sergio Raimundo Cruzat Amunátegui · · · José Luis Felipe Ramon Lagos
Klapp Francisco Valente · · Luis Corbo · Winter · Beatriz Matias Andres Hernando · Clear · Sebastián Donoso Coñuepan · · Venancio Juan Eduardo
Ortuzar Pablo Troncoso · · · Alvaro Bellolio Susana Gonzalez Natalia Jimenez · · · Tavolari Raul Jose Francisco Garcia · José Antonio Galilea

E V E N LY. U N 7 PA R A C H I L E

9

Multidisciplinary committee

Karina von Baer
Andres Benitez
Alvaro Fischer
Juan Andres Fontaine
Paul Fontaine
David Gallagher
Andrés Hernando
Guillermo Ramirez
Klein Najel
Hernán Larraín M
Luis Larrain
Fernando Prieto
José Ramón Valente
Ana Maria Yévenes
Silvia Leiva
Felipe Morande
Paul M. Ortuzar
Ricardo Paredes
Jorge Desormeaux
Anita Holuigue
Mauricio Rojas
Beatriz Corbo
Juan Claro

A
SEVEN
FOR
CHILE
10

www.evelyn2014.cl

E V E N LY. U N 7 PA R A C H I L E

eleven

KEY COMMITMENTS
I was Minister of Labor and why my commitment is to create 600 000
new jobs, including 400,000 jobs for women.
No woman or young and vulnerable emerging middle class
working full-time in a business, you earn less than $ 300,000
monthly.
I will increase the Basic Solidarity Pension (PBS) at $ 100,000 and will expand
solidarity pension contribution up to receive $ 350,000.
Subvencionaremos public transportation for seniors
so they can move and be active.
100 clinics with medical specialists excellence, technology
for taking exams, dignified and timely attention.
All FONASA members are entitled to free choice.
Repeat offenders and drug dealers will have to go to jail
without the right to bail.

12

www.evelyn2014.cl

6000 new police more powers to defend them and protect
their attackers.
The projects carried out in regions should pay a tax
the local community and also deliver a percentage of taxes
of its profits to the region every year.
.
We will reward excellent teachers who choose to make classes
1,000 priority in schools because we believe Chile
difference is in the classroom.
We will promote a reform of the training system inspired
the German model, which empowers workers to gain access
to better wages.
Users may terminate their contracts unilaterally and immediately
with service providers with a single click over the Internet.

E V E N LY. U N 7 PA R A C H I L E

13

A
SEVEN
FOR
CHILE

14

www.evelyn2014.cl

Public and dignified HEALTH

Bless you
PUBLIC WORTHY

E V E N LY. U N 7 PA R A C H I L E

fifteen

Public and dignified HEALTH

c

hile reached health indicators similar to those countries
developed. Proof of this is that the life expectancy at
birth approaches the OECD average and the mortality rate

child has been reduced significantly, approaching levels
in developed countries.

Many Chileans today
They are not served nor
the speed nor the
quality they deserve
and so, in my Government
dignify the
public health
the attentions
They will be marked by
humiliating wait
but for medicine
first class and good
and treatment of patients
your families.

In recent years it has continued on the path of improving health
Chile. In particular, from 2010 onwards has faced a
series deficit crawling on common diseases among
Chileans. The Governments of the Coalition launched a system
BOOM, guaranteeing attention to a list of diseases, but more
Beyond the promise, there were almost 400,000 people who were on lists
waiting to be treated by these diseases in March 2010.
The government of President Sebastian Pinera completed in less than two
years with these waiting lists and conducted in infrastructure
an effort never seen before: 20 new hospitals were delivered and
They delivered or are already running more than 119 health centers.
However, despite advances, health services usually
They are overwhelmed. Many Chileans today are not served nor the
quickly or quality they deserve and, therefore, in my Government
dignify the public health care that are not marked
by humiliating expect but on medicine quality and
good treatment to patients and their families. We want public health
has nothing to envy to private health requirements for progress
technological, timeliness of care and respectful treatment.
Our focus is on the public system, because it serves 8
10 Chileans. Both locations, such as hospitals, are key
in the life of Chileans. 49% of people have gone to a
hospital during the last year, which reached 57% in the case of
clinics. Despite the foregoing, hospitals are among
worst service evaluation by Chileans, who suffers
long waits required for some procedures,
as care in their emergency services. Meanwhile, clinics

16

www.evelyn2014.cl

Public and dignified HEALTH

They have a better assessment, highlighting the infrastructure, but
criticism aimed at repeated poor care and lack of
Medical hours.
My Government Program in health go to the heart of the relationship
Chilean daily with health benefits, introducing
clinics and hospitals reform, the availability of medical
specialists up to the expectations and standards of good treatment
health personnel with patients and their families. We also,
that all Chileans, regardless of their income levels, may
choose where addressed.
In addition, the accent will be on two key issues that have not been
the importance that should be in an aging society and
recorded high rates of psychiatric illness: specialized health
for seniors and a new institutional framework to address
mental health, the human and economic costs today
fall heavily on families.

I. OFFICES OF EXCELLENCE
During our Government Offices to implement 100
Excellence will be located in all the communes of Chile more
population, those who have medical specialists, medical examinations
and extended hours. Thus, the dual objective of is achieved
decongest hospitals and bring the resolution of problems
people, now must go from place to place in search of exams
and physicians to treat their illnesses.
These offices will resolving power greater than traditional
CESFAM because they will have medical specialists and equipment
medical exams:


• ultrasonography and ultrasound.



• cardiologist and cardiac studies.



• Endoscopy and gastroenterologist specializing.

E V E N LY. U N 7 PA R A C H I L E

My government program
will go to the heart of the
the daily relationship
Chileans with
benefits
health, introducing
reforms offices
and hospitals.

17

Public and dignified HEALTH



• General and Radiologist X-ray.



• ENT equipment to perform tests



• Dentists specializing in prosthetics and endodontics

Opening hours will be extended. In turn, these offices
Unlike traditional practices that operate 8.00
to 17.00 hrs (later between 17.00 and 20.00 hrs. only maintains a
small team) will operate from 7.00 to 22.00 hrs., thus allowing
so that people can be addressed before or after
to their work schedule.

II.LIBERTAD CHOICE FOR ALL
CHILEAN
My second commitment in health is that all users
FONASA entitled to free choice mode. They will
2.5 million Chileans, who today can not choose who will advance to the

2.5

millions of
Chileans who today do not
they can choose it will
Free to form
Choosing a system
respects their preferences
to decide where and
who treat their
diseases.

Free Choice mode, a system that respects their preferences
to decide where and with whom treat their illnesses.
At present, users FONASA tranche A, which it includes
the most vulnerable families in the country, are the ones who do not have the
choice of health care providers. It is unacceptable that the level
Join determine the quality and timeliness attentions
health, leaving the most vulnerable tied to waiting lists.
Expand freedom of choice to all users not only FONASA
benefits to policyholders directly involved, but also
will help to decongest the public network, especially services
emergency during the winter, and decrease lists and times
waiting for specialist consultations.
The proposal is to start providing medical care to Free Choice
and tests with a similar financial coverage FONASA B, C
or D, ie, up to 60% bonus for medical consultations
primary care (general practitioners) and specialists and up to 50%

18

www.evelyn2014.cl

Public and dignified HEALTH

bonus exams for private network providers Free
election, with agreements with FONASA. Then he will move to a
Full coverage based on usage and associated costs.

III. ACTION PLAN FOR HOSPITALS
Today many of the hospitals budgets are allocated
inefficiently, without associated with objectives and its health impact,
or leaving second performance of health services.
Nor it should fine tune when allocating resources according
to the real demands of the population, but plans are replicated
spending outdated. All this generates jams, and lists
waiting for inquiries and transactions, which ultimately result in
inequality, lack of access to health and user dissatisfaction.
To inject quality and opportunity for consultations and surgeries in hospitals,
We propose an action plan 9 steps to improve once
all the functioning of hospitals.
1. New Corporate governance for hospitals to increase

12

measures
improve management
hospitals throughout Chile
and avoid long
you wait.

both the powers and accountability of managers,
which will have the necessary tools to enhance the management.
2. To propose surgeries and medical procedures that
public hospitals compete with each other and with the private sector to give
timely attention to the most vulnerable through expanded
the resources allocated today Repayment Program Features
You valued. This will be done taking care not to create distortions in the
incentives to health professionals in the public system.
3. Relax the rules of budgetary allocation to achieve
effectively the resources where they are needed to be channeled.
4. reward physicians for the amount of attention and not
hours, to encourage them to timely respond to Chileans.

E V E N LY. U N 7 PA R A C H I L E

19

Public and dignified HEALTH

5. Authorize specialists enclosures

TECHNOLOGY TO IMPROVE SERVICE
OF THE HEALTH

hospital to develop activity
on the premises after hours
institutional. Along with retaining power
or attract specialists level

• We will allow online booking via PC, tablet
or mobile phone, in addition to the telephone sets,
appointments with physicians nationwide system for
provide medical care for citizens through
online reservation systems and telephone notification
hours, as well as the reference and counter-reference
with hospitals.

hospital rooms, the cost

• We will create a medical record for the patient, where
it is the owner of the card and it is available for
show anywhere, at its discretion. It can be used
a portable security device containing your
tab and be updated when you connect to the system if
the patient needs.

purchase of equipment to be

• We will use the database for health campaigns
public online, as well as through social networks.

leads to the private system would have a
significant drop, while maintaining
a waiting list no longer than 90 days.
6. Improve the rules governing today
prioritize those tests and treatments
they are most needed.
7. Authorization for agreements between
hospitals and private insurers.
8. Coordination with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs
for payment of benefits are made
to undocumented patients.

9. Agreement with the Ministry of Justice for patient care
derived from prisons.
10. As far as concerns waiting lists keep the standard
"List Auge 0" and establish a standard of care for
diseases not covered by the boom so that all surgeries
are resolved in less than a year and consultation specialists
less than 4 months
11. In terms of infrastructure in line with the National Strategy
Health, with 2020 as the goal, we will build 20 new hospitals
and 100 new Family Health Centers while we will have
100% of public hospitals accredited by 2018.

A
SEVEN
FOR
CHILE

20

www.evelyn2014.cl

Public and dignified HEALTH

12. Finally in terms of medical experts continue
with 3,000 new medical training to match the standard
Medical Training established by the administration of President
Sebastian Pinera and if necessary bring doctors
Sites that validate their studies.

IV. AGENDA FOR IMPROVING attentions
MENTAL HEALTH AND ADDICTION
A full health is understood not only be healthy physically but
as well as having mental conditions to enjoy
life and be happy. When we suffer from mood disorders,
psychological and personality, those affected and their families live under
high stress situations and danger.
In Chile, one in three people suffer from mental health problems
some point in their life. Santiago leads the capitals more
number of anxious and depressive disorders in the world, which has been
resulted in an explosive increase in the use of antidepressants.
Furthermore, Chile is the OECD country where more has increased
suicide rate only after South Korea.
Thus, mental illnesses are a major problem for
public politics. In much of the psicológicopsiquiátricos disorders there is an inverse relationship between prevalence and stratum
socioeconomic, ie, the poor have a greater burden of
mental health problems.
By some estimates, represent psychological disorders

10

measures
improve mental health
and drug addiction
They are ranging from grading
mental health to more
rehabilitation quotas.

about 23% of the total cost of diseases in Chile. Invest
more and better mental health would be good for the country: the indirect cost
diseases associated with mental health and substance abuse
(Lost productivity, absenteeism, and increased use
cost of general health services, etc.) is generally much
greater than the direct costs of treatment.

E V E N LY. U N 7 PA R A C H I L E

21

Public and dignified HEALTH

In turn, it is worrying increase in drug use
our youth. Between 1995 and 2011, marijuana use increased
from 3% to 10.5% between eighth grade students and 10.9% to 23.4%
among students in the second half. Rehabilitation is a process
complex and costly, not only for the victims but also for
family and community. That is why the emphasis should be placed
in preventing consumption, especially in vulnerable people
as young or people with mental health problems.
In my Government we will implement the following 10 measures to prevent
and cope with diseases Mental Health and Addiction
many Chileans suffer.
1. We will approve a Law on Mental Health. Worldwide trends
commitment to mental health laws to coordinate work in this area.
This law should include provisions that protect the rights
people with mental illnesses and disabilities.
2. We will create the National Mental Health Service (SMS) as a
autonomous institution. This will strengthen the network of health services
Mental country, while expanding coverage of mental disorders.
Includes absorb, under the eaves of MINSAL, the PATH (dependent
Ministry of Interior).
3. provide treatment of mental disorders in clinics and
increase the amount and coverage of mental health specialists centers,
either integrated with the network of primary health care
or in COSAM format (Guidance Centers of Mental Health).
4. We will increase the budget that is spent on mental health,
ensure reaching between 10% and 16% of the total budget
the health sector, as recommended by the World Health Organization
Health, WHO.
5. We will expand coverage of mental health services Item
in the private system of health insurance.

22

www.evelyn2014.cl

Public and dignified HEALTH

6. We will increase the number and capacity to solve Centers
Mental Health Counseling (COSAM).
7. rehabilitation quotas will expand by incorporating consumption
excessive alcohol.
8. refund the Drug Treatment Courts (TTD).
It will be forced passage of people who commit crimes related to
consumption, including rehabilitation and bringing the program to those
regions is not present.
9. We will increase the number of homes intermediate stay,
for people undergoing rehabilitation.
10. Normaremos compulsory preventive programs
schools throughout the country, articulated COSAM, and involving
families and the community.

V. attentions of specialized health
IN ELDERLY

3

programs
support for
seniors and doctors
These specialists
patients.

We are experiencing a dramatic demographic change: in ten
Chilean residents, two are seniors. Only in the last five
years, the population over 60 years increased from 13% to 15.6%.
This vulnerable population has features that require
especially faced. Furthermore, the total disability
in Chile, 45% belong to this group and 30% of them require
the assistance of a third party to its core activities.
Within health problems they present, disorders
mood have a prevalence of 16.3% in Chile and of them, 70%
They are depressive. Furthermore, there is a significant increase
people do not functionally independent as a result of increased
cardiovascular disease and its complications. According to a study
by SENAMA (National Service for Older Persons), 86%
of the elderly bedridden at home he says not receive any

E V E N LY. U N 7 PA R A C H I L E

2. 3

Public and dignified HEALTH

kind of social benefit of social or governmental institutions.
Turn on our health care system are scarce human resources
with adequate training in the handling of the elderly.
We propose a Plan of Senior Health which has as
axis to disease and quality of life of over 60 years.
This plan will be based on three specialized programs and the
training of family doctors.
1. interdisciplinary program "'ll walk" prevention
depression, abandonment and loneliness. Psychosocial problems as
depression, loneliness and deteriorating mental faculties must
Actively addressing an integrated interdisciplinary program
family physicians, nurses, psychologists, nutritionists and assistants
trained in elderly social.
The family doctor should promote and encourage healthy lifestyles
(Exercise, healthy diet) and encourage support groups
affinity and occupational therapy throughout elderly.
The identification of a critical event in the life of an older adult
as the presence of disabling diseases, the loss of a
family member, loss of economic independence or abandonment
Family, necessitates urgent intervention of professionals,
as a psychologist, social worker or another.
The units of family medicine primary care should be installed
a telephone line (golden line) for telephone support and advice
health for the elderly. Comprehensiveness with local government
to develop educational group activities in different
aspects of aging, group recreation and support
social are part of the project.

A
SEVEN
FOR
CHILE
24

Social groups in the community are fundamental support
in situations of psychological vulnerability, so in

www.evelyn2014.cl

Public and dignified HEALTH

groups should be identified who can lead these
groups and enable them to support their peers.
2. Program "Most Active" to promote physical activity. Is
It is shown that physical inactivity is a negative factor producing
faster muscle and bone deterioration, which constitutes a factor
risk of accidents, falls and insecurity, becoming more necessary
the support of third parties.
The development of a program that encourages physical activity according to the
disabilities, is a primary objective which decreases the query
morbidity, and home accidents, and improve the state
of spirit. The program includes the participation of the family doctor,
kinesiology and physical education teachers trained for the elderly.
The program should work in an integrated manner with local government
for the organization of group physical activities
(Support kinesiology, fitness and outdoor activities).
3. Program "Let your house" home care for patients
prostrate. The elderly require a comprehensive intervention
by the health team at home. Poor families
They do not have the resources to finance minimal care
from them.
The program will consist of a multidisciplinary teams trained
technically and humanly, who will be the mainstay, assuring them
comprehensive care at home to address the issue in its
entirety. You must create a network of community support and a bra
with strong social foundations, providing the necessary support to families
most vulnerable.
4. Training of family physicians specializing in the elderly.
One of the fundamental problems is the lack of a team
the area of ​​health and social support trained in problems
Elderly. That is why, for the development of programs before

E V E N LY. U N 7 PA R A C H I L E

25

Public and dignified HEALTH

exposed, it should be encouraged training of the different actors
professionals in issues of the elderly. Career incentives
and economical for new professionals to pursue careers
that are linked to the elderly are badly needed.
As Primary Health Program is based on the family physician,
These programs must have specialized Family Physicians
in Elderly.

SAW. INSURANCE, AND ACCESSIBLE TO DRUGS
LOWER PRICES.
One of the biggest problems facing Chilean family are
drug costs. It is estimated that 30% of spending pocket
health is because this item and may even double in

many families
They have easy access
to drugs and
you do not have a
pharmacy in your community.

lower income households. In turn, many families do not have
easy access to drugs not because they have a pharmacy
in his commune. To improve access, quality and prices
drugs, we propose the following five measures.
1. Transform the National Medicines Agency autonomously
independent. Today ANAMED is a Department of the Institute
Public Health. We will promote, which is an autonomous institution and
independent of government administration.
2. lower drug prices.
• To promote the use of generic names of drugs
when prescribing or dispensing.
• Increase the number of generic drugs
bioequivalence. This element is essential to ensure
the quality of lower cost drugs.
• Regulate the unitary dispensing in pharmacies, enabling
people can buy the exact number of

26

www.evelyn2014.cl

Public and dignified HEALTH

medicines required for treatment. This standard,
in addition to reducing the costs of treatment, prevents
misuse of drugs expire and remain in
houses.
3. More access to medicines.
• We will authorize other establishments-different pharmacies
stores and pharmacists to sell drugs
do not require a prescription.
• In all districts where there are no pharmacies, will have
hospitals and public clinics have with
these establishments.
4. We will fight the sale at fairs and places not authorized by the authority,
increasing control, preventing the sale of counterfeit drugs.
5. We will support access to medicines for patients with
rare diseases that endanger the family economy.

VII. REFORM ISAPRES
Isapres system has allowed its members to access services
private health financial protection. This is especially valuable
for members of middle class can hardly access the
Private health otherwise. However, the system faces challenges
important and a source of unease and uncertainty among its
users, among which are the low coverage in chronic diseases
besides being costly captive in his Isapre, differences
prices that are considered excessive for different groups
risk and the recent prosecution system.
Any reform must represent Isapre system solutions to
problems identified while maintaining the benefits, in terms of quality
and innovation, which are derived from the competition and the success
He has had the system in terms of cost control. The discussion does not

E V E N LY. U N 7 PA R A C H I L E

27

Public and dignified HEALTH

It is about whether we need more or less regulation. It needs better
regulation, and that the state plays an active role.
In the short term, Chile has an urgent need: end
the current prosecution of Isapre system. The time and money spent
in a legal vacuum motivated lawsuits are a waste of resources
for the country, unnecessarily diverting attention from the judiciary.
To do this we will promote the adoption of the short law that Isapre
reduced premiums for higher risk groups without imposing a cost
over the rest of the members, and ending with the prosecution.
For the medium term, and thinking of a solution to the root problem,
create a technical committee with experts in health insurance,
working in conjunction with Isapre and authorities. The Commission
will be responsible for improving the design of insurance against diseases
chronic, pre stock, seniors and women of childbearing age. It's about
to combine an efficient, competitive, adequate coverage,
affordable and solidarity (between healthy and sick among young

A
SEVEN
FOR
CHILE

28

and old, men and women).
One idea to consider is that, in cases of catastrophic illness,
Isapres will have to explicitly recognize the cost of treating
new chronic disease and pay it on behalf of the affiliate. In case of
Isapre changed, this amount moves with the affiliate. Thus, the affiliate
stop being a captive Isapre and will become an attractive subject
for the rest of the Isapres.

www.evelyn2014.cl

Quality education and equitable

Education
EQUITABLE AND
QUALITY: FROM
CRADLE TO WORK

E V E N LY. U N 7 PA R A C H I L E

29

Quality education and equitable

A
SEVEN
FOR
CHILE

L

to quality education is the vehicle of social promotion more
effective we know. It is the basis of a fairer society
and modern. It was also the structural pillar on which the

developed economies raised their development strategies ago
decades. Chile faces the challenge of ensuring quality education.
Without it will ensure equal opportunities for our
independent of their socioeconomic population and development
economic development of the country. We can not keep waiting. Now is the time
to take a major leap and ensure no any education, but a
quality education. Only this will ensure effectively the
social mobility and equitably lead to development.
We are aware that our country has advanced in the last
decades. They have increased education budgets in magnitudes
unprecedented in our history, placing particular emphasis
in system coverage. The clearest sign of our progress
is that 80% of Chileans between the ages of 25 and 34
years now have at least 12 years of schooling, while this
percentage is less than 35% among those with more than 55 years.
We also recognize that in the current government, they have implemented
various policies have aimed to improve quality. Notwithstanding
of that, the evidence shows that, overall, policies
that have been implemented over the last 25 years have not had a
significant impact on the quality of training of our
youth and children.
On the other hand, while Chile ranks on education systems
Latin America, and is one of the most advanced countries in the
in recent years the levels of primary and secondary education, measurements
International indicate that we are still below countries
developed. Clearly, the challenge of quality passes so
It happens in the classroom. The latter is especially important
in the case of the most vulnerable children, which require teachers
specially equipped to balance the differences that come
from the cradle, which is valid for different types of education.

30

www.evelyn2014.cl

Quality education and equitable

The Chilean evidence also shows that most teachers
capacity choose to educate in schools that cater to children
higher socioeconomic status. Our belief is that if we
attract the best professionals to teach children more
They require, give important part of the jump that Chile needs.
In Higher Education, as well as at other levels, coverage
has also increased, however, there are difficulties that need
approach. The main problems are related to access
lower income groups; of those living in places where no
prestigious institutions; systems for selecting students who
They not necessarily favor the most talented; and, finally, the
quality and relevance of the given race. In effect, education
It not necessarily connected upper requirements
the labor market, and hence the demand for skills and
specific skills the country needs to continue to increase
employment, wages and sustain economic growth. For the
So pay more attention to what and how to teach becomes even
more valid, since it affects the productivity of our existing and
future workers.
Additionally, advances in financing tariffs are
insufficient to offset the costs in maintenance and transfer,
which become an access barrier. Funding
higher education also requires contributions that transcend
the student. A major contribution to universities attract
the best researchers, and strive in the provision of goods
public, schemes need better accountability and control.
Our educational system, particularly the public, it is not
quality. This hampers social mobility and promotes transmission
intergenerational inequality. We have neglected learning
and, above all, a strategic, continuous and comprehensive view of the process
education. Our deficiencies in training required to turn
important to the educational curriculum, so our emphasis on serving
what happens in the classroom.

E V E N LY. U N 7 PA R A C H I L E

31

Quality education and equitable

But to ensure a quality education, we must innovate taking
into consideration our strengths and weaknesses. Proposals should
build on what has already been built, rather than destroy betting
for models that have worked in developed countries, but not
there is evidence that they are effective in the Chilean context. We must
work based on goals of medium and long term, with particular
emphasis on education that children receive more households
vulnerable in our country. This is in contrast to the short-term vision
Consensus-driven, more focused on increases
coverage and the dismantling of the educational system and not in the
Real quality assurance, which has us in the current situation.
The proposals contained in the government program aimed at ensuring
the transformation of the educational system, ensuring education
competitive and worthy public, academic freedom, freedom of
parental choice, and incentives for all
system actors - students, families, teachers, facilities
and the state work together to ensure that Chile can
have a more just society.

I. INITIAL EDUCATION REFORMS
It will be a priority of our government, promote early education
put the emphasis on early learning for our children
achieve equity. It is in this stage where they produce
differences that affect the rest of life, and are irreversible.
Therefore, invest in this period ensures the profitability and effectiveness
State policies.
With our emphasis on quality early education we give you a
important to turn our educational policies, characterized by
react slowly and belatedly learning problems
our children. We advance in the prevention and early detection
these problems. This is the way that modern educational systems
They operate. Chile must move in this direction.

32

www.evelyn2014.cl

Quality education and equitable

Our goals and key objectives in education

In our government program priority challenge it is to enhance equity and quality
education. To accomplish this, we have set eight key targets.
1. Increase system coverage
education for children under six
years: 50% in nurseries, 60% for
lower average level (2-3 years), 70% for
higher average level (3-4 years) and 90% for
pre-kindergarten (4-5 years).
2. Improve the quality: we can not advance
coverage only. The challenge is quality.
Therefore, our government will advance to
no mother affected her
job opportunities by not having
one nursery or preschool quality and
that no child affected its development
due to lack of cognitive stimulation
and early socio-emotional.
3. Ensure that all our children
early have the tools
to advance the education system.
Ensure that every child is 7 years
received a quality education,
independent dependence
establishment, that attains
development and appropriate learning
to advance the education system.
4. Reduce segregation system
school. Reversing the trend of lower
enrollment in public institutions
through modernization. For that
We will favor the recruitment and retention of
the best teachers, modernizing
management of public property,
mandating compliance
the standards required by the Conventions
SEP to all maintained schools
and evaluating changes to subsidies
existing school.

E V E N LY. U N 7 PA R A C H I L E

5. Transform the education system
Secondary an effective tool
delivery of skills. In our
advance so that no government
young man with the ability to reach the
constrained their higher education
possibilities for four years bad
secondary education. In the same way,
no young person with a desire to use the
secondary education system
learn a trade, will be frustrated in their
wishes for the inability of the system
vocational education to deliver
quality education.
6. Integrate those who are
outside the school system, through
a comprehensive policy for education
children with special educational needs
special.
7. Make higher education system
our springboard to development, through
ensure that educational institutions
Top enhance coherence of their
content with market demands
labor needs of the country.
8. Continuing education for our
population; is necessary to ensure that
educational training is continuous,
that does not end with a title. For that
will promote system integration
job training with work
of technical training centers and
Professional Institutes. This will require
re-engineering of the training system,
SENSE dependent today.

33

Quality education and equitable

It is in early childhood education where inequality is fought; this is the
best opportunity for all departing with the same conditions
and develop their own talents.
We believe the key is a strong pro-quality investment that allows
substantial improvements in the standards of our nurseries and gardens

Equalize wages
level teachers
kindergarten with the
rest of the system.

children. We must also promote the importance of children
attend these venues. The combination of more and better coverage
will allow families to see in the beginning of early childhood
learning process of their children. The state should play a key role in
This process.
1.Inyección quality system: Curriculum Improvement and Better
Ranging from pre. In our government will prioritize strengthening
our preschool, education through a curriculum changes
to promote and ensure socio-cognitive stimulation and emotional
of minors. With that improve the standards of nurseries
and kindergartens, to thereby achieve improve their skills
for performance and school performance in later stages.
Additionally, we will continue to invest heavily in schools
language allowing treat specific disorders of children between
3 and 5 years. This type of early intervention can alleviate
inequalities that emerge early in this stage between
the children of our country.
The ratio in Chile of number of children per kindergarten teacher,
Excluding technical and non-professional staff assistants, is
below the average of the OECD member countries. It's necessary
improve this relationship in terms of the quality of personnel, ie more
ranging from pre for children, better paid and with a higher rating.
To achieve this is to propose:
• Match the salaries of teachers in the kindergarten level
with the rest of the system. This is a recognition

3. 4

www.evelyn2014.cl

Quality education and equitable

explicit the importance that the Government of Evelyn Matthei
will give early education.
• Increase in the number of scholarships to study education
nursery, as in the number of scholarships for
graduate specialization and creating training grant
educators continues to toddler. This will
end in the medium term with large deficits
in matters of qualified staff at this level.
• Improve the quality of initial vocational training through
a theoretical and practical continuous integration and project
training for trainers shared equipment
higher education programs.
• Finally, and to improve information and decision
parents, create a system of information
quality of kindergartens and nurseries to deliver
parents inputs needed to decide where to send
to his children.
2. Increase the coverage of the system. Currently, there is access
from universal prekindergarten through school subsidies. Without
But for previous levels, only ensures access to
from families in the poorest 60% and for mothers
workers who perform their duties in establishments of 20 or
more women. Therefore our Government will work to
No mother you want your child to attend an educational center
Preschool left unmarked.
For this, we work on the adoption of the draft law
of nurseries and kindergartens for children under 3 years. Is
initiative, promoted by Evelyn Matthei as Minister of Labour,
gives the benefit to all dependent workers, including
the temporary and domestic workers.

E V E N LY. U N 7 PA R A C H I L E

35

Quality education and equitable

Additionally eliminate waiting lists in nurseries JUNJI
and INTEGRA and if mothers who study and / or work want to send
their children to pre-school educational center and there is no quota in JUNJI
and INTEGRA, the State will finance the relevant establishment
and is attached to the existing system for working mothers

if mothers who
They are studying and / or working
They want to send their children
an educational center
pre-school and there
quota in JUNJI and INTEGRA,
the state will finance
establishment

the bill nurseries.
Finally, we will promote and foster, in society, especially
the parents, the importance of sending their children to early
preschool education centers. Currently, no mothers
They send their children to nurseries and kindergartens by existing
various reasons, highlighting mistrust in the system and belief
that is not necessary for the care at home. Therefore, our
proposal also includes various information campaigns to
population, which highlight the importance of attending this type
establishments and support for the establishment of organizations
private partnerships that promote the development of pre-school education.

Our government
will increase by about
40% subsidy in
preschool education

3. To improve and equalize funding for all Chilean children
preschoolers. Today there is discrimination by the State
towards children in terms of financing their pre-school education,
which it differs dependency property at attending:
JUNJI own or receive a budget for Integra
operation and that are managed by third parties, but
belonging to the network, they receive a fee for their assistance
students. Our government will increase by about 40% subsidy
in pre-school education and eliminate the differences in resources
Retail assigned to different suppliers. This will be achieved
within five years, and will involve changing the financing system
(Currently via budget) to one in which the MOE accords
amount for the same for all students.
4. New institutions for preschool education. The organization
pre school education today is not required in relation to the functions
the different entities involved. The clearest example is the
dual role that today JUNJI being provider and oversight

36

www.evelyn2014.cl

Quality education and equitable

educational establishments. In our government will reform
the institutions of JUNJI and Integra, transforming them into the pillars
Structural the new education system, finishing among others,
the dual role of the JUNJI. This will be done from the bill
authorization kindergartens and transferred to the Superintendency
the prosecutorial functions.

II. SCHOOL EDUCATION REFORMS
If the last challenge was to achieve a wide coverage, now it has more
to do with the quality and equity of education is delivered
our children and youth. Nobody can deny that our system
education has made progress in the evolution of performance, but
they have had no correspondence with the extremely strong increase
resources for the sector: currently, spending as a percentage
GDP is above several member countries of the OECD, and close
conglomerate average: 3.4% versus 3.9%. Additionally and
as already mentioned, education has not been an instrument
sufficiently effective to enhance or diminish social mobility
intergenerational transmission of poverty and inequality.
The history of school education in Chile has been marked from
beginning by the participation of public and private entities. One of the
You riches our school system is the diversity of projects
education that can extend options for parents to choose
the school according to their own criteria, to be part of
formation process of their children. This has been supplemented slowly
and only in recent times, with greater concern about the
quality and content taught in schools. The creation of the Agency
Quality of Education was an important milestone in this regard.
A component of the mixed system of educational provision in Chile is the
combination of private and public funding and in particular
shared funding. In the beginning, the funding was shared
justified as a mechanism to allow increased coverage
educational, without generating pressures on the public budget. In this

E V E N LY. U N 7 PA R A C H I L E

37

Quality education and equitable

sense, the mechanism was extremely effective. Currently, if
While this priority is resolved, the temporal consistency of this type
policy makes it necessary and also constitutes a legitimate means
to increase the resources available for other school purposes
when parents can choose from different schools for their
children, including schools that do not require copayment. Therefore, we believe
that shared funding should be protected. Not eliminate
would only restrict the freedom of choice of the families of Chile
but also limit the incentives to provide education
quality through less competition in a sector (particularly
subsidized) is now home to 53% of enrollment in the system.
Now, paradoxically, part of the educational discussion and
Recent proposals focus precisely dismantle
education being widely preferred by families and not
urgently to recover the system being abandoned. In
Instead of rescuing the municipal education, emphasis is placed on curb
booming private sector, which is a wrong focus. We believe that
strengthen education, particularly that serves children
most vulnerable, the existence of a mixed system is necessary, in the
that private and public provision are real alternatives and appropriate
so that children get the education they deserve.
Our Government will seek to strengthen the public, especially
in education. School education in our commitment
as a government is that no child fails to receive quality education
because they do not have the resources to access it. For this, it is necessary
strengthen, particularly public free education. The same
time, it is essential to strengthen the work of teachers, especially
those who teach in schools with lower educational performance.
For this, we will implement new incentive systems that reward
those who strive to ensure that the most vulnerable children
Truncated not see their future in terms of their socioeconomic background.
1. Proposals in Basic Education
It is necessary to ensure that our children have as soon as possible with
the tools to ensure their progression through the system. For this,
the curriculum of the first level will be reformulated,

38

www.evelyn2014.cl

Quality education and equitable

paying particular attention to reading as a pillar of the education system.
For these purposes, and the first basic levels of kindergarten
public institutions the concept of "teacher be established
reading ", which will support the work of teachers in charge of the course.
To allow access of all children to charter schools
no ability to pay will constitute a barrier product
shared funding to evaluate changes
school grants existing in our system today. Additionally,
We create a family school subsidy (SEF) which will be assigned
directly to families for them to decide where to send their
children. Being demand-driven, the SEF empower households
and it will be also a powerful tool to reduce segregation.

K levels
and basic first
establishments
audiences will be
the concept of "teacher
Reading "to aopyar
the work of teachers to
charge of the course.

As for the municipal education, progress will be made towards a new system
management of educational institutions, particularly
in those municipalities that do not have the tools to
ensure quality education.
In this context, Local Education Agencies (ALE) will be created
financianciadas unique twist and through a grant from the State,
how to strengthen the management of public resources and
guide the discussion to focus on student learning.
This system will also help to end a feature
Shabby Chilean education system: the absolute absence
responsible, people are publicly evaluated by the
performance of the organization they lead. For purposes of reverse
this situation, each director of municipal education or ALE is required
delivery of public management results, both in terms
financial and educational attainment. The demand for surrender
accounts is done today by the Quality Agency
Education subsidized private schools to be evaluated
permanently so to seek improvements.
To limit or control the eventual existence of segregation and not
by ability to pay, but for any other reason, we evaluate
the possibility of setting limits to the former pupil selection

E V E N LY. U N 7 PA R A C H I L E

39

Quality education and equitable

from schools or colleges, replacing it by a lottery system.
P-1000 program will be created, with a reporting mechanism
accounts and continuous observation, which overcomes the problems detected
in the case of P900 predecessor. In this, it will generate a
special allowance for teachers performance excellence
the 1,000 priority schools, which by the type of Students

It will generate a
special grant
to perform
teachers of excellence
1,000 schools in more
priority.

serve, by their isolation and size, they are municipal. This grant
will pay 60% of teachers in these schools serve a function
their achievements and 40% will go to each school to invest in
infrastructure. To prove that they are distinguished professor,
the teacher must have passed the assessment is mandatory
exclusively for the municipal sector.
Additionally, it monitor and strengthen the current support program
immediately to municipalities in crisis fueled by the Agency
Quality, which will focus 10% of the municipalities with the worst
SIMCE results. This will provide support and guidance, while
It makes the transition to local education agencies.
If the current income gap between the least and most educated is
high today, it will be even greater in the coming years. Managing a
second language and early integration of young people to use
technology are elements that require immediate attention. For this
improve the technological resources available on the premises
effective educational and training programs will be incorporated
a second language, which will include the offer of positions for teachers
foreigners in public institutions throughout the country.
One of the greatest shortcomings of our education system is the
lack of information from the families. The education system
should enable families to be aware of the progress of their children. The
Parents should be part of the educational process early. To this
It proposes the creation of the Single System of Academic Achievement (SILO)
by the Agency for Quality Education, which report
the performance of students in regular families. East

40

www.evelyn2014.cl

They will be released to parents. This information does not necessarily
will be available for the educational establishment, which can
continue using a system of averages.
2. Proposals for Media Education
The high school students will also benefit from the
SEF. In turn these schools will also be subject of the proposal
new system of administration of educational institutions.

Improve the
funding
the EMTP, through a
increased grant
respectively. the values
This type of education
will differ depending
specialty. It estimates a
minimum value of 120 000
monthly pesos.

We believe that the focus should be on vocational technical education
(EMTP), which you should become a real option, delivering education
quality that enables students to acquire tools
perform in the labor market. To strengthen propose
focus on four key areas.
· Relevance of courses and specialties EMTP. To achieve
greater relevance of what is taught is to continue working
greater involvement of employers' associations, in coordination
with different educational actors to define the curricula
and specialties needed to teach in high schools of EMTP. Is
greater participation is established through the signing of agreements
between colleges and enterprises for the latter to sponsor one or
several high schools and to participate directly in shaping the
students and business councils to advise the EMTP schools.
These councils will be formed by entrepreneurs and employers, with
In order to monitor what is taught in the establishment and
that students learn in it. Finally, the creation of councils
sector skills will strengthen the bond of the EMTP colleges
and the productive sectors of the Chilean economy.
· We will improve funding for EMTP, through
an increase of the respective grant. the values
This kind of education will differ by specialty.
A minimum value of 120 pesos a month is estimated.

E V E N LY. U N 7 PA R A C H I L E

41

Quality education and equitable

system will include individual performance tests, whose results

Quality education and equitable

· Will facilitate the continuation of studies. The creation
of a national qualifications framework level will facilitate
recognition and validation of prior learning,
regardless of where these were acquired: training,
colleges, work experience, among others and validation
previous studies for the continuity of learning.
Additionally, we will provide professional practice
through linkage with the productive sector and the
Current learners SENCE program, so
students can do internships with
remuneration, at a rate subsidized by
the state.

The results
for every school in EMTP
and their specialties,
in terms of jobs
and remuneration
graduates; and of
learning
Students will be public.

· We will create mechanisms of information for the population,

especially for students and parents. The results
for every school in EMTP and their specialties in terms of
jobs and salaries of graduates; learning and
students will be public, in order that
Prospective students make an informed decision about
specialty who wish to follow will be monitored,
evaluated and reported to parents and students.
3. Special Education Proposals
Students with special educational needs (SEN) required
particular attention to the school system that responds to
their specific needs, which may include: limited
auditory, visual impairment, deaf-blind, autism, physical disabilities,
cognitive impairment. They represent about 10%
of the population.
There is no comprehensive public policy that takes over all
problems faced by children and their families. Our commitment
as future government is to have a real inclusion of children
with special educational needs, which we will create a
SEP grant equivalent, focused in special schools.

42

www.evelyn2014.cl

special schools, such as food, support of books and supplies
schools, libraries and the National Student Card.
Illiterate or functionally illiterate population reaches 1.2 million
people. We develop a literacy program to the population
more vulnerable over 15 years without schooling or with less than
Four years of schooling, particularly in rural areas men and
women, preferably the latter are more numerous; people
belonging to indigenous peoples, detainees.

III. IMPROVING EDUCATIONAL LEVEL

Develop
program
literacy
the population more
over vulnerable
15 years without schooling
or with less than 4 years
schooling.

There is consensus on the idea that the main way to improve
the quality of education in our country is improving the level of
their teachers. Clearly, the challenge of quality passes through the
classrooms, and therefore, by teachers. Otherwise we have the best in
classrooms, we can not get reach our goal
to improve the quality of education of children in Chile.
The current situation of teacher training system is worrying.
In 2011, 69% of graduates of pedagogy in education
Basic insufficient results obtained in the knowledge test
disciplinary and 42% in the educational area. In the same way,
21 of 25 institutions had more than half of their graduates
insufficient basic education level knowledge tests
disciplinary. There is then no doubt it is necessary to improve the quality
Pedagogy racing in the country.
Another major problem as teachers, are conditions
labor set by the Teachers' Statute. The remuneration of the
Teachers are under the average college professionals
related, and most important race, the structure does not reward good
performance.
A third problem is the lack of alignment between holder, director

E V E N LY. U N 7 PA R A C H I L E

43

Quality education and equitable

Additionally, we will focus on operational problems

Quality education and equitable

and teachers because decisions by centralizing no incentive
to recruit and retain the best people, as there is no consistency
between who assumes the responsibilities and who has the authority.

Increase salaries
for teachers
outstanding and an increase
starting salaries,
of all new
teachers, leading to
$ 600,000 monthly.

The proposals seek to transform this program so deeply
training and teaching career, attracting the best students
study education, modernizing the Teachers' Statute and generating
incentives to reward top-performing teachers, as
also move towards a structure parts of teachers
with bad results.
We propose an amendment to ensure that teachers are part
the solution of the problems facing the education system. Without
quality teachers will not have quality education. Our
Measures will focus on:
• Increase salaries for teachers and highlights
increased starting salaries of all new
teachers, bringing them to $ 600,000 a month. These measures
not only recognize the importance of teaching, but
also seek to encourage the entry of the best
students to the teaching career. Deliver higher
powers to the directors as to the selection of
teachers and their teaching staff on the basis of
known and approved by the holder criteria.
• Reduction in teaching hours and redefinition of the same,
in order to increase the effective time teachers
intended for planning.
• Establishment of professional development sections
(Initial, Ready, Advanced and Expert), so
that progress of a stretch to another be achieved
minimum of experience and pass exams
respective authorization.
• Performance evaluation decentralized, so
that each holder is the need to perform the evaluation

44

www.evelyn2014.cl

Quality education and equitable

performance for teachers of its establishment.
This evaluation will be designed together with the directors,
and should be transparent and known in advance by way
the teachers.
Additionally we will reward teachers work in establishments
priority through two means (P-1000 Program). A first
bonus will be given to those qualified as teachers
excellence under the relevant teacher evaluation at the time that
decide to perform in establishments with vulnerable students,
low results or isolated geographic conditions for both
those who make the effort to change establishment, such as
for those who are already making the contribution in this type of teaching
institutions. Moreover, these teachers have preference when
to apply for improvement grants - Grants and Chile both
in Chile and abroad, in order to enhance their skills
and its expected impact on the most vulnerable students. A second
bonus will be given if in addition to its work in these schools,

bonus will be
given to those
qualified teachers
as excellence
as assessed
relevant teaching
at that time
decide to perform
in establishments
vulnerable students,
low results or
geographical conditions
isolated,

the teacher is highlighted as mandatory evaluations only
the municipal sector. In this sense, although this assessment is not
will be binding on the subsidized private sector and paid for, the
Teachers who apply for this bonus must have a
objective, comparable with the assessment is now required them to
municipal sector teachers. Bonuses are awarded each
two years and may be renewed on the basis of the achievements of teachers.
We will raise the minimum requirements to study pedagogy and generate
supplementary selection mechanisms to identify PSU
consistent with the teaching vocation skills.
The Sign test is mandatory for all those wanting
become teachers at the education receives funding
public (which accounts for over 90% of the national enrollment).
In addition, it is proposed that the Initial Assessment of Knowledge
Teaching Skills and whose surrender would be mandatory
education for graduates wishing to classes in the sector
subsidized. It may take the exam in the second half

E V E N LY. U N 7 PA R A C H I L E

4. 5

Quality education and equitable

Race, Results reserved. In the case of graduates,
the results will be public, per student per institution.
We create performance agreements between the Ministry of Education and universities
for those university programs aimed at linking
pedagogies between schools and educational establishments
public and subsidized private.

IV. TERTIARY EDUCATION REFORM
In higher education, coverage has also increased; Nevertheless,
There are obvious difficulties that must be addressed. Problems
priority access relate to groups of children
income; of those living in places where no institutions
prestige; systems of selection of students, not necessarily
They favor the most talented; and definitely the quality of the
teaching delivered. Advances in financing the tariff are
insufficient to offset the costs in maintenance and transfer, the
that become an access barrier.
The financing of higher education also requires contributions
that transcend the student. A larger contribution is required for the
universities attract the best researchers and the provision
of merit goods, which must be accompanied by better schemes
accountability and control.
Additionally, to achieve the necessary connection between the actions of
labor market and what is taught in the classroom, develop
Qualifications Framework, a necessary tool to structure
existing and new skills, which are defined from results
Learning.
Without the necessary resources to encourage science and technology, Chile
development will be limited. Therefore it is proposed to double public spending
research over a period of 10 years, and accelerating changes
allowing greater integration between the productive sectors and

46

www.evelyn2014.cl

move towards a system of institutional funding to deliver
generating resources for high-level research, subject to
compliance with performance agreements. We propose that all
Institutions eligible for these resources. Thus, the criteria
would grant to promote the generation of quality and real
public institutions with the potential to do.
The state can not and should not assume a liability for which no
you can answer, such as quality assurance of education
higher. However, it can generate information and institutions
enabling the assurance from certain basic standards

We propose to move forward
to a system
funding
that institutional
deliver resources
by generating
public goods, subject
compliance with
performance agreements.
We propose that all
institutions can
eligible for these resources.

which each institution is project and programs.
In this line, we propose:
• Improve the institutional framework addressing problems
conflicts of interest in the line of Bill pending.
• Set standards for accreditation, known and
agreed, that are measured transparently and be
timely and continuously informed. Thus, the methodology
and transparency will be the main way to eliminate
arbitrariness and ensure that the process effectively
it clean.
• Center the accreditation of the institution rather than the
careers, mechanisms of checks and random surveillance
in time (mandatory only for medicine and education).
Also contribute to the quality assurance of the formation
and transparency in the common rules and procedures for the
design of all qualifications, qualifications frameworks are created
national and sectoral qualifications frameworks. These allow
common reference levels for organizing the learning process
as a continuous, providing students the education system
above, particularly in CFT and IPS, building paths

E V E N LY. U N 7 PA R A C H I L E

47

Quality education and equitable

institutions of higher education. Additionally, we propose

Quality education and equitable

training throughout life which respond to the needs
generated in the world of work. They also established the
training requirements according to different levels of complexity and
specialty, identifying the learning necessary to allow
develop a qualification.
As for aid for the most vulnerable students, strengthen
the maintenance grants to students from vulnerable and
regions, so as to offset the higher cost means to
they study in higher education. And we will also increase
The number of scholarships for students with good academic performance
they can apply for technical and vocational higher education.
Also will increase, funds and competitions for the development of
leveling plans for Vocational Technical Higher Education
(ESTP) and to present this offer to the students present
major gaps.
For middle-class students, ensure implementation
new system of consolidated loans and grants proposed by the Government
President Sebastian Pinera, who eventually ensure equal
opportunities to pursue higher studies. This will be complemented
a strengthening of the information systems that determine the
eligibility as payment amounts of loans. We can not
move in the right direction without greater control of the system.

create a
scholarship program
Student
undergraduate
a semester
abroad, in a country
other than speech
Hispanic.

Additionally we believe it is necessary to establish a program
incentive to save for college. The format will be similar to
the voluntary pension savings, allowing households to deduct
tax funds saved in the account for education
of their children. Paying taxes at retirement it is removed if
the amounts are used for tuition.
Finally, we will create a scholarship program for undergraduates
a semester abroad in a country other than speaking.
To improve information for decision-making of our
students, establish an information system for applicants and

48

www.evelyn2014.cl

Quality education and equitable

Students indicated rates employability, remuneration,
among other variables, to be designed specifically designed to
technical and professional higher education (ESTP). In addition, we will increase
mechanisms of information and dissemination of the offer of education
senior technical professional.
To improve supply in the various sectors of our country; motivate
and give incentives to the creation of regional education clusters,
linking them to productive sectors. Regions and group them
We will encourage educational provision according to each economic reality
to generate synergy with the productive sector, for example, Regions
Los Lagos, Aysen and Magallanes: Aquaculture, Tourism and Livestock.
This initiative will also participate skills councils
sectoral detailed later.
Additionally to modernize the institutional system
access to higher education. This new system will simplify
the reporting method selection by university test
use of advances in technology, the opportunity (which can be
pay more than one test in the year) and the mechanism of application,
allowing for example, the candidate can be accepted in
more than one race.
Finally we redefine the granting of Indirect Tax Contribution,
supplement based on current allocation criteria, which
They based solely on the PSU, replacing criteria

In our government,
education will
much more than a title
professional. Chile must
move towards a
educational culture
wherein the forming
is continuous, where
capital accumulation
human extends
even after
completed education
formal.

consider individual effort.

V. NEW APPROACH TO TRAINING
In our government, education will be much more than a title
professional. Chile must move towards an educational culture where
training is continuous, where the accumulation of human capital
it extends even after having completed formal education. The
re-engineering of the training system should be included as
part of our educational proposals. The country needs a new
training approach.

E V E N LY. U N 7 PA R A C H I L E

49

Quality education and equitable

It is proposed to clearly explain the objectives of the training that is
financed with a public component. Training courses
to be financed with public funds should be designed to: increase
effectively the human capital of workers, increase their
productivity at work, through the funding of courses
specific skills and improve worker safety
Knowledge and hygiene and safety. Additionally,
it is proposed that the results of the courses are always evaluated,
worker level, course, educational agency and industry.
Training Advisory Council, whose main objective will be created

They also created the
competencies tips
sector. They are tips
associated by sector
economic, integrated
by businessmen and
workers sectors
representative of the
economy.

is to evaluate and monitor the results of the training system.
To accomplish this, it is intended that this advice is autonomous
and that its members are people renowned for their
professional and academic experience and knowledge in
fields such as economics, law or other related disciplines
with training and the labor market.
It also created the sector skills councils. They are
tips associated by economic sector, composed of entrepreneurs
and workers representative sectors of the economy. His main
the functions will develop and update occupational profiles
qualifications frameworks, detailing the knowledge and skills
necessary, of workers required for each sector and the number
workers that will be required in each profile. They will define
the knowledge required to certify occupational profiles
raised by each council. Finally, the Councils may raise
studies on the design quality of educational training,
the courses to obtain certification and quality
certification bodies of workers has been given in
Professional Technical high schools, universities, professional institutes,
technical training centers, training SENCE, and processes
certification of job skills in ChileValora, among others.
Additionally quotas for quality training will be increased.
Will increase to 60 thousand annual quotas of training program
for Work, whose skills are extensive, with courses

50

www.evelyn2014.cl

bordering the 1.5 million pesos and contain a maintenance allowance.
We will strengthen the apprenticeship program which subsidizes
with up to 50% of the minimum wage to apprentices working in the
companies. We will promote the dual training through learning
companies, for which allow students to study
in a secondary school vocational technical secondary education, can access

Will increase to 60 thousand
annual quotas of
Training program
for Work, whose
Trainings are
extensive, with courses
last between 400 and 600
hours.

this benefit. This also will help to students
This type of high schools to complete their professional practice and thus
your degree.

E V E N LY. U N 7 PA R A C H I L E

51

Quality education and equitable

last between 400 and 600 hours. The costs of such training

Quality education and equitable

A
SEVEN
FOR
CHILE

52

www.evelyn2014.cl

Regionalization of truth

Regionalization
FOR REAL

E V E N LY. U N 7 PA R A C H I L E

53

Regionalization of truth

E

l centrality of our country is not a new situation but
that history. It is part of the political DNA of the country even from
before the birth of our republic. Nevertheless,

this situation has worsened in recent decades, where
the country's population growth has been concentrated in the region
Metropolitan.
But concentration is not only demographic, but also
It is expressed in many other dimensions. For example, the capital
also accounts for 45% of GDP, 80% of
deposits and bank loans, 76% of the top 50
schools, 26 of the 49 national universities and the only four clinics
Chilean in the Top 40 in Latin America, which does not go hand in hand with
the actual population represented.
Just in recent years, specifically hand
Government of President Sebastian Pinera, a process is started
Delivery of greater autonomy for the regions. Within
main measures that drive is greater decentralization
Development within the "Regional Plans", built
from the regions; increased over 50% of the resources
Fund for Regional Development on what is
delivered during 2006-2009 resources on which the
decides autonomously region and the approval of the law that allows
the election of regional directors, which governments
They will have regional representation and greater proximity to the
demands of the people, from the elections next 17
November.
However, as the figures show, there is still a long way
go. Our program of government in this matter reflects the
deep conviction that promote sustainable regional development
and efficient in many fields have long-term positive
impact on the welfare of people. We are convinced that
Chile will not be a developed country while this development does not reach
all regions and towns of our country.

54

www.evelyn2014.cl

Regionalization of truth
That is why our government will approach the Program
decentralization with a comprehensive view and from four fronts
simultaneously:
I.

Decentralization of power.

II.

Tax and decentralization of resources.

III.

Decentralization of human resources.

IV.

Local identity.

In parallel to the development of this chapter will be exhibited our
proposals for two major sectors of the economy that are
fundamental for the regions. Mining, which plays a key role
for the northern regions of the country -in represents Antofagasta
60% of GDP and is also a regionally important resource
to finance social programs of the state. And agriculture,
from the O'Higgins Region to the
South has a participation -along with the top 10% of fishermen
GDP of each region.

I. DECENTRALIZATION OF POWER
Today the centralization of Chile does not have to do only with the use of
resources but primarily with the centralization of power in
the capital. That is why our government will decentralize
the political system by amending the Constitution and regulations
are necessary to transfer power from the central government to
local governments.
Today, the Constitution entrusts the Constitutional Act (LOC)
respective determine the form and manner in which the President may
transfer administrative powers to regional governments.
The current government introduced a draft law in this matter
It implements that discretion, which is now a dead letter. We will return
the project and make the changes necessary to extend the
number of materials that can be subject to such delegation. So
We simplify the transfer of powers from the President to the
Regional governments.

E V E N LY. U N 7 PA R A C H I L E

55

Regionalization of truth

In turn, strengthen the figure of the president of the Regional Council
in relation to the Regional Governor. With the direct election of
CORES should be the ones to appoint the Chairman of the Board
Regional. This is a thorough study of segregation of duties
Today the quality of Mayor and Chairman of the Regional Council
confunden- to clearly define them and avoid conflicts
competition. The idea is to delegate the functions Mayor
Interior Government of the region (who will remain appointed
by the President of the Republic), leaving the Chairman of the Board
Regional head of the Regional Government, who will be validated
politically to be elected directly by their peers, who are
chosen by citizens in democratic elections.

Therefore we will allow
that other SEREMIS
Public services
they can be installed with
location criteria
differentiated.

But not only that. We will also strengthen the regional councils
as collegiate bodies. Thus, to quote the facultaremos
regional or provincial authorities request information from the Mayor,
who must reply within 20 days, and once a year
You may request an audit. So, we will deliver them the tools
necessary for them to perform effective oversight. Also
allow attendance of parliamentarians in the region to
Regional Councils, with voice, and establish the obligation
employers to authorize the directors to assist
boards and commissions.
Today the egalitarian structure of public administration in the territory
stiffens the system, to encourage geopolitical criteria for designation
regions, provinces and municipalities. Therefore we will allow SEREMIS
and other utilities can be installed with location criteria
differentiated, for example, depending on the production activities, the
poverty or the need for integration of isolated areas.
We will increase the maximum amounts for contracts execution
works and studies and advice to the Regional Directors of MOP
They can allocate and manage directly, in order to accelerate
Regional investment and reduce time prior to the execution of
The proyects.

56

www.evelyn2014.cl

they can always exercise the functions and powers that do not require
economic development to the best of their work resources; emulating
the rule of the US Constitution on everything that does not
is expressly given to the competence of the Federal Government
will be under the jurisdiction of the states. This is necessary to
Light in the Chilean public law authorities can only
abocarse those tasks in that competition law has given them.
Moreover, we know that municipalities are constantly judged
for the safety of their communities, when the powers that are
to achieve impact in this area are limited. It is because of that
in this area allow municipalities, in coordination
with police, can establish or neighborhood watch systems
communal, whether with police personnel provided by police,
or by municipal officials and police trained by
You authorized by them for the carrying of firearms registered
According to the respective law.

That is why in this
allow material
municipalities,
in coordination with
Carabineros, may
establishing systems
Neighborhood Watch
or community, either with
police personnel
proportionate
by police, or
by officials
municipal, trained
by police and
authorized by them
to carry weapons
Fire, registered
in accordance with the law
respectively.

But not enough simply to redistribute powers from the capital to the
regions, because the national centralism has been replicated within
regions, promoting regional capitals. To advance
intraregional give greater administrative decentralization freedom
internal to the Regional Government, allowing establish that those
standards or purely administrative matters be granted in full
Freedom Regional Government. In turn, we will give the power to
Regional Governments can subscribe to all types of agreements
or associations work together in order to comply with
more efficient as a way to common goals may be attracting
resources between private or transfer of goods and services. Definitely,
this initiative will form alliances and joint work between
regions. We will also allow the Regional Government under agreement,
it can be installed or exercise their functions in another commune of
other than the regional capital region and may also provide that
the Regional Governor to exercise their functions and powers
Provincial Governor.

E V E N LY. U N 7 PA R A C H I L E

57

Regionalization of truth

At the municipal level, specifically consecrate municipalities

Regionalization of truth

II. TAX AND DECENTRALIZATION
MEANS
The projects
made in regions
They must pay a
community tax
Local and also deliver
a percentage of
their taxes
profits to the region,
all the years.

We know that the use of the majority of the resources is decided in
Santiago, although in many cases investment projects
made in regions. That is why we will carry out a real
"Tax Decentralization" expanding the constitutional principle
under which the legislator is authorized to affect taxes that have
a clear regional or local impact, to give this constitutional basis
initiative. This will allow the large-scale investments, mining
or regional natural resource industries contribute to projects
economic and social advancement of the communities or regions in which
They are located. It is not compensate for the negative impacts
which may cause pollution or others-such as, for that
There Service Environmental Impact Assessment (SEIA), which
determines the compensation or mitigation to be required of
Developers of such projects. It is the governments do
local part of part of the tax revenues
new investments will redituarán the central government. It is therefore a
road tax decentralization. In this area, we will create two
mechanisms by which large investment projects
will contribute to the regions.
• We will create a tribute so that 1% of the amount of
investment of large investment projects will be provided to
funds to finance development projects Local socially
tax credit with profitable way of not raising the
investment.
• All relevant new draft investment will allocate 10%
you have to pay in tax income to the
region produce profits.
The National Fund for Regional Development (FNDR) is the main
instrument with which regions have to finance their projects.
We modify the criteria that is assigned to be FNDR

58

www.evelyn2014.cl

Regionalization of truth

7 Proposals for a 7
The rural world

1. Better working conditions. We will review
and soon will dispatch the new statute
labor in agriculture and establish incentives
for the installation of nurseries and subsidies
those who cooperate in the care of their children.
2. Training of truth. Addition
changes to national training system
(See chapter Growth), establish
a special mode to train
agricultural workers and entrepreneurs. For
We use this seasonality times
decline in temporary employment for training,
encouraging them with participation certificates.
3. Better trading conditions in the sector.
We will reform the CDC
improving their skills, speeding
decision times, giving initiative
to proceed automatically, simplifying
procedures to initiate investigations
and incorporating independent persons of
Government Council. We will ensure that the
government's economic policies do not press
to lower the exchange rate, but on the
otherwise conducive to stable exchange rate and
competitive.
4. Increased attendance and support. We will continue
to strengthening Indap has done
successfully the current government, ensuring
up to 100% of sector programs
financing, training and technical assistance
as Prodesal, and increase the coverage
producers. Implement a line
Special financing BancoEstado
Replacement of old orchards of 50
has. per beneficiary at appropriate rates, long
term with three years of grace. And expand
markets where we have preferences
tariff.

E V E N LY. U N 7 PA R A C H I L E

5. Improved quality of life in the countryside.
Improve conditions clinics
and schools (see chapters of Health and Education)
We will move decisively paving
roads and facilitate access to housing
rural, in villages and inside the property
family.
6. We will strengthen the productividad.Invertiremos
in reservoirs, improve channels
distribution, will promote irrigation systems
modern on the premises and for sectors
rainfed Pursue intraprediales dams.
We will return to the soil fertilization
agricultural and deal with reducing
energy costs (see chapter Growth).
We will ensure the early adoption of the project
which extends and improves the DL 701 (incentives
forestry).

7. We will strengthen the institutional framework.
We will modernize the current portfolio of Agriculture,
recasting in a single view all services
related public and today are
in various government departments. We will create the
Conaf public, yearning has been postponed
again and again for reasons beyond the sector.
We ensure the creation of a public service
to organize and develop biodiversity and
national parks. Will refine
Cotrisa operation, keeping
open purchasing power and incorporating
other cereals and grains in the tender offer.
And strengthen the institutions of the SAG,
since it contributes significantly to open
markets and improve producer prices.

59

Regionalization of truth

Now is the time
advance from the
great works to more
small, for which
we will improve
the concessions law
public works and
the organic law
municipalities to
build and concession
administration
gyms, squares,
libraries, offices,
among others, integrating
the private sector and the
organized community
Local with their neighbors,
to improve the quality
Life of the communities
Chilean.

more efficient. Perfecting the criteria for distribution, creating
a new methodology for measuring impact. In turn, we will
adjust the criteria of the Ministry of Social Development Profitability
Social, which tends to hurt a lot to rural areas, localities
isolated and even solutions in large urban centers linked to
necessary matters, but which are not investment "cement and nail."
Not only must increase the resources available
regions, it is also necessary to increase the certainty
the availability of resources. Therefore we will increase in more than
50% the proportion of investment resources of governments
Regional assigned to them directly by Budget Law.
This will allow better planning, programming and development
regional investment projects.
During 2010 and 2011 the share of national public investment
it was decided at the regional level it reached 30%. Our goal is
advance for half of the national public investment pass
be the subject of regional decision.
At the municipal level, meanwhile, we will make real contributions
estate and other municipal rights arising from the presence and
activity of the headquarters of a company in a commune to be paid in
it and not where the headquarters.
As is the case at the regional level, municipalities require
greater flexibility in budget management. To do this send
a law that would give them power to facilitate the collection of fees
municipal amenities such as rights, and improve the
advertising fees and simplify the regularization of housing, among
other subjects.
To reduce the differences that occur between the municipalities of
higher incomes and those with lower incomes, will establish
standard basket of municipal services in each commune, offsetting
inequalities generated. And to increase efficiency
managing your income and expenses; we will implement a system of

60

www.evelyn2014.cl

keep track of the activities
out by the municipality.
Chile has come a long way in terms of
since the 90 infrastructure concessions
Public works would have changed the face of the
country, but this effort has been focused on
works great. Today is time to move on
from large to smaller works,
for what we will perfect the Act
Public Works Concessions and the Law

PROPOSALS FOR
MINING SECTOR
• Improve access to power.
(See chapter Growth)
• in the short term will complete the cadastre
mining property line.
• We will refine the authorization process
permits and mining projects, the
Environmental Procedures and effective implementation of
the single window.

Organic municipalities to support
construction and management concession
gyms, parks, libraries, offices,
parks, among others, integrating the industry
private and local community organizations,
with its neighbors, to improve the quality
of life of Chilean municipalities.
In our country there are areas that require
special treatment for their conditions
isolation. That is why we will allocate the
resources needed to implement
regional policies of isolated communities,
by coordinating resources
various public services such as SUBDERE and
Regional Governments, to advance
overcoming the isolation
and mitigate its effects on communities. TO
In turn, we will complete the construction of
functional access to rural communities
and isolated, involved in the design, implementation
construction and maintenance of communities

• We will facilitate the realization of the agenda
investment estimated today at more than US $ 112,000
million between 2013 and 2021 and work on
attract new investment. To do this, we will seek
provide greater legal certainty for investment, improve
managing permissions and eliminate processing
unnecessary.
• We will ensure through training the
availability of specialized personnel for
mining. (See chapter Growth)
• review the S.D. No. 76, based on the policy
promotion of small and medium-scale mining,
in procurement, and sustained rates
prices.
• We will enhance the ongoing work of the Company
National Mining in areas such as
expansion and modernization of plants
treatment, including Hernán Foundry
Videla Lira.
• We will apply to the National Oil Company
Corporate governance statute similar to that
apply private companies.

local, natural resources, cultural values
and identity elements, thereby strengthening
form a sense of belonging.

E V E N LY. U N 7 PA R A C H I L E

61

Regionalization of truth

municipal management control, in order to

Regionalization of truth

Which will promote
division heads
of Governments
Regional stay
subject to system
Senior Public Management, which
which will set
Selection systems
senior management
more transparent and
objectives, encouraging
thus the
attracting capital
Human advanced to
regional administration.

III. Decentralization of resources
humans
Not only it requires that the regions and local governments have
with greater powers and financial resources, but also
essential to attract and retain the best human resources in regions.
We will seek that talent does not leak to the capital, but on the
Otherwise, stay in the regions where it is generated and go from the capital
regions. To do this will favor applicants of studies
abroad who agree to return to work at an institution
located in regions,
In parallel, we will implement agreements between governments
Regional, CONICYT and CORFO, to attract and retain equity
Human advanced in the different districts and regions.
We will promote the division heads of the regional governments
become subject to the Senior Public Management system, allowing
establish systems more transparent selection of senior managers
and objectives, encouraging thus attracting human capital
advanced to the regional administration.
At the municipal level we will also promote the improvement of capital
human by approving the bill today
It is being discussed in Congress and the development of a national policy
determined by the integration, organization and development of the resource
human in the work towards the improvement of quality municipal sector
and projections of municipal officials and development
a culture aimed at improving the quality of services
provided by the government. In turn, generate new procedures
administrative, aimed at putting the user at the center of activity
of public services.

62

www.evelyn2014.cl

Our government strongly promote the identity and rooting
people with their locations. For this we have defined a plan
five measures, so that all Chileans can be proud
where they live:
1. We will promote regional identity. Boosting name
regions of Chile by their respective names, and materializing
the provisions of Law 20,537, so that in each region
with its anthem, flag and coat.

New Regions:
We evaluate one
map modification
regional, to see the
feasibility and efficiency
to create regions
Aconcagua, Nuble,
Malleco, Osorno, Maule
South and others. This would
together with
redefinition of the division
regions in the provinces.

2.Promocionaremos products and typical areas. We will support each
region in the identification and formal recognition of products and areas
Typical regional, through projects of geographical indications,
appellations of origin, collective marks and certification of these
products.
3. We will showcase the regions. We will implement a platform
Virtual communities containing consolidated information and regions
As for the attractions, characteristics and development opportunities,
including five dimensions: live, work, invest, study and innovate.
4. New Regions. We evaluate a modification of the regional map,
to see the feasibility and efficiency of creating regions of Aconcagua,
Ñuble, Malleco, Osorno, South Maule and others. This would be done in conjunction
a redefinition of the division of regions in the provinces.
5.Haremos themselves internationally. This involves not only
have a ProChile, but potentially have a ProAraucanía,
ProArica, ProAysén, in order to deliver greater autonomy
regional development in different regions of the planet.

E V E N LY. U N 7 PA R A C H I L E

A
SEVEN
FOR
CHILE

63

Regionalization of truth

IV. Local Identity

Regionalization of truth

A
SEVEN
FOR
CHILE

64

www.evelyn2014.cl

E V E N LY. U N 7 PA R A C H I L E

65

CRIME AND NARCOTRÁFCO firm hand of woman

CRIME AND DRUG TRAFFICKING

Delinquency
and Drug Trafficking
STRONG HAND
AGAINST WOMEN
CRIME
And drug trafficking

CRIME AND DRUG TRAFFICKING

D

uring the government of President Sebastian Pinera over 300
thousand families ceased to be victims of crime, thanks
a fall in the rate of victimization in the last three
years 33.6% to 26.3%. However, when even one of each

four households are victims of crime every year, the perception of
citizenship is that the battle against crime is being lost
and that the authorities are to be in the area of ​​public safety.
Vandalism in the protests, the cases of minors with
extensive handbooks and violence in robberies are of indignation
among Chileans, who have put this problem in the first place
concern in all public policy surveys.
This is attributed to many reasons: widespread deficiencies
the judiciary and the functioning of the prosecution of the Ministry
Public laws that have prevented garantistas end impunity,
an excessively guarantor discretion of the judges, increasing consumption
drug offenders who are released quickly and lack
rehabilitation of those who fall in prison, among others.
It is fair to say that the current government has promoted important

one in four
homes are
Victims of Crime
all the years.

measures that will gradually giving positive results.
These include the Tactical System Delictual Analysis (STAD), which allows
keep track and act on specific targets and the Unified Bank
Data collecting and coordinates statistics involved
in crimes. In addition, a Registry of Fugitives and pushed and Pedophiles
a set of high-impact programs (Barrio in Peace and Trade
Residential Home Alert, School Violence Protection). He acted
prevention level, certified by accredited schools
have adequate policies to prevent drug use
and alcohol, and also in terms of rehabilitation, with programs
job training and social reintegration of prisoners.

I. CRIME PREVENTION MEASURES: FROM
TO SCHOOL DISTRICTS
We are firmly committed to crime prevention
all areas because it is the only way to win the battle against

66

www.evelyn2014.cl

reassurance to the public; and rehabilitate a prisoner is to cut the circle
recidivism. Likewise, neither let it pass crimes
criminals "white-collar" for the damage to social trust
generating scams and abuses. We realize that there is no bullet
money for this and that we must move simultaneously around
preventing the cycle from early childhood to adulthood, so it is
During our Government will carry out an ambitious agenda

Preventive programs
drug and alcohol.
It will be mandatory for
all schools, colleges
and schools implement
preventive programs
drug use and
Alcohol from pre-basic
to fourth means.

8 prevention, as detailed below:
1. We will implement the Program for Prevention of School Violence
in all schools. This puts managers, parents,
parents and students to work together to create a system of discipline
training based on their own values, better control of common spaces
and focus on complex cases. To do this, the Undersecretary of Prevention
Crime will train managers of coexistence in schools.
2. preventive drug and alcohol programs. It will be mandatory for
all schools, colleges and schools implementing preventive programs
consumption of drugs and alcohol from pre-primary to fourth means.
There is currently a bill, authored by Senator Jaime
Orpis, which give full priority for approval.
3. Estabelcimientos certificados.Nuestra goal is that 100%
are certified establishments Establishments
Preventive education, with the aim of installing a culture
preventive education that empowers communities to prepare
and building effective strategies.
4. Chile will expand the program prevents School 100%
of educational institutions where children study more
vulnerable in the country, preventing students develop behaviors
risky.
5. Executive Secretary neighborhoods replicate the experience críticos.Para
that was in the League will create an Executive Secretariat Barrios

E V E N LY. U N 7 PA R A C H I L E

67

CRIME AND NARCOTRÁFCO firm hand of woman

expect others to commit genocide; arrest and conviction of an offender is given

CRIME AND DRUG TRAFFICKING

crime. The reason is very simple: prevent a crime is better than

CRIME AND DRUG TRAFFICKING

Critics who specialize in the implementation and monitoring of
comprehensive interventions, reaching the year 2018 at least 15 neighborhoods
critics, with coverage in each region.
6. We will increase multisystemic therapy. For young offenders
law, reaching five thousand high-risk families, to ensure that
all children and youth at high risk profile that knock on the door
the justice system, change its course, stop using drugs
and committing crimes.

during our
government have 6,000
new cops on the
streets and will grant them
the tools
necessary for
his job.

7. safe urban design. We establish in the laws and regulations
current criteria for urban design neighborhood security service
citizen, as the best monitors of what's happening in our
neighborhoods, are the neighbors.
8. victims support center. They will be built 50 new centers
Support to Victims of Violent Crimes, to reach 100 centers
2018, providing legal and psychological assistance, and extending the
catalog of crimes.

II. MORE EFFECTIVE POLICE: OLDER
POWERS, BETTER AND INCENTIVES
MORE INFORMATION.
The police are one of the cornerstones in the fight against
crime, who risk their lives for our day and day,
Although it does not have all the resources and powers that enable them
adequately deal with crime. That is why during
our government will have 6,000 new police officers on the streets and do
We will grant the necessary tools to do their jobs. For
it powers have detected five policemen have today,
and often prevents apprehend criminals or generate
enough for them to be convicted tests. It is therefore
which will be a priority in our government give them the powers
(See box).

68

www.evelyn2014.cl

you also need to give the right incentives, strengthening
training, closer to the community and rewarding good
performance. For that we will implement 12 specific measures,
They listed below:
1. Promotion and Compensation System.
We will perfect the system of promotion and
salaries of police, encouraging
the good performance of its officials.
2. We will update the curricula
of the police. To account for the
new and better techniques and technologies
available on international experience
to better address crime.
3.

We will initiate

a

system

from

ongoing training. Joint
between prosecutors and police, on the basis of
simulations and operational permit
be developing criteria and standards
common action, especially in
the first steps after the commission
of a crime.
4. We will refine the Quadrant Plan,
improving the control of management,
use of indicators to assess
fulfilling commitments and goals,
the use of evidence to guide

MAJOR POWERS
THE POLICE

1. We will increase the powers to practice of
once the first steps of the investigation
of a crime, in order to identify and arrest
criminals. To this end they may request the
public and private agencies all information
graphic, photographic, visual or audiovisual
help to comply with the above. Also
may identify witnesses and record their
voluntary statements, whether concerned a
flagrant crime or not.
2. We will facilitate the examination of clothing,
luggage or vehicle of a detainee.
3. We will incorporate a new case for the
Police arrests a criminal surprised
in flagrante delicto, when their participation
suspected from photographic media, visual or
audiovisuals.
4. We will allow the police to enter and register a
closed place without prior judicial authorization,
when it is proceeding with the destruction of
objects that were used to commit a crime or
coming from the same.

police action and minimize rotation
to empower police officers
stronger ties with the community.

E V E N LY. U N 7 PA R A C H I L E

5. We will allow police, during a search of
an enclosed, with the sole approval of the Prosecutor,
seize the species or objects found and
to suspect that come from another crime.

69

CRIME AND NARCOTRÁFCO firm hand of woman

CRIME AND DRUG TRAFFICKING

But not only the police need more powers but

CRIME AND DRUG TRAFFICKING

5. Deadlines Commissioners. Homologate the remaining term of the
Commissioners with the period of Mayors, so that they remain
in one place the appropriate time to come to know
neighbors and work in coordination with communities.
6. We will create a Centauro Squadron region. To support the work
Carabineros in Quadrants plans, but with mobility
territorial to be in place and appropriate time, depending
the characteristics of each zone.
7. We will build 50 new police stations and checkpoints and barracks 50
Police Investigaciones.En suggested by geographical areas
mayors and councilors in 100 municipalities with the highest index tort,
after you consult with the respective neighbors.
8. 200 mobile stations neighborhood Shall be put into operation

Build 50
New Police Stations
or detents 50
Police headquarters
Research.

Government during the period in which neighborhood councils may
hours apply for certain cases.
9. Complaints and records online. Facilitate the complaints
crimes or the processing of "police record" enabling a system
so the neighbors can not attend physically to do
police, but by email or internet site.
10. Empower vecinos.Dispondremos boards all together
neighbors are entitled, at least once a year, to request and have
formally a neighborhood safety hearing Commissioner
your neighborhood, to expose their fears, complaints and suggestions.
11. We will create an autonomous fund of Neighborhood Safety. To which
Meetings may submit projects only neighbors who will be awarded
by the Secretariat for the Prevention of Crime and the Secretariat for
Regional Development. The most vulnerable communities will be prioritized and
with the highest rate of crime.

A
SEVEN
FOR
CHILE

70

www.evelyn2014.cl

solved by police, we integrate local prosecutors,
Mayors and community representatives in monthly meetings
by Prefecture.
But even the more powers and better incentives are
if enough do not have reliable and timely information.

will have
while an
person is
fugitive, the State
can suspend
all benefits
to which if any, of
law.

That is why for a better information system
police intelligence, we will promote the National Security Council
Public -agency where the highest authorities of the meet
Police, prosecutors, the Ministry of Justice, the National Service
(SENAME), Gendarmerie, the Judiciary, the Association
Chilean Municipalities, the Secretariats of the Interior and
Prevention of Crime, should in session at least once a month and put in
Start the Unified Database. In turn, the Council will consolidate
registration fugitives and systems that count
field officers to identify people with accounts
earrings justice during routine procedures.
Added to this, we will have that as a person
find fugitive, the state can suspend all benefits
to which entitled to.
Finally, we know that an alert citizenry is empowered and
best ally of the police. That is why we will change
legal for citizens to be informed at the time
timely about who is to warrant and are fugitives
justice, regardless of their social or economic status.

E V E N LY. U N 7 PA R A C H I L E

71

CRIME AND NARCOTRÁFCO firm hand of woman

out of STAD, as not all problems can be

CRIME AND DRUG TRAFFICKING

12. Improvement STAD. In order to get the most

CRIME AND DRUG TRAFFICKING

III. REHABILITATION AND SOCIAL REINTEGRATION
TRUE
Rehabilitate a juvenile offender involves avoid career criminal
in the future, while rehabilitating an inmate is to cut the circle
recidivism.
That is why the task of rehabilitation and reintegration should start
expand the
powers and coverage
of the Courts
Drug Treatment.

with young people. We develop a treatment program
highly complex for adolescents to get in 2018-12600
vulnerable young people with problematic drug and alcohol use,
incorporating this network the Ministry of Health, and the Service Sename
National Prevention and Rehabilitation of Drug
and Alcohol (PATH).
To solve the root of the problem

THREE STEPS TO REFORM
TEEN AND PENAL INSTITUTIONS
CUTTING THE RACE
CRIMINAL EARLY

those who commit crimes a product
addiction, we expand the powers and
coverage Treatment Courts
Drugs that have been shown to reduce
recidivism in half between those

• We will launch the new service
Adolescent Criminal Responsibility on the basis
international experience, combining
responsibility of adolescents with delivery
of a real second chance, through
education, drug rehabilitation and programs
reducing recidivism.

graduate from this program. Our goal

• propose reengineering programs
Current reintegration and rehabilitation,
promoting private provision, but increasing
and establishing standards based competition
evidence and correct incentives.

addictions to share facilities,

• We will refine the system of penalties
juvenile offenders, finishing with space
of impunity that has been used by offenders
common and cause concern and helplessness
on the victims.

Today we live a prison overcrowding, which

72

It is to provide such treatment
more than two thousand doomed to 2016
and achieve nationwide coverage.
For those who are rehabilitating from
activities and responsibilities expand
Housing model Intermediate stay
all regions of the country by 2015.

decreases the possibility that the
prisoners can be rehabilitated. It is therefore
we will build five new prisons

www.evelyn2014.cl

squares, thus increasing the opportunity to implement programs
contribute to rehabilitation and reintegration, and reduce the
victimization in prisons. Such programs should include
sub-effective in areas such as education, nurseries,
psychological care, addiction care, job training,
sport and culture.
To improve the social reintegration of prisoners present, we create a
system in which each person entering prison will be evaluated for
determine their wrongful profile and design a personalized work plan
leveling involving educational, psychological treatment, improvement
drug addiction, social support and job training, as
appropriate. Based on this information, we develop a
four-year plan expected to reach 35 thousand prisoners.
Finally, to allow inmates to have a definitive reintegration,
They must be able to make a living from a job, for which we will develop
a program of job training for 10,000 convicted profile

program
job training
sentenced to 10 000
delict and incentivize the profile Medioalto
employ prisoners
through benefits
tributaries so
reaching five thousand
sentenced.

tort medium-high and incentivize the recruitment of prisoners through
tax benefits, in order to reach five thousand prisoners.

IV. FRONT WAR ON DRUGS
BORDER AND DISTRICTS
We know how the drug not only destroys people and their
families but also to the whole environment in which it is installed.
We are witnessing how whole neighborhoods have succumbed to the drug
and drug trafficking. For this reason, our war on drugs
It will be front and relentlessly.
To the above is not enough that a particular institution take
but a cross-cutting issue and coordinanda action is necessary.
For this we will develop a new Master Plan Inter
Drug Trafficking, coordinating the Ministry of Interior and Security
Public, prosecutors and police, among other relevant actors.

E V E N LY. U N 7 PA R A C H I L E

73

CRIME AND NARCOTRÁFCO firm hand of woman

CRIME AND DRUG TRAFFICKING

concessioned to 2018, which they will offer around 15 thousand new

CRIME AND DRUG TRAFFICKING

Control will increase the -a through technological tools and
more human resources- to reduce inpatient drug
across borders, land, sea and air, in order to
hinder its transport.
But the effort does not end at the border. In order to hinder
the marketing of drugs in the territory -in advance
together with the Ministry of Justice in locking systems
cell phone signals in prisons,
But the drugs consumed in the country not only from the outside.

We will develop a base
Public data
charged with
drug traffic
who encounter
arrest warrants.

Together with the police, we will design a plan to increase
detection and destruction of marijuana crops. I also know
You will perfect the system of control of companies dedicated to the
import, export, sale, storage and / or transportation
precursors and chemicals of potential use for the manufacture
of illicit drugs.
To meet national criminal organizations and
dedicated to international drug trafficking, we will hold
the following measures:
1. We will incorporate the equity research analysis by
drug trafficking and will refine the implementation of the decrees
deportation of foreign drug traffickers.
2. We will create a record of drug dealers with expulsion orders
and providing control agents.
3. We will develop a public database of suspects for trafficking
drugs that are with warrants. To improve
effectiveness and targeting of policies in this area, the Ministry
Interior will have a national register of sectors more
intensity of drug trafficking and, in conjunction with the police, define
integrated intervention priorities targeted programs
in neighborhoods. These statistics are part of the STAD.

74

www.evelyn2014.cl

through:
1. Strengthen asset inquiries in cases
under this Act.
2. dotaremos the Public Ministry and the Police resources
human, technical and financial, in order to improve
regulating the management, use and destination
of seized and forfeited under the
drug law.

V. OTHER AMENDMENTS TO THE
PENAL INSTITUTIONS
We see, every day, people with extensive police record still
released committing crimes. Regardless of whether responsibility
it judges to be very garantistas, laws to be very
lax or prosecution for failing to properly present the evidence,
fact is that these people can not be free. It is by
why in our government, no criminal or drug trafficker
it is a repeat offender is entitled to parole or a
carcelariosino law will have to serve his sentence in prison.
In line with this, we will increase the powers of judges to
let remand the accused of a felony prison, so

in our government,
no criminal or
drug trafficker
is a repeat offender will
the right to freedom
provisional but
will have to fulfill its
jail sentence.

that can be decreed when necessary and not as the last
caution. At the same time, the court must consider that there is a danger
leak when the accused register one or more warrants
judicial or repeated previous arrests.
Also we foster a Execution of Sentences Act, which strengthens
the institutions responsible for the implementation and control of sentences
custodial, ensuring compliance and more
control over the prison benefits are granted. At the same time,
It will consider more effective administrative control mechanisms

E V E N LY. U N 7 PA R A C H I L E

75

CRIME AND NARCOTRÁFCO firm hand of woman

CRIME AND DRUG TRAFFICKING

In terms of Drugs Act improve its application to

CRIME AND DRUG TRAFFICKING

A
SEVEN
FOR
CHILE
will increase
schools
judges to
leaving prison
preventive to
accused of a
felony,

in prisons to prevent the discretionary
granting benefits to be transformed into impunity. For that
We incorporate the figure of sentence enforcement judge, specialized
in resolving all matters relating to the enforcement of sentences, the
granting of prison benefits and complaints and petitions
of the damned.
In order that the public is informed about how it is working
criminal justice, local committees will be set up in each province,
coordinate and evaluate the criminal justice in their respective territories, and
suggest proposals to improve its functioning. These committees
will depend on the Regional Coordination Committee, to which monthly
shall transmit information on operating and system statistics
criminal justice. Each Local Committee will be chaired by the Secretary
Ministerial Regional Justice, and composed of the presiding judges
the courts with criminal jurisdiction of the province, prosecutors
and defense chiefs, the Prefect of Police, the police chief
appropriate, and a representative of the Bar Association with
most members in the region.
The penalties for free media are an effective measure for
rehabilitation, we create a new service measures and sanctions in the Middle
Free, that will make the system more efficient and credible, to take over
act on the breaches of the various precautionary measures
custody, alternative penalties to imprisonment and a new policy
gradual transition to free media, including control, but also
work programs and interventions that reduce recidivism.
As regards the Prosecution, dotaremos for more training
and Public Information Ministry, through the following measures:
1. May design and implement collaborative activities with
public bodies oriented diagnosis and prevention of crime,
promoting the use of all the information gathered during the
processing of criminal investigations.

76

www.evelyn2014.cl

the obligation to publish monthly in the institutional website
information regarding income and term causes, oral trials, and
Where a prosecutor change the detention of a person by subpoena,
with their basis of that decision. Without prejudice
the annual accounts of the National Prosecutor and regional prosecutors.
3. Guarantee the judge is allowed to suspend first hearing
court for a period of two hours when the prosecutor does not attend without
having to immediately release the detainee.
4. Tax Academy that will provide courses will be created
Advanced training basic, intermediate and research areas,
litigation, criminal law and administration and management control.

SAW. A MODERN JUDICIARY
BETTER PROTECT THE RIGHTS OF ALL
Chileans.
Equal access to justice is key to our Government; it
It needs to modernize the Chilean judiciary. The current administration
He has done important work on reforming the civil, community justice and
the quality of the defense of the most vulnerable, but it is essential
redouble efforts so that all Chileans, independent
their level of income and socioeconomic status, have secured
equal access to justice, through timely knowledge
their right: how and where to exercise them and counting in the case of the
poorest with professional service quality required
in a modern and democratic state. For this take place
the following measures:
1. We will approve the new Civil Procedure Code, to ensure protection
with respect to effective legal guarantees of due process
law, and to give judges the power to impart justice case
concrete.

E V E N LY. U N 7 PA R A C H I L E

77

CRIME AND NARCOTRÁFCO firm hand of woman

CRIME AND DRUG TRAFFICKING

2. active transparency to citizens will be strengthened by establishing

CRIME AND DRUG TRAFFICKING

2. We will incorporate new technologies to reduce litigation
times and formalities of trials.
3. Desjudicializaremos collections by enforcement officers,
adequately ensuring the rights of debtors. This
simplify and accelerate the process of debt collection, establishing
a more stable and efficient credit system, and unclogging the
courts.

modify the system
current ratings
judicial performance
established in the
Organization Code
Courts, by a
Annual assessment based
on indicators
ensure objectivity
assessment and
evaluator.

4. We will improve the quality of judicial service, through a number
more judges, better prepared, and provided with resources
to adequately perform their functions. This imposes
the need to analyze the imposition of court fees, to all
to litigate, unless you are not able to pay.
5. We will strengthen Alternative Mechanisms for Conflict Resolution
(MARC) at Community level, to improve the Neighborhood Justice, which
includes all court processes that foster resolution
conflict, simply and avoiding a lengthy trial: arbitration,
mediations and conciliations.
6. In addition, we will expand nationally Justice Units
Neighborhood.
Along with this, it is necessary to modernize the judiciary as
institution. To do this, we propose:
1. We will refine the Supreme Court on 3 main aspects:
• In order to strengthen the transparency and scrutiny
public the appointment of justices of the Supreme Court,
including candidates should come based machines
and accompanied by all the history of the elect.

78

www.evelyn2014.cl

why they prefer a candidate and if a
30 days the Senate has not acted is
He considered approved the proposal of the President of the
Republic. This shall also apply in respect of
appointing ministers Court of Appeals.
• We will limit the period of office of Minister
Supreme Court to 15 years without re-election.
• Establish that the judicial tax pass
serve as ministers, eliminating the need
members to have lawyers because the rooms may
work with 3 judges.
2. As operational, we will give greater financial autonomy
the Judiciary, which goes hand in hand with an adequate system of
accountability and generate a system of designations
and promotion to prevent purely political intervention in the
appointments.
3. In order to improve judicial performance evaluation,
We modify the current system of judicial performance ratings
established in the Organic Code of Courts, for an annual evaluation
based indicators to ensure the objectivity of the evaluation and
the evaluator. This involves considering quantitative and qualitative aspects
related to the process of judicial decision.
In order to move to a more flexible model of judiciary, the
promotions, salaries and benefits, regardless of place and position
where they are exercising the function of the performance of judges.

E V E N LY. U N 7 PA R A C H I L E

79

CRIME AND NARCOTRÁFCO firm hand of woman

CRIME AND DRUG TRAFFICKING

For its part, the decision of the Government shall add

CRIME AND DRUG TRAFFICKING

4. We will create a Judicial Watch,

ACCESS TO JUSTICE FOR ALL

It will be an independent public entity of
current government, which will be made up
multidiscipliario and team excellence, and

Justice to reach all Chileans
We create a new Legal Aid Service,
With the following characteristics:
• A single service with national coverage.
• specialized professional legal assistance,
directly or through authorized providers.
• have a National Council, which will propose
the National Director of the criteria for determining
basic standards to be met by those
grant legal aid services and / or judicial,
and the provision of such materials asist
ence, in addition to issuing the opinion in the form previaa
fixing the duty to which the project relates.

will aim to generate public information
about various objective indicators
that, periodically, allow for
greater public scrutiny, the media and
academics, on the work of the courts
and criminal judges.
5. Finally, it is essential to have
a modality that, without limiting freedom
court to decide, prevent litigants
are at the mercy of miscarriages of justice, so
we will create legislation that imposes
on the State the burden of compensation
equity to aggrieved.

• Modern management control mechanisms, with
focus on quality of care.
• Incorporate private providers, registry
in the Register for the purpose by
Service, who will be subject to procedures
will allow verify their conditions and capabilities.

80

www.evelyn2014.cl

GROWTH

Growth
FOR BEST
WORK AND PENSIONS
And increased welfare
FOR CHILEAN

E V E N LY. U N 7 PA R A C H I L E

81

GROWTH

E

l Economic growth is a prerequisite for
achieve higher levels of welfare for all. In fact, the
main economic achievement of recent decades, significant
poverty reduction in Chile to current levels

less than 15% - is a direct result of economic growth
reached. Confirms this when the country has slowed
growth, poverty increases. This happened in the Government
Michelle Bachelet, where the average increase was only 3.3%
and poverty fell from 13.7% to 15.17% between 2006-2009.
This is associated with the steady increase in both employment and
wages, the result of growth because labor is the main

We SHOULD STRENGTHEN
FOUNDATIONS THAT HAVE
PERMITTED TO GROW AND
TIME, reverse SHY
Productivity gains.

source of income for the most vulnerable sectors.
These advances, however, have not benefited enough to
women, whose rates of unemployment and poverty are higher than in the
Men: The case of young people is also worrying. In fact,
the incidence of poverty is much higher among young people and children.
Also, an important sector of the new middle class, with few
savings and considerable debts, feels the fear of return to a state
poverty in the event of losing their jobs. To this is added that despite
sustained economic growth experienced by our country
the last three decades and the dramatic decline in poverty,
improvements in income distribution have been recent. So today
the issue of inequality has taken a great social and political relevance.
In this scenario, it is essential, first, to strengthen the foundations we
have allowed to grow: an integrated to the globalized world economy,
market as the main mechanism for allocating resources, markets
competitive, free enterprise subject to the laws and institutions
in effect, environmental protection, stable institutional framework,
macroeconomic stability and low inflation, fiscal prudence, a system
conducive to saving and investment, and tax efficiency of public spending.
Second, strengthen productivity gains. The almost zero rate
Productivity growth factors from 1998 puts us in

82

www.evelyn2014.cl

GROWTH

this connection between low-performing countries in the world. Alone
in recent years, it begins to reverse the negative trend
He appreciated the government of former President Bachelet, reaching 2012
an increase in productivity of 2.4%. To move forward,
more training and education (capital investment is needed
human), it will increase the rate of investment in physical capital
from the current rate of 24% of GDP to 28%, for which it should
increase the savings rate. The focus is to increase the value
human capital through education policy from the cradle
until retirement, ie education and training from an early age
throughout the life of the worker (see chapter Education).
Moreover, to increase the rate of investment in physical capital
from the current 24% to 28% (rate considered necessary to sustain
a potential of 5% to 6% that is our purpose) growth,
It is required to deliver the necessary incentives such as legal certainty
projects and removing bureaucratic obstacles.
Third, today the priority should be energy. Energy prices
in our country they are among the highest in the continent and needs
urgent progress to reach a national agreement on this
matter, since no energy at competitive prices no chance
future growth.
Fourth, put the shaft in the pro-enterprise policies, especially
SMEs. Entrepreneurship is virtuous because it is on the basis of
economic growth, creates jobs, values ​​the effort and innovation
people and opens opportunities for economic advancement and more
welfare for a large proportion of Chileans. Thus, policies that
-or facilitate levanten- barriers to formalization

Entrepreneurship is
because it is virtuous
the basis for growth
economic, creates jobs,
appreciates the effort
and innovation
people and opens
opportunities
economic rise and more
wellness.

companies, as well as access to credit and technology by
entrepreneurs will have a double and inseparable impact both
growth and equity.
This is because 80% of employment is based in SMEs and these
have a high level of vulnerability, which in turn results
in vulnerable employment they generate. So then, a framework

E V E N LY. U N 7 PA R A C H I L E

83

GROWTH

addressing economic problems

ACHIEVEMENTS AND CHALLENGES OF CHILE

SMEs, particularly in the areas
more crucial as access to credit

• In 1990 the country's per capita income was only a
22% of the US., While today it is 38%.

and capital (both physical and human)
It will result in more stable jobs
macro level.

• Real wages today exceed those of 93%
1990.
• Unemployment is at the lowest levels
of on record in recent history.
• The population living below the poverty line
It has dropped from 38.6% in 1990 to 14.4% in the
today.
• Poverty is twice as high among children up to 5 years
(24%) than in the group between 18 and 24 (14%), and of
this group is almost twice that of the over 65s
(7.5%).
• The Gini coefficient has improved
marginally since 1990 and is held in
Elevated levels for what is tolerable in
a country that aspires to be developed.
• While in the poorest decile only the fourth
of women participate in the labor market,
top decile 62% of women do.

Fifth, encourage participation in the
labor market of women and youth. They
necessary to increase employability
these groups because it attack
directly and indirectly poverty
groups where the incidence of this is greater:
young people under 18 and children up to 5
years who naturally depend on the
income from their parents or mothers heads of
home. And a fountain will be attacking
obvious inequity. This involves modifying
laws that harm the employability
and income of women, and address in
resolutely the training
of vulnerable young people.
And finally, devise policies
to improve pay, protect
increase employment and pensions, along with

measures to improve employability after 65 years,
so as to increase the income of pensioners. This requires
modify the rules so that the APS does not decrease (Contribution
Solidarity Pension) to achieve extra income pensioners
through employment. Moreover, it should raise the contribution rate
pension from the current 10% to 14%, an increase of 1% per
year, paid by the employer. All these initiatives contribute to
increase revenue and pensions of people, it will increase
national savings, one of the bases of the development of our economy.
To reach the high challenges of growth, employment and

84

www.evelyn2014.cl

GROWTH

equity we have as a country, we propose four areas of reform:
I. More competitiveness to ensure growth.
II. Better jobs for Chilean workers.
III. Better pensions for our seniors.
IV. Better social policies for the most vulnerable,
so they can access the benefits of growth
economic.

I. MORE TO ENSURE COMPETITIVENESS
GROWTH: NO MORE LOCKS, POWER MORE
CHEAP AND FIRST LEVEL SMEs
1. We will create the Agency for Productivity and Competitiveness. The
Agency will aim to reinvigorate economic growth
eliminating barriers, speeding up procedures and improving conditions
for entrepreneurship and innovation, promoting an environment free
competition and equal opportunities. The Agency should build

The new Agency
productivity
and competitiveness.
It will aim to
invigorate growth
eliminating economic
barriers, speeding
procedures and improving
the conditions for
entrepreneurship and innovation.

with analysis of benchmarks which will be compared to sectors
nationals with similar of the most advanced countries and more
competitive. The agency will advise the President of the Republic
the formulation of policy guidelines and productivity
competitiveness and recommend policies, strategies and priorities
national and sector to improve the country's productivity.
2 .Daremos greater legal certainty for investment projects
on environmental matters through a reform that strengthens
our environmental institutions. It is required to provide further
uncertainty regarding the operation of the agencies
environmental issues, it is necessary to strengthen our
environmental institutions, giving the Evaluation Service
Environmental (SEA) higher resolving power and autonomy
the government of the day. This, because weak
instruments used (or environmental qualification resolutions
RCA) has led to the prosecution of projects by themes
location or compensation to specific groups, paralyzing
and leaving de facto void previous project approvals

E V E N LY. U N 7 PA R A C H I L E

85

GROWTH

that met all legal requirements. By
the above aims:
• Modification to legal resolutions rating
environment are addressed by the Evaluation Service
Regional Environment, taking that power to
Regional Evaluation Committees (Mayor and seremis).
• Strengthen the independence of the Evaluation Service
Environmental: Granting tenure to Director of Service
Environmental Assessment (similar to the National Tax System
Economic) and strengthening financial and technical
the institution. Thus it is proposed to add staff
specialized plant SEA, so that this can
technical support decisions, to conduct the evaluation

In the energy sector,
INTRODUCING A PLAN TO
UNLOCK THE INVESTMENT
GENERATION AND TRANSMISSION
And simultaneously, PROMOTE
RENEWABLE.

projects and allow at the same time, better
monitoring and surveillance of them.
3. More and better energy for Chile. Chile's energy policy
recent decades has worked well, allowing development
efficient markets fuels and electricity, with toppings
reaching virtually 100%. For example, in the fuel industry
Demand has increased for 3 in the last 25 years, without
have been problems of public supply, while in the sector
electricity demand has multiplied by four over the same period and ability
installed has followed the same dynamics. However, the current situation,
characterized by an increasing difficulty to undertake projects
generation and transmission, environmental product oppositions
and social, and the prosecution of approval processes, is
a relatively new event in the development of power sector
called to discuss reforms and proposals to avoid a probable
energy deficit in the medium term, with serious adverse effects on the
national industry competitiveness and growth, as well as increases
cost of electricity for the people. In this regard, it is proposed
a complete and detailed plan of measures aimed at unlocking the
investment in generation and transmission and to promote renewable sources

A
SEVEN
FOR
CHILE

86

both conventional and unconventional. Also in the short term

www.evelyn2014.cl

GROWTH

OUR ENERGY PLAN

The treatment of the energy problem has to face the various dimensions
time in order to get a cheaper electric power, exploiting our
and abundant natural energy sources, such as sunlight, water and volcanoes south,
and to diversify the matrix taking advantage of the new open market scenario
World natural gas. For this, we propose:
1. Development of geothermal activity
by generating information
public and relevant contribution
by partial economic subsidies
contestable for activities
scan; also it intends
changes in applicable law
in order to incorporate the best
global industry practices similar
the oil and gas, to avoid
speculative behavior in the
demand concessions.
2. Tax Incentives for Investment
Initial for solar thermal technology
accumulation. With a plant factor about
60%, this technology is very promising,
although still of high cost.
Corfo will support the pilot project
It will be implemented in the north and allow
better understanding of the costs and performance
this technology in our bright desert.
Depending on the results, we will give
tax incentives for initial investment in
projects using this technology.
3. To promote, through a social agreement and
Politically, the use of resources
water in the country in order to expand
share of renewable energies in
our energy. By 2030,
16% of the 150 TWh as projected
consumption could be provided by these
new sources, so that the percentage
covered by renewable energies reach
60% more than in the US and Europe.
4. Seize the opportunities that opens
the international market with greater
availability of natural gas at a price
convenient to keep adding to the matrix
inexpensive thermoelectric generators
and clean. For these purposes,
it is proposed to facilitate coordination between
private for joint import
significant volumes of shale gas
(Shale) to reduce costs.

E V E N LY. U N 7 PA R A C H I L E

5.Agilizar procedures
allow private initiatives
access to the land necessary for
build relevant transmission networks;
that is, it intends to establish a
simpler mechanism which defines
the electric bill road
which will facilitate and coordinate
the procedures for
establish easements and lift
transmission infrastructure.
6. Promote the approval of the project
Bill SIC-SING interconnection and,
materialize the work, restudy the system
trunk charging systems
transmission.
7. While globally there is no
consensus on how to use tools
economic to reduce emissions
gases, it is proposed to advance the study
measures to reduce emissions
gases that cause the greenhouse effect. The
applying these tools should
made in due course,
that is, when agreements are reached
Global on the subject. At
meantime, it is proposed to apply actions
voluntary, and measure the carbon footprint
providing seals that certify.
8. We will set a cap on the collection of
fuel tax, so that in
As the fleet grows,
the fuel tax per liter lower
steadily.
9. Finally, it is proposed to delete the
restrictions on the conversion to gas
taxis and private vehicles to
basic and groups of more than 5 years
old, and encourage the use of gas
public transport.

87

GROWTH

We not rule seize power plants using any
energy available to the extent they meet the stringent measures
establishing emissions Chilean rule, following the recent example
countries like Germany and Japan (see energy plan in picture).
4. We will reform the system of litigation in Chile to prevent
use in bad faith or to gain time. We propose a legal reform
to more expensive business of litigating in bad faith or with the sole purpose of

We propose a
legal reform
more expensive business
litigation in bad faith or
with the sole purpose of
buy time, that is,
bail trials and / or
increase dramatically
costs (at least).
Today Chile is litigating
free, anyone can
occupy a home without
pay rent for
average of four years and
It costs $ 70,000 monthly
(Average costs,
real case) take the
Tenant house

buy time, that is, bail trials and / or increase dramatically
costs (at least). Today in Chile litigate free, anyone can
occupy a house without paying rent for an average of four years and
who cost him $ 70,000 monthly draw the tenant of the house;
Similarly, anyone can stop a work of generation
electricity for two or three years and then only pay "costs" if you lose
across the line. This is a barrier to investment, perhaps the most
bigger than our country has today. This is to change the code
Civil Procedure and better way to regulate the use of
resource protection and economic protection.
5. A program of public works concessions in order 3.0
to be invested in this way US $ 10,000 million by the end of
the decade. For this new financing they will be studied,
as a similar US TIFIA system, providing loans
low rates with a period of 5 years of grace and then by setting
a stream of payments based on the income obtained,
so that the outstanding balance be referred to the year 25.
Improve urban road concessions to privilege
investment in that benefit the most vulnerable sectors
For urban road concessions, it is proposed
the mechanism known in English as "managed lanes"
used in countries like USA., so that it can
minimize public subsidy in works that are used
preferably by groups of middle and high income.
This will unlock public investment in road works
urban.

88

www.evelyn2014.cl

MOP's concessions.
a stable and sufficient financing will be established to
Unit Public Works Concessions and MOP
Concessions to the Council, so as to expedite the
analysis and subsequent project bids.
6. Consider adapting foreign technologies as Investment
in R & D. It improved the current government for tax law that stimulates the
investment in R & D and are beginning to see its fruits. However,
definition of R & D should be extended to the adaptation of new technologies
developed in other countries to the Chilean reality, so that the

the definition of R & D
It should be extended to
adjusting
new technologies
developed elsewhere
countries to reality
Chilean, so that the
SMEs can take advantage
Also this benefit
tax.

SMEs can also take advantage of this tax benefit and give a
leap in productivity.
7. Other measures to boost productivity and entrepreneurship.
• Generation of seed capital programs for students
recent graduates of higher education, together
with the approval of entrepreneurship courses promoted
by the Ministry of Education.
• entrepreneurship Contests: Contests are a
very good tool, as they are cheap to implement,
widely distributed and unlimited coverage.
• A methodology was established to create UF
production at the municipal level, which will be sent to all
the country's municipalities. an annual ranking will be made and
It will be awarded to municipalities that would have been more
effective in implementing these methodologies.
• To improve municipal procedures deadlines is proposed
a fund to modernize municipalities and access to funds
Additional (awards) to the pro-entrepreneurship municipalities
(Through Subdere).

E V E N LY. U N 7 PA R A C H I L E

89

GROWTH

· He will provide greater institutional funding Unit

GROWTH

• Encouraging corporate entrepreneurship programs (Spin
- Corporate Off): These programs are very important, because
allow promote entrepreneurship within companies.
• ProChile 2.0: Strengthen as promoter ProChile
facilitating exports and imports. Expanding
ProChile functions to also incorporate the function

We will create 600,000 new
jobs, including
400,000 jobs to
women.

facilitation of imports for all companies
Installed in Chile imported inputs as part of its
value chain to export other goods or services.

II. FOR BETTER JOBS
CHILEAN AND OLDER WORKERS
BENEFITS FOR THE MOST VULNERABLE
1. We will create 600,000 new jobs, including 400,000 jobs
for women. In the presidential campaign of 2009 when the unemployment

COMPETITIVENESS AGENDA 2.0
It will seek to foster entrepreneurship and business formalization barriers to entry or barriers to
entrepreneurship, simplifying procedures and lowering their costs and encouraging the formalization of companies.
1. Incorporation without notary. In
Companies Registry (RES), Ministry of
Economy can establish a company in
one day and at no cost when partners have
advanced electronic signature. However, only
10% of companies with responsibility
Limited incorporated in RES are performed
electronic signature. The proposal is to continue the
legislative process and approve the Reform in 2014
Electronic Signature, which promotes digitization
documentary in Chile and will allow firms
private documents without the intervention of a notary.
2. cheaper and faster Permissions. lower
cost, schedule, and increased automation mandatory
easier for entrepreneurs: We propose to create
One stop shop for municipal procedures, is
ie a system to record, process and run
all requests for starting a business
a commune such as zoning certificate,
health permit, building permit and patent
commercial. The system will generate a fluid

90

attention, significantly reducing the time
response, costs and procedures incurred by
entrepreneurs. While permiteremos
several of completing the formalities Internet
in the 346 municipalities of the country.
3.Reforma Intellectual Property for
promote innovation. It is currently pending
in Congress to reform intellectual property
which seeks to strengthen and clarify the protection of
industrial property rights, through the
regulation of new types of protection, such as
New categories of brands, and the incorporation
new concepts in the field of inventions
and distinctive signs. The proposal is to continue
with the legislative process and that the new law is
operations in 2015. With this, they will speed up the
registration procedures and the handling of patents,
and compliance will also be strengthened
of industrial property standards, stones
angular in creating an ecosystem of
innovation in the country.

www.evelyn2014.cl

GROWTH

had been shot along the double digits, the then candidate
President Sebastian Pinera promised to create a million jobs
between 2010 and 2014, ie 200,000 new jobs per year. In that
then his opponents called him a populist and said it was
an impossible goal to meet.
Work seriously and have already created more than 800,000 jobs to
2012. The labor pool not only gives the necessary support to a
family but restores dignity to those who work.
That is why today, seriously and responsibly, we are committed to
During his tenure as President, rather than putting hindrance
entrepreneurship, conditions will be created for the economy
continue to grow and 600,000 new jobs of which 2 are created
every 3 will be for women.
2. No woman or young and vulnerable emerging middle class
working full-time at a company, you earn less than
$ 300,000 monthly. To not affect employment, achieve this
goal effectively overseeing all employers pay their
Awards and within the first 100 days of Government send
a bill to supplement the state the difference
those earning less than $ 300,000.
3. Reform of training "the German" with more resources and quotas
(See proposals for training in Education Chapter 2)
4.Modernizar labor laws to fit the reality of

No girl or woman
vulnerable or class
emerging middle that
full time work
a company will receive
a lower income
to $ 300,000. For
not affect employment,
We achieve this
overseeing goal
effectively all
employers pay
its perks and
within the first
100 days in office
We send a project
law for the
State supplement the
Unlike those
earning less than $ 300,000.

workers and sectors. Pass a series of laws that are
pending in Congress quickly. Among them, the labor statute
young students that prevents you remove educational benefits
as scholarships and loans to students for payment of remuneration.
Special rules for workers in the tourism and agricultural sectors.
Bill nursery, which provides coverage for all women
contract or payment of contributions, including for the first time
the domestic workers and that serve children up to three

E V E N LY. U N 7 PA R A C H I L E

91

GROWTH

AGENDA SMEs
1.Incentivos tax for investment in companies
smaller based on the English model. If the
company does poorly, the person must be able invested
deducted as a tax credit against their overall
complementary at least% loss.
It is deducted from the tax base
Complementary, 30% of investments
that makes the person in company shares
emerging, the benefit is subject to limits and
adequate oversight.
If the natural person investor invests in
emerging companies, and has losses associated with
these investments may deduct up to 50%
investment as a credit against the overall tax
complementary to that respective year or differ
partial credit for up to three years.
2.Incentivos tax for formalizing
SMEs and entrepreneurship. Tax exemption
for the first 5,000 corporate UF useful.
The aim is to promote the formalization of the
microenterprise. Simplifying others study
exemption mechanisms and sanctions are increased to
informality.
3. Postponement of VAT payment in 30 days. Is
measure aimed directly at improving capital
SMEs work. It is associated with the adoption of the
Electronic bill.
4. Protection of minority investors.
It should protect minority investors
closed corporations, abuses
drivers. It intends to introduce in
our legislation what the English call
"Unfair Prejudice" and that basically allows
minority claim against actions and
Drivers abusive practices, and empowers the
judge (which in this case must always be a referee)
have all measures necessary
to prevent unfair prejudice that such practices
cause in the minority. In most cases
he will order the acquisition of the shares of the
Minority fair price determined by a third
Independent. If minority could exercise
this right, the driver would have little incentive
abusive practices to deploy and minority
would, in turn, greater incentives to invest in
companies in which they have a minority stake.
5. Generate mechanisms transaction
Securities of smaller companies.
Shaping the rules issued by the SVS for
private offering of securities and public offering

92

except values, coupled with the creation of a
own institutions for the functioning of the
Emerging bags.
6. Integrated Register of Mortgages. This measure
rising competition in the financial market,
which lowers transaction costs of moving
from one institution to another.
7. Seal Pro-SME. Promote and generate value to the seal
so that every year the goal is met that 50,000
MSMEs are beneficiaries of the payment 30 days
part of big business.
8. Promotion of transfer programs
technology SMEs. will be promoted from Corfo,
implementing transfer programs
effective technology for SMEs. This will be done in
Complementary to the extension of the law of R & D
adaptation of technologies developed in the
Foreign.
9. Promotion of integration programs
SMEs to large provider networks
companies.
10. Transfer of knowledge, technologies and
generation business networking for business
SMEs.
11. Larger transfer programs
knowledge, technology transfer and network
Business for senior executives of SMEs
exporter.
12. Generation of soft skills
SME executives and / or employees. To develop
a program to identify leaders of change and / or
opportunities within the company, which is
It complemented by an internship program for
strengthen and develop soft skills
interns. The program consists of coaching sessions and
internships in Chilean and foreign companies.
13. Promotion of partnership activities
trade promotion SME companies
exporters.

14. Business Social Network for exporters
SMEs. The proposal envisages to implement a
social network of SME exporters, with the aim of
leverage information that could provide
Chilean colonies existing in different countries and
attache officials.

www.evelyn2014.cl

wages. Unemployment insurance, which increases both the ceiling as percentage
the amounts covered in the event that a worker loses his job.
5. We propose an adjustment mechanism for minimum wage
to isolate it from political pressures that harm workers.
We propose a technical rule of automatic application, governing the
changes in the minimum wage, isolating it from the political discussion. Rule
proposal is to increase the minimum wage in May of each year by an amount
equivalent to the change in average labor productivity (calculated
by a commission of experts), coupled with the fluctuation of the CPI of the year
previous (January to December). There will be an exception to avoid

During this government,
we have made the
Work Address
longer arm
political government
Shift on
labor. We want
continue on this same
path, giving
greater resources and
its director is
selected by the ADP.

a rigid rule of adjustment has the opposite effect to the objective of
not affect employment in case of recessions, and also to increase
Minimum Wage beyond the rule, when unemployment is very low
6. Work Autonomous address. During this government,
we have made the Labour Directorate stop being the political arm
the government of the day in labor matters. We want to continue
this same path, giving more resources and its director
is selected by the ADP. For this, we propose to improve
current inspection system, encouraging compliance with the
labor standards with a caution as a first warning.
Failure to correct the situation, a penalty will be applied for twice
what exists today.
7. Improvements in collective bargaining. Strengthen Negotiation
Collective will be an important focus of our government program,
we believe in the need to encourage dialogue between workers
and employers to reach agreements favorable to both parties.
Our goal is to strengthen trade unions so they can expand
materials which can bargain collectively. We believe it is
necessary to strengthen this privileged instance of social dialogue,
it is institutionalized within the company.

A
SEVEN
FOR
CHILE

Today there are problems which we must take care to

E V E N LY. U N 7 PA R A C H I L E

93

GROWTH

years, without discouraging the hiring of women or harming them in their

GROWTH

strengthen and promote dialogue. At present, negotiate collectively
only 1 in 10 workers. Basically problems
this are that the process of collective bargaining is
Code focused on the conflict and not to the agreement. All the
Legal steps and stages are designed not to achieve such an agreement
but to improve or worsen the negotiating position of the
parties in view of the strike. Our proposals in this area are:

We propose strengthening
unions
providing them with
autonomy to negotiate
common conditions
working day and
their remuneration
employers beyond
the limits contemplated
the current legislation.

• Establish that trade unions they can negotiate some
concerning working hours and schedules materials, other
its exclusive negotiations with unions.
• Increased training to union officials; today there
funds that they can be trained, therefore, is
It proposes a better promotion of existing courses, and
Strengthening the processes of formation of union leaders
on topics related to union work, social dialogue,
growth and employment protection, management, administration
and others who can better serve the leaders
in their union work.
• Additionally it intends professionalize leaders
union, establish that all have the union leader
right to take two semesters of training
association with an educational core curriculum (negotiation
collective, individual rights, and basic guidelines for managing
modern enterprise), to be funded by the state.
• Improve the quality of the information the employer
You must provide workers in at least two respects.
The employer must submit the financial statements and
tax balances, if any -today both the
employer choose the one that best suits their interests.
In addition to making better decisions
who negotiates, it is necessary that the overall cost breakdown
remuneration per item, that is; payment for

94

www.evelyn2014.cl

GROWTH

salary, bonus, bonuses, collation, mobilization,
among others, protecting the identity indeed
Workers. Finally we establish all
companies have to provide information on
the progress of the same, on a quarterly basis to all
workers.
• propose legal formality to meetings between
the parties during the negotiation process, by
mandatory keeping of minutes, partial agreements,
and alternative proposals.
• We will encourage dialogue before implementing
the strike. For this will increase the time for
end mediation and will grant the assembly information
over the course of the negotiations based on the minutes
that meetings between management and formalized
business, exposures and employers to
workers before the strike vote.
• We will enable electronic processing on
Collective negotiation. We simplify the procedure
Delivery of documentation and deals between the parties.
Currently the draft collective agreement and
Employer response and offers the parties during

We are witnessing the
anguish of our
seniors
after working all
They see how life
pension can not afford
to maintain a level
of living. It is therefore
During our
Government will take a
series of measures to
make more competitive
AFP industry and
allowing people
achieve jubilee
higher pensions.

the process must be submitted personally between
the parties, and even reporting systems are planned
in case either party refuses to receive
documentation against another party without control
that those who argues that fact. They
proposes that, in addition to the currently existing system
by law, the parties can fix the electronic boxes
that can be sent directly presentations,
with a copy to the Department of Labour.
• We will work to promote bipartite social dialogue, to
return the labor issue to companies and workers.

E V E N LY. U N 7 PA R A C H I L E

95

GROWTH

8. demands will increase through higher fines and
disincentives to non-compliance with labor regulations. We propose
the requirement that General Manager of the company fined attend
a course in labor law, subsequent performance verification
regulatory, and punishing offending.
9. We will continue advancing in the Occupational Safety, for
we propose for our government to study a modification
the current accident insurance scheme.
10. Regarding bonuses, we propose moving towards a
sharing wage system, replacing the current system
an attractive alternative for employers and workers share
variable salary. This scheme is key to increasing productivity,

The mandatory contribution
will rise from 10% to 14%, with a
1% increase in percentage
per year, by the
employer. Also,
It aims to increase
gradually, in four years,
the tax cap 105.4
UF, so equate
with the top insurance
unemployment.

and growth trend of the economy.
11. greater and better participation of women in the workplace. Women
have lower labor force participation rates, higher unemployment rate
and lower wages than men. This is because the role of
child care, elderly and sick has traditionally assumed
women in Chile, laws mean greater cost to the company to
hire women (Article 203 of the Labor Code), the insertion of the
women in economic sectors that pay lower wages, and
cultural prejudices. The approval of the bill Nursery
will remove the additional costs of hiring women.
We also propose to ensure that at least 40% of quotas
Vocational training for the job in economic sectors
good average earnings and low participation of women,
have preferential access for women. These programs should
undergo evaluation of results.
12. To comply with the law on gender equality is
It proposed to provide that listed corporations should
published in the Annual Report if gender policy in the company,

96

www.evelyn2014.cl

GROWTH

the number of women and men who have hired level
executive, professional, technical, administrative besides
publish the ratio of average wages of men and women
in each of those categories.
13. propose that for public sector workers
who are hired to plant or is granted access to
solidarity fund unemployment, the unemployment insurance system,
with current regulations established in the law.
14. We will study a program that gives training to
companies setting up in regions.

PENSIONS FOR OUR III.MEJORES
OLDER ADULTS
1. Basic Solidarity Pension will increase to $ 100,000
expand the solidarity pension contributions to those receiving
$ 350,000. We are witnessing the anguish of our adult
greater than after working a lifetime see how the pension
not enough to maintain a decent standard of living. It is therefore
During our government will take a series of measures

We will increase the
Basic Solidarity Pension
$ 100,000 to expand
the pension contribution
solidarity to those who
receive $ 350,000.

to make the industry more competitive and enable the AFP
people manage to retire with higher pensions. Nevertheless,
who are now retired not see the fruit of such reforms,
is why during the first months of government, climb
solidarity minimum pension to $ 100,000 and the pension contribution
solidarity that makes now the state only to lower pensions
$ 266,000, will be expanded and improved for all those who receive
a lower pension to $ 350,000. With all these measures
vulnerable emerging middle class and seniors will
a real improvement in their pension and can benefit from good
country's economic performance.

E V E N LY. U N 7 PA R A C H I L E

97

GROWTH

2. Grant to public transport for older adults
contribution of $ 5000. Today seniors who had a
life for the country often live alone and abandoned.
In many cases, this is because they do not have the resources or the
means to travel to visit loved ones or perform
paperwork they need. That is why we will give all
Older adults who lack the resources equivalent to $ 5
transportation pesos a month.
3. Provide mechanisms to encourage longer working lives.
• We will adapt working hours for adult workers
higher.

We will reward the effort
people continue
working after
the retirement age.

• We will eliminate or reduce the price of health
the poorest 60% of the population over the age of 65
years and it continues in the workforce.
• The Solidarity Pension Contribution (APS) shall be calculated at the age
65, and the amount will be delivered monthly to the affiliate,
although there has been retired. Thus, it rewards
efforts of a person who continues to work after the
65. Today that effort is punished, since perceiving
a higher pension by postponing retirement is
APS reduced, generating savings for the state.
4. Increase the mandatory contribution rate and the taxable limit.
Compulsory contributions will rise from 10% to 14%, an increase of 1%
per year, paid by the employer. It also aims to increase
gradually, in four years, the taxable cap 105.4 UF mode
match it with the top of the unemployment insurance.
5. study the mechanism of holding tenders Affiliate
to increase the number of members to tender to favor more
People with the lowest price of the commissions.

98

www.evelyn2014.cl

GROWTH

6. We will promote that more information is delivered to affiliates,
with the spread of committees and profitability of the various AFP
and the effects on pension contributors such people
and are empowered to make decisions about where to place their
pension funds, with more and better information.
7. Provide incentives aimed at increasing the density of contributions.
We will reward the effort of those saving for retirement,
granting additional benefits that they value most: the
purchase of a home and education for their children. Deliver
an additional score for housing subsidies and scholarships and
higher education credits. This additional benefit will grow,
the higher the density of contributions of candidates to
subsidies, grants and loans. That is, a person who meets the
current requirements for housing subsidy programs,
scholarships and loans for higher education and also has high
densities of contributions, is more likely to get the
benefits to which you are applying.

will refine the
entry program
for ethical family
is another tool
effective exit
poverty.

8. refund the first category tax paid by
companies in which pension funds are shareholders; to
pension funds. This measure has an annual cost of US $ 150
million a year and will raise the pensions of all Chileans
9. Suppress pension evasion and avoidance. We propose legislation to
set high fines to non-payment of pension contributions
and payment for amounts less than those who belong and
the obligation to pay the debt retroactively, with its
interest and indexation.
10. Icentivar study and deepen mechanisms for Savings
Collective Voluntary Pension (AVPC).

E V E N LY. U N 7 PA R A C H I L E

A
SEVEN
FOR
CHILE

99

GROWTH

IV. BEST BENEFITS FOR MORE
VULNERABLE TO ACCESSING
A higher level of welfare
1. We will refine the Ethical Family Income Program. Is

we will put the accent
to optimize policy
social to be more
efficient and transparent
serving the most
vulnerable.

will add new factors of conditionality to help our
children and adolescents. We propose to introduce new conditions
They included the existing system, including: (1) require registration and
minimal assistance to children who need to attend kindergarten; (2) demand
"Healthy adolescent control" young people between 12 and 17 years
old, which considers health screening examinations and delivery
Information about risk behaviors associated with drugs, alcohol
and sexuality.
2. We supply reengineering to optimize social policy
the results and give a more dignified to the most vulnerable families deal.
Some of the specific actions that should be made in this
"Reengineering" are merging some monetary transfers
duplicate efforts, make budget decisions based on
the results of evaluations of social programs, improve
distribution of the amounts of subsidies, causing not exist
rigid cut scores mean that families in situations
Similar to receive "all or nothing", improve accountability
(Accountability) of the results of social programs, improving
the targeting system of the state, incorporating dynamic metrics
and indicators of vulnerability, create an independent agency
ex post evaluation of social policies.

100

www.evelyn2014.cl

RESPECTED CONSUMERS

Consumers respected
MORE COMPETITION AND
GUARDS

E V E N LY. U N 7 PA R A C H I L E

101

RESPECTED CONSUMERS

E

l increase in welfare in Chile has brought an explosive
access to goods, services and loans. There are more mobile phones in
inhabitants and the country this year, 8.5 million Chileans

They could spend the summer, which almost doubles the number 2009. Cars
sold doubled in the last three years, only in Santiago, 15
thousand cars more a month! The cable connections rose
23% in that period. The above are all excellent news, because
means that more and more Chileans are privileged to have a
comfortable and with access to more goods and services life. Nevertheless,
opens the door to the enormous challenge of keeping these consumers
informed to make good decisions and, in turn, provide
the necessary instances to enforce their rights when
these have not been respected.

There is a huge
CHALLENGE TO MAINTAIN
TO CUSTOMERS
ADVISED so that
make good decisions
and, in turn, provide them
instances
necessary to
enforce their rights
when they do not have
They have been respected.

We know that when the market operates under competitive conditions,
the producer offers its products at the lowest cost-what that entails a
efficient resource allocation and access to consumer goods
and services that report greater well. There are, however,
countless cases where the performance of markets is not enough
adequate levels of competition, so there may be practical
which become effective exclusion of competitors and abuse
consumer.
As economies develop, increases the inherent risk
configure the complexity and risks of abuse defense laws
competition policy and protection of consumer rights
They are become key to preventing anti-competitive behavior and
abusive situations.
It is essential to recognize that a properly functioning market
It requires periodic reviews of regulations and existing institutions.
However, excessive regulation often has a detrimental effect on
competition, it generates unbearable conditions for some
producers, especially in the case of medium and pequeñasllevándolos companies out of the market, which in turn hurts
consumers.

102

www.evelyn2014.cl

RESPECTED CONSUMERS

In particular, the challenge is to find a balance between
attentive to the functioning of markets look with adequate
protection of the rights of individuals and businesses in the exercise of
preventive and punitive actions of the state bodies.
We believe that competitive markets are the best protection for
the consumer and must devote ourselves to implement a 2.0 version
this regulatory framework, adapted to Chile today. There is urgency
in addressing this point to not get hurt faith in companies and
the authorities in charge of monitoring them. We will do based on two
main areas: an agenda defense of free competition increases
sanctions for those who act against it and other protection
consumer, including bold measures as providing autonomy
Sernac, to operate independently of the government.

I.PROTECCIÓN OF CONSUMER RIGHTS
The consumer protection policy should be focused on
resolve failures that emerge even in competitive markets, with the
Chief among them the lack of information. A pro-competition policy
favors the consumer, while a good protection policy
Consumer competencia.En also raises consideration of the
above, our proposals on the institutional framework
consumer protection are:
1. An autonomous Sernac with greater powers and obligations.
Sernac has become increasingly important in their role of informing,
educate and protect consumers, for which it has been endowed with greater
resources and powers. However, it requires injecting independence
and strengthening the powers of Sernac so that it occurs
the expected deterrent effect and consumers are compensated
when there are violations of the rules, along with avoid over
prosecution of cases. We believe that a model of a Council
Directors (similar to the SEC), with a referee Government

THE SELF SERNAC
WITH YOUR ADVICE
PROPOSED MEMBERS
BY THE PRESIDENT AND
Ratified by the
CONGRESS.

and where the directors are proposed renewing alternately
by the President and are then ratified in Congress, will allow

E V E N LY. U N 7 PA R A C H I L E

103

RESPECTED CONSUMERS

Sernac transform into an entity that operates with the highest standards
of independence from the government of the day and different
interest group. For this specific grounds be established in
removal and inability to authorities, during exercise
of their duties, with a post this time.
Strengthen the powers of Sernac so you can dictate and
promote guidelines for good corporate and commercial practices
consumer protection; and reward companies that promote
the use of best practices in this field.
We will promote the Sernac participate in consultation processes
rules of sector regulators, so that you can review
from the perspective of consumer protection.
Sernac can generate, in coordination with other agencies, a network
alert for unsafe products, and may have, in coordination
with sectoral authorities, effective measures to shelter
the consumers.
We will strengthen the role of mediator Sernac formally regulating
the procedure, so that the proposed agreements are
reviewed by independent bodies and that their results are

Strengthen
the powers of the
Sernac so you can
adopt and promote
Guidelines for Good
corporate practices
and commercials
protection
consumer; and reward
Companies with
good practices.

binding, subject to due reservation of rights. Sernac
You may establish compliance programs against infringements
minor or customer complaints, setting conditions and deadlines
prosecute response to avoid disputes.
Sernac make public periodically the definitions that determine
their actions in order to increase their responsibility for the policies and
adopting plans.
coordination with other regulators will be institutionalized and
sectoral bodies and periodic formal supervisors who
safeguarding the rights of buyers and sellers, enable
share information between them.

104

www.evelyn2014.cl

RESPECTED CONSUMERS

2. We demand that users can terminate unilaterally and
once their contracts with service providers
online only a formality. The end of a service contract
telephone, cable TV, insurance and closing current accounts
It has become one of the issues of greatest frustration for
users to do more complex procedures that
to enroll. We propose that consumers can, with
Internet transaction, cancel a contract, subject to be
continue to pay the debt that is outstanding when put
terminate the contractual relationship.
3. Financing will implement a system Associations
Consumers. Flexibilizaremos using the fund's resources
Competitive currently provided for in the Consumer Act, that
a party may be used to cover administrative and operational expenses,
only in the case of associations that accredit operation

We will urge
USERS CAN END
UNILATERAL
AND IMMEDIATELY
THEIR CONTRACTS
SERVICE PROVIDERS
WITH JUST ONE STEP BY
INTERNET.

permanent defense and consumer protection, making
enforceable by law strict and transparent reporting system
accounts. It should also be allowed to be financed by way of the
sale of services aimed at educating on rights
consumers.
4. We will create a pro Competition Advisory Board. He shall be responsible
for studies of functioning of markets and to review the
restrictions on competition, whether legal, from practices
commercial or other. This Council will provide a diagnosis
barriers to entry and exit or anti-competitive behavior, proposing
regulatory improvements and pro-competition measures
pro consumer and the industry to implement voluntarily. He
Council shall be composed of representatives of the FNE, the Sernac of
sectoral ministries and regulators, trade associations and
consumers, and other experts in the field.
One of the most important tasks of the Council shall review the legislation and
the business practices of the markets in order to make proposals
concrete measures to eliminate unjustified barriers to finish

E V E N LY. U N 7 PA R A C H I L E

105

RESPECTED CONSUMERS

contracts. The aim is that every contract can be terminated at the
same way and with the same methods used in your celebration,
without that term may mean that no costs or Procedures
They are justified.
5. We will encourage self-regulation in the industry. the industry
is fertile ground for incorporating customer advocates or
mediators, or use their websites as an effective mechanism
settlement of claims.
Regulations will require companies to have larger
with easily accessible public registry of complaints received.
Follow the OECD recommendation on the adoption of stamps Sernac
well designed, they could operate as interesting incentives, and whose

We want
Chileans can
CHOOSE more,
ESO introduce
MORE COMPETITION
DRUGS, PROCEDURES
NOTARIALES, INSURANCE AND
OTHERS

application could be extended to consolidate good business practices.
6. Provide greater choice to consumers
drugs, notary, insurance and other formalities. There are markets
that they require specific measures to encourage greater competition
and choice of consumers:
• Sale of Drugs. It shall be authorized to other establishments
-different stores to pharmacies and pharmacists to
sell drugs not require a prescription, what
that will increase coverage and competition.
• We will promote the creation of the National Agency
Medicines, to improve safety and manufacturing,
allowing to move on bioequivalent with
the consequent greater choice for consumers
• Notary and Auxiliary Services Administration
Justice. It shall be allowed to provide certain other authorities
notary or provide ancillary services administration
justice, safeguarding the public trust, in order to expand
the range of supply and reduce its cost to people.

106

www.evelyn2014.cl

RESPECTED CONSUMERS

• Insurance. Revise laws and regulations to promote
competition in the local market and eventually allow
contracting with foreign companies; and on
renewals and changes in the policy conditions for granting
consumers the opportunity and the time to find alternatives.
• AFPs. It will explore the possibility that future
Affiliate (new contracts) tender is considered
not only offered the lowest commission regarding salary
workers, but also the lowest commission on
accumulated funds. In addition, the Superintendency of
Pensions will establish an online calculator for use
members of the system to examine the cost paid
their AFPs and the income from funds
accumulated. Finally, each AFP must send a letter
its members every two years asking if they want to
affiliated to the AFP or switch to another procedure
may be made by return mail or online.
7. We will create a system portability Merchant
Credit smoothly changed to allow a sender
card to another that offers better conditions. In designing this
system the possibility of eliminating all costs prepaid studied in
debts associated with credit cards and require that the consumer
receive at least monthly about the amount owed
and the total sum to the end of the period. The card contracts
allow credit transfer the amount owed on one card to another
offering better conditions, only asking for a settlement of the
owed, approving the liquidation and payment of the debt by
part of the issuer of the card that offers better conditions.
The portability of debt from one card to another is automatic. You can
made by phone or online. Issuers of cards
They had the original debt will be forced to accept prepayment
additional collection and to facilitate its realization without delay. Study
A similar proposal for mortgage loans.

E V E N LY. U N 7 PA R A C H I L E

107

RESPECTED CONSUMERS

8. fight against abuses in massive contracts. Modify
legislation to apply the rules and sanctions clauses
abusive, general conditions of contract, not only the
adhesion contracts.

IMPLEMENT A
STOP SHOP FOR
AND CLAIMS FOR SERNAC
CHILEATIENDE.

We establish a preventive control of any unfair terms
in mass contracts, leading to a better understanding of the
administrative bodies to determine specific abuses of each
sector and allow convene negotiations between the various actors
the massive hiring.
In this line we institutionalize the Sernac, in coordination with
sectoral regulators, biannually convene bidders
of different industries and consumer associations to make
This work of preventive detection, whose findings should be
public.
9. Set Single Window for Claims. A system be created
online claim linking regulators and supervisors
sectoral Sernac and Chile serves so that all claims
on the Consumer Act be referred immediately to the
warning system.
10. Courts will implement specialized protection
consumer. Specialized courts be established, with powers to
hear complaints regarding consumer protection and establish
sanctions. Also we review the legislation on limitation periods
Actions in pursuit of the misdemeanor liability
sanctioned by the Consumer Protection Act in order
to clarify its application to various assumptions and consumer goods

Courts will be created
Specialized
IN PROTECTION
CONSUMER to host
these allegations and
establish sanctions.

108

today the law provides. We will quickly and less discretion
to the compensation process, providing that the powers of
fines and damages are defined by the specialized court. The
ruling could be appealed to the Court of Appeals, in which
If these causes shall enjoy preference for the view and judgment,
or to the Supreme Court, it confined to only analyze the

www.evelyn2014.cl

RESPECTED CONSUMERS

legality of the decision. Or pre-judicial mechanisms will strengthen
court dispute resolution, as usually achieved
satisfactory solutions in shorter deadlines for consumers.
Therefore, reglamentaremos and strengthen collective mediations
Sernac authorizing the purpose.
From comparative law, incorporate measures
increase the costs of violation of consumer rights

II. DEFENSE OF FREE COMPETITION
The main focus on free competition is to break down barriers
Check to ensure that markets are contestable because
the competitive pressure posed by the threat of entry of new
actors is the best tool to ensure behavior
competitive incumbents.
The current law is well defined and introduced instruments
appropriate for ensuring free competition in the markets. Without
But there are still areas to improve the regulation
make more effective the existing instruments.
Listed below are our suggestions:
1. Establish tougher sanctions: higher fines and penalties
personal. Currently, the Court of Defense of Free Competition
(TDLC) provides for fines and other administrative measures against attacks
free competition, with maximums reaching 30,000
UTA (today US $ 28 million) in case of collusion. The law requires the
TDLC set the amount of fines justifiably; Nevertheless,
there is evidence that this power is being applied with some
discretion. Therefore, appropriate penalties will link with
illicit benefit experienced by those committing the offense,
and will welcome a system of consistent personal sanctions
disqualifications from holding public office, serving as directors
Open corporations, etc., for a specified period.

E V E N LY. U N 7 PA R A C H I L E

109

RESPECTED CONSUMERS

In addition, it penalizes those who hinder or obstruct investigations,
established by law to deliver information and deadlines
delivery at every stage of the process.
2. Strengthen leniency. It has been widely recognized
that leniency is a key tool to dismantle
arrangements made. The main flaw in the Chilean case is that the
effective mechanism does not provide immunity from prosecution for those
near the National Economic Prosecutor (FNE) to reveal the cartel,
meriting Revison current legislation on the subject.
Strengthen this mechanism provides legal certainty who
It is self-denounce that get exemption or reduction of the fine without
a subsequent criminal trial. We do not rule out a future they can
introduce criminal sanctions for competition law with the
because the shelter to avoid weakening leniency. For
Therefore, the TDLC filter should act to authorize who made
use of leniency can not be tried in a criminal court.
3. Antitrust Trial will demand shorter and rules
clearer. It is necessary to streamline processes and investigations
FNE to not unduly delay periods when companies
They are studied. Therefore, we assign deadlines to exercise extinct
the investigative powers of the FNE, unless you TDLC
authorize an extension of time, knowingly.
It is also necessary to move towards a greater degree of certainty and clarity,
so you define the minimum content of the charge
made by the Prosecutor and the express conditions that would authorize the
Prosecutor to withhold the background taken in view to
bringing the charge, in the run-up the matter
by the TDLC. In turn, we will perfect the regulation

A
SEVEN
FOR
CHILE
110

ensure that the TDLC takes over their charges and sentences
defenses exposed, explaining his criteria for fines.
Finally, we introduce greater transparency and accountability in

www.evelyn2014.cl

RESPECTED CONSUMERS

the performance of the authority, including the possibility of subjecting
public scrutiny, elapsed time, the reports referred
by FNE to formulate a specific accusation.
4. We will establish preventive system of merger control. Chile
it has been decided to date by a system of voluntary consultations
merger, the application has shortcomings.
Indeed, there is a risk that the FNE or a third party makes the request
when the companies involved have chosen not to do so, which
paralyzes the operation.
Following the recommendation of the Advisory Committee convened by
President Piñera, apply a mixed mechanism of consultation,
the mergers above a certain threshold to be consulted
before the competition authority, and the other can undergo
voluntarily merger review to greater legal certainty.
It will assess what authority to rule on this matter-
FNE or TDLC-, clarifying who the burden of proof -of
FNE- companies or by size of the operation and impact
market shares.
5. Delineate Powers of the courts and Avoid
Overlapping Roles of Specialized Agencies. In the area
Free competition has been lacking more technical deference
Supreme Court to the TDLC, which has led not only to reverse
failures, but to a growing judicial activism by way of introducing
regulations in the markets through the maximum sentences
court. Thus the institutions has been injured.
We will clarify in greater detail in the law the role of the Supreme Court
on the complaint appeal, in order to concentrate it
control of legality, as a court of appeal. Also
clarify the position of government institutions on issues
Free competition, especially regarding public procurement,
FNE allowing part of the consultation process database
tender and express their opinion on issues of free competition.

E V E N LY. U N 7 PA R A C H I L E

111

RESPECTED CONSUMERS

Finally, we avoid overlapping of roles between agencies
specialized (Sernac, superintendents and defense agencies
free competition), the law clearly defining its functions
and institutionalizing coordination.
6.Descentralización: Creating regional FNE. The FNE works well
in Santiago but has significant regional gaps, so

FNE regional
The FNE works well
Santiago but has
significant deficiencies
territorial, so
to establish
FNE regional programs
they can share
infrastructure
other bodies
public.

112

We establish regional FNE, which will share infrastructure
with other public bodies.
7. Self-regulation and will promote preventive measures.
Incorporate incentives for promoting standards of defense
free competition and compliance, to create a culture
competition.
In addition we will require sectoral agencies solicit
Prior to the FNE when laws or administrative measures to
represent a potential threat to competition.

www.evelyn2014.cl

Modern CHILE

Chile
MODERN

E V E N LY. U N 7 PA R A C H I L E

113

Modern CHILE

c

hile has taken important steps to join the elite
group of developed countries by the end of this decade. It
It has an important quantitative dimension; various indicators

economic, institutional, social, and technological, show that
Chile is on track. The government of President Sebastián
Pinera, building on the positive developments that have left
Previous Concertación governments has given a boost in
that direction.
However, entry to the group of developed countries also
matter take over qualitative aspects of equal or greater
relevance, and no longer looking to the coming years, but to a term more
long. They are linked to the type of democracy and institutions
we have policies; understand how participation
in the public forum; equal consideration and respect for diverse
lifestyles, expressions of affection and the importance of family
in developing individuals; democratize access to culture
and strengthen our intercultural, given the existence of a rich
cultural traditions of our indigenous peoples; and use
comprehensive and sustainable development of our cities and public spaces,
that has an impact on many areas of daily life of Chileans,
as the design of our homes, neighborhoods and green areas, our
public transport system or infrastructure for sport and
recreation.

We will strengthen
And enrich
DEMOCRACY, BOOST
A MORE INCLUSIVE AND CHILE
PLURAL and emphasize
ON THE QUALITY OF LIFE.

We have taken important steps over the past decade in this direction,
no doubt. The efforts of President Sebastián
Piñera has been particularly relevant in many of these areas.
However, the intergenerational pact that we should honor as
Chilean nation among millions of past, present and future us
to do, today, think tomorrow Chile.
Our program of Government seeks to significantly advance
Modern building a Chile:
I. More and better democracy, empowering citizens and

114

www.evelyn2014.cl

Modern CHILE

regions and putting the state at the service of Chileans
and no paperwork and red tape.
II. A more inclusive, pluralistic, respectful of the rights Chile
Human, cultural and less discriminative; that drives
science and technology as tools for development.
III. Better quality of life for Chileans. Allowing more
time for family, culture and sport, striving
best designs for cities, especially housing
for the most vulnerable, parks and public spaces,
and giving greater dignity to public transport.

I. More and better democracy
Since the return of democracy, Chile has followed a path of
consensual constitutional evolution that has enabled it to achieve
a new institutional order, thus enabling significant progress
and political, economic and social stability. However, there have been
generating new challenges that require constantly review

we will
Perfection
CONSTITUTIONAL
Which is based on
Decentralization, MORE
CITIZEN PARTICIPATION,
MORE COMPETITION POLICY
AND REDUCTION
PRESIDENTIAL hegemony.

their situation to avoid dangerous stagnation derives from the
complacency. We believe that our country needs new
political and constitutional arrangements that permit the strengthening a
representative democracy based on institutions that are controlled
each other without exclusions or divisions, and seek distribute
to rely more on citizens and regions.
Our bid will boost a constitutional development. It is therefore
we oppose a Constituent Assembly, which is
a real leap to institutional vacuum, creating uncertainty
and instability, weakening our international image of order
and legal certainty and that ends up being a sentence imposed
that divides rather than unite Chileans. By contrast, we
value the agreements we have reached in the past two decades,
embodied in a series of reforms to our Constitution that
They have perfected our institutions, improvements to

E V E N LY. U N 7 PA R A C H I L E

115

Modern CHILE

who they have attended the various political forces which constitute the
road that our country must continue to follow.
It is on this constitutional development, we propose a process of
constitutional and political reform based on the following areas:
1. Regionalization of Truth. Santiago is not Chile. Some believe
that constitutional reforms include giving more power to
Central government and public policy can be designed and
deployed from the capital to the rest of the country. We, on the
Rather, we believe that the road to development is one that is born and

we believe that the
development is one
born and spreads
by the regions,
north to south.

regions extending from north to south (see further measures in Chapter
3: Regionalization of Truth). For this reason, and because we believe in
regions is the future of Chile, we propose:
• Regional Assemblies. Create a body in each
region, bringing together the regional directors; mayors;
the top two councilors from each municipality; and the
MPs from the region. The Regional Assembly will have the
power to propose regional and national bodies
regional development strategy and intervene, as
advisory body in the formation of laws
impacting the region.
• More powers and resources to the regional governments.
Let's simplify and broaden devolution
President of the Regional Governments. Today, the Constitution
instructs the organic law determining the form and
how the President may transfer powers
administrative regional governments. We must be more
bold and simplify the transfer of skills,
also expanding the number of materials that can be
be subject to such delegation. As resources,
We hope in our period of government allocation
regional public resources in its territory is at least
equivalent to 50% of the respective expenditure.

116

www.evelyn2014.cl

Modern CHILE

• More autonomy CORE: The Regional Manager and
it will not be President of the Regional Council. Give more
powers to the president of the Regional Council as contained
other than the mayor, among which will be to direct
the Regional Assembly. The background of the initiative aims to
separate functions with the current Mayor
President of Regional Government (difference mode
between the executive and the legislature, at the national level) .This is
urgent, considering that with the direct election of
CORES those who should be appointed the President
the Regional Council. This means a finished study
Today separation of functions and the quality of Mayor
Chairman of the Regional Council to confunden-
clearly define them and avoid conflicts of
competition.
• more powerful municipalities. That municipalities can
do everything that is not expressly given
the central government. We believe that local development is
the basis of regional progress and the foundation from which
institutional building in the country is built. We propose

We give more powers
and resources to
regional governments.

expressly enshrine that municipalities can exercise
Always the functions and powers that do not require
financial resources for the better development of its work.
This is necessary in light of that public law
Chilean authorities are only those abocarse
tasks that the law has given them competition. With
the same purpose, we propose to give powers
local tax regulations in the field (contributions,
municipal rights and patents) for municipalities
may suspend or temporarily reduce the application
some of them in order to achieve development, generate
employment and attract investments.
2. Increased citizen participation and public scrutiny. Some
They believe that constitutional reforms include only give more

E V E N LY. U N 7 PA R A C H I L E

117

Modern CHILE

to the State. We, on the contrary, we believe it is also
important to give people more freedoms and responsibilities.
The state must serve the people and is perfectly
possible to reconcile an effective and strong state to meet its
tasks with an active and empowered citizenship. For this reason, and because
we believe that citizens must be protagonists in building
our political community, we propose:
• Ombudsman. If the state fails, pay. And he
abuser, public or private, pay well. We propose
create a post of high legal level shall function
advise, coordinate, and guide the citizen in the exercise
of all their daily duties, the proliferation of
regulate public services and private agents who
untreated, can also represent you in the exercise of their
rights before administrative or judicial bodies. Exceeds
the current SERNAC, because while this is limited to
consumers, the Ombudsman fully represent the

implement
the position of
defender
cuidadano
to advise
Citizens
in all
rights.

Citizen: as contributors, as an affiliate, as a neighbor,
and transported as a student, as holder
political rights, etc.
• We will devote the right to citizen participation,
to create a space where people and associations
of different kinds can ensure their right to
voice in different institutional levels, expanding
20,500 law that established it, but has had very
little application.
• simplify the vote of Chileans abroad
in presidential elections, with the only requirement
making a voluntary manifestation of wanting to vote
in every election held in Chile or the consulate or
nearest embassy, ​​in the manner and period prescribed by law.

118

www.evelyn2014.cl

1. Foreign Policy, a policy of State
governed by principles. We will abide by the
respect for international law, the inviolability
of treaties, the peaceful settlement of
differences, non-intervention in the affairs
internal states, maintaining
international peace and security and respect and
promotion of human rights.
2. Neighborhood Policy and Regional Cooperation
and visionary. It is critical that the relationship
our region and promote cooperation
good neighborliness, and aim to complement
as countries to achieve greater weight
the international arena. Intensified
our participation in the Pacific Alliance
in relation to integration and trade
It is the cornerstone of a process
Modern integrating with the region.

3. Multilateral and Global Politics: Leadership
International. Chile is crucial for safety
not only itself, but also that
of the region and the world at large. Taking
note that the sum of exports and
imports amounted to around 50%
our GDP, any security problem
International affects us. Hence, we should
contribute to global security and it is
one of the main reasons that led us
to apply to the UN Security Council
United in the period 2014-2015. At the regional level, it is
very important important our participation
active in all those forums that have
interest, to make more transparent our
Americanist vocation and realize
provision of services from the region and the world
from the world to the region.

Exports as a new public service
(ProChile 2.0, see Chapter 5).
5. Best diplomatic career. The service
Exterior should be attractive to the best
talents and not just rely on the vocation.
We'll worry about foster the entry
professional excellence to the Academy
Diplomatic, offering a study center
high level, a shorter period of training and
better initial remuneration. Implement the
concursabilidad of commercial attaches,
cultural and press.
6. Reorganization of Embassies in the world.
We initiate a reorganization plan
our embassies function relationships
present and potential trading countries
and continents where we have representation.
We will continue exploring with NATO countries
Pacific the possibility of representations
joint.
7. Increased presence of the Foreign Ministry
Regions. The regions increasingly moving in
international integration. To add value and do
streamlining these efforts, the Foreign Ministry must
support and coordinate them. Furthermore, CORES
chosen regions come to have more
role. During the current administration
He created an office of the Ministry of Foreign
Arica, however this is a line that should
deepened and extended to other regions of high
international links.

4. International Economic Relations: more
public-private coordination. Work
to maintain our strategy of opening
the world, but with greater coordination
efforts between the public sector and
private. We must strengthen the monitoring
trade agreements that Chile has signed
and implement a Secretariat for
International Economic Relations, as
the Directorate General Promotion

E V E N LY. U N 7 PA R A C H I L E

119

Modern CHILE

7 Keys for relations
Affairs of Chile

Modern CHILE

• We will initiate early voting, in order to encourage
the suffrage of those Chileans who have disabilities
to vote on the date of the respective election. Throughout
If the votes cast shall be counted and the election day
general.
• We will facilitate the vote of the elderly and sick, avoiding
which should go to the respective local vote.

We will initiate the
I vote early and
will facilitate the vote
elderly and infirm.

• Accountability of all public authorities consecrated
in the Constitution, especially to strengthen the scrutiny
citizen. In particular, it should ensure complete
self-evaluation and accountability of each of the
branches of Congress, and each parliamentary form
individual prosecutors and the judiciary,
while respecting their respective autonomies
constitutional.
• Programmatic Vote. A candidate for a popular election
(President, parliamentarians, mayors, councilors
regional) must submit when registering,
a work proposal and commitments developed
if he is elected to the position you are applying. Annually
shall render account public and accessible massively
their respective fields, the results and progress of their
management, thus allowing a due trial and citizen control.
3. Strengthen the role of Parliament: Better democracy requires
National Congress that has the highest confidence and ciudadadnos
to be an effective counterbalance to the power of the executive. This is important
it allows to better operating principles of
Democratic republic as the separation of state functions or
a good system of institutional checks and balances, mechanisms
seeking to protect the rights and freedoms of individuals. It is by
why we propose:

120

www.evelyn2014.cl

rationalizing the use of emergency by the President,
with limits (the President of the Republic can not enter
more than 10 per month in each chamber emergencies), allowing
Supplementary emergency mechanism that can
come from the cameras themselves.

Reduce hegemony
presidential in
legislative process,
rationalizing
for emergency use
the President.

• Forcing the President to get the
Congress an "authorization to negotiate" in the case
to advance to introduce complex new treaties
significant changes to national legislation (such as
FTAs) or modify the boundary lines.
We have signed FTAs ​​with the European Union or the US
not only set but governing tariff reductions
highly relevant materials (labor, environmental norms,
intellectual property, etc). It is difficult to parliament
you can change them once the end of negotiations. By
Therefore, complete information on the agreement
before it is signed allowing Congress to issue a
review and deliver a negotiation guidelines
which commit the country.
• Create a Constitutional Status of Autonomous Bodies,
to justify and define the field for the legislator
establish decentralized legal autonomy with heritage
own, to incorporate institutions whose autonomy must
be strengthened for different reasons, such as the Institute
National Statistics, the Electoral Service, the SERNAC
and superintendents. Then they can carry out their work
regardless of the government of the day, responding
to the country in the implementation of tasks that are specific to the
State policy rather than a majority of the time.
• Give more power to control Congress
the executive, facilitating the use of inquiries
of parliamentarians Executive authorities,

E V E N LY. U N 7 PA R A C H I L E

A
SEVEN
FOR
CHILE

121

Modern CHILE

• Reduce the presidential hegemony in the legislative process,

Modern CHILE

and increasing transparency and the level of scrutiny
Senate appointments various authorities
higher in involved, all of which must
be preceded by a public hearing in which you must
or attend the appropriate candidates.
4. More competition and transparency policy. Competition
It improves policy. Some believe that constitutional reforms
They consist of giving more power to a transitional most
ocasional.Nosotros and, on the contrary, we believe that
Constitutions must balance majority rule,
with full respect for the rights and freedoms of
minorities, no matter what they. Also,
we believe that the Chilean political system requires more
competition and strengthen governance. It is therefore
we propose:
• Modify the parliamentary system replacement, changing the
current rule that allows parties to nominate discretion
the replacements, through a mechanism agreed of
transversely with the different political forces
revalue the importance of voting and the popular mandate.
• Establish term limits for elected officials

We propose that
Sens only can
hold office for two
consecutive periods (1
re) in the same
constituency (16 years);
and, in the case of Deputies,
Mayors, councilors and
Regional Councillors,
they can exercise up
3 periods.

popularly. That is why we propose that the Senators
only they can hold office for two consecutive terms
(1 election) in the same district (16 years); and in
For deputies, mayors, councilors and directors
Regional, to exercise a maximum of 3 periods
consecutive (2 reelections) in the same district, commune
provincial or district respectively (12).
• Moving towards a new electoral system for the election
Parliamentarians. We believe that the electoral system
binomial for the election of MPs has met
a cycle. That is why we must move towards a new

122

www.evelyn2014.cl

1. We will promote a new Financing
of the Armed Forces. We will urge
the processing of the Bill
Financing of the Armed Forces
replacing the current Copper Law. The
multiannuality and the minimum insured are key
to ensure adequate funding for
the Armed Forces
2. We will modernize corporate governance
public enterprises of the defense.
We renew the management system
public companies of Defense (ASMAR,
FAMAE and ENAER) entities undertaking
vital contribution to the defense system
National.
3. Flexibility in the military.
Modernize military service
introducing incentives to deliver more
those who perform projection (bridges more
with direct military career training
soft) skills.
4. Improvements to the career staff
Armed forces. Study measures to ensure that the race
Military opportunities and options available
professional development and staff commensurate with
the reality of today's world, preserving their
high professional standard achieved to date.
Also we study arrangements for the
personnel, both active and passive, have a
equal access to progress on
health benefits than other Chileans.
In this sense we will see how to increase
coverage of specialists in the system
Armed Forces health, preventing it from appreciating
comparatively.

E V E N LY. U N 7 PA R A C H I L E

5. Improve coordination between ministries
Foreign and defense. Having
into account the close link
between the functions carried out, on the one hand
the Ministry of Foreign Affairs as
commissioned by the President of the Republic
running the country's foreign policy, and the
the other, the Ministry of Defence as
manager support it, reinforce the
coordination between the two portfolios.
6. Strengthening institutions
joint of the armed forces. The powers of the
joint institutions should be strengthened
in order to move towards a system
procurement, employment and organization
Armed Forces means that is efficient
and flexible. With this objective, we will promote
initiating two debates, with respect
the role of the Chief of Joint Staff in
various operations that take place in
a crisis or external conflict, and another on
the option of adding a fourth star to Head
JCS (which is an official of the
highest rank).
7.Empleo of the armed forces in tasks
international cooperation. Implement
a Political Security Cooperation,
as an integral part of the Defense Policy
covering all the initiatives and actions
our contribution to peace and stability
International. We propose extending the Force
"Southern Cross" with contributions from other countries
share our international vision, principles
and values.

123

Modern CHILE

7 upgrades for
Chilean Defense Policy

Modern CHILE

A Modern Chile
also it requires a
State agile service
Chileans and not
paperwork or procedures
unnecessary.

electoral system of majority orientation, including
one redistricting to enhance territorial representation
of the elect, without thereby increasing the number
parliamentary or public spending and without reducing the
representation of the regions.
• Reforming political parties by introducing transparency
in decision-making and ensuring participation and
functionality decentralized decision-making bodies.
Similarly, to avoid external dependence of these
authorities, public funding of their proposed
activities, subject to strict control of organisms
public, with the corresponding surrender of their expenses.
5. A Modern Chile also requires an agile service State
Chileans and no paperwork or red tape. For
we will promote:
• public service of Chileans Servers. Through
improved system selection and evaluation of senior
management and performance agreements, making
they are actually a management tool with
the superiors of these managers, to ask
management accounts and have an ongoing dialogue that
lead and impose demanding goals. ADP to expand
more services and functions that until now excluded from the
System and also expand to municipalities
and Regional Governments.
• A good employer State. Since the 90s, the
percentage of staff plant has consistently gone
decreasing, giving way to an increase in the contract,
Thus, we propose a Contract 2.0 which is characterized by
have employment contracts longer than one year; a
process of entry into the regulated contracts, equal for all

124

www.evelyn2014.cl

Modern CHILE

services, eliminating the discretion; improving
evaluation systems; and associate performance evaluation
with increases in degree and training, generating
greater transparency in these processes. It will also seek
permit apply for all positions of plant officials
for all other services (horizontal mobility), today
virtually nonexistent. Finally, we propose regulating
collective bargaining in the public sector, including in
certain circumstances, and fit properly regulated,
the right to strike.
• A digital state. The government of President Piñera urged
ChileAtiende, a great initiative that consists of a network
multi-state that aims to bring benefits

The State must be good
employer to
who serve the country
feel they valued and
rewarded.

services and public institutions to people. Is
need for further progress in this line. Specifically,
three areas of work are proposed: progress in line
State as a single window, reaching the level
of the same service of what is an office, since in
all can be made all the regular procedures
citizens with the state, and scanning procedures
public. It should also establish that rule
Generally, all pending and new service should start in
digital format, notwithstanding that also deliver
by remote channels.

II. An inclusive and pluralistic Chile
Our bid has not had to recognize and condemn complex
violations of human rights (HR) violations committed during
Military regime and there is much room for advancement in the field of
justice, truth and reparations. The present Government has maintained a vision
State in this area, strengthening existing institutions: it has
supported the work of the Museum of Memory, the National Institute of
HR and even sent a draft law creating the Secretariat
DD.HH., and strengthen the Ministry of Justice and Human Rights

E V E N LY. U N 7 PA R A C H I L E

125

Modern CHILE

We aspire to a non-
address discriminator
diversity and believe
must be strengthened
this principle from the
schooling.

However, we must also consider the challenges
DD.HH. look to the future looking for a pluralistic, inclusive and not Chile
discriminatory. It is an Agenda 2.0, where gender issues
and various minorities begin to become more relevant, question
typical of a modern, complex society.
Our commitment to an inclusive and respectful of HR Chile
of all Chileans are specific and concrete:
1. Creation of the Human Rights Department, proposing entity
public policy in the direction of defending and spreading Rights
Human in its real dimension, coordinating the work of all organs
of state administration that are directly related to this matter.
2. Improvements to the National Institute of DD.HH: greater pluralism
and decentralization. It is proposed to improve the law of the NHRI
ensure greater pluralism, increase transparency
and accountability, and strengthen their autonomy from the government.
At the same time, we consider appropriate to consider the creation of
regional divisions within the NHRI, allowing deliver a
more accurate to matters of local character technical opinion to be
know this institution.
3. Strengthen the draft Agreement married life. We consider
important that this project be approved as soon as possible. Estimates that
The AVP is not merely a community of goods, but an expression
of family.
4. An inclusive and non-discriminatory approach towards diversity.
We want the diversity of all kinds is seen as positive
and enriching society.

A
SEVEN
FOR
CHILE

126

www.evelyn2014.cl

Modern CHILE

5. We will improve the situation of people with disabilities.
According to the National Survey on Disability (ENDISC 2004),
our country has just over two million people with disabilities,
representing 12.9% of the population. Of this universe, 400 000
They are in a situation of dependency. Of these, 40,000 are in
a situation particularly complex. That is why we propose:
• A National Employment Plan for people with
disabilities through employment subsidies for people
with disabilities, to improve the income of the employer
and the employee; create a fund for entrepreneurship
people with disabilities in collaboration with FOSIS;
and training programs and training of people with
disabled, with a specific fund for this purpose through
the Sence and technical advice from Senadis.
• The creation of a comprehensive program for adults
situation of dependency, by creating 75
Outpatient Day centers by 2018 and increase
residential public offering significantly by
the creation of two thousand residential spaces to meet
the huge gaps on this subject in the world.

Implement
a National Plan
Employment
individuals with
disabilities.

Both initiatives should achieve national coverage; today there is
eight regions that do not have any center
Residential, causing families to be separated
and that the links are broken. So it is that the year 2018
all regions of the country, will have a base center
Residential for Disability care.
• improvements will be made under the program
age with disabilities: to increase residential places
for minors with disabilities and aims
significantly expand outpatient programs
SENAME, and give them a focus on development and training
people with disabilities; also we will have
Program Training and Employment "Caregivers
professional "caregivers attend.

E V E N LY. U N 7 PA R A C H I L E

127

Modern CHILE

We propose a Great
National Agreement
that leads to a
State policy
this field based
in the construction
a Chile
Intercultural.

• The educational inclusion of the greatest possible number of
children and youth with disabilities in settings
regular education, by meeting the
current regulation which establishes the obligation of all
educational institution that receives funding
public to give admission to a disabled child,
giving specific powers to the Superintendency
Education in this field; gradual universal accessibility,
for all educational establishments have
the necessary infrastructure to allow in
People with disabilities; and establish incentives and grants
Special for integration in higher education, and
that expenses for a person with disabilities
studies are higher.
6. Great National Agreement for the construction of an intercultural Chile.
Chile is composed of various indigenous peoples, along
our history have lived different forms of relations with the
Been.
We have seen how in the past tried to implement policies
public that they sought to assimilate indigenous Chilean society
regardless of their differences, with the consequent loss of identity,
which led to an impairment in the development of peoples
Indians.
This can not continue and is essential to a policy of
State and a complementary approach that allows us to build
bridges necessary for the construction of an intercultural Chile.
That is why we propose a Great National Agreement that allows us
move from the current situation towards a true state policy
in this area based on the construction of a cross Chile.
We propose:
The establishment of important institutional foundations

128

www.evelyn2014.cl

Modern CHILE

get permit, as is the constitutional recognition
Indigenous Peoples, which is crucial to make them visible and
justice to the country that we, recognizing multiculturalism step
of our society, and the creation of the National Council of Peoples
Indigenous, indigenous representative body to represent them in
broad and inclusive in its relations with the state and the rest of way
society. Conadi reformulate, to transform it into her service
public of excellence that indigenous peoples deserve. Also,
We study the creation of the Department of Indian Affairs provided
and when it is not a mere recipe from Santiago, but listening
first indigenous peoples themselves. All these proposals should
be consulted before indigenous peoples, pursuant to
No. 169 ILO Convention.
Intercultural policies, opening the door to a process of creation
bridges between different cultures through dialogue and respect
reciprocal. This will increase the resources for Program
Intercultural Bilingual Education (PEIB), so as to further advance
the installation of a comprehensive intercultural education, aimed at both
Indian students and non-indigenous students in our
country; increase the budget and coverage for indigenous scholarships
at all educational levels; create high schools of excellence
intercultural in areas of high indigenous density; will increase the
budget and coverage to continue the policy implementation
Intercultural Kindergarten in coordination with JUNJI,
I implementing them with educational material linked to the cultures of
indigenous peoples and training tutors in teaching

implement one
urban indigenous policy
to strengthen
identity of 73% of
indigenous people
He lives in cities.

indigenous languages; and declare the Araucanía Region as
multicultural and oficializaremos mapudungun as official language
the region, for the recognition of our cultural diversity is a
essential step to promote a harmonious coexistence based on
respect, dialogue and peace. An Urban Indian Policy to deliver
real opportunities to recover and strengthen their identity to 73% of the
indigenous people living in urban areas; create a Fund
Strengthening Indigenous, including public and private funds, for
allocation to indigenous through loans or capital contributions,

E V E N LY. U N 7 PA R A C H I L E

A
SEVEN
FOR
CHILE

129

Modern CHILE

We will add to what intercultural business incubator;
and propose legal and administrative improvements in
matter of giving land, increasing the quality of decisions
delivery and reducing discretion by relaxing certain
restrictions and promoting investment in development
land.

III. Better quality of life for
Chilean
A Modern Chile should look at the new reality of the Chilean family,
characterized, among other things, by a lower level of fertility
the replacement rate (1.94 children per woman), delayed

We will ensure that
our cities
are sites
inclusive, where
and people are
feel protected and
incorporated into
urban benefits.

first child, or the expansion of consensual unions. Also,
while in 2012, 70% of Chilean children born out of
marriage, in 2000 this figure was 48%. The poll
He married in 2011 showed that single parents in Chile
reach 27% of the total, and almost 9 out of 10 of them
They have a woman as head of household.
All these figures show that today the concept of family adopts
various expressions. They must not only be respected, but by
public policies and state actions must Chilean families
be protected and strengthened, especially knowing that affection,
respect and tolerance so necessary for the construction of a
healthy society depend largely on family dynamics
in people who have grown.
We also believe that the State must ensure that our
inclusive cities are places where people are and feel
protected and incorporated into the urban benefits: access to
public spaces, education, health, employment, security, interaction
social, mobility and transport, culture, sport and recreation.

130

www.evelyn2014.cl

Modern CHILE

1. The public demand for better quality of life requires
greater participation of everyone in cultural life.
-free Access the scant resources in areas of cultural goods,
music, theater, cinema, creations and, above all, new spaces
cultural (cultural centers, museums, libraries, etc.), allow
Students grow holistically, citizens feed
reflective spirit, cities create better environments for their
people and countries grow in their identity and projecting more
strength to the world. Culture as well, is an integral part of being human.
We propose an ambitious program that is to ensure horizon
that no child in the country, he was born in the region it and the
social condition it is, lacks the necessary incentives so that,
at a young age, you will open the world of culture and live on it the rest of
his life, enjoying its infinite goods and creative heritage
humanity. This is the focus of our cultural policy.
That is why we propose:
• Strengthen the National Policy for the Promotion of Reading
promoted by President Sebastian Pinera, implying
invest in campaigns to promote reading habits

Strengthen
politics
National
Promotion of
Reading.

healthy; promote early actions to promote the
reading; strengthen local public libraries, making
true cultural centers and libraries convert
schoolchildren in community libraries. The State can
be helpful, reforming the law to promote the book and
reading, updating to extend the terms on
it is currently conceived; developing
and enhancing children's libraries throughout the country,
coordinating them; strengthening the dissemination of reading
prisons; and expanding the scholarship
"Vocation professor" to the library.

E V E N LY. U N 7 PA R A C H I L E

131

Modern CHILE

• promote the project of the Cultural Nutrition Basket
-developed in a first stage as a pilot partner
Join the Ethics Familiar, building law to be reformed
books and reading to update and incorporate the concept of
'' Digital book, '' the benefits of depreciation is established
accelerated to the book industry and an agenda will be promoted
Powerful information policy that will involve tracking
updating our intellectual property rights, and
study of a new policy for orphan works.
• Moving towards a quality TV, given the high
impact that this means of communication, which
It means having high standards in qualifying
schedules transmission of programs, and have
contestable funds for large public channels
TV. The early implementation of digital TV opens
new possibilities of channels oriented niche
culture and information.
• Encourage creative industries, linking
cultural policies productive organizations
promotion and public financial assistance to SMEs

Strengthen the
heritage protection
culture of Chile,
generating a policy
Museums Development
National, and creation
regional files,
among others.

and transform Chile into a cinematic power
International. As it was done with the movie in two Webmail
decades evaluate a program of state support
content production in Chile Internet, working
and to lower the cost of broadband use and
public good applications for smartphones.
• Strengthen the protection of the cultural heritage of Chile,
based on the progress made by the current
Government, creating a development policy Museums
National, regional and creating files, disseminating
World Heritage sites are, and with campaigns
against attacks on heritage. For these purposes
They use digital media and social networks.

132

www.evelyn2014.cl

Modern CHILE

2. The practice of sport and physical activity generates a
number of benefits for both the individual who develops
activity and for the whole society. These benefits
should be reason enough to motivate governments
give a growing importance to the promotion and development
this activity. Sobran the reasons for this: the
relationship between physical activity and health; distances the
youth vices that unfortunately we see today too
present in our society, such as alcoholism and
drug addiction; or, from the viewpoint sport
high performance, it is evident that the athlete derives
international achievement contributes to the image of the country and
generates positive and inspiring examples to our children
and youth.
Chile definitely has a lot to advance this
field. According to the study Choose Healthy Living Program
in 2012, 25.1% of those over 15 are obese

We propose to move forward
toward a surface
structure
Minimum sporty
3.5 m
per capita.

(4 million obese) and 39.3% of the population has
overweight. In 1987, 7% of children entered into
Basic first it was obese. Today that percentage
climbs to 23%. While it is true during this government
there has been a significant improvement, because they have
Built around a million people over
18 years to regular physical activity, it is too
High rate of sedentary lifestyle of the population.
• From an institutional perspective, we propose to evaluate
the Sports Act in light of the objectives that were
initially pursued by an advisory committee
Presidential high-level, proposing improvements
required; create a National Sports Museum and Archives
Chile, where they could locate the walk of fame
athletes; and the creation of a program to preserve and
spread the ancestral sports.

E V E N LY. U N 7 PA R A C H I L E

133

Modern CHILE

• Regarding the mass sports, we will conduct a survey
National sports grounds and status, with the
objective of moving towards an area of ​​structure
Sports threshold of 3.5 square meters per capita;
complete a backbone network of bicycle paths in all cities
more than 500,000 inhabitants; develop a program
encouraging physical activity in preschool; Education
Physical compulsory school level, promoting more hours
sports in schools; encourage the practice of sport
in the company, by the stamp "Healthy Company" and
the possibility of providing, as part of the salary of the
workers, physical activity bonds, similar to the bond
collation, which can be used in gyms and enclosures
sports; promotion of adventure sport advantage
geographical characteristics of the country.
In high yield, we propose the training of talents

We will create the Agency
Human Development
will be the institution
responsible for promoting
state policies
consider objective
priority welfare
of people.

encouraging the establishment of subsidized schools
special focus on developing sports talents,
along with a program of fellowships
sports abroad; targeted tax incentives
DH Chile to project sponsors; improve the
system of international awards for achievements.
3. Increased personal satisfaction. Create Development Agency
Human, which will be the institution responsible for promoting state policies
to consider as a priority the welfare of people and
their families, including satisfaction they experience with
their lives, environment and society, generating indicators
Human Development in accordance with current best practice
OECD countries.

A
SEVEN
FOR
CHILE
134

The mission of the Agency shall promote public policies that generate
better conditions for people -in each of the stages
and permanent situations of their lives to develop their
potential without discrimination and according to their needs

www.evelyn2014.cl

Modern CHILE

and interests, collaborating with the Ministries and Public Amenities
identification, study and development of specific proposals.
Human Development Agency will also be responsible for
criteria include subjective assessment of people
the design, development and evaluation of policies and social projects,
as shown in the related world class, developing a
Annual report on the state of subjective well-being of people,
and making recommendations to strengthen them.
4. Intelligent cities with public spaces and green areas.
Cities are the spontaneous result of the human search for
partnership, cooperation and the search for better opportunities.
However, the multiple benefits of the city are weakened when
it fills barriers and when distances inside
they are very difficult, expensive and slow to cover. Along with this, neighborhoods
poorly designed, that they do not have public spaces and green areas

Create Tips
Mayors
Metropolitan,
by which
Mayors of cities
largest in the country
can diagnose and
solve the problems
common to a large city.

sufficient, they have a negative impact on our quality of life.
Our government program includes a series of proposals
They seek to make our cities better service quality
Chilean life:
• Creation of Metropolitan Mayors Tips by
which the mayors of the largest cities in the country
they can diagnose and solve common problems
a great city
• We will facilitate sub-centers in large cities and / or extensive.
We will encourage the creation of sub-centers in major
cities, through studies of changes
some communal regulators or development plans
intercommunal plans that include large areas of
commercial use. With this need not have to
travel two hours a day to go to work or run errands;
this will entail have two hours of rest, for
culture, sports or longer for our families.

E V E N LY. U N 7 PA R A C H I L E

135

Modern CHILE

• democratize the distribution and access to spaces
public and green areas. We want to consolidate areas
green as of leisure and recreation areas throughout
the country, but without losing sight of the geographical conditions
of each region. Our streets and parks should be distributed
democratically in the territory, that is, its location
not dependent on the income of the inhabitants of the area where
They are located. To this end, we propose the creation, for each

Also advance
to cities
sustainable and more
clean. It is because of that
It is essential to move forward
boldly in
recycling of our
residues, we
and future
generations.

regional capital, an important urban park similar to
Cerro San Cristobal existing in the Metropolitan Region,
by the year 2017. This, together with the creation of
a program of conservation and urban parks
Competitive institutions to enable regions
develop and keep coordination with each
Regional government. Also, we will strengthen the program
Neighborhood Recovery in sectors with deficit
urban. Thus, the program will become
copayment system for defining the investment
municipalities and families and allocation criteria
resources will be based on the deficit that has the sector. And by
example, should not finance a second place in a
if there is another neighborhood that does not have the first. Should be
set minimum standards for the quality and coverage
urban public goods: public space, connectivity,
mobility and access to transportation, parks,
urban safety equipment, telecommunications,
sport, culture, health and education. To the above is
enhance critical microconcesiones reforming
the Law on Public Works Concessions and other bodies
legal concession to build and administration
gyms, parks, libraries, offices, integrating the
private sector and local community organizations.
• also will advance to more sustainable cities
and cleaner. That is why it is essential advance
bold in our waste recycling way,

136

www.evelyn2014.cl

Modern CHILE

us and for future generations. Now a
40% of our waste is disposed of in unsuitable sites.
It is required to complete the health infrastructure through
Construction of landfills in areas of the country where
required. In turn, a large percentage of waste are
micro disposed in landfills and illegal dumps that
mostly they located in low-income communities.
The recovery rate of waste generated in Chile
incipient (around 10%), considering that a large
percentage of waste have upside potential.

We will reduce to almost zero
housing shortage
Quantitative quintile
poorest by 2018,
delivering 400,000
subsidies.

That is why we propose a series of concrete measures
in this area: health infrastructure to provide areas
They are requiring it; establishing a program
microbasurales and eradication of illegal dumps (with
boten significant fines for waste places
unfit) a scheme of awards to municipalities with less
garbage; Fund for recycling; promote initiatives
local and "adopt a beach" or "adopt a neighborhood."
5. Dignity in Housing and Public Transportation. According to the Survey
CASEN 2011, there is a housing shortage in Chile bordering
495,000 units, almost 400 thousand considering the population covered
by the Ministry of Housing and Urbanism, that is up to 60% of
most vulnerable population by socioeconomic status. It is therefore
that in this matter we will:
• To reduce to almost zero the quantitative housing deficit
poorest quintile in 2018, delivering 400,000 subsidies.
Special focus will be put into ensuring good
urban and spatial integration of these homes.
• Lost between 7000 and 10 000 social housing are
empty or being misused and thus reallocate families
need.

E V E N LY. U N 7 PA R A C H I L E

137

Modern CHILE

• Further progress in eradicating camps to
which create technical secretaries in each region
allow efforts to be able to develop and finish
housing projects for these families, of which
45% have their project under construction or completed.
• Implement a rent subsidy program, geared
vulnerable young families are formed, to avoid
they are required to apply for a grant to acquire a
permanent housing, but can wait up to a period
5 years to be more established and better identify where
They want to live and what type of housing can and want to have.
On the other hand, during the last 20 years, Chile has built
more than one million social housing. This effort reduced

To develop
program
improvement, focused
to improve 200,000
housing units.

significantly the quantitative housing deficit,
but it generated two types of problems. Approximately
250,000 of these were built in social groups in
height of less than 42m2 in densely populated areas
and peripherals. Of these, an estimated 60,000 have
but to demolition. That is why we propose:
• Deepen the pilot sets demolition
social initiated by the government of President Sebastián
Piñera. For this it is necessary to increase gradually
the thousand year plan from about 6000 per year within
4 years. With this you could give a second chance
the more than 60,000 families living in these sets
within 12 years.
• Develop a breeding program, focused on the
200,000 housing units that can be improved, which
operates as a direct subsidy to the Management Committee
each condo, facilitating and flexible processes
existing. This will be complemented by a grant (co)
to reserve funds for housing condominiums

138

www.evelyn2014.cl

buildings thereafter.
• Implement a program to improve
sanitary, electrical and gas facilities,
plus the expansion of a bedroom
all social housing in which live
more than 5 people, through a grant
housing of UF250. With this we could

A Chile that emphasizes
Science and Innovation
Information technology
1. transformation will be studied
CONICYT in a council whose director has
rank of minister (in the manner of the Council
Culture) and encompassing the areas of science,
Technology and Innovation. Should have,
In addition to existing functions Conicyt
guardianship of the Digital Agenda.

finish with unsafe housing and
overcrowding.
Finally, Chile has a great challenge associated
to bad location of their social housing.
Additional subsidies location not
They have been sufficient. To this is added
a strong selection of beneficiaries,
which eventually develop sets
homes where most families
They are extremely vulnerable in the neighborhood
it is built. Here competing ideas
targeting of resources and construction
sustainable communities. It is therefore
we propose:
• Define priority areas for integration
urban social, with good access to the

2. We will improve significantly the
access to broadband. Providing
broadband to at least 80% of
homes, via the development of networks
Internet high speed, that is, between 1 and 5
megas and climb penetration
broadband connections over 50
Megabytes, from 11% of existing homes
today a target of 50% by 2020. To this
Subsidies are needed to study
in the case of the most vulnerable households,
accompanied by strict technical standards
to ensure quality of service.
Following this line, will enhance the
development of 4G mobile broadband through
the tender of the spectrum clearance
After the implementation of digital TV.
3. We will increase the digital service
State citizens with the goal of bringing
from 25% today to 95% formalities
digilitalizados in four years.

city ​​services; transport, schools,
parks, subways, hospitals and deliver
regulatory incentives (higher density, height
and constructability) to projects
developed in these places and selling
some of its departments (or towers)
families with subsidies to purchase.

4. training plans are implemented
digital to SMEs, entrepreneurs and people
adults who are not digital natives.
5. More and better scholarships for
doctorates, including a boost for those
scientific areas of technology,
engineering and mathematics.
6. More R & D centers throughout Chile, 6
new for 2015 and a further 6
2017. They will be assigned after a competition
where projects related to postulate
industry.

E V E N LY. U N 7 PA R A C H I L E

139

Modern CHILE

social, in order to encourage the maintenance of

Modern CHILE

• The creation of a subsidy to operate as a co-
to the common expenses and reserve funds to facilitate
use of lifts and better maintenance of buildings.
• Amend the Law of Municipal Revenues and include a fund
is distributed as compensation for social housing
having the commune, thus municipalities
receiving public housing will also receive higher
accordingly livelihood for these families.
• Remove the Current Grant and Urban Renewal
replace it with a subsidy of Urban Integration
applied over territories that are good levels of
connectivity. With this construction will be encouraged in places
where there is good infrastructure. In Santiago you can

Implement
program
improvement
sanitary installations,
electricity and gas, coupled
the extension of a
bedroom for all
social housing
in which live more than 5
people.

set this subsidy areas surrounding lines
Metro, especially in lines 3 and 6 under construction. This
allow you to build 120,000 homes near the metro. At
Great Valparaiso, will study something similar around Merval.
• To ensure proper placement and project management
social housing, as well as the proper execution of
housing, SERVIU need to act as principal.
SERVIU has instruments to purchase, expropriate,
land use change and other attributes that make it
easy to manage projects to design and build the
private. It seems illogical to have in the management EGIS
soil management works contract.
• Public transport will have a lot of
resources in rural regions and provinces of the RM, to
From the mirror Transantiago resources. It's about
US $ 700 million a year in an extraordinary way, which

140

www.evelyn2014.cl

so more people can use it according to your budget.
But about 50% of these resources may
used for the construction of road infrastructure works
younger and older roadside, bicycle paths, bus stops, management
traffic, among others.
• We propose that in the Great Conception, integrates the
tendered to Biotrén bus system, which would operate as a
Train proximity, and in the city center in use
regional resources for the establishment of a tram.
In the case of the Great Valparaiso, integration is needed
the urban bus system tendered the Merval.
• In Greater Santiago, we propose the establishment of the System
Metropolitan Public Transport (SMTP), led by a

In the capital, we give
initiated a system
Metropolitan
Public transport,
led by a
ad hoc authority
to coordinate
infrastructure
necessary, the Metro, the
commuter trains, the
surface transport
and other forms of
transport that go
developing in
capital as trams and
cable cars.

ad hoc authority to coordinate the necessary infrastructure,
Metro, commuter rail, and surface transport
other forms of transport are developed in the
capital as streetcars and cable cars. The SMTP, which relate
with the President of the Republic through the Ministry of
Transport, follow the guidelines established in the Plan
Master of Public Transport launched by the current government
last May. Particularly relevant in this plan are the
Lines 3 and 6 of Metro, under construction, development
Line 7, which join with Vitacura and ease Maipú line 1,
improving the standard of Rancagua and MetroTren
their charging network integration of surface and buses
Metro, enabling commuter rail Mapocho-Batuco
and Melipillla-Central Station, also with integrated rate,
and construction of 100 kms of joggers for buses.

A
SEVEN
FOR
CHILE

Note that commuter rail above
They are much more efficient solutions that extension
Metro lines, in the case of Quilicura and San Bernardo.

E V E N LY. U N 7 PA R A C H I L E

141

Modern CHILE

They will be used to maintain low rates and for

Modern CHILE

A
SEVEN
FOR
CHILE

142

www.evelyn2014.cl

A
SEVEN
FOR
CHILE

