Government Program
Michelle Bachelet
2014-2018

Government Program
Michelle Bachelet
2014-2018

October 2013

CONTENTS
PRESENTATION

4

BUILD TOGETHER A
NEW MAJORITY FOR
AN ALL CHILE

8

REFORM OF FUND

12

Educational Reform

14

Tax reform

22

New Constitution

28

ECONOMIC PROGRAM

36

Good Economy and Fiscal Responsibility

40

Energy 44
Science, Technology and Innovation

50

Modernization of the State

54

Protection and Defense of Consumers,
Competition and Transparency

58

Agriculture 62
Fishing and Tourism

66

Mining and Water Resources

70

Public Investment and Concessions

74

Entrepreneurship Small and Medium Business

78

PROTECTION AND OPPORTUNITIES

CITIZENS 'RIGHTS

156

Health 84

Overcoming Poverty

158

Working 90

Human rights

162

Pension 96

Gender equality

166

Citizen security

100

Indigenous Peoples

170

Justice 106

Children and Youth

176

Decentralization, TERRITORY
AND DEVELOPMENT

Disability 180

82

110
Equality and Non-Discrimination and Participation and Inclusion 184

Decentralization 112
City, Housing and Territory

118

Environment

124

Culture 130
Sport 136
Transport and Telecommunications

140

144 municipalities
148 Defense
External relationships

152

Older adults

188

AVANCEMOS TOGETHER TOWARDS
AN ALL CHILE

192

PRESENTATION

October 2013

Dear friends, dear friends,
I have a dream. I have a hope. I have a purpose. And I know you are
illusion, hope and purpose million Chileans. East
program collects these longings and born of thousands of conversations in small
villages, towns, coves, bordering the Strait of Magellan and the
desert, across our geography. Conversations with Chileans
and Chile in their daily life are workers, employees, entrepreneurs,
traders, businessmen, scientists, professors and artists. There have been talks
with the diversity and richness of what is now Spain, which not only helped
to build this program, but they have also been a source of joy, because
I was allowed to see that Chile is ripe to realize their own
illusions, hopes and purposes.
I witness that people crave a country for all. A Chile that is not
sentenced to vulnerability and instability living day by day, both
persons belonging to the most vulnerable social groups such as the
middle class.
Our economy has grown steadily and we have built a system
social protection that has allowed more access Chileans
more services and public goods. And we have encouraged personal effort as
way to access a better quality of life.
However, we also know that the XXI century requires us to increase our
productivity and innovative capacity. And that leap can only give with
the talent and creativity of our compatriots. But today we are
better leveraging our resources: we are leaving behind a lot
of our people and large sections of the population live under uncertainty.
I am convinced that addressing this challenge is imperative to solve
urgent and structural problems in our country.
The strength of the way I propose in this program stems from the great
agreement that we as a society today: Chile is crossed by numerous
inequalities that are an obstacle for people to grow and develop,
and also for the country to take advantage of their potential and talent.
Inequalities are observed when many families see the
huge effort to educate their children is not paid in the workplace.
Or inequities we see in access to public goods and services of
quality. They are also inequalities that prevent women from accessing
the same salaries as men, even when performing the same tasks.
Or the living qualified middle-class people when they are targeted
arbitrariness, and his effort is not recognized in their work.

Inequalities that ultimately hinder now have a greater
being and a sustainable quality of life, and are an obstacle to our
economy give a qualitative leap that can and is able to give.
The Chile of all, in which all grow, will not come if we maintain this fragile
and uncertainty.
I'm convinced that our task today is to transform these limitations
an opportunity to take the step that the country needs, because that will
one Chile in which people can realize their full potential,
talents and abilities to grow with their families. So we have a country
where the most vulnerable are certain that will later
and in which the middle class is confident that their efforts and capabilities
They shall be recognized and have a just retribution. A citizens and Chile
citizens living with confidence their freedom, autonomy and rights. A
Chile that it integrates and includes its inhabitants, and takes advantage of all the talent
to grow steadily. A country that is built on the most solid of the
pillars which give their people.
So we can confidently face the future, proud of our capabilities
and our new achievements. Does anyone could disagree
with a country that leverages the capabilities and talents of all to grow and
develop? Does anyone could deny that Chile wants and can it be?
Today we want and we can make a big jump with all our people. A jump
to get access to a better quality of life with better services and goods
public, and an economy which is characterized by constantly improving
productivity, for its creativity, its capacity for innovation and
entrepreneurship. And all supported by Chileans who have received the
country the opportunity to develop fully. That is the modern Chile,
fully inserted in the world and vision that we can build.
That's all Chile, in which all grow.
Illusions, hopes and aims of thousands of compatriots
They are the basis of the strength and conviction of my candidacy and the program
government we propose. Here is the vision about how important and urgent
implement in the next four years. In this document, they presented
the center lines of what we in the government of the New Majority.
Some of them have been collected as part of the 50 commitments
we will implement in the first 100 days in office.
Realizing the illusions, the hopes, the vast majority purposes,
It requires that we undertake profound changes in the field
educational, constitutional and tax. These changes can only be performed
if we promote and demand that the political actors are up to the challenge. Do not
we disappoint the hopes and expectations of people. Chile needs
good policy and good governance that enable the deployment of a
good economy.

In the new historical cycle in the country, my contribution will ensure that
these changes will go ahead, with confidence in our institutions and
with the imperative of making a people-centered government. Will
the way things have to be done and incorporate the best practices,
efficiency, transparency, swiftly, responsibly. Others will
to assume other challenges, but we all have the responsibility to implement
the solutions that most expect.
In this new stage, making good governance also means that we know
rule changes, the changes to ensure governability. Chile
It requires a new generation of agreements ahead of the citizenry within a
climate of social tranquility, with a collective sense and commitment
take care of that in Chile we are all important. That is the purpose
Most of New accompanying me in this task and privilege incorporate
for the interests of all the benefits and interests of a few. East
program is whom we share the firm conviction that Chile
all is possible only if we enjoy more and better opportunities for
protagonists of our lives and our future.
This program promises to my future government to a challenge by the scope
and depth of the changes that take place. Transformations
we will mark the beginning of a long-term transformative project that
aims to make the necessary changes to the development model that has
our country. And we committed to tasks that we are now able to
carry out. For its size, some may exceed the horizon of my
presidential term. But our commitment is to advance steadily in
its realization. And by the way, there will be other priorities that emerge along the way
and that require our attention. We continue to receive new proposals
They are specific or local character, which will be analyzed for incorporation
the program of the future government. Be assured that this is the time
to address them.
I invite you to read our program and continue building it in each
conversation, every dialogue, every proposal. The Chile of all do
among all. And now is the time to start living it.

Build together a new majority CHILE FOR ALL

Chileans who want to be
protagonists of their future
The program you have in your hands is the realization
that the country is ready to enter a new political cycle,
economic and social. This program is intended to give
and governance solutions to these new times.
Our economy is growing and we have reduced the relevant form
poverty. No one disputes the importance of democracy as
central principle of our life together. Citizens and
citizens have learned to live with increasing degrees
freedom. Chile is fully embedded in the community
International and our voice is considered and respected.
This new cycle opens arise from great energy and drive
of citizens who have chosen to participate and be a protagonist
construction of our country. Chile has matured and
Citizens also. Therefore the delivery program
foundation for this new cycle, putting people
central tasks will address the government
New Majority.

Tackling inequality to look forward
with trust
But today we are not taking advantage of this energy and drive that
our citizens. Today inequalities cross
the broader areas of Chilean society and prevent
all Chileans join the development and
they can carry out their individual projects and purposes
and family. Today our country is crossed by huge
differences in opportunities, with inadequate access to
public services, privileges and abuses of a few by
the interest of the majority.
This program faces decidedly these inequalities

8

Michelle Bachelet Government Programme 2014-2018

especially those who are able to do more
contribution.

I persist in the country, as is based on the conviction that the
inequality is unsustainable not only from a point of view
economic and social, but also for healthy living
between Chileans and to ensure social peace
We require to grow and develop in an inclusive manner.
Governance is based on a shared destiny. The
Inequality is the negation of that common sense.

We must be clear that these changes will not reach
fruition if not substantially improved our policy.
Since the development and future of the country will build together
all we need a new constitution that represents us.
We need the prestige of our policy and we must have
with an electoral system that allows represent the wide
diversity of visions that Chileans. A
new constitutional and political framework that guarantees rights,
define obligations and responsive to the demands of
citizens for greater participation and representation.

In addressing this challenge, this program seeks to offer
citizens the confidence and opportunities for
to join in building the country we want. East
program is based on the conviction that we must include
to grow, because you can not grow sustainably
and social peace when majorities feel excluded,
discriminated against or abused.
These structural changes linked to some political
sectoral, such as strengthening health in the area
public and private, setting new conditions
employment for our workers, consoludación
a comprehensive system of social protection, to promote a
effective decentralization, implement a gender agenda,
consolidate substantive improvements in public safety,
ensure respect for our diversity and identity, care
our environment, advancing the quality of life in
territory and open new channels of citizen participation,
among others, they are part of the central government emphasis
New Majority.

Basis for social transformation,
political and economic
The need to solve the inequality gaps today
we have demands and make deep structural changes.
The most important of these changes will allow us
move towards a more equitable and quality education
all levels. This will not only produce greater inclusion
social, benefiting thousands of children, youth and their
families who want to improve their welfare, will also allow
numerous professionals and technicians with increasing degrees
Qualification give the boost it needs our economy.
We can not afford to do without the talent, creativity
and drive of all our citizens.

A growing all Chile
Tackling inequality and implement reforms
Structural proposed program, will allow greater
levels of equity, equal opportunities and rights
for Chileans. This is not only an ethical imperative.
It is equally a need for our economy,
ensuring development with a modern and competitive sense.

The scale of this task, and the implementation
other programs aimed at greater equality we
require reform our tax system. We have to
have the necessary resources to achieve these
transformations. No one can be subtracted from this effort,

This program, to address the inequalities that exist in the

9

country and to carry out a structural reform
Search also create the conditions for
economic growth. This is the first step
a more competitive economy, with more
and more innovative.

education,
keep the
to ensure
productivity

Complementary way this program addresses
current difficulties that impede productivity
our economy overcome its current deadlock in
largely originate in developing our shortcomings
human, innovation, science and technology resources. A
Central and complementary aspect to move towards a
more productive economy is promptly solve the challenges
imposed on energy.
This program considers innovation, science and
technology as a determining factor for growth
the country and will push strongly. In the same way,
contemplates address training as a central axis,
Therefore it has been weakened as a tool to improve
employability, income and productivity. Addresses,
additionally, promoting competitiveness and diversity
productive, with cooperation and dialogue between the public
and private, transferring to regions higher levels of power,
resources and decision-making areas.
Today the modern is a new form of cooperation between the
State citizenship and the market. This program takes over
this challenge, promoting a wise public action to enhance
competitiveness, productivity and innovation, while
that promotes the welfare, rights and participation
everybody. It is based on the conviction that it is necessary
fully exploit the creative ability, willingness to
entrepreneurship and boost associative will of hundreds of
thousands of entrepreneurs, large and small. In the conviction
no individual progress if there is no cohesion around
common destiny of our country.

10

Michelle Bachelet Government Programme 2014-2018

A better state for the new cycle
country

Funding for this increased public spending will mainly
three. First, the tax reform, which will contribute to
$ 8,200 million, the source contituyéndose more
important financing scheme, without which it
unviable consider the set of proposed changes,
in particular we will undertake major educational reform. The
second source corresponds to the availability resulting from
proyeccción the Central Government Balance, which provides $ 4,700
million, and that, in essence, is constituted by the
slack economic growth. Finally, we will
budget reallocations which will provide $ 2,200 million
dollars, which includes the financing scheme.
Our proposal is ambitious, but we can carry it out. East
program assumes the difficulties and responsibilities involved
address these tasks. Its implementation is not intended to meet
corporate groups or specific power interests. This is a
program designed for the common good of all Chileans.
Certainly, the challenges that this program seeks to address not
all will be resolved within four years of the government
New Majority. Today is the time to start this journey, without
hesitation or delay. And this is the conviction that transmits
leadership candidacy of Michelle Bachelet.
This is the strength and drive that has encouraged numerous dialogues
supported the broad social, economic and cultural diversity
Spain, which was the basis for the construction of this program.
It is also the strength and drive that was behind the contributions of
world political and social organizations. Now is the time
produce the turning point that allows us to start the way
to defeat inequality. And the invaluable work of the 33
comprising more than 620 professional and technical commissions
various areas of public policy.
This program seeks to capitalize on an opportunity that rarely
It is presented to a country. Today we summoned the imperative of making
Chile a place that protects and develops all its sons and daughters. A
Chile where we are all important. This program is called
that we are all builders.

The completion of the main measures of this program
It requires more and better state. Chile needs a State
Modern to promote the development, ensuring conditions
competition and ensure access, quality and satisfaction
delivering public services to citizens. A state
innovative, efficient, delivering timely solutions and the
prevailing good treatment and transparency.
This program takes care of the need for progress with
decision modernization. Respond with
with more agility to the citizens and the new requirement
entrepreneurship and economic productivity is required
and incorporate the best professional and technical service
public, which create and value the importance of care
quality Chileans.
The government of the New Majority will have a profound vocation
public service and will be a government that will never forget that
its center are people and they their principal. It will be a government
with effective citizen participation.

Changes to governance
Specify the purposes and the solutions proposed
This program requires that the changes do with
caring responsibility and governance of growth.
In this new cycle that opens to Chile to proceed with reforms
the country needs is the most certain path of responsibility.
The deep and lasting reforms included in this program,
which will guide the actions of the New Majority, they will be held on
solid tax bases to give them sustainable over time.
The set of commitments in this program
It will cost $ 15,100 million. Sources

eleven

THE
REFORMS
BACKGROUND

REFORM
EDUCATION

EDUCATION REFORM
Chilean society faces many significant challenges and
to become a truly developed society,
to overcome its deep inequalities. The primary challenge
Education is. In addition to those associated elements
directly to gains in productivity and equity, access
equal access to quality education helps shape a society
more opportunities, more just, that empowers citizens
in their daily work.

Educational reform as a whole require greater
permanent public spending between 1.5 and 2 percentage points of GDP.

Pillars of Education Reform
Educational Quality. At the school level, due to the use and
consequences of the SIMCE results, we have impoverished
the concept of quality education and promoted practices
as the selection, exclusion and training tests.
We must overcome this definition and encourage an understanding
more complex and comprehensive quality to recover the sense of
educational work.

Chile has made significant achievements in education:
coverage, high investment in infrastructure, equipment and
targeted programs. However, despite the efforts,
educational inequality and segregation remain at levels
Alarming and public education has been particularly
reduced and weakened.

All educational establishments should be
excellence. To this must be given the tools and
resources to improve the quality and ensure
effective oversight, as appropriate support and guidance.
This requires that the teaching profession is among the most
socially valued and the most demanding, as well as
provide the necessary space and tools for
teachers, principals and assistant education can
develop their work.

Chilean education of the XXI century should serve noble
ideals, a strong cohesive society that overcomes
social segregation, promoting the integral training,
inclusion, solidarity and democracy as central values
for national development and each of the Chileans.
The State shall ensure that, regardless of source,
condition, history or place where one lives, every girl and boy
have the right to join an educational process where
be recognized, and will access learning experiences that will
allow deploy talents and achieve the required skills
by today's society, promoting development citizen
humane and based on the common good scale.

In higher education, among other measures, should
increased demands on institutions, through
more equitable powerful mechanisms of accreditation processes
access and commitments to reduce dropouts.

Segregation and Inclusion. Reduce segregation and
have a more integrated social and cultural country, should
be a horizontal objective in the design of public policies, not
only education. Chile is the second highest segregation
social among the countries assessed by PISA.

The large debt today is transversely improve quality
education, fully understood and not merely as the result
standardized tests and also reposition Education
Government at all levels. To deliver better education
it is imperative to have a more integrated system
and fair, that does not leave as today, behind and excluded. It
also it means that a suitable design may not involve a
unsustainable or for students or their financial burden
families.

Another worrying fact is that, according to UNICEF, there are 300,000
children who are outside the school system and in
college dropout may exceed 40% in some
races, especially the most vulnerable. Equally
serious is that there are many behind each of these young people, other
also they are facing difficulties but, despite following
in the system, they are excluded from learning.

The State, through public education, develop a role
essential in every educational level. The State must guarantee
the exercise of the right to a quality education, strengthening
due to the public education and providing explicit guarantees
citizens.

Build an inclusive system is a major challenge,

16

Michelle Bachelet Government Programme 2014-2018

Therefore, public funding is directed only to
non-profit institutions, which have the sole purpose
delivery of quality education in the context of a social right.

where one of the main objectives will deselect
income schools. The great purpose is to make the
educational process reaches all students, make them meaning
and motivate them in their own development.

Principles of Educational Reform

At school level, this requires a systemic view and work
continuum of schools for which they have few tools.
Teachers are mostly unprepared to handle
this diversity and schools do not usually develop strategies
to address it, or have the time and adequate resources
to do it.

Education is understood as a social right. All the
Citizens are entitled to be educated to choose
freedom their paths in life. Below are the
following guidelines that guide the reform:

Universal gratuity. This proposal raises a change
paradigm. This implies a shift from education as well
it is possible to trade on the market and competition as
quality regulatory mechanism, to an educational system
coordinated offered to children and young people from Chile, a
social law.

• Education is a fundamental social right. Education
It has an undeniable public value and is the basis of society
more just, democratic and participatory. Our society must
abandon practices that have enabled treat education
as a commodity.

In Chile socioeconomic status at birth is determining
the future of our children. The role of government is to
that the right to a quality education is not dependent on the
payment capacity of families and therefore their level of
income or debt not determine access to education
and thus their future. Reduce inequality assumes that the level
socio-economic and cultural development of the students and not a
barrier to access, so we will move decisively towards
the universal free.

• The granting of explicit guarantees for citizens
educational matters with respect to access, quality and financing.
• Strengthening the role of the state as an active player both
in the direct delivery of educational services, like a
strict control of the system.
• Strengthening Public Education as a motor and seal
the process of structural reform. Public Education
You must set quality standards and have significant presence
throughout the territory. This is the most basic and powerful tool
on which the educational project will be built, cohesion and
social integration.

In order to profit on the entire education system.

In
Chile education has been dominated by the logic of quasi-market, which is driven by competition for students. This has
reduced state involvement in the provision, limited
improvements in quality and difficult safeguarding education
as a right.

• The educational system must promote integration and inclusion
social at all levels. We can not forget that the current
rules and regulations have led us to be one of the countries
whose school system is the most socially segregated. He
State must actively address this situation.

Ending the profit does not mean ending the specific sector
subsidized. We will ensure that parents can choose the
educational model they want for their children. The state will
respecting the existence of a mixed system, but must do
assert the right to a quality education to every child.
Therefore, all the state resources allocated to education
They should result in an improvement in quality.

• Place the center of public policies and the educational process
learning. It is necessary to align the educational process
citizens who wish to form, the country we dream and
challenges of teaching at all levels and especially
the most vulnerable.

The existence of profit will be removed from public resources,

17

More professionals and technicians for technical coefficient, ie,
boy. Additionally, we install a system of accreditation
and assurance of quality education for all
preschool education establishments.

• Generation of equal educational opportunities
from the cradle, with compensatory measures for students
that as a result of past inequalities are now
disadvantage. Educational gaps are evident from
before the children enter school. The politics
public, both in magnitude of resources invested as
in the design of instruments should contribute to reduce and
eliminate social gaps.

Modernize the institutions of education
preschool, separating the role of policy design, creating
a Secretariat for Childhood Education at the Ministry
Education (MOE), the oversight role exercised by a
Municipality of Early Childhood Education in the Superintendency of
Education, and the role of service provision, in charge of JUNJI,
Integra and other accredited providers.

• The global nature of the Educational Reform, including
Preschool Building, and Superior General, in order to integrate
and cover the whole cycle of education.

We will put the emphasis on education and training
educators, because the state must ensure the quality
in the training of professionals and technicians who work
in this educational level. To do this he will implement a
demanding accreditation of careers and
will develop support programs to strengthen them.

In the first 100 days of Government we will send to Congress
Draft Law on Education Reform.

Preschool Education Reform

In addition, public programs will be developed
Special to advance the training and development
of directors, educators and technical preschool education.
In particular, the role of the directors and managers will be strengthened,
training them in management and administration
Kindergartens; and will strengthen and update the knowledge
of educators and early childhood education techniques, aiming
to improve the intermediation and support in the
development of children and working with families.

Comprehensive Protection System for Children "Chile Grows
You "already guarantees free access to nursery and garden
extended day child, or equivalent mode, the
children from families belonging to the most vulnerable 60%
of the population. These guarantees extend new
measures to ensure greater coverage, especially for
children under 4 years, increasing the quality and
with an institutional framework consistent with this task.
Coverage will increase by incorporating about
90,000 children in the stretch of 0-2 years, with the
construction of 4,500 new nurseries. For the
population of 2 to 4 years will incorporate approximately 34
thousand children (implying 1,200 new rooms in gardens
children). In relation to the population of pre-kindergarten and kindergarten,
the current coverage is almost complete, so the proposal is
move towards mandatory pre-kindergarten. In the first
100 days of Government detailing the towns will be delivered in
500 new nurseries will be implemented in 2014.

Implement supplementary educational programs,
strengthen the role of the family as the primary educator
their children, from the perspective of overall development.
These are programs for children living in rural life or in
inaccessible areas and also for those families whose
option is not a conventional garden nursery or child.
An example of this is the creation of educational activities and
recreation for weekends. Particularly important
comprehensive care will be on flexible schemes for children and
indigenous girls between 0-4 years.

Ensure access to nursery and kindergarten of day
extended to every son and daughter of working mothers, along with the
extended day option in pre-kindergarten and kindergarten.

Finally, we will implement a policy to enforce
the right of families to participate and collaborate in the process
educational and decision-making concerning their
children, incorporating guidelines, strategies and actions to
ensure regular contact between schools and
families.

Unlike current public policies, in our
Government to establish higher standards
this educational level, mainly through improving

18

Michelle Bachelet Government Programme 2014-2018

General Education Reform

Education, keep the closeness with the community
education. Both entities are related to the President of
the Republic through the Ministry of Education.

We will put an end to profit in education. Do not
it can profit from public resources. As head
exclusively public financing institutions
education that are nonprofit, which is regulated
and supervise properly. To implement this measure
the deadlines and mechanisms to be considered at the
the subsidized private schools, which require,
make adjustments and adapt to the new rules.

Educational establishments will depend on
Local Services in Public Education. These will be defined
geographically as school districts. The service
National Public Education will be the main function
pedagogical, administrative and financial technical support
public facilities, through local services.
Each local service will have legal personality and
own assets and will have an integrated Advisory Council
by members of the educational community and representatives
Education faculties of public institutions
region where the district is located.

Finish
gradually
with
he
shared funding. To evaluate this

rigorous and regular basis, the actual amount of costs
quality education. About the result of this analysis,
state subsidies and gradually increase
payment from the attorneys decline to be
completely eliminated. While the process of
transition further increases will not occur at boundaries
shared funding and establishments may not
raise this charge. The end shared financing together
with other selection mechanisms will allow end
the social segregation in education financed by resources
public.

The immediate action plan will be formulated short
term oriented establishments recover higher
technical deficiencies in teaching materials and take
challenge of recovering enrollment in public education.

We will end all forms of selection
school level, both economically, socially, academically

and behavioral. In addition, establishments should
considered in their educational programs including children
special educational needs, and empowerment for
this occurs properly.

Establish new institutions
for public supply of general education,
ending with the municipal administration.

Educational Reform must be undertaken with the participation
all active teachers, principals and assistant staff
education.

This new institutional framework must consider progress
reached on participation and tuition World
Local education.

We will ensure all teachers and all education
public the opportunity to participate every four years so
access, in a teacher training program,
expanding supply and improving the quality of actions
continuing education. We will constitute in each region
the country a Regional Professional Development Committee
Teachers, whose task is to plan and coordinate actions
continuous training adapted to regional needs.
We develop a program of post titles by disciplines
for teachers of second cycle and general training
the first cycle. We will strengthen the Network Master Teachers
and will resume training and mentoring to support
induction of beginning teachers.

Municipalities have different functions in charge and
face complexities that hinder adequate and stable
educational management, exceptions. Additionally,
municipal education is subject to a set of regulations
management and restrictions that affect its performance and
particularly in the management of human resources.
The administration of educational institutions
public must be held by specialized institutions.
The administration of municipal establishments will
replaced by a new public institutions, whose
structure includes the creation of a National Service
Decentralized Education and Local Services

19

higher. Create in each region a Centre for
High-level training to provide practical training
students, consistent with the productive vocation of the
respective region. Each region of the country will have a Board of
Public-private Technical and Vocational Training, of character,
will ensure full coordination of the system and give guidelines
specialty development in the region, both at
medium as above.

We develop a policy of implementing management leadership
an induction program for directors take office
for the first time, along with a School for Executives
periodic training, aimed at strengthening the leadership
management with emphasis on educational management and to promote
forming teams and educational communities.

Improve the set of initial training

by way of promoting programs that encourage universities
curricular reformulation; promote capacity building
teams of academic training institutions
through exchange programs and international
use of postgraduate scholarships; set higher requirements
for the accreditation of teaching careers and establish
mandatory and enabling nature of the evaluation and exit;
increase public resources to promote research
in educational issues. Schools will have Pedagogy
Excellence. To this will be developed and strengthened agreements
management.

Reform of Higher Education
In higher education, young people with their
families face two types of problems. First of
access by the existence of financial barriers and academic.
These are particularly relevant in the case and discriminatory
Students belonging to groups at greatest
economic vulnerability.
Secondly, the existence of serious difficulties
quality control of higher education institutions,
issue is exacerbated by the low control
Professional institutes and technical training centers.

Establish a teaching career that, inter alia,
define better pay; introduce incentives and increase
Gradually the number of hours of teaching work which
it is intended to work outside the classroom. The teaching profession should be installed
professional development and quality performance as an element
Central to the race and must set the gradual reduction
the maximum number of students per course in education
subsidized.

Develop an institutional framework for recovering the
confidence in the system and its institutions and to respond to the
challenges facing the country in the production, scientific and cultural development.
Higher education must be an effective social right.
Explicit guarantees for citizens will be established in
higher education, both access and quality,
financing. These warranties give preferential treatment to and
low-income students.

In Technical Vocational Education must face at least
two fundamental problems: its current disengagement with
career training that includes education
intermediate, advanced and training processes, with consequent
lack of relevance to the requirements of the World
labor. In this high dropout rates and low add
appropriate qualifications presented by the sector. One refund
diversified training system that allows all
and young people have a life and to pursue a
labor educational path according to your preferences and
talents, regardless of their socioeconomic status. Is in
this type of education where further efforts are required
to achieve excellence in all establishments.

To meet these guarantees it requires an active state
both direct delivery of educational services and the
strict control of the bidders, a task to which we will approach
with special dedication and urgency.
Gradually advance in the free and universal
effective higher education, a process that will take
6 years. During the next period of government, will access the
gratuity at least the students belonging to 70%
most vulnerable population, extensively covering the class
average. This gratuity may be exercised at any institution
higher education that meets, inter alia, to: be
accredited; strictly abide by the rules do not allow the
existence of profit; It is incorporated into the new rules on

Modernize the curriculum of Secondary Education Technical
Professional, so that there is a real possibility of making
one path leading to technical and professional qualifications

20

Michelle Bachelet Government Programme 2014-2018

half to prepare young people; involve their families;
support and develop skills in establishments
higher education; and reform the Indirect Tax Contribution (AFI) to
to encourage enrollment and retention of students in situation
vulnerability. In the first 100 days of Government begin
the implementation of the program, with the Preparation and Support
Youth, which will start with 3 students who will be entering middle
college in 2016. In addition, we will implement
a program in public facilities to support
PSU preparation.

equitable access; developing and strengthening programs
support for vulnerable pupils and governed by the
tariff system established by the MOE.
For fixing tariffs will create a new institutional framework,
will consider a group of experts to determine and review
Periodically the amount of such tariffs.
Who went into debt to study today are living situations
complex. The financial instruments used for
expanding coverage in higher education they are not always met
The expectatives. We advance universal gratuity
higher education and at the same time we will study mechanisms
to establish an equitable treatment of students in debt.

We establish a new system of accreditation of institutions
higher education. Accreditation, institutional and by
races, will be mandatory for all educational institutions
top (Universities, IP and CFT).

Modernize public institutions of education
top, creating the Secretariat for Higher Education; the
Superintendent of Higher Education, with clear competences
and resources necessary to perform its functions, in particular,
control the use of public resources, enforce compliance
the prohibition of profit, and the Agency for the Quality of Education
Superior, responsible for accreditation and to ensure the quality
higher education. This new institutional framework will allow
more direct and productive relationship between the world of education
superior and sector authorities.

We establish a new fund to Support Research
University of sufficient magnitude for institutions
not look loaded into their work duties in
research. This fund will be available to all
public universities, and for all those who prove
research capacities and performance agreements signed
with the Ministry of Education.
In this financial effort, we establish preferential treatment
with state-owned universities. These universities
must make the necessary changes in its management,
accountability regarding their development plans and
financing obtained. This new deal includes a background of
basal permanent unique contribution to state universities
and a permanent fund to support state universities
regional.

Faced with situations observed and closing unviable
institutions of higher education, the Ministry of Education
have the necessary tools to ensure
the continuation of studies for all students involved.
We create a new Program to Increase Equity
on Access to Higher Education, which counterbalance the bias
socioeconomic existing academic requirements. For
Thus, higher education institutions who elect to receive
Public funding must sign an agreement of duties
rights and the Ministry of Education to implement this new mechanism
access. This mechanism will be to establish "quotas
, in addition to the regular system, equity "at least equivalent to
20% tuition of each of the races offered by the
Students belonging institution 40% more vulnerable.

Additionally, we will create regional state universities
where none currently exist (Aysén and O'Higgins). In the
first 100 days in office the project was sent to Congress
law creating these new universities.
Create public technical training centers, which will
presence in all regions. Each Technical Training Center
It will be linked to a public university. We hope that these
institutions set the pace in terms of expected standards
quality in technical education with a strong identification and
links with the regional productive development. In the first
100 days of government the first five agreements will be signed with
universities for creating CFTs in public areas.

As part of the Program to Increase Equity
Access to Higher Education, will implement a program
permanent actions and support to vulnerable students,
in order to avoid dropping out of higher education.
This includes programs in educational institutions

21

REFORM
TAX

TAX REFORM
responsibly, as they have increased the burden
tax, which finances the provision of these goods.

To achieve development, Chile needs to make major
changes in some areas. A major is
a profound educational reform. These transformations
will mean a significant increase in public spending.
Obviously, this implies the need for a
tax reform to have permanent income
allow achieve fiscal sustainability.

Chile has a low tax burden, even when compared with
when developed countries have a GDP per
capita similar to what our country has today. The
changes announced here, with an elevation of
tax burden of 3 points of GDP, begin to close this
gap still remaining below the average of countries
the OECD, the moment had our current GDP
per capita.

The Tax Reform has four objectives:
1. Increase the tax burden to finance, with income
permanent, ongoing costs of education reform
we will undertake other policies in the field of protection
social and structural deficit in the current fiscal accounts.

In addition, studies to establish Chile
that increases in the rate of income tax will not affect
significant investment decisions. At most, the
impact is limited to smaller companies, which certainly
They have a more difficult access to financing. Yet
Thus, the estimated impact on these companies is very limited
and design a set of measures to reverse it.

2. Advance tax equity, improving distribution
He entered. Those who earn more contribute more, and revenues
labor and capital should have similar treatments.
3. Introduce new and more efficient incentive mechanisms
savings and investment.

It has tried to link the tax reform proposal
with a decrease in the growth rate. This is not
effective. First, taxation is only one of the
elements that affect investment. The literature on
the subject concludes that the most important attributes that affect
investment are: i) social cohesion and political stability;
ii) the quality and credibility of public institutions; iii)
accessibility and competitive markets, among others
financial; iv) infrastructure and v) appropriate legislation
economic.

4. Ensure that you pay as appropriate according to
laws, advancing measures to reduce evasion and
circumvention.
The fundraising goal of all the measures
Tax Reform will be 3% of GDP. This goal
broken down into 2.5% of GDP from changes to the
tax structure and 0.5% of GDP of measures that reduce
evasion and avoidance.

In the first 100 days of Government will send to Congress
Draft Tax Reform Act.

This is liable to make proposals to the country,
enable progress solidly in the transformations
Chile needs.

Reducing evasion and avoidance

Tax Reform and Growth
Economic
In recent years, IBS has stagnated in its
modernizing process and even a setback in key areas,
as the control and technology investment. The result
this has been an increase in the rate of evasion levels
over 20% in the case of VAT. This, after the
Last decade was under 10%, comparable with
developed countries with better tax compliance.

Countries that have developed along with the growth
They have increased steadily sustained goods and
services available to its citizens,
through public policies. This is possible and sustainable

24

Michelle Bachelet Government Programme 2014-2018

Changes to the Tax Structure

First, we develop greater effectiveness
audit by strengthening: i) detection
and prosecution of tax crimes and false invoices; ii)
preventive control activities on the ground; iii) audit
of high-income taxpayers and iv) risk analysis and
Tax intelligence, allowing, on the basis of information
available from different data sources, identify
riskier taxpayers.

Income tax.

FUT mechanism that
Chile now has not exist anywhere in the world. They
is an emerged in the 80's formula, post-crisis
lived in that decade, which reflects economic conditions
specific to that time in our country, especially due
to financial constraints faced by businesses
the decade in Chile.

Secondly, we will provide more resources and
strengthen tax administration: i) increasing the
provision of auditors and investment in training; ii)
reviewing and strengthening the powers of oversight and
access to information before the SII; iii) reviewing the level
sanctions against tax fraud and tax compliance; iv)
standardizing and cancellations policy being transparent;
v) increasing investment in technology, among others
things, to the mass of electronic invoicing feasible; saw)
Tax Code incorporating a General Standard anti-circumvention, allowing punish those who engage in this
practice only for tax reasons, and not by the nature of
economic activity, as well as those advisers
tax collaborate with design plans
aggressive tax; and vii) improving coordination between the
SII, the National Customs Service and the Treasury.

The system of income tax is characterized by
taxation of income from lower capital with some
poorly designed tax holidays, that overlap between
Yes. A part dela incentive structure, such as the
FUT, some special or saving treatment,
they have deviated substantially from their initial objectives and
They have become sources of avoidance and even evasion
taxes.
To correct this, the following will be implemented
amendments to the Law on Income Tax:
We will rise, gradually, the rate of tax
companies from 20% to 25% within 4 years. This will
operating as a down payment of personal taxes,
thus maintaining tax integration between companies
and people.

Finally, a decisive breakthrough will be made to improve
services and taxpayer assistance. In this
plan envisaged i) reduce compliance costs
for medium and small taxpayers, by
simplification of procedures in office, which will result
in better facilities for entrepreneurship; ii) strengthening
respect for the rights of taxpayers in all
actions of the administration, promoting fair treatment
in compliance processes; iii) establish commitments
Service in procedures and more frequent requests,
which will result in greater certainty about the timing
response to requests; and iv) develop better
care and assistance through various
channels, communication adapted to the media today
available, which will bring the tax administration
the needs of taxpayers.

The business owners must pay tax on all
the profits of their companies and not only on profits
removed (the system operates on an accrual basis). This measure
It will be implemented as of the fourth year of reform. From
Thus ends the current Fund mechanism
Taxable Income (FUT).
We will reduce, gradually, the maximum tax rate
personal, from 40% today to 35% within four years.
Regarding the FUT accrued or historical, it is proposed to maintain
the tax rules in force. This means that, from
year that begins the new tax regime, the fourth
year of reform, these profits will be taxed to the extent
you are removed.

The estimate of revenue product of these measures
estimated at 0.51% of GDP in regime.

25

individual companies, paying VAT and having sales
UTM below 5,000 annually. Extend this benefit
all companies with annual sales below 14,500 UTM,
whether individual companies or corporations, and independent
their VAT obligations.

The estimate of revenue product of these measures
income tax is 1.92% of GDP in regime.

Incentive Savings and Investment

This system offers as benefits for SMEs: i)
reduction of investment profits once (depreciation
IM), an important question since this benefit
It will be available for SMEs in the first year of the reform;
ii) the costs of maintaining complete accounting records are saved, that
for many small businesses may be greater than the
taxes paid; iii) IBS can prepare and propose the
annual return for each company, facilitating further
tax payment.

Incentives for business investment. Front

the changes announced in the income tax, we
take particular care with the investment, introducing
Modern mechanisms to overcome the current situation
circumvention.
Instant depreciation mechanism is implemented,
which is that firms can deduct the
Total investment income for the current year, and that benefits
primarily to small and medium enterprises and to consider
a mechanism to monitor possible distortions between
productive sectors with different intensity in the use of
capital investment. This mechanism will be implemented starting
the fourth year of reform, coinciding with the closing of FUT.

All amendments to this regime will come into effect
from the first year the law was passed.
Meanwhile, we derogaremos other simplified schemes,
which they have been used for purposes of evasion and avoidance of
income tax of larger companies and not
They have resulted in significant benefits for SMEs (income
alleged, 14a and 14c).

This is a measure that corresponds to Chile today: i) is a
greater incentive to invest the tax system
and we currently governed; ii) eliminates many of today
evasion and avoidance practices.

By this measure and the application of changes in tax
income, final tax payments for employers
applied according to the rate of people, whereby SMEs
they will not impair your tax situation.

Savings Incentive Persons. Will waive
taxes on profits earned by people in
savings made in financial instruments, up to a ceiling
corresponding to the return on risk-free instruments. From
thus saving the rewards normally accessing the
middle-income people.

On the contrary, improve their final tax situation if
invest, given the depreciation charge mechanism
instant. For example, a neighborhood bakery that sells
Total 55 million pesos a year (limit microenterprise)
which has a gain of 5 million a year and invests
million pesos in the purchase of machinery like furnaces or
refrigerators, currently pay 340,000 pesos in taxes
and the system we propose would pay only 140 thousand invoking
at 14b.

It is estimated that these measures to encourage savings and investment
will mean a loss of revenue of 0.21% of GDP in
regime.

Measures Oriented SMEs

Preferential treatment for SMEs.

On the other hand,
one of the main problems affecting SMEs is the
abusive treatment they receive from large companies, they
They pay their products or services to 90 or more days later, in
circumstances that SMEs must pay VAT in the following month
of invoices issued.

Investment Incentives for SMEs.

We will strengthen and expand under the simplified system
SMEs which are taxed, provided for in Article 14b of
Income Act. Currently, they can access this system

26

Michelle Bachelet Government Programme 2014-2018

In order to give equal treatment and alleviate problems
This creates liquidity for SMEs, we will make a
change of subject in VAT. This means that large
companies that made forward purchases to suppliers, will
liable to pay the VAT rate of such
operations.

Furthermore, in the case of cigarettes, will increase the
excise duty and quantity will reduce the tax
ad valorem, so that the collection remain in
its current level. The move appears to be a clear disincentive to
and consumption is a way to contribute to public health from the
taxes.

It is estimated that these incentive measures for SMEs
will mean a loss of revenue of 0.18% of GDP in
regime.

Excise.

Circumvention finish
payment of VAT on the sale of new real estate. For
We engrave it all real estate transactions, including
construction, real estate and other intermediate agents,
prior to the sale made to the final consumer.

Other tax measures

Also we restrict the special tax credit for
construction companies, limiting it only to homes with
UF lower than 2000 prices.

Environment. As a way of discouraging
purchase of private vehicles that use diesel oil and
also those of high-powered, establish a tax
proportional thereto, that would be paid annually with
the registration certificate, differentiated by fuel
used.

We will increase the stamp duty within two years
and Stamps, from the current 0.4% to 0.8%. It keeps the
current situation for SMEs, which can recover
tax discounting its monthly VAT payment.

Other Proposals. Derogaremos for new
investment projects, the DL 600 Foreign Investment Statute,
Foreign. That status is not currently used. Remove
It means ratify the institutional stability of Chile for
foreign investment.

Currently, the specific fuel taxes
They apply only to its use in transportation. However, the use
of fossil fuels in industry also generates effects
negative on the environment and health of people.
Therefore, we will move to implement tax
emission of pollutants in the industry. This measure also
It will operate as a way to stimulate the shift towards technologies
clean. SMEs will not be included in this amendment.

The capital market has developed in Chile and
deepened. One measure of public policy has
It helped to achieve this state was the creation of the Funds
Private Investment (FIP), which aim to develop
the venture capital market.

Corrective taxes. In Chile, the taxes

alcoholic beverages and cigarettes are mainly applied
on the sale price. For this type of lien
discourage consumption, it is important to apply for
amount, since otherwise end up encouraging the diversion
towards products with lower price and are usually more
harmful to health. Also, the tax on beverages
Alcoholic is extremely low, compared to that applied
in other countries and with the duty on cigarettes, which does not
related to the damage produced excessive drinking.

However, this mechanism has unfortunately been badly
used by some market players. An example of
this situation is that some companies sell your property
with a capital gain, they transferred its shares to one
of these funds and the gain is in the FIP, so
bypass the corporate tax due to franchises
They have FIP. Therefore, we will change the taxation of
Private equity funds, the taxation of assimilating
companies to close potential sources of circumvention.

Given this, we will establish a tax on beverages
specific alcoholic, in proportion to the volume of alcohol
pure included in each type of drink, the rate will be around
average established in the OECD countries.

It is estimated that all of these other tax measures
regime generated a revenue of 0.97% of GDP.

27

NEW
CONSTITUTION

NEW CONSTITUTION
Chile deserves the current Constitution recognizes and builds
in a fully democratic system; and setting out the rules and
Chile recognized principles of human rights and in the field
International, in its entirety.

Basic Contents of a New
Political constitution

The Chilean people deserve that the Constitution recognizes and
guarantees their rights.

With respect to the content that should be considered in the
Chile needs new constitution and Chileans us
We deserve, and understanding that this definition would correspond to
People as a whole, we would, however, anticipate that
We consider the fundamental pillars on which should
edify the new Constitution and that since the Government will promote.

The idea that runs through the current text, even with the modifications
they have made, it is supported by a distrust sovereignty
popular; hence the various limitations on the popular will through
Strong institutional mechanisms counterweights to that
will, being the most obvious example the mechanism of quorum
against majority for approval and amendment of laws
important. This is not characteristic of a democratic system; contributes
the delegitimization of the political system; and now a
brake on the development of the country, and its governance.

Human rights

The new Constitution should take a categorical commitment
recognition and protection of human rights; ethical minimum
universal in that civilized people base their ways of living.

This deficit has not been overcome yet been raised by the
democratic political forces, from the origins of the Constitution;
and permanence of this deficit today explains, in part, a crisis of
legitimacy and efficiency of institutions and the political system.
Chile must reunite with his republican traditions and give
rise to the new Constitution, which converge traditions
liberal, democratic and social constitutional and is the result of a
genuine constitutional consensus.

The Constitution should recognize the maximum value to the principles
and international conventions recognizing the rights of the
human person. It is the duty of the Government to respect, promote
and ensure, at all levels of protection, the full exercise of the
human rights, pursuing its escalation, and expansiveness
optimum possible embodiment.

The demand for a new Constitution is not an itch
specialists or obsession on ideologized elites. It is an objective
raised from long-standing democratic sectors; and raised
currently a large number of political, social,
youth, regional, labor, gender and reflect peoples
indigenous; based on the aforementioned questions.

The new Constitution, the result of the confluence of the liberal traditions,
democratic and social requires a comprehensive and balanced catalog
rights, duties and guarantees that reflects the rights established
on the principles, declarations and conventions
human rights; explicitly recognizing that they are
limitations on sovereignty.

Thus, based on strong democratic conviction, collected
national demand for a new Constitution for Chile
promote a democratic, institutional and participatory process
for achieving this purpose.

The new Constitution should therefore be based on
the values ​​of human dignity; freedom, equality and
of solidarity; establishing a fully democratic system
that recognizes the pluralism of democratic societies
modern and with it, the moral autonomy of individuals and their free
personality development.

The new Constitution must be based on our best
democratic traditions; in the doctrinal development and experiences
modern democracies of the Western world; and the set of
rights principles and norms enshrined in international law
human rights.

The catalog of rights must recognize the new Constitution
Policy should be based primarily on the development of standards and
principles enshrined in the declarations and conventions of rights

30

Michelle Bachelet Government Programme 2014-2018

right according to the standards of their establishment and protection
International Conventions on Human Rights.

human set internationally.
In particular, the development of this catalog should contain,
basically the following:

Right to judicial protection and guarantee of due
process. The new constitution should recognize a general right

Right to life, physical and mental integrity.

He
State must recognize the right to life and to physical and moral integrity
of all people, but they may be subjected to torture or treatment
cruel, inhuman and degrading. Effectively abolish required
death penalty, prohibit forced labor and human trafficking.

to an effective remedy, with all obligations to the state
matter, and a guarantee of due process comprising both
civil process and criminal proceedings. The presumption of innocence, not
trial for the same cause and testify against ban
it are basic guarantees of the accused.

Men and women are entitled to a life free of physical violence,
psychological, moral and sexual in both the public and private sectors. Is
State must take the necessary measures to prevent, eliminate
and punish all forms of violence, especially exercised
against women and girls.

The legislation should lay down the rules of due process of law
judgment handed down, all types of jurisdiction.

The right to freedom of conscience. A secular constitution

pluralist and should guarantee everyone the right to freedom of conscience
freedom of worship and equal treatment for all churches.

Right to equality and non-discrimination. The
New constitution should recognize the right to equality before the law
and the right to freedom from arbitrary discrimination, whether on grounds of sex,
ethnicity, social origin, opinions, sexual orientation or any other
condition or personal or social circumstance.

The right to freedom of expression.

Based on the
provisions of the American Convention on Human Rights, the
New constitution should give the widest guarantees of freedom of
ensuring thought and expression to all persons freedom
to seek, receive and impart information and ideas of all kinds,
censorship, and the right of access to public information.

Women and men enjoy equal rights and the State must
promote the effective and real achievement of equal rights. They
should promote equality of rights and obligations between women
and men within the family in relation to household chores
and caring for children. The permanent action of the State must
urge the modification of social and cultural patterns of conduct
remain stereotypes, prejudices and practices based on the idea
inferiority or superiority of some of the sexes.

A law determines the limits on the concentration of ownership of the
social media, both as mono-medial multimedia,
and the plural opening radio spectrum and distribution
avisaje public, in order to guarantee media pluralism and
free access to information.

Rights of children and adolescents. Should be
recognize the rights of children, in accordance with the provisions
the Convention on the Rights of the Child.

It is for the State to encourage equal access for women and men
to elected office and positions of responsibility
professional and social. To do so, the law should regulate measures
positive action that achieve the highest possible effective equality
considering temporary standards, proportionality and
involvement.

The new Constitution should protect the principle that both
parents have common responsibilities with regard to the upbringing and
child development and child.

Special temporary measures aimed at accelerating
de facto equality between men and women shall not be considered
arbitrary discrimination.

The State shall endeavor to commit to implementing all the measures
legislative, administrative, social and educational measures to
protect the child from all forms of injury or physical abuse
or mental, neglect or negligent treatment, maltreatment, exploitation and
sexual abuse. It requires prohibit child labor and any type of
violence against children, whether physical or psychological.

Right to liberty and personal security. Everyone
You have the right to liberty and personal security. It will be recognized that
31

Right to identity, privacy, image,
honor, and sexual and reproductive rights.

It should guarantee the right to form political parties and the right
political association so that citizens can be
movements or political associations.

The new Constitution should guarantee the right to identity,
personal privacy, self-image, honor and name; stating
inviolable home and communications of all kinds, except for
order or judgment.

Suffrage is universal, equal, secret and should power be exercised by
all Chileans over 18 years, in its passive and active dimension,
without home or place of residence may limit or condition
the right to vote.

It must also recognize the right to sexual identity,
sexual orientation and sexual and reproductive rights
people.

Property right. The New Constitution with
recognize the right to private property, should contemplate the idea
It requires that property and that its use must serve both the
common benefit. In that vein, it is required to recognize that the social function of
right to private property and inheritance limits of their content,
in accordance with the law.

The State must promote access and conditions
equal between women and men to elected office. They
should ensure the effective exercise of political rights
women paying special attention to the right to be elected and to hold
elected office and nomination instances
leadership and decisions of public authorities. The law shall establish
the positive measures that achieve parity in
elected positions.

It should ensure the free private economic initiative, with the
limitations established by law.

Collective rights and recognition of peoples
Indians. Chile, as a nation, indivisible and multicultural.

Chile includes indigenous peoples, who enjoy and identity
own culture.

The new Constitution should fully recognize the public domain,
absolute, exclusive, inalienable and imprescriptible resources
water, mining and the radio spectrum. The state has
right to royalties for the use of natural resources,
especially minerals.

Collective rights are related to the environment they live in these
peoples and the use of its resources, and the right to preserve, develop
and strengthen their identity, language, traditions and institutions and social
cultural.

Water as national property for public use is declared, either
the state where they are located, the place where they are deposited or
the course to follow, including glaciers.

The State shall promote the appreciation and dissemination of demonstrations
cultural rights of indigenous peoples, who are entitled to
own education and an education system of an intercultural and
Bilingual, according to their cultural particularities, values ​​and
traditions.

Regulating the procedure it will be delegated to the legislator
constitution, recognition, exercise and extinction of rights
that individuals over the waters is recognized, without prejudice
reserve flow of surface water or groundwater to ensure
availability, quality, safety and continuity of water resources for
everybody.

Economic, social and cultural rights. The new

Constitution should enshrine a social and democratic State
law, which assumes economic, social and cultural rights as
true obligations of state activity, to ensure minimum
social equality for effective enjoyment of all rights.

Political rights. They must recognize the right to participate
in public and political life of the country. Suffrage is an essential right
citizenship. Therefore it must be strengthened to ensure more
full participation, setting the Constitution and the law requirements
its exercise. They recognize the right of political association, the right
State protection to nationals, the right to nationality,
the right to good administration, the right of access to
documents, the right to petition authorities and the right to
assembly and demonstration.

Right to political and social participation.

The new
Constitution should guarantee the right to political participation and
social in different areas of national life as security
political and institutional order and as inclusive right of groups
historically excluded from the areas of public decision-making.
The law shall determine the rules and legal requirements for registration and

32

Michelle Bachelet Government Programme 2014-2018

Consequently, the Constitution must establish duties regarding the
peaceful life, respect for the rights, contribution to society
solidarity, compliance with real loads and personal that
established by law; duties towards the nation-state, its values ​​and
permanent interests and duties relating to compliance and enforcement
of the Constitution and the law.

specific forms of intervention of political parties, while
institutions of public interest, designed to promote participation
of citizens in democratic life, ensuring transparency,
democratic practices and the balanced representation of women and
men in his inner life. The State shall endeavor to remove inequality
access to economic resources, one of the main barriers
Check that women face in exercising their citizenship,
including the right to be elected.

Politic system

The State recognizes the right to public participation in the
generating policies, defining priorities and management
same. The exercise of this right must be made compatible with good
service administrative bodies. The law shall provide mechanisms
and instruments to implement the law.

The new Constitution must establish that Chile is a State
social and democratic rule of law; It is its political form a republic
Democratic. And that national sovereignty resides in the people of Chile,
emanating branches of government. It should embody a democracy
representative.

The State also guarantee the right to education,
work, housing, health protection, social security,
right of persons with disabilities and senior citizens, the right
the enjoyment of the environment pollution free. It recognizes the
right to culture, both understood as the right to cultural property
as cultural heritage. The State shall promote science and
scientific and technical research in the national interest.

The Social Democratic State and law. In the
Constitution should be recognized under this clause that the
State is not only a system of powers, but a set of duties
"good government" and satisfaction of public needs
they are inherent to the very legitimacy of the state and power. They
based on the dignity, freedom and equality of individuals and the
participatory, pluralistic and solidarity principles.

Guarantees

This is, above all, the social state of the rule of law, founded on
the rule of law and respect for fundamental rights,
so that the source and measure of all authority is the law itself. He
Social status is a democratic state, in which the electoral power resides
in the village and its exercise in power is verified through institutions,
representative and participatory procedures and techniques.

The new Constitution should ensure the development and effectiveness
of all fundamental rights. In that direction should be
establish actions and resources to its complaint with the
courts, such as the shelter, protection and access
information; must also establish that limitations
These rights can only be done by law; and does not affect the right
its essence. Moreover, the states of exception only
They may limit the rights in the Constitution factual scenarios
Set policy; in strict compliance with international standards.

Finally, the social state is a state guarantee, which protects the
effective enjoyment of economic, social and cultural rights.

The Democratic Republic.

Pluralistic democracies
combine elements of representation and participation in their version
contemporary. Its basic principles include political representation and
participation in an equilibrium equation. This republican definition
It is a historic choice for the electivity of public office,
alternation of power and responsibility in the exercise of power.

Duties

In terms of constitutional duties, the new Constitution should
echo the formula of the Universal Declaration of the Rights
Human, 1948, which places people and groups not only against
the state but to the community in which they live, so that the
duties exceed individualistic conceptions that deny the need
cooperation and social solidarity.

The Democratic Republic requires a system of accountability and,
therefore controls and social responsibilities, political and legal
in the exercise of power.
The New Constitution gives right to vote and stand for election to

33

languages, customs, culture and contribution to collective rights.

all citizens, so that the majority of political age of 18
years is sufficient to be a national requirement and qualify for any
elective public office, without prejudice to the other requirements
determined by law.

The set of collective rights requires recognizing that the State of
Chile is an indivisible, plural and multicultural nation. It also obliges
to establish that the State shall protect, promote and ensure the
individual and collective rights of indigenous peoples and, in addition,
should develop inter-cultural policies, participatory, inclusive and
Wellness.

Electoral system. The new Constitution should enshrine
principles to ensure an electoral system that collects the principles
basis of a representative democracy.
In this area, specifically, we will promote the replacement of the current
binomial electoral system for parliamentary election by one of
proportional representation.

Citizen participation. The new Constitution will incorporate

Quorum to pass laws. According to the essence of
democratic system, it should enshrine the principle of majority; being
the maximum absolute majority quorum of approval and amendment
laws, thereby collecting our own constitutional history
democratic and comparative law and development
democratic doctrines.

Towards effective decentralization and power of
Regions. The New Constitution break with centralism

Equality between women and men. The New Constitution
recognizes women equal rights as men in civil matters,
family, cultural and economic. Sexual rights are recognized and
reproductive. Political equality also requires decisions
to end constitutional barriers entering the
equal participation of women in political life.

Judicial system. The judiciary is key, not only in the judicial protection

new mechanisms of direct or semi-direct democracy in different
levels of public decision.

Chilean state. Regional governments, led it is established by
chief executives elected by direct vote, will have autonomy,
sufficient powers and resources to become true hubs
territorial development.

law and legal certainty, but on the rule of law itself.
Therefore, along with ensuring its independence and autonomy, it becomes
necessary to strengthen the judiciary in their judicial role
ensuring the fullness and unity of jurisdiction.
The Constitution will ensure the unity of jurisdiction, subjecting the
military justice and the military prosecutor to a compatible system
with the justice of the rule of law. In this
Similarly military justice as its nature and
historical origin shall apply to the military only and under no circumstances
civilians in peacetime, veiling the respect of the guarantee
constitutional due process.

Political parties.

The New Constitution recognizes and values
the importance of political parties. Along with the guarantee them
resources necessary to fulfill its multiple and
important tasks, the Constitution defines effective mechanisms
to ensure transparency and internal democracy.

Secular State. The New Constitution, along with reaffirming the
separation of state and churches, and state neutrality
vs. religion, with full respect for the religious beliefs and
ethical people, and the practice of worship; will ensure equality
between different faiths.

Constitutional Court. The new Constitution should be
by the Constitutional Court is an institution against
majority, he has the power to counteract democratic decisions.
To do this, a new generation of proposed Constitutional Court
from democratic public powers, without interference by the Court
Supreme odd number, eliminating the casting vote or quality
its Chairman.

They must be removed from the law and regulations
State powers concerning all references to oaths, books or
symbols of a religious nature.

Indigenous peoples.

In order to rationalize the role against the majority of the Court,
It requires rearranging their skills, strengthening their understanding
as court, resolving conflicts, so it is imperative
remove skills preventive constitutional control

After the bicentennial Chile must pay
the historical debt it has with its indigenous peoples, recognizing
his mixed identity and indigenous roots. This is confirmed by the
constitutional recognition of indigenous peoples, their traditions,

3. 4

Michelle Bachelet Government Programme 2014-2018

subject to the principle of double reading and co-constitutive role
Government; ii) The differences between the Congress and the President
the Republic that result in a disagreement over the content of the
constitutional reform, in all its constitutional procedures,
they should be subject to constitutional referendum so that it is the
people who arbitrate to such differences; iii) The constitutional reform
dispatched by the chambers of the National Congress sanctioned
the Government shall be subject to ratification by the people
referendum, before promulgation, and iv) The exercise of power
derived constituent supports full or partial reform, must
subject to the procedural rules laid down for their exercise in the
Constitution.

standards, both mandatory and optional preventive control.
Also, the Constitutional Court will have a new competition
Advisory for, at the request of either house, examine
the need to adapt domestic law to mark the
Parliamentary approval of international human rights treaties
humans.
Finally, the Constitution must establish mechanisms
systematic coordination of the Constitutional Court with courts
comprising the Judiciary and the Electoral Justice, to ensure the
due compliance with its decisions where appropriate.

Armed forces. Constitution for the New Forces
Army, Police and Public Security will be institutions
the constitutional power essentially obedient and not deliberative,
disciplined and participants in the development of the country at national level and
regional. The Armed Forces of Order and Public Security have
the instrumental monopoly of coercive force. Will as ends
national defense, security and public order, as appropriate,
with full respect for human rights, the environment and
strategic national resources of the nation.

In order to ensure regulatory stability of the Constitution
and rigidity is set to rule the reinforced quorum
absolute majority of the members in office of each camera; without
Subject to the special quorum provided for government veto.
Also, additionally it will apply the procedure for reform
constitutional rules about the legislative process.

On the process for developing a
New Constitution

Citizen Advocacy.

The complaints managed
in relation to mismanagement or poor performance
public services of the state administration or managed by
private companies and importing the violation of fundamental rights
and human rights, they become field tasks in a
Citizen advocacy that aims to create. This Defender
Citizen is a moral judiciary, coated auctoritas, but not
Empire, which formulates appeals to authority recommendations
reports, helping to turn the political control and social control
of rulers.

The new constitution must be drawn into a process: i)
democratic; ii) institutional, and iii) participatory.

Democratic Process: The New Constitution must be generated

in a context in which all views are heard, become
present all legitimate interests and rights are respected
all sectors.

Central Bank Council for Transparency and
audit institutions are located in the Administration

Institutional process:

Achieving a New Constitution
will require all authorities instituted a willingness to listen
and interpret the will of the people. The Presidency of the Republic and the
Congress should agree criteria to provide a channel
Constitutional and legal process of change; and permitting expression
the actual popular will in the sense of the changes.

institutional, are recognized for their autonomy and the law will establish the extent
autonomy and the configuration of its powers.

Reform of the Constitution. The current Constitution has
a deficit of democratic legitimacy projecting Chapter
concerning the exercise of constituent power derived, subject to quorum
reinforced to ensure blocking minorities, imposing a
false constitutional consensus and the lack of citizen participation.

Process

Participatory: Citizens must participate
actively in the discussion and approval of the new Constitution.
To this end, the constituent process involves, first, pass
Parliament in those reforms to precisely one
deliberation that satisfies this condition.

The new Constitution provides for the exercise of constituent power
derived the following basic rules: i) The constituent power
derived essentially resides in the National Congress being

35

PROGRAM
ECONOMIC

ECONOMIC PROGRAM
Along with public policy, economic growth is
a fundamental way to tackle inequality, eradicating
poverty, raising living standards of people,
open more development opportunities and generate income
that enable sustained public effort to implement
social protection policies. This has happened in Chile, where
under the Concertación governments were achieved important
social progress fiscally sustainable manner, associates
an active and well-managed economy.
In 2008-2009 the Chilean economy faced greater
global economic crisis since the Great Depression of the
30. Chile managed to face this major crisis like never before
in its history, thanks to good macroeconomic management, with
fiscal and monetary counter-cyclical policies, which made
and in 2010 our economy were growing again.
Thus, between 2010 and 2012 the average GDP growth
It was 5.7% and unemployment is down. These are good
news for Chileans. However, these figures
do not reflect substantive changes in our production structure
that would sustain this growth in the medium and long
term but are the result of cyclical factors.
The push has shown that the economy comes, by the
outside, a positive global scenario on
financial conditions and copper prices; and in front
internal, by the monetary and fiscal stimulus that was implemented
in response to the global crisis of 2008-2009. All this
It allowed our economy to overcome the biggest crisis
since the Great Depression, with a speed and effectiveness as
never before we had done.
As in the most likely scenario financial conditions
International will not improve and the price of copper
not continue to rise, external factors that helped
growth will cease to be a relevant motor. But
moreover, on the side of the domestic activity, activity
He is returning to its potential level after exhausting the momentum
Macroeconomic period 2008-2009 to be undertaken without
Relevant reforms to boost growth. This is
It demonstrated that the trend growth in 2014 has
It has been estimated at 4.8%.
Today, we see that starting to decline the price of copper is
Evidence fiscal tightness and vulnerability

Michelle Bachelet Government Programme 2014-2018

relevant on employability and wages. Even more,
that financed via tax exemption concentrates
mainly in workers who need it least,
who are more educated, higher income and working
in larger companies.

Fiscal policy against potential fluctuations in the price of
copper. The economy is not growing as it should. Are you
Growing conditions are that the next government
inherit: we are talking about an estimated growth
around 4% next year. However, from
2015 resume the path of sustained growth and
second half of the next administration, Chile grow
about 5%, that is, the potential level of GDP.

International indicators show that total spending
innovation in Chile is very low compared with that of the
countries with which we aspire to compete, even gap
It is wider in the private sector than in the public. Without a
more vigorous promotion of scientific research,
technological development and innovation, we will not jump
productive we need to make a difference in a
economy like ours, which mainly depends
a non-renewable natural resources such as copper.

And according to these estimates, our economy will
able to generate between 600 and 650 thousand new jobs
over the next four years.
Although this potential growth is not negligible,
several years ago that as a nation we have not been able to
increase it. Moreover, in recent years they have incubated
imbalances, which if not reversed in time will mean one
threat to the solid foundations of our economy. Indeed,
in 2014 the government will provide public finances with
structural deficit of 1% of GDP although the deficit
was reached in 2011 and 2012 was 0.4% of GDP. In addition,
for the fourth consecutive year the deficit will continue to widen
in the current account of the balance of payments, which means
that as a nation we are spending more than we produce.
As in any home, the difference with the cover
external financing. Not further expand the gap
it seems prudent.

In terms of investment in electricity generation and transmission
urgently we need to make up for lost time.
The cost of electricity has become more expensive, which affects all
the production chain and also families. Considering
the dearth of new construction projects, time
that delay to operate, and the expected growth
demand, this could generate a critical situation. East
complex scenario responds to delays in obtaining
authorizations and permits, social conflicts poorly resolved
projects entering and growing prosecution.
Clearly lacked political leadership to build
solutions to ensure access to energy
Chile needs. Moreover, this lack of leadership has produced
a deterioration in the institutions of the sector.

These threats fail to be offset by strength
other factors affecting growth. For instance,
the total factor productivity grew by only 0.4% in 2012 and
is projected to 0.5% between 2013 and 2017 will expand,
variation insufficient to achieve the level of development
we aspire. This is due to deficiencies in training
our human resources, the development of innovation,
science and technology, investment in infrastructure,
especially in generation and transmission
power.

In other words, in recent years government
squandered opportunities for economic prosperity
create better conditions to support our background
future growth. This went unnoticed while
cyclical growth sources were present, but today
they are in retreat, the flaws become apparent.
We firmly believe that governments should work to
improve the living conditions of citizens so
permanent, and not just by the years of their administration.
Therefore, our challenge is to make the necessary reforms to
increase our potential for sustained growth,
to create quality jobs and to build a society more
inclusive.

Despite the coincidence in diagnosing improve
quality of education and efforts have been devoted to
this task, we are still far from the levels we need.
Access to quality education remains concentrated in one
You can afford it. Training has lost effectiveness and
Evidence shows that most, has no effect

39

GOOD
ECONOMY AND
RESPONSIBILITY
FISCAL

GOOD ECONOMY

assist people to increase control
quality of public policies. Also, we develop
public institutions highly statistics
tech, generating cross-confidence, as it is a
fundamental input to design and implement good
public politics.

Our main objective is to address inequality
that development benefits are received by all. Do not
It is sustainable the current situation, where opportunities are
focus on those with greater financial resources
and social capital. We need economic growth, but
built on solid foundations, with a modern economy.
These bases require inclusion because we are convinced
we must grow to include, and include to grow. For that
we will have a coherent set of policy reforms
public. Many of them will bear fruit in the medium term,
which will represent a break with respect to the short-termism of
the actions that have been implemented in recent years.

In addition, we will recover the path of fiscal responsibility
management of public finances, which is the basis for
the State to sustain their commitments in the medium and
long term. To reinforce this law on liability
tax we passed in 2006 and will make every effort
to return to a structural balance in 2018.

We will make structural reform in education at all
levels, with a focus on quality and inclusion, while
We recover the job training as a tool
development and improvement of productivity.
These reforms must also respond to the challenges
Chile has production we expect in the future, ie,
They are also designed from the perspective of productivity
and development opportunities in the workplace.

In addition, we will promote an ambitious
public investment and concessions, as well as implement
a package of sectoral support.
In the first 100 days of government will make four
actions linked to economic program. First
Productivity launch Agenda, Innovation and
Economic growth, which provides for action in four
strategic areas: competition policy, modernization
State, productive development, and innovation. This agenda seeks
Chile has a really modern and dynamic economy

We will increase productivity and strongly supported,
raising investment in science, technology and innovation
generating stimuli for application in solving
problems of the country.

Secondly, we will announce a detailed agenda
Energy that will be launched in 2014. This will cover
short-term proposals that allow minimize the effects
restriction and price increases in the period 2014-2018.
In parallel, it will include medium-term measures aimed at
achieve balanced and sustainable development of the sector
the next two decades.

We will implement measures to ensure the provision of
energy the country needs to grow and recover
the normal functioning of the institutions of the sector,
who lost response capacity, in particular by the
intervention of the Executive.
We continue to strengthen the state through modernization
so you can respond quickly to citizens,
and integrating the best professionals and technicians to
public service and ensuring efficient use of resources
public and quality care for people. This
It involves strengthening public institutions pro competition
and consumer protection, to give governance
economic growth. It also involves use with
greater creativity information technologies for both

Third, we will send to Congress a bill
strengthening the SERNAC, which will have
real and effective powers to defend the rights of
the consumers.
Add to that the bill will add tax reform, with
In order to increase the permanent income of the Treasury at 3%
of GDP in regime.

42

Michelle Bachelet Government Programme 2014-2018

FISCAL RESPONSIBILITY

The economic crisis in many developed countries, and
crises experienced in the past in Chile, are evidence
the need for fiscal responsibility act
generate macroeconomic stability and improve so
sustainable well-being of citizens.

0% of GDP in the 2018 budget formulation.
Furthermore, since fiscal policy will watch to keep
a competitive real change for our
exports and contribute to conserving
controlled inflation, thereby supporting the efforts made
the Central Bank through monetary policy.

From day one has been our hallmark face the
social needs and structural funding
sustainable.

Given the level of development reached finances
public in Chile, the next step we must take is
improve budgetary planning medium
term. This will increase the transparency of the
fiscal policy and increase the predictability of
financial flows, providing a better tool
financial planning of public policies
and providing more information to the market regarding
the possible evolution of fiscal policy.

To strengthen this commitment, we introduced a
fiscal rule to build sector budgets
public isolating the economic cycle and price
copper, by setting explicit goals
structural balance. Then we promote a law
Fiscal Responsibility, which formalized approach
Structural fiscal policy to guide and created funds
Sovereign wealth to maintain and invest savings
resulting public.

As a reinforcement of the Law on Liability
Fiscal we passed in 2006, will create by law
Fiscal Advisory Council. This body will
it shall evaluate the methodology for calculating the
structural balance and propose improvements;
as well as managing expert committees
delivered the key parameters for the calculation of the balance
Structural each year, warning of fiscal risks
emerging and periodically assess the sustainability
fiscal policy. If the government deviates from the target
structural balance, the Council is obliged to
speak out publicly about the reasons given
For that.

Our fiscal policy will remain guided by the
maxim always compromising ongoing expenses
associated with permanent income, unlike the
Current government. Therefore and considering the need
undertake structural reform in education, other
requirements of social protection (health, pensions)
and the structural deficit of 1% of GDP inherit from
the current administration, implement Reform
Tax to enable the State to have income
necessary sustainably.
So, this higher projected spending on education and other
areas of social protection, it does not imply instability
on public finances.
At the same time, the public budget
balanced in structural terms,
gradually from the structural deficit
that the current government will leave a balance

Fiscal responsibility in mind, we will proceed
CODELCO capitalize. This capitalization is necessary
for the company to carry out their projects
structural, so that production does not decrease and
to resume its international competitiveness. Alone
thus it is able to maintain its contribution to
financing of fiscal policy.

You should aim to
converging
1% of GDP
structural

43

POWER

POWER
We must aspire to a secure energy development,
efficient, reasonably priced, which take
our renewable resources sustainably
and pollution. In the public perception
electric development has been increasingly associated
with environmental degradation and social costs for some
communities. This perception is enhanced therefore
errors in government environmental management, as
the existence of some environmental episodes
of concern in public opinion, which
It affects the legitimacy of our system of evaluation
Environmental Impact. It also influences the opposition
projects that several times
they generate local economic costs inevitable,
It is the benefits of national character. The lack
adequate local participation in profits
It implies a lack of geographic equity plus
expected to generate opposition to the development of the
investment. This affects both the energies
conventional and Renewable Energies not
Conventional (URE).

regulated customers in the coming years. Faced with this
disjunctive act decisively to address
the short-term challenges and a more active role
State to define the long-term strategy,
so as to create conditions for development
efficient and sustainable energy. For this will be
necessary to strengthen institutions
this at the height of the challenges facing the country
power. Respect for strengthened institutions
will be the key factor to build trust
of citizens, local communities and the
investors in the investment process and approval
environmental energy developments requires
the country.

Short-term proposals

In 2014, the Ministry of Energy will develop a

National Energy Policy, which will be under
Energy Agenda to be established in 100
first days in office.

The expert analysis indicates that the sector
power approaches a critical situation,
there clarity on energy sources that
electricity supply will be based on the medium term because
no projects under construction that will allow
ensure energy requirements.

Given this situation, between 2014 and 2018 the main
instrument available is good management
political and regulatory authority. It is essential
early to establish a plan of action aimed
to agree with all players in the sector measures
reduce the immediate effects of the restrictions
capacity, and identify options for
accelerate the start-up project
and / or provide gas supply cycle plants
Combined, they ran out of supply by the
supply crisis Argentina, including
promotion of a system of coordinated purchases
attractive volumes to find best deals
LNG price, in order to reduce potential
power shortage in the period 2016-2018.

The serious restriction of energy has driven up prices
significantly in the grid
Central (SIC) and already having adverse effects.
There is also a high risk of further
declaring deserted on tenders
Power distributors who supply
households and SMEs, because in the short term
no new projects able to cope
to demand. While the grid
Norte Grande (SING) there are lower prices and
some excess capacity, they are not currently
They can be exploited in the absence of SIC
a connection between systems.

Additionally should be taken to make
improvements in efficiency and energy savings,
involve savings in the short term, either through
measures linked to the functioning of the public sector,
offset reduction systems consumer,

This situation could impact prices

46

Michelle Bachelet Government Programme 2014-2018

information campaigns on the use
house, efficiency programs
industry, among others.

power
Energy

national and regional development strategies,
Elèctric development or analysis. It is considered the
future demand growth, requirements
technicians for system stability, effects
environmental, current and projected costs
various sources and conventional technologies and not
conventional, which are available for the country
among other things necessary for adequate
comparison between alternatives. Approaches
of authorities as well as various
groups must be available to all citizens,
in ways that facilitate their understanding and participation
on the options that the country has.

The short-term plan also includes implementation
Development Act of NCRE and Promotion
Distributed Energy and extend the incentive to
installation of thermal solar panels in housing.
Furthermore, in order to facilitate the development of
implement power transmission projects
shortly the Concessions Law and easements
Power, introducing expeditious mechanisms
guarantee citizens' rights and compliance
of the relevant environmental regulations.
Likewise, we will promote the adoption of a standard
to facilitate the implementation of the interconnection of
SIC and SING systems as backbone transmission in
under the terms, while the requirements are met
technical, environmental and economic related.
Finally, we identify opportunities
expand capacity in the short term,
new and existing companies with installed capacity and / or
projects for immediate implementation in the SING and SIC, and
regulatory and administrative measures
for its materialization.

The government must decide considering and giving
response to all the issues discussed, raised and
consulted in the process, and give the country the plan
strategic long-term development, addressing
especially the environmental and social aspects
related to energy development. This exercise will allow
provide guidance to investors, reassure
citizens that the State ensures the common interest,
guide the planning of backbone transmission
and own decisions on Executive
environmental energy, through the institutional
corresponding.

Proposals for medium and long term

Better Regulation of the Electricity Transmission.

We will make the necessary legislative changes
not discourage generators
Incoming and promote competition that allows us
reduce energy prices.

In the energy sector it is essential to a long-
term due to the long gestation periods
projects, we can not repeat the lack of perspective
in recent years. Our goal is to achieve
balanced and sustainable development in the energy sector
for the next 15-20 years. To this end, we will promote
institutional changes regarding the role of the State in
sector. For this purpose the essential elements
work are:

Promotion URE. To promote the

URE various policy measures are considered:
i) Strengthen and extend the Trunk
Electricity Transmission Systems and Additional Interest
Public: NCRE projects often face
high transaction costs to develop in
project coordination with additional lines
efficient transmission for connection to the backbone;
ii) Licitaremos NCRE energy to supply
distribution companies: we will complement law
NCRE building with an outline of tenders
power distribution companies for

Participatory planning. A process is proposed
participatory study and discussion of politics
electric, similar to what is applied in different countries
OECD, in that on the basis of the objectives of the
47

regulated consumption to facilitate participation
NCRE and you can meet the goal of 20%
in 2025 lowering marginal costs in the
short term; iii) Promote Geothermal energy is
unconventional source of clean energy
that can provide stable power, unlike
other types of URE, so will design
schemes for encouraging risk sharing;
iv) Foster distribution generated NCREs
for small consumers, creating mechanisms
to address liquidity constraints that inhibit
the initial investment for connection systems,
e; v) incorporate in the housing subsidy
a component for systems that use the
solar energy either for heating water or generating
distributed.

and non-motorized), and; vi) strengthen and deepen the
saving program in public buildings. A level
We work on housing standards of habitability
and energy efficiency in housing, considering
a subsidy for incorporating heaters
Solar in social housing. We advance, evaluating
alternatives and introduction of hybrid buses
natural gas in public transport to generate
conditions that future fleet renewals
they can establish awards for the introduction of
cleaner technologies.

National Petroleum Company (ENAP)

The National Oil Company, is a heritage
Chile we must protect. He faces today
a critical situation that must be resolved
over the next four years. In advance
strategy to take incorporate decidedly
ENAP in Chile's energy strategy, the
which should include the capitalization of the company,
corporate governance reform, revision of
business model, and changes in the law of ENAP
necessary to allow these reforms. All this,
in order, among other things, that ENAP is
a major player in access and capacity
gas exploration in our country.

Of course we are committed to increase
the share of renewable energies not
Conventional (URE) for the year 2025
20% of injections of electricity coming from
clean and own sources. We will all
efforts needed to lay the foundations for
30% of the generation of electricity from
NCRE sources.

Major Effort Energy Efficiency

Energy Innovation

In the past four years has made very
little in the Energy Efficiency (EE). In
the next government will aim to achieve changes
more structural in this field and enter a
phase mass of EE projects,
generating US market. Some elements
keys to make significant advances are
following: i) Implement minimum standards
energy performance to lighting, motors
industrial and refrigerators; ii) campaign
revitalized energy efficiency labeling;
iii) setting standards and / or targets for any new
public construction; iv) policy development
for large consumer companies
energy, including energy management systems; v)
work on the issue of efficient transport (public

Chile must move to the development stage
technology in those areas that can create
competitive advantages, such as solar,
geothermal, tidal and methane hydrates.
To do so requires a medium- and long effort
term, focused on developing technologies
based on prototyping,
with the coordinated participation of the State,
universities and industry.
We will promote
consortia
technological
university-industry
as a tool to promote research
applied in these areas.

48

Michelle Bachelet Government Programme 2014-2018

Strengthening the capacity of the
Institutions

area, we will closely follow the implementation
measures for greater autonomy and professionalization
the CDEC, and implement any additional changes
as required.

State institutions of higher incidence in the
energy development have strong weaknesses. At
electricity sector the National Energy Commission (CNE) has
exercised an increasingly weak in its role as regulator role.
It is urgent to strengthen the CNE, in particular, strengthening its
regulatory capacity. It should also be provided to the Ministry
Energy capacities for policy design and
energy planning, within a framework in which the
State takes a proactive role in guiding the development
sector.

Territorial Planning

As indicated in the chapter of City Housing
and Territory, will promote a management plan
Territorial, with citizen participation, allowing
establish a new balance between the requirements of
economic growth, the needs of communities
and respect and care for the environment. The proyects
energy compete for land use with varying
other conservation actions and economic activities
and environmental and cultural development. The Plan should
identify those places where they allow
productive activities and power generation without
adversely affect people, and where they may
run projects that Chile requires agility.

Increased competition in generation

Electricity generation in Chile is concentrated.
Three companies generate 90% of the energy of the SIC. A
key strategy for new entrants to
market is easier to obtain long contracts
term supply of energy to regulated customers,
through energy distribution companies. Nevertheless,
the current procurement system has not generated incentives
for the entry of new players. We review the system
tenders in the light of experience since its inception,
especially considering the deadlines, the division
blocks and modification of the integration mechanisms
supply and demand profile adapting to.

The Plan shall identify areas where it is permitted
installation of projects for each type of technology,
under strict rules and environmental standards.
Like any project involves some economic impact
Local and national benefits to take action
local communities through their municipalities
greater participation in the benefits of the projects.

The energy wood and isolated areas

The Center for Economic Load Dispatch (CDEC) is the
body that coordinates the operation of the systems and should
ensure safe operation and minimal cost and no
discriminatory potential operators. The evolution
the electricity sector toward greater complexity involved
increased demands on this organ coordinator
system regarding safety standards, reliability
and transparency; Moreover, the tension between the function
that meets the CDEC public and individual interests
companies is growing, and makes it desirable that the
body has capacities and effective independence
issue binding instructions to companies and to
adequately fulfill a supervisory role on the
how they operate within the systems. In this

We develop a national policy on energy
obtained through the wood, to improve the conditions
of life of hundreds of thousands of families who use this
resource, ensuring adequate standards of heating and
improving environmental conditions in cities today
They are saturated. We will promote hybrid systems
solar-wind diesel in the islands that currently only
supplied with diesel generation. Also we design
mechanisms to encourage the use of renewable energy
inexpensive isolated systems such as those in the area
austral.

49

SCIENCE,
TECHNOLOGY
AND INNOVATION

SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY AND INNOVATION

Chile has a clear deficit and known
innovation. Science, technology and
innovation are key tools for
inclusive, sustainable, sustainable development and also
They are essential to take over large
global concerns such as climate change,
to design innovative solutions to problems
national, as the efficient use of water and energy
and to create new services, products or practices
to increase the welfare of all Chileans, as
in the case of digital technologies or food
functional.

public and private to develop a long look
term challenges facing the country right
issues beyond the government. In turn, the
Innovation Fund for Competitiveness (FIC)
It allows for a significant flow of resources
to finance part of public policy in this
country. However, both are creations that have not
yet they have been legally sanctioned, making them very
fragile. In the next administration, both the CNIC
as the FIC, will have a new legal status, which
allow them stability, along with expanding its scope
of concern from the development competitiveness
national, keeping the emphasis on the themes of
scientific research, technological development,
innovation and entrepreneurship, both in its dimension
productive and socially.

In the first 100 days of Government will announce the
Productivity Agenda, Innovation and Growth
Economic actions contemplated in four
strategic areas: i) competition policy; ii)
State modernization; iii) production development, and;
iv) innovation.

An example in the area of ​​capacity building,
It is the low availability of engineering students,
It is one of the main difficulties faced
local high-tech companies and also
limits the installation of foreign subsidiaries in Chile.
For this challenge, we will create an incentive program
for universities with engineering programs
accredited and sign agreements with the State, for
generating 1,000 additional places for applicants
that meet basic requirements. We will also support the
reintegration of professional postgraduate scholarship
Chile will return to the country with masters or doctorates
abroad, whose contribution in companies and universities
It is very relevant.

Making Chile become a country in which the
Knowledge and innovation are real levers of a
dynamic, inclusive and sustainable development requires
significant impulses and at least transformers
three fronts. First, a sharp increase in the
promotion of science, research and training
advanced human resources. Second, generate
incentives to increase the system's stakeholders
their efforts on innovation and guide
relevant to national development objectives. Y
Thirdly, having an institution that
have the strength and stability, but also the
flexibility in action, to conduct this process in
a world of profound changes. A specific aspect
but fundamental in the scientific development and
technological, political resume consists of clusters
which it was driven by strength in the period 2006-2010.

Another important aspect in the field of innovation
It is that people have broad access
Internet service broadband, high-quality,
low cost, to not face restrictions on
access to content and services offered in
developed countries through the network. Licitaremos
concessions broadband infrastructure of the
described features, open access to all

The creation of the National Innovation Council
Competitiveness (CNIC) generated a space

52

Michelle Bachelet Government Programme 2014-2018

telecommunications providers in communes
lower revenues from the metropolitan areas of the country.
These networks allow service providers
compete by offering high-speed broadband
telephone and television to lower the current price.

products and services offered; ii) the revision of standards and
standards in key areas of economic activity,
so as to bring them progressively to levels
similar to those of the OECD countries and iii) support for
companies, where appropriate, the introduction of the
changes required to adopt the new levels
requirement. Also we establish a program for
support for SMEs technological extension of
country, creating partnerships between providers of technologies and
SMEs through agreements that improve their ability
absorption and skills development.

In terms of incentives, we create programs
Innovation for Development aimed at identifying
challenges or bottlenecks affecting sectors
clear competitive advantage and / or latent. The object
It is to develop applied research oriented lines
proprietary technologies to dominate the sector, which can
give economic, social and environmental sustainability
in the medium term. We will also create a program
promoting innovations with high social impact,
using the best capabilities allow, for the purpose of
resolve specific difficulties faced different
communities.

At the institutional level, we strengthen the Minister
Economy in its role of responsible authority
the field of innovation and productive development,
creating the Secretariat for Science, Technology and
Innovation. Thus, this authority shall establish policies
and orientations of public resources, including:
the formation of highly advanced human resources;
activity financing agencies
science, technology and innovation; handling
intellectual property derived from the activity
science and technology; promoting a culture
innovation and appreciation of science; and the
international collaboration.

We will replace the policy and program development
regional clusters and sectors with high potential.
It has a consistent look with policies
decentralization, since there are regions which in turn
identity and vocation can undertake initiatives
innovation.
Create Public Innovation Fund for goods and
services. Reimpulsaremos promotion programs
business innovation and entrepreneurship
innovative administered by CORFO, retaking
mechanisms of ecosystem development
dynamic entrepreneurship, in particular by
support mechanisms incubation, acceleration,
seed capital, early stage risk, training
networking and mentoring schemes.

We will create a Council for Coordination
Policy Science, Technology and Innovation, chaired
by the Minister of Economy and composed of all
implementing agencies of policies in science, technology
and innovation such as CONICYT, CORFO and others.
Finally,
we will
a
simplification
regroup and redesign implementation processes
the instruments to promote science, technology
and innovation, generating performance indicators for
to account for the improvements obtained. These indicators
They must be tracked and monitored by an institution
seeking a higher level of process efficiency.

Improve the norms and standards to drive
innovation, proposing a program that includes:
i) greater resources for SERNAC to generate
public information to evaluate the quality of the

53

MODERNIZATION
THE STATE

MODERNIZATION OF THE STATE
We aspire to a modern state that promotes Chile
strengthening democracy and facilitate dialogue and participation; a
State to guarantee the exercise of political, economic,
social and cultural needs of citizens and to boost public policies
to reduce inequalities, combat abuses and contribute to a
more equal income distribution.

We send to Congress a bill to create this public service. He
Service Director shall be appointed by the Senior Public Management System.
The new institutional framework will aim to assess annually 25% of the
budget programs, so that in an administration cover 100%
programs of the public budget.

A New Deal for public employment. We aspire to a
public sector is identified with a quality management that has
efficiently resources are allocated and ongoing process
innovation, which is crucial for officials
public work in dignity. To do this, we will evaluate the
institutionalization of collective bargaining in the public sector, studying
mechanisms to take charge of their special characteristics. In relation
We hire staff to study schemes that provide greater stability
these workers. We will also assess the situation of workers
with fee contracts, reviewing situations that may be
considered permanent functions.

We aspire to a modern state that fulfills its role force
regulatory and oversight in the provision of goods and services, ensuring
conditions of competition and ensuring access, quality and
user satisfaction. A State to ensure, inter alia,
appropriate conditions for entrepreneurship and investment
private, contributing to the opening of new markets and development
of innovative technologies.
We aspire to an innovative state that guarantees access to services
quality public where prevails the good treatment, under conditions
decent working and acting with transparency.

Decent employment should allow officials older, retire
dignity of the public service. To do this we will promote special plans
retirement to facilitate the achievement of the stated object.

These proposals are for a state at the service of its citizens and to
act effectively to the challenges of development.

A new institution responsible for the
evaluation of public policies. The system

In the area of ​​training, annual training plans are
essential to achieve better results in the performance of
officials, the relevance and effectiveness will be evaluated periodically by
bipartite training committees receiving more resources when
need for greater efficiency.

evaluation of public policies that our country has been developed
allowed them to have more and better information to processes
analysis and decision-making, thereby contributing to the transparency of
governance. However, if we evaluate to improve the
Evaluation results should be linked making process
of public policy decisions. For that it is necessary a new
institutions, interacting with the various public agencies
in policy-making cycle.

Improvement Senior Management System
Public. 10 years after its creation, the Senior Public Management System has

confirmed its relevance between state reforms that have been implemented
in our country. It has been successful in implementing a rigorous selection system
of senior management. However, the change in government in 2010
He showed weakness, turning the power to dismiss top managers in
a mechanism for policy removal. Therefore, it is essential to incorporate
system improvements; making the performance agreement of senior management one
instrument to support the improvement of management; and progress in expanding
system with mixed character regime that considers differences between
the first and second hierarchical level with explicit criteria of delimitation
technical policy, increasing the coverage of the system.

To do this we will create the National Assessment,
will have the mission to contribute to continuous improvement of the
quality of policies, programs and public projects, through
incorporating assessment processes taking advise
decisions. The Board shall have the following objectives: develop assessments
high technical quality to deliver recommendations to improve
management, effectiveness, efficiency and quality of policies and
public programs; establish methodological standards for all
evaluations in the public sector; disseminating information
respect of the assessments made in the public sector, promoting
transparency, accountability; and track the
implementation of recommendations arising from evaluations.

Additionally, we will restrict only to special cases, the use of the figure of
transient and temporary positions. The appointments may not exceed
6 months and the number of managers can simultaneously limit
have that same service quality.

56

Michelle Bachelet Government Programme 2014-2018

Digital Agenda. Globalization in the twenty-first century requires us to face
institutionally the digital development of our country. The digital challenge
It covers both the promotion of the use of new technologies
the citizenry, as the use of information technology for
deepen transparency, increase efficiency and promote state
better quality of services to citizens. To achieve these objectives is
necessary that the Ministry of Economy fully assume the role of leader
public policy of digital development of our country, watching
materials such as policy design area, promoting initiatives
e-government, development of the ICT industry and the promotion of
access to new technologies.

Improvement of Corporate Governance of
Public Enterprises. We will improve the institutional framework
State enterprises and those in which it has an interest,
strengthen its corporate governance, so that these companies achieve
increase transparency and strategic capacity, improving the quality of
management and supervision of the same.

We will create the Superior Council of Public Enterprises as a service
decentralized public, responsible for representing the rights and duties
the State in its role as owner, changing both its composition
and powers as the rules relating to company directors
public, so as to facilitate separation of the various functions
Been.

Today it is important that we consider developing a strategy
digital security to protect private and public users against
possible actions of violation of data sources, along with protection
the privacy of our citizens.

From the first half of government will integrate at least one woman,
each the boards of public companies. And we will seek for
the Government how to encourage a greater presence of women in the
boards of public companies, putting the goal of reaching a
40% in the period of government.

The proposals in the area of ​​Transport and Telecommunications, are
establish measures to improve access to broadband Internet,
particularly in the education system and the most vulnerable communes
metropolitan areas. In addition to this effort, we develop
the concept of e-government online, allowing better access to
information and services, especially in the fields of health,
education, forecasting and other social services, with particular preference
regions and municipalities.

Modernize the corporate governance of public companies, to
adopt best international practices in this field.

Trusted institutions and high standard
technical for public statistics. If we want policies

developed country public, for designing and evaluating need to generate
statistics developed country standards. The unfortunate episodes
CASEN 2011 and Census 2012 have highlighted that there is a gap
between that desire and institutional capacity to achieve it. Investing in close this
gap is essential to achieve the two most important features
statistical institutions: public confidence and technical ability.

Integrity and Transparency. Today the public has an increasing

demand for greater transparency in the actions of the authorities
public. This has to do with access to information and participation
in the debate, but also with the conflicts of interest of its own
authorities. We implement a system for blind trust
new authorities, without waiting for approval of the bill that is
currently being discussed in Congress, which will strengthen and accelerate.

To achieve this will refine the bill that modernizes the INE
making a real effort in terms of institution building.

In making appointments to public authorities will special
care in reviewing potential conflicts of interest. In addition
We deepen the rules governing the conflict of interest
post-public office functions and
We will refine the statements of assets and interests
public authorities to effectively constitute a mechanism
transparency and citizen oversight.

In the particular case of the Census, the Review Committee convened by the External
Current government recommended to perform a new position that was backed by
CELADE, the expert institution in censuses in Latin America. Furthermore, the Commission
It recommended not to use the data collected for purposes of public policy. By
It is therefore essential to make a new Census. To avoid repeating mistakes
Census 2012 we plan its implementation rigorously and care
it deserves. Therefore, we will conduct a new census in the next period
Government.

Additionally we strengthen the internal audit function
government, and will promote actions to have a better and more
citizen control over lobbying activities.

57

PROTECTION AND
DEFENSE
CONSUMERS,
COMPETITION AND
TRANSPARENCY

PROTECTION AND DEFENSE OF CONSUMERS
COMPETITION AND TRANSPARENCY
Reglamentaremos collective mediations Protection Act
Consumer pointing when they come from, what time they have, ordering
advertising to consumers affected or Associations
Consumers can make comments and suggest adjustments
solutions identified.

In recent years, many citizens, vulnerable and layers
stockings, have been abused by consuming goods or use of services, including
public interest services and goods that meet basic needs. These
abuses affect national coexistence, producing anger in the population, undermine
trust among Chileans and undermine the credibility of the operation
companies and institutions that govern the economy. In good
hand, these situations arise from the concentration of market power,
the presence of barriers to entry and practices that facilitate agreements
collusion and exclusion of competitors. This concentration and lack
Competition also affects efficiency, innovation and markets
entrepreneurship and the real possibility of distributing benefits
They are generated in them. They are also a result of institutions that,
Despite advances, it remains weak in protecting consumers,
who have a position of natural disadvantage against interests
economic organized and well-targeted.

We review the regulation of collective judgments, to ensure
efficient procedure to seek appropriate solutions, in particular,
review and clarification of the time limits for bringing actions,
and review of the fines, so that relate to the damage
caused by the offense. Also we move forward in establishing
compensation and compensation to ensure effective deterrence
adequate compensation.
For better institutional coordination, we establish in the Act
Protection of Consumer Rights which an Integrated System
SERNAC correspond to the technical coordination, and to consider the creation
a Council with the participation of representatives of public agencies
regulatory and oversight. Your order will resolve conflicts between rules
sectoral and consumer protection, ensuring recognition
explicit the relevance should be to protect consumers in all
markets.

Legal mechanisms to enforce compliance
the rights of consumers and there
compensation and adequate compensation. For the

above, in the first 100 days in office, we will send to Congress
the bill strengthening the SERNAC, which will have
real and effective measures to defend the rights of consumers powers.
Dotaremos to SERNAC powers to supervise, fine, interpret the law
and issue regulations providing clear criteria for legal compliance
general effect. Along with this, we will strengthen the institutional framework and resources
human to enforcement and protection against abuse.

Financial consumer protection.

Asymmetries
reporting on the financial industry acquire a complexity
and scope such that justify the existence of specialized unit within
SERNAC. We will give the SERNAC powers on inspection,
penalties and regulations for the financial market.

Establish an administrative procedure before the SERNAC that
replace the general jurisdiction of the Courts of Local Police to learn
matters of individual consumption, which may culminate in the implementation of
fines, among other penalties, and order refunds.

We need to give greater protection to consumers in respect of
on debt for consumption. The Superintendency of Banks
and Financial Institutions will be responsible for managing the system
Economic Obligations, which includes the consolidation of
banking information, trade and other credit agent
relevant; ensure the proper functioning of the system at all
operational, safety and security aspects of information and
supervise; and record and monitor distribution entities
information. In addition, we will deepen model
information on financial costs for consumer loans. We know
the lending business is a risky business, so not all
Customers qualify at the same rate. In this regard, corresponding is
improve the information system of borrowing costs. Additionally,
product standardization deepen consumer credit, to
For ease of comparison to customers.

We will give a central role to consumer associations, flexible
its financing. Progress will be made in the following areas: i)
remove legal restrictions which states that only associations
they can gain money for the recovery of costs and
in return, increase its transparency obligations
financing and regulatory accounting rules require; ii) raise funds
state for funding, through agreements with assessments
performance and modify the regulation of competitive funds
assigns the state to allow them to finance operating expenses
a portion of these resources. Efficiency standards, establish and run
transparency in accessing these funds.

60

Michelle Bachelet Government Programme 2014-2018

solvency in 1997. Since then, the world experienced
a significant financial crisis, which has led to generate
important changes in international standards of
capital adequacy and how monitoring means.
Currently, international standards aimed at equipping
supervisory bodies powers to raise demands
capital capital used as a tool against cyclical monitoring
entities based on risk rather than institutional model.
None of these changes has operated in the Chilean case. We continue
with a supervision model of institutional, there
financial institutions that can potentially represent
systemic risks that are not under the umbrella of supervision, not
There are powers to regulate financial conglomerates, and there
weaknesses in institutional powers to address risks
macro-prudential problems and resolution mechanisms
bank.

Defense of free competition in markets
specific. Take care of the National Economic Prosecutor (FNE) the

task of assessing those markets that have persistent shortcomings or
suffer the impact of regulations on competition, in order to dictate
special rules when market failures warrant and modify
those rules that encourage or allow unjustified restrictions
to correct competitive operation. For this will increase the
FNE capabilities.

Institutional strengthening pro
competition. Change the regime ministers of the Court

Free Competition (TDLC), to one preferred dedication
or exclusive, establishing wages and setting a chord
compensation when ministers cease to hold office. This is
increase the incentives for application of quality professionals and
experience.

To take care of this diagnosis, we deliver faculties
the Superintendency of Banks and Financial Institutions (SBIF)
to monitor for any financial solvency and credit officer
relevant. This should include compensation funds, cooperatives
and trading companies, among others. The regulator will be empowered to
decide the specific entities that would be monitored under the
forward, based on criteria to be financial institution, have a size
and some relevant minimum leverage.

Sanctions on contentious issues.

Change the
ceiling of sanctions by percentage of sales reported;
We introduce an additional penalty for persons involved in
disqualification directories, public bodies, associations
unions and professional associations and an additional sanction for companies
involved, excluding them from participating in state tenders.

Strengthening rules against collusion. Evaluate
the inclusion of an explicit offense to more burdensome for posters
markets, to sanction agreements between competitors which give them
market power.

Additionally
incorporate
a
chapter
from
financial conglomerates in the relevant legal bodies, where
is defined as the financial conglomerate subject to supervision,
determine their capital requirements, liquidity and government,
define the supervisor and the financial part of the conglomerate separates
the rest of the economic group.

Merger Control. Introduce
into the law provisions on merger control,
Figure explaining substantial lessening of competition.
The FNE when identifying competition problems have the power to
negotiate mitigation measures in a short time.

Also we move towards the adoption of standards
international Basel. Chile today does not meet the standards
capital adequacy of developed countries. This creates weaknesses
the ability of the banking industry to absorb shocks
systemic weaknesses in the management of liquidity risk and damages
international competitiveness of the financial industry by not complying
with the standards required by investors and regulators
other places. It also generates a weak local banks
respect of international banks operating in Chile, and have
adopted the new standard at the request of authorities
their countries of origin.

Changes related to proceedings before the FNE.

Strengthen the technical and professional capabilities of the FNE;
Dimensional establish deadlines for investigations; the faculty
to issue warnings and rightly require information
other statistical agencies.

Financial Regulation. Financial institutions
Chile had the last major reform issues related to the
61

AGRICULTURE

AGRICULTURE
It should include aspects of management, information technology, marketing
and capital management in the territories. For this,
establish a new agreement INDAP and SENCE, and seek
alliances with agricultural schools, technical training centers and
universities in each area.

The agriculture, forestry and fisheries sectors account for 4%
of GDP and in some regions of the country are the main activity.
In the last two decades its importance has increased
driven by trade agreements.
Chile, with its sanitary condition has advantages
comparative and competitive, with the leadership and commitment
of authority can lead to establish ourselves in power
food and, additionally, a global leader in supply
healthy food. To achieve this objective,
necessary to advance an inclusive project, incorporating
this effort to small farmers, youth, women and
indigenous people, with particular emphasis on family farming
Campesina.

In Chile there are many debtors who are small INDAP
and farmers who have been affected product droughts,
floods and frost situation that has made them fall behind
in the payment of their debts. Therefore, in the first 100 days
Government will review the situation of debtors
INDAP and study support lines aimed at those
in a situation of vulnerability.
In labor, we will design and implement a plan
permanent control, coordinated among agencies
auditors in matters of health and safety, in order to
enforce health standards in the workplace and
apply appropriate sanctions where appropriate. During
the next government will send a bill to Congress
law containing the Status of Temporary and Activity
Seasonal Agricultural, that enshrines protection for these
workers.

We require enhancing our human resources, break
unequal and exclusionary growth observed in some
sectors and address the problems posed by small
producers in financing, access to instruments
hedging, improved production technologies, to
water resources and markets on equal terms.
In the field of family agriculture (AFC)
We create, strengthen and implement a program
competitive development for its core areas, which
allow producers to improve significantly
productivity, competitiveness and market access. They
will establish strategies for each of the priority areas,
differentiated by territory, identifying the main
critical to improving their competitive insertion points.

In the previous government, we send the Bill
Plant breeders, known as the "Monsanto Law". He
original meaning of the project was to promote the development
technology to increase productivity and competitiveness
the agricultural sector, with due preservation of the patrimony
biological and genetic Chile.
We have known and witnessed new records
debate over whether that law is relevant and what might be their
risks. We will review the bill, listening
all opinions, safeguarding and respecting the sovereignty
food and traditional seeds will safeguard
our resources and our small and medium
producers.

There will be different
lines: investment capital
human, research and innovation transfer,
quality and differentiation and market access. The programs
will enhance the peasant association. They will enhance the
Technology Transfer groups and cooperatives,
which they will have a privileged access to technical advice.
To promote the formalization coverage will be expanded
Regularization Plan Domain Titles.

Strengthen and incentivize the use of agricultural insurance,
placing us as a goal to achieve a 50% increase in
coverage in the next government, putting an effort
especially the inclusion of small and medium
agricultural producers.

Special importance will expand training and
skills relatives and medium producers. This

64

Michelle Bachelet Government Programme 2014-2018

reducing costs and financial risks. For this
expand the Export Promotion Fund. They
will create specific products or currency hedging
commodity prices for agriculture. They will study
modern financial instruments for the livestock sector
cattle and sheep, supplemented with improvements to
existing instruments.

On the other hand, we need to regain lost leadership
in the last 4 years by the MINAGRI, reinstating the
instances of public-private collaboration, with all
actors of the food chain, from producers
primary to consumer organizations. The
current institutional framework does not account for the needs
the paradigm of development of the food sector. Must be
moving from a sectoral approach and disjointed
and items towards clusters and chains (from rural to
table).

We will form the Office of Agricultural Studies and Policies
(PASO) a development team of institutions,
regulation and competition rules to allow
revise trade rules so to prevent
operation forms of trade in agribusiness or
the forestry sector that threaten consumers or
producers.

We will strengthen the Chilean Agency for Food Safety
Food (ACHIPIA) as the entity responsible for the
management of food safety policy, including
risk assessment of the most relevant issues.
They should also be enhanced technical capabilities and
supervision of the Agriculture and Livestock Service (SAG).

We establish a Market Defense Fund, to serve
to defend Chilean growers and exporters
against accusations of dumping or subsidies.

To improve the quality and achieve differentiate our products
will support producers or producer networks, in their
projects to improve the quality and differentiation,
emphasizing access to specialized certifications.
The Agricultural Research Institute (INIA) should
orient their programs and research projects to the
identification, collection and use of functional ingredients
for the production of healthy foods. These measures
They require a reorganization and strengthening of the system
institutional agricultural services that are dedicated to
research and innovation.

In relation to the environment and natural resources,
in the short term we will constitute the Territorial Tables
Water in the main regions, incorporating the
relevant actors-organizations and water users
representatives of the public institutions involved,
that can diagnose the specific problems of each
territory, particularly in those regions where
aquifers have been declared restricted areas and / or areas
Ban for purposes of granting new
harvesting rights in the respective aquifers.

We must improve water management for efficient irrigation.
We will promote policies channel improvements,
Irrigation technology and deep wells. To this will be made
legal changes and the necessary resources are allocated.
The national plan will be implemented construction
untapped water collectors. In new
large irrigation works, move forward on a program
dam construction in different regions, which form
part of a long-term program that will allow
substantial increase in irrigated area.

In forestry, we will send to Congress a draft
law to extend for two years the incentives for afforestation,
along with legislation to remove barriers to entry
have limited the incorporation of small and medium
forest owners to the benefits of the current legislation
on native forests. Execute a Sector Program
Research and Forestry Research Transfer
the protection and conservation of forest ecosystems.
Develop a strategy to strengthen the
Forest SMEs to facilitate their access to resources
production and diversify and add value to their production.

It also requires better marketing
products, facilitating access to external markets,

65

FISHING AND
TOURISM

FISHERIES
the cultural characteristics of this sector.
Therefore, we will promote Development Institute
Artisanal Fisheries, resources and regional presence,
to be an engine of social and economic development
this sector. Through this entity will improve
marketing channels to ensure prices
righteous. Create a "bag of Artisanal Fisheries"
which can voluntarily access fishermen
all handmade Chile, to sell their products
the wholesale market with transparent mechanisms,
open and competitive. Added to this, in the first
year Government will double the Fund
Development of Artisanal Fisheries, to support them
infrastructure, training, restocking
resources and marketing.

One of the topics that will be addressed is hard
ensure sustainable management of resources
fishing, since they belong to all Chilean and
Chilean, present and future. Our agenda fishing
will focus its efforts on ensuring the sustainability of
biomass, strengthening and artisanal fisheries
productive development of small entrepreneurs and
domestic industry.
In terms of sustainability, 33 fisheries (species
exploited) reported by the Undersecretariat of Fisheries
in March 2013, three are in a state of collapse,
ten out of exploited and for five of them
know their status lack of scientific information.
This shows that it is essential that a
institutions to ensure the sustainability of
fishery resources. We will ensure that the Institute
Fisheries Development (IFOP) to perform a task with
regardless of sector interests on
scientific, we will guarantee his scientific independence,
with the highest international standards on
research, like the institutes
major fishing powers in the world.

Additionally, we are committed to realize
during the next presidential term extension
the 5-mile artisanal protection from Chiloe
to the south end, so that across the country there
an exclusive area for fishermen, and not
discriminates on the southern fishermen. As to
human consumption of marine resources use
the maximum legally established as a reserve for
is processed by SMEs and are intended fishing
exclusively to the production of products in that
line.

In addition, it is essential to modernize the
National Fisheries Service (Sernapesca). The underreporting,
illegal fishing, or simply not control
landings, contributing to overexploitation.
Having an audit institutions to
the height of the challenges is also crucial.
Also we consider the legal biological ban
declared fishery collapsed, along with the
phasing out of trawling through
generating a transition minimum impacts
domestic industry.

In the area of ​​social security, we will use
efforts needed to involve fishermen
craft, both the pension system and to the
occupational health, participating law Accident
And Occupational Diseases.
In the field of fisheries we must ensure that
legal instruments cautelen the interests and demands
all sectors involved with a concern
especially for those most vulnerable. For this,
We will make an assessment of the Fisheries Act approved
during the current administration.

As for the artisanal sector, which represents
More than 80,000 Chileans, will promote
conditions allowing for better income and
higher value added by marketing their
products, avoiding the destruction of the social fabric

68

Michelle Bachelet Government Programme 2014-2018

TOURISM
Tourism is not only an economic activity whose importance has
It has been growing over time, but also has characteristics
that make your promotion a target of great public interest because
It helps build national and territorial identity, generates
local development even in the most remote areas, creates activity
related economic, it contributes to the protection of natural resources
and promotes cultural exchange.

We will facilitate
he
access
expeditious
to
instruments to promote investment
Desk. Tourism is mainly composed by

micro, small and medium enterprises, which are the engine of
national tourism industry. We will support entrepreneurship
building instruments suited to the various cycles
company but mainly for micro and small
company. This collaboration work is fundamental
regional and local authorities to coordinate delivery
of information to various actors who need it.

To encourage this activity will promote
those lines
ensuring strategic tourism growth based on
sustainability, that is, ensuring that economic development
industry will translate into better living conditions for
Chilean and Chilean participants, and protecting the environment,
Chile's main tourist asset.

To promote tourism will create a National Fund
Tourism Development-oriented financing activities
that enhance their development, including training,
promotion and innovation. We will make a program
oriented leadership to take a significant leap in quality
human resources working in the sector. Incentivize
social and domestic tourism, increasing coverage
programs, study tours, holiday of the third
old woman and tourism, especially in seasons
low demand. We create a new holiday program
family, especially focused on families with lower
incomes and those whose head of household is female,
tour packages that offer recreational activities,
cultural and sports.

We will promote sustainable tourism development
in protected areas of the state.

Whereas tourists visit Chile make for the most
part attracted by our nature, it is necessary to have
a system that encourages the development of tourism in this area,
acting in collaboration with the Ministries of Environment,
Agriculture (CONAF) and National Heritage, generating mechanisms
for tour operators and state agencies
actually performing quality work, sustainable and attractive
tourist.

We move forward in establishing areas
Tourist Interest (ZOIT). Convene all stakeholders

We will promote a plan for development of tourist destinations
distributed throughout Chile, and coordinate efforts
private actors to enhance its attractiveness. This includes
investment in tourism infrastructure (walkways,
coastal, walkways, lighting, flooring, enablement
places, road signs and viewpoints, among others), plus
face and digital platforms for information
visitors.

involved in identifying especially -very to ZOIT
the municipalities-to jointly progress on the definition
new areas of interest, which will coordinate
public programs and development instruments to ensure
assessment and conservation of natural heritage and / or cultural
present and its implementation for tourism.

We will promote the supply and promotion of supply
tourism with cultural elements. In this area

In addition we will promote joint tourism
Latin America, benefiting from synergies and economies
scale aimed at attracting tourists from other regions
planet. Strengthen international marketing to public
Finally, considering the characteristics and interests
international visitors and building technologies
digital that organize trips without intermediaries.

is the development of tourism containing elements
traditional cultural. It is an activity for communities
Local exert a more active role in creating a tourism
attractive and at the same time so that the distribution channels
and travelers interested in knowing through trails and programs
where the more traditional tourist resources and mix
familiar with the new elements of the cultural offer.

69

MINING AND
MEANS
WATER

MINING
Mining definitely has a huge importance in the
national economy and it has been the engine of growth
country in recent years. Mining accounts for 13%
of GDP and today both exports and the contribution to
GDP is 10 times higher than the values ​​of the beginning
last decade. The contributions of copper mining
to state revenues they have also grown together.
Mining leads the development of five regions
northern Chile and constitutes 60% of exports.
Chile is the largest copper producer in the world with 33%
of world production and has 28% of stocks
Global copper. Currently, Chile produces about
5.4 million metric tons of copper per year.

global mining has led to a shortage of
skilled workers. Will focus efforts on
the training of specialized human resources,
with emphasis on mining regions themselves, with the
evidence that the increase in young people entering
to higher education in this area it is still inadequate
to meet demand. Also we establish a
skills certification system for
technicians who are prepared to work in industry,
through a joint initiative between companies,
training institutions and the state.
We support the development of companies providing
supply services for mining, showing
an important dynamism. Providers
mining and reach more than 4,600 companies that give
employs 700 thousand people. Foster a policy
of partnership and collaboration between mining companies
and providers, state and research institutions
to promote mining development. Strengthen
the mining cluster encouraging collaboration between
research institutions to avoid
fragmentation of effort.

Chile also ranks third in the ranking
world in the production of molybdenum, with 13%
world production; It ranks sixth as
silver producer with a share of 5%
worldwide; and it is in the 16th place as producer
gold with a share of 2.1% in production
world. He is also producer of mixed salts,
They include potassium and lithium.
The weight of mining in our economy requires us
to keep as the primary and most efficient
copper producer worldwide. But there are several
factors that have made us lose some of these
advantages, reducing our productivity. We have
suffered a fall in the upper mineral laws
than in the rest of the world, besides
require more labor to produce the same, results
greater consumption of fuel and energy
ton produced.

State institutions in the mining sector
It requires modernization to face development
sector. Strengthen the Ministry of Mining,
especially in human resources and technical staff
qualified.
The challenges of the mining industry, also require
a specialized technical institutions, which
develop and continuously monitor the implementation
public sector policies, conditions
market of copper and other minerals, and to identify
the risks that may affect this market. Before
increased state investment in projects
miners, strengthen Cochilco with higher
powers to fulfill its role fully
safeguard state interests in their companies
mining, through monitoring and evaluation
investments and contracts.

Energy costs have soared in Chile and
They are given in much higher levels than in other countries
miners. For several of the local mining companies
energy accounts for about 20% of their costs,
three times more than the mining sector in Peru and the United
United. Lost mining competitiveness, among others
materials required to have energy at competitive prices.
Greater efforts are also required in technology
and qualified human resources. The momentum

The State, through the National Service of Geology and

72

Michelle Bachelet Government Programme 2014-2018

WATER RESOURCES
Mines (SERNAGEOMIN) fulfills important functions
for the development of mining, for investment,
Volcanic monitoring network, and for the control
mine safety. One task that
advance is completing geological mapping,
which currently only we have covered the fourth
part of the territory. Not having geological information
the whole territory means not to exercise
fully the rights the Constitution gives the
State of the mines. Additionally, we will
institutional strengthening of SERNAGEOMIN
to develop its oversight of security
in the mines.

The establishment of a rights market
water use has contributed to agricultural development.
But it has also brought with it a number of
disadvantages, such as inadequate shelter
environmental heritage, access deficit
of rural water and incentives null
to manage use of a water
common from individual rights, creating
the overexploitation of many aquifers.
The transaction of water rights has been
increase as it becomes more scarce
the resource. Public institutions in this
field is insufficient and ineffective to meet
fundamental roles of planning, policy,
building, policy design, regulation and
control.

In addition, we revalorizaremos the role of Empresa Nacional
Mining (Enami), based on encouraging mobility
social, promote the settlement of the interior of the
northern and therefore decentralization
thereof, delivering work, development and
sustainably contributing to the decline
poverty. To do this, resources will be allocated to
promote the exploitation and processing of all kinds of
minerals in the country. Its current structure
corporate efficiency makes it hard to show their function,
so we establish a corporate governance
modern.

New challenges of water resources
require special attention from the State. In the
first 100 days in office, will name one
Presidential Delegate for Water Resources,
full-time, to identify and
advance solutions to the water shortage in the
country.
We move forward on legislation that would make it possible
Figure existence of water with
social purposes. These applications will have priority and
shall establish restrictions on the exercise of all
Other uses for competitive purposes.

The growing global demand for lithium and high
Prices on the international market granted to Chile
an important opportunity to diversify its
production to the exploitation of this natural resource.
Known reserves of this mineral worldwide
They are mostly in our territory,
in the Salar de Atacama. We will constitute a commission
integrated high-level technical experts, who
propose a national policy to consider lithium
these and other factors for efficient and effective
Exploitation of this mineral, allowing optimum
return to the country.

Also we revise the legislation to redefine
the use of groundwater over-conferred
According to the effective use of rights.
In addition, we will establish the rules
allow the exchange of provisional duties
and any unused portion by that
rights. For low aquifers
Recharge stored but with great volume,
define volumes of water can be
remove in certain periods without generating effects
adverse environmental.

We study and apply new rules for
improving the system of concessions
mining, so that this promotes the exploration and not
it constitutes a potential barrier to entry of
new players.

73

INVESTMENT
PUBLIC AND
CONCESSIONS

PUBLIC INVESTMENT AND CONCESSIONS
install their lives and their hopes. To ensure this priority, within
the first 100 days in office a diagnosis of the state will be held
reconstruction in various areas that have been affected. Function
the diagnosis of an action plan is created. It shall be appointed on the
early days also a presidential delegate for reconstruction,
institutional coordination with powers and resources to carry out
this task.

The infrastructure plays a key role in the development of a
country. Infrastructure available for public use and standards
Quality is crucial to promote growth and improved
competitiveness. At the same time impacts the infrastructure
quality of life of people and is a tool of social inclusion.
In 1990 Chile took a giant step in development
road, port and airport infrastructure, thereby generating
the foundation needed to reduce logistics costs and improve
connectivity in the country and beyond its borders. This has been a pillar
essential for the development of foreign trade, and also
He has allowed Chileans to enjoy more of our
territory, to be able to move more expeditiously and safely.

Project portfolio of concessions. Mode
public works concessions is well established in the case of highways
intercity and urban, with a view that the sector's share
Private generates "value" increasing efficiency in the provision of
transport infrastructure services. In the future these projects
They should continue to make in this mode. The main challenge
faces in the short term is to improve the standard of several awards
they were made some years ago. For example, the various
Santiago hits must be transformed into urban motorways, with
Similar forms of payment to them. The main objective is to avoid
City interference in key logistics hubs and increase
the ability to access the city, especially on weekends
long. The investments of hundreds of millions of dollars required for
You progress in this area, they should preferably be made by
tendered new and / or existing dealers concessions.

To maintain the country's growth and our foreign trade
we need to be able to plan, assess, plan, build,
operate and maintain the investment in the infrastructure sector
high levels of efficiency.
The infrastructure planning, a vision requires strengthening
multimodal, incorporating road, rail, sea transport
and air. Institutional fragmentation is one of the great weaknesses
facing transport. This lack of comprehensive vision reduces
social return on investment and increased logistics costs,
pollution, greenhouse gases and accident among others
problems and impairs the quality of life in cities. However,
Infrastructure solutions in the territory are not independent
environmental dimensions and the interaction activities
economic and productive vocations of the different territories.
Incorporate these dimensions in infrastructure development
It requires the ability to establish land management level
intercity and regions. Therefore, we carry out a process
assessing sector institutions at the levels of design
policy, project evaluation and investment planning in
the transport. This assessment must give way to design
coordination mechanisms and institutional restructuring, which
will implement in the next government.

In Santiago it must complete the integration of highways
incorporating existing Américo Vespucio Oriente. There are other
urban highway projects in Santiago and regional capitals.
All these projects should be evaluated to ensure
multimodal transport proper perspective in the cities,
avoiding bias the modal split in favor of excessive use of
car with the consequences of pollution and congestion.
Each city header region, metropolitan area or conurbation
you must have transportation plans.
In hospitals, prisons, public buildings and irrigation works on
Based on recent experience, will assess whether the mode
concessions is a form of investment that delivers value,
increasing efficiency in the provision of services.

Reconstruction works.

In terms of investment,
first priority is reconstruction. The current government made
efforts in this area. But they remain to be done. We will ensure
especially for solutions to the affected families
conduct and are final. It is about rebuilding lives, that
homeless people feel that is over a period of enormous
vulnerability and have a floor and a roof again

Port development.

We will increase the
transferability of state ports in the region of
Valparaiso in a horizon of 15 years. This involves building
a port on a large scale in the central area. Part of the investment
It will be made by obtaining the private concession
build new terminals, but elsewhere, infrastructure

76

Michelle Bachelet Government Programme 2014-2018

background generated on the subject in the last four years,
evaluate different and hire the basic engineering study
new project and the environmental impact associated, licitándolo
public works concession as to ensure the maintenance and
operation at the highest standard of service and with similar rates to
today ferries are paid.

coat, should be funded directly by the state and recovered
rates later by the operation of ships.
Additionally, the Ministry of Transport established an authority
for each port, which has jurisdiction in operational aspects
Shipowners in the port areas as coordination
public agencies that oversee business (Customs
and SAG). Also, we will audit the contracts
port concessions, in order to monitor compliance with the
terms established in the concession contracts.

Continuation of Camino de la Fruta. Solve

promptly granting the Camino de la Fruta, project
which it was abandoned by the licensee for differences
this administration (MOP) and has faced problems
environmental.

In addition, we will develop protection plans
coastal areas reserved ports, to ensure expansion
of port capacity in the territory and the coastline,
more compatible with other applications and its relation to the territory in which
They are located. This would enable the planning of transport networks
and the consecration of port activity in instruments
territorial planning and intercommunal or community plans.

Maritime connectivity. During the first 3 months

government, we review the real progress that has been made in
maritime infrastructure, ships and services that are
paying under the Plan Austral Connectivity. From
this diagnosis will propose a program of projects
improve maritime connectivity between major centers
villages in the south of Chile in the regions of Los Lagos,
Aysen and Magallanes, providing a quality service.

Protection Plan airport zones.

He
urban growth impacts the activities of the airports themselves.
Deemed necessary to protect the areas adjacent to air bases,
so that airport operations compatible with the other
activities conducted there. To introduce instruments
territorial planning, as regulators and inter plans,
considering urban uses which are compatible with normal
operation and growth of airports.

Irrigation infrastructure.

Advance development
large reservoirs in different regions. Initiate the
construction, among others, of the reservoirs on the river in the Aconcagua
Valparaiso region in the Lluta in the region of Arica and Parinacota and
Punilla in the region of Bio Bio. We will refine the charging system
the beneficiaries, ensuring that water rights are allocated to
farm owners who lack them. Progress will also
desarrolllo in an effective program of support for the implementation by
of private medium and small irrigation works. Finally,
infiltration webs be encouraged, in order to generate real
natural groundwater reservoirs.

Border Crossings. El Paso Los Libertadores, which is the main
connecting Chile with Argentina, an average of 25 days to close
year, generating significant costs and disruption to the normal flow
tourists and cargo between countries. To address this situation,
develop infrastructure to provide greater continuity
of service. Additionally, we improve, among other routes
alternatives such as the Sewage step in Region
Coquimbo and Pehuenche in the Maule Region.

Storm Water. We develop a plan
permanent protection of banks, with special emphasis on areas
urban. In terms of rainwater, it will continue with the program
developed by the MOP, which allows invest in works to address the
deficit and channeling storm water in cities.

Recreational and social infrastructure. Infrastructure

also it contributes to the quality of life, culture and recreation of
citizens. Therefore we continue and deepen programs
intended to equip coastal cities who infrastructure
allows to improve its relationship with the sea, lakes or rivers.

Concessions agency.

Create Agency
Concessions, with legal personality, skills and
powers. This agency will advise the various ministries,
services and implement projects requiring municipalities
through the mechanism of concessions.

Then crossing over the Canal project
Chacao. The first action the Government will review new
77

ENTREPRENEURSHIP
MICRO,
SMALL
MEDIUM
COMPANY

UP TO
MICRO, SMALL AND
MEDIUM
The participation of smaller firms in
total sales has been declining over time. With
thus a significant portion of the population work
(Over 55%) has been diminished their participation
relative to domestic production. A set of
factors help explain this situation: a context
and regulatory policy has tended to favor
larger firms, low coverage
programs to support businesses more
small, lower quality of interventions
these strata, the concentration of some markets
and the difficulties of access to finance.
To reverse this situation will develop a
strong support program improvement
management and productivity of Micro and Small
Enterprise (MSE) as well as measures aimed
to generate them a more enabling environment. For that
will address problems associated with their
limited management capacity and difficulty
access to support services. We will create a network of
Business Development Centers that offer a
diagnosis of the situation of the company and advice
to develop a business plan, services not
They will cost to small businesses and projects
entrepreneurial looking to start a business.
The public procurement system incorporated
Actively smaller companies, the
participation of national productive SMEs
in this market it is limited. To correct this
situation: i) establish a national register
Suppliers, characterizing size, rotation,
dependence, among other features, which will
the basis for a policy of incentives to SMEs
production; ii) Business Development Centers
they will provide technical assistance to smaller companies
size to adequately participate in the system
Public Procurement, and; iii) evaluate mechanisms
that grant preferences to smaller companies
size.

Michelle Bachelet Government Programme 2014-2018

We will promote
reforms
for
favor
he
MSE financing. The current legislation
bank raises capital constraints too
high for emerging niche banks that they can
focus action on smaller companies.
We evaluate measures to facilitate the creation
financial vehicles focusing on the sector and
CORFO will encourage them to channel resources more
significant financial institutions to work
with that segment. Additionally, will the
BancoEstado an effective partner for financial support
smaller companies, enhancing the activity
State Bank Micro towards the segment
of smaller companies. Generate a
information base interest rates charged
MSMEs, information from the SBIF,
which allow weekly news and
comparison that will help both design policies
public and generate more competition in this
segment. Also we advance in a system
secured transactions, supported in a register
computer without the participation of notaries, who
allow these companies to use their mobile assets
(Vehicles, invoices, you account receivable, etc.)
to improve the conditions of time and rate of
credit operations.

Remove
the
different
shapes
from
discrimination affecting the establishment and
operation of cooperatives, which
today bring together more than a million Chilean and
Chileans. Among the discriminatory aspects more
relevant are: the payment of fees for
finance department audit work
from
cooperatives;
he
establishment
from
higher provisions for cooperatives
savings and credit to other institutions
financial; and higher costs and deadlines
constituted compared with other
companies. Establish programs in CORFO
special building for these sectors to
and support the development and strengthening of
cooperatives, fair trade, companies B
solving social and environmental problems
from products and services sold,
community tourism and other forms of
or associations that promote entrepreneurship
social inclusion.
To strengthen and expedite free trade
its development and modernization, through support
public agencies as SERCOTEC. This
Thus, doubling the resources allocated to
Free modernization fund fairs created
in 2008, for the direct benefit of fairs and
fairground throughout the country.

The smaller companies suffer in many
sometimes by unfair competition from large
Firms acting as cartel. We will increase
operating resources of the National Prosecuting Authority
Economic so you can promote research
on possible collusion involving both
consumers and these companies.
Additionally, we will create a specialized unit
in the Secretariat of Economy, whose purpose is
monitoring abuses against companies
smaller and drive through a wide
participatory process, a comprehensive process
review and adjustment of the regulations affecting the
performance of smaller companies.

The measures described must be added the set
incentives for smaller companies,
established in the Tax Reform
particularly, new incentives for
investment, the application of simplified systems
tax and subject to change payment
VAT, when the SME as a supplier
receive installment payments.

81

PROTECTION AND
OPPORTUNITIES

BLESS YOU

BLESS YOU
The reform that recognized access to health
a right and established explicit guarantees
opportunity to care and financial protection
for people, regardless of their
income levels, was a breakthrough. Thanks to
AUGE Plan, which now covers more than 60% load
disease, families may face
chronic or catastrophic illness without the fear of not
gain access to early treatment or their
Financial costs are devastating.

plan represents an effort in public investment
health unprecedented indispensable
raise the diagnostic and response capacity, which
It will include the expansion and strengthening of the
care network at all levels.
This plan includes the construction of 20 new
hospitals, leaving another 20 under construction and advance
both architectural and technical studies
engineering and civil works tender
20. also strengthen other network
Primary Health Care 100 new Centers
Family Health Centers Community 100
132 Family Health and Primary Care Services
Emergency High resolution SAR.

Despite these efforts, there are still important
shortcomings in the public sector that affect care
health of the population. These shortcomings
The deficit figure in medical specialties; the lack
infrastructure, especially in hospitals; the
need for better management and more effective
of primary care, for people
they can solve their health problems near their
homes in less time.

We will promote a series of initiatives to
to expedite the urgent care
complex cases. First, we improve
the SAMU, giving Regulators Centers
Regional infrastructure and technology
tip, coupled with specialized human resources,
for a timely and effective response to or
from the assigned mobile.

To address these needs is necessary to allocate
more public resources to health. Today the resources
earmarked for health equivalent to 8% of GDP, adding
public and private effort. However, in
OECD countries 72% of total health expenditure
corresponds to public spending in Chile this figure is
around 50%. It is imperative greater commitment
State.

We ensure the expansion of 200 beds criticism,
in order to expedite the hospitalization of those
They are waiting in the Emergency Services. I also know
100 sociosanitary available beds, as
how to respond to those who
being given medical discharge, they do not have a network of
support, family or social that we will increase
as the behavior of the demand for
this type of solution.

We make progress in all these areas, allowing
cover priority needs for the sectors
media and vulnerable groups.

Expanding the Public Health Network

We will also improve the availability of
diagnostic and therapeutic resources support
patients such as laboratory tests,
imaging and procedures to resolve
quick attention of the population.

It will be done in the first 100 days of government
launch of the National Investment Plan
Public Health 2014 - 2018 were allocated
$ 4,000 million in public investment
in the period, which means more than double
the actual investment of the past 4 years. Saying

La Posta is the only Central Emergency Hospital
the country and given its importance in the context of the Network
Public assistance will promote the draft

86

Michelle Bachelet Government Programme 2014-2018

of patients to derive only those requiring
secondary care. This is an effective way
to bring health to people. In the first 100
Government be defined days communes and
health centers where the SAR will be enabled.

"Resetting the Posta Central" because our
country needs and deserves a Hospital Emergency
world class.
We develop a plan of maintenance of
Technology Park units and criticism
general services of the main centers
hospitable country. We will implement
a program of acquisition and replacement of
ambulances, replacing all vehicles
in poor condition and will double the current fleet of
so that at the end of 1900 we will have government
ambulances optimum operating condition.
To this total we will add 132 new ambulances
aimed at Primary Care Services
Urgency High Resolution.

Let's address the shortage of doctors in the care
Primary, so that the population has access to
performance and quality and timely care.
Over the next four years we will incorporate 1,000
new primary care physicians. For this,
We deliver economic incentives in order
to improve wages and income for
retain them. Along with this, a program is created
for newly graduated doctors and
deemed to be employed by the Services
Health of the country and destined to work for
compulsory care period of between three
and 6 years in primary care facilities
municipal health, after which they may
apply for scholarships of specialization, with return
in the public system.

Care and Prevention

People need health care
timely and quality in its public schools
communes. The primary focus should be the door
entry to the health system and the first step
in a continuum of care from growing
complexity.

We will focus on disease prevention
noncommunicable chronic, affecting quality
of adult life. Among other measures,
We develop a prevention program
for adults at risk of developing diabetes or
blood pressure, which seek to generate habits
healthy eating, and stress management
physical activity. We will implement a network
professional teams dedicated to keeping
autovalencia and prevent their sedentary, the
depression and isolation empower
their levels of dependence and prostration
older adults. This program will benefit
potentially more than 1,100,000 people,
representing 50% of the adult population
largest in the country.

This involves increasing the per capita expenditure level
communal, allocating resources and incentives for
attract and retain health professionals,
especially doctors, and have the means
technology to make early diagnoses.
This greater financial effort should be directed to
bridge the gap that exists today between the communes
rich and poor.
We will create 132 SAR, Care Services
Emergency Primary High Resolution,
potentially benefiting nearly 10 million
People who are treated in the public system. The
Higher resolution is achieved with the addition of
appropriate technology and provision of medical staff
necessary, with stretchers observation

We develop the plan "More Smiles for Chile"
to expand the coverage of dental care
for
women
from
groups
socioeconomic
vulnerable jobseekers, supporting

87

in their efforts to labor integration and the
strengthening their self-esteem. The goal is to
from the first year of government we double the
Dental with this program high, reaching
400,000 women in the period of government,
with more and better features than the program
current through the recruitment of specialists
endodontists and prosthetists, in order
to fully recover oral health
women.
The "Sowing Smiles" will
It aimed at all children aged 2-5 years is
You mean to 400,000, belonging kindergartens
JUNJI, INTEGRA and municipal schools
and individuals supported the country. Consist
in the application 2 times a year fluoride varnish
preschoolers of 2-4 years delivering pasta
and toothbrushes. Children in pre-kindergarten and
Kindergarten municipal schools will be given
pasta and toothbrush.
We will provide comprehensive dental care to the
4th year young middle school teaching
city
Y
individuals
subsidized,
benefiting each year more than 180,000 young people,
for incorporation into adulthood in excellent
oral hygiene conditions.
Improve access to dental care for
the, now limited to emergencies. adult population The
spontaneous demand will be resolved in Care
Primary extended opening hours and by
program that will see more benefits
necessary. If the patient access to this care
requires prosthetic care and / or root canals,
It may be referred to these specialties.

National Medical Training Plan
Specialists

It is unacceptable that many patients must
postpone their health treatments or suffer
extensive delays in care because
Chile does not have an adequate supply
specialists, deficit becomes critical in

Michelle Bachelet Government Programme 2014-2018

some areas. This lack reduces the chance
in the care and treatment capacity limits
public system.

among other problems presented above. Because,
in the first 100 days in office, to convene
a team of experts with a mandate to draft a
proposed Bill Isapres, which is in
the context of the overall operation of the system
social security in the field of health.

We will develop a National Plan for
training and retention of medical specialties
to support the training of 4,000 new
specialists and encourage the entry of more than
5,000 doctors training programs, together
to articulate a modern development policy
human resources specialist physician. This
will involve a new deal with universities,
which can foster changes and adjustments
in specialty training programs
Reviews and better complement the term of the
Studies with the start of specialization. In the
first 100 days we will make available the
resources necessary for the Health Services
they can hire 33,000 medical weekly hours
Further, equivalent to hiring 750
medical specialists.

A National Drug Policy

Users of Primary Health Care, both
vulnerable groups and media sectors,
are under treatment should not have to
make drug expenses. We hear daily
the legitimate demand of many Chileans
they tell us they do not receive their medication and
They should cover their little income remedies
They need.
For the proper provision of medicines
our population, a national policy is required.
Since the first year of government, we will create a
National Drug Fund, which will benefit
directly to 5 million Chileans who serve
in Primary Health. We begin by ensuring that the
100% of people over age 15 with diabetes,
hypertension, high cholesterol and triglycerides, receive
timely medications. These problems
health are the most expensive to treat and resources
It is used far from the central level and
contributing municipalities are insufficient. In the
first 100 days of government, agreements will be signed
with 345 municipalities in order to constitute
a network of drug delivery that meets the
current problems of access to medicines.

More solidarity to fund Health
end abuses Isapre

Isapres discriminate against people based on risk
who they are sick and cause segregation
the population. This particularly affects women,
elderly, people with health problems and
who belong to low-income households.
In addition, there are mechanisms that regulate
copayments health benefits, making
equal for all and linking them to the entrance of the
families. There are also no effective regulations
adjustments regarding the base price of the raw
health, or on payments associated with the premium for
BOOM benefits. On this last point,
observe the conditions for people
have sufficient information to access
the benefits of the boom in the Isapres.

Echoing the demand for citizenship
to feel safe when a pathology High
complexity, especially from the field of access
high-cost drugs, we generate a Special Fund
of expensive drugs that can respond to
demand for our beneficiaries, under protocols
clinical guidelines developed by expert groups. This
Thus, if the doctors of the respective Healthcare Network
prescribe, under protocol, any of these drugs
It is not covered by public insurance, be resorted to
this fund to finance it.

It is not fair that a person or has
more likely to get sick or increase
health expenses Isapres will charge much more expensive
or simply the private health system ejects,

89

JOB

JOB
The work can not be seen merely as a factor of production,
neither the worker as a mere consumer. Quality work,
decent work, is much more than that: it is a source of dignity
personal; development and stability of Chilean families; from
peace in the community; credibility of public policies and
ultimately private and national governance.

to match the pitch between the social partners, expanding
unionization and collective bargaining. A second group
seeks to increase labor force participation, job quality,
wages (minimum wage and payment of bonuses) and
increase productivity. A third group is intended to
strengthen and improve labor institutions, moving towards
effective enforcement of labor law and policies towards
effectively reach each and every worker.

In this context, we make changes to our
labor institutions. Many aspects have been modified,
but there are still no provisions or deny help
workers their rights. Respect for rights at work
and the dignity of workers, are an integral part of the identity
social and political life of the New Majority.

Collective Bargaining and Strengthening
Union activity

We also understand that persistent inequality is due,
alongside education, the unequal distribution of income and
opportunities in the labor market. At the market
work it is expressed at low rates of labor force participation
in certain groups (especially women and youth)
and in precarious and informal employment, without individual rights
or collective. We have 600,000 young people who neither work nor
They study, and the level of collective bargaining reaches only 12%
of workers.

Reducing inequality is necessary to overcome differences
that they exist in relations between workers and employers.
To increase the income of workers needed
increase productivity, for which this program
considers a wide range of materials and measures,
most notably the educational reform and transformation
system of training and job training. Without
But to increase the income of workers also
You need to increase their bargaining power within the
company.

We must level the playing field between employers and workers.
We must promote the capacity and autonomy of the parties
to negotiate on equal terms while
culture of cooperation and collaboration. We must move on
modernizations that facilitate the reconciliation demands
derived from the dynamism, competitiveness and productivity
dignify labor relations work to strengthen
unionization, collective bargaining and fair distribution
of profits.

We must strengthen the unions and perform a set of
changes to collective bargaining to increase the amount
coverage of workers who may exercise this right.
As a first step we will end as soon as possible with the use
artificiality of multirut or social reasons for employment purposes,
which has resulted in limitations on the exercise of rights
basic labor of workers and unionization
and collective bargaining. We send a signal to the current
project that is in Congress. Despite having LURs
different, be regarded as a company to firms
they have the same driver, the same are provided
similar services or products are made and have an address
common labor.

Strengthen trade union activity and collective bargaining are
materials aimed at addressing inequality in the world
labor. Only in this way can we have labor relations
balanced, agreements between workers and employers
promote the actual development of our country. Al balance
court in the workplace, employers' organizations and
workers may make arrangements to guide policies
public, generating a real social dialogue.

It is necessary to strengthen the union as a subject of negotiation
collective. We will promote collective bargaining with
union ownership. Additionally, they will extend the
benefits, automatically, the worker who joins the
union that negotiated the collective agreement.

Implement policies in various areas, within which
We highlight three of them. A first group of policies are oriented

92

Michelle Bachelet Government Programme 2014-2018

union according to the rules and agreements that Chile has
ratified in labor matters.

To promote and strengthen the negotiation process
collectively we must first inform workers and
workers what their rights and duties. For this
why we implement actions of civic education
on the exercise of individual and collective rights
the workplace, as well as the duties, including that of
require a formal contract.

Another of the subjects discussed in the negotiation process
collective is related to the benefits obtained
previous negotiations. We will move to regulate
that, considering the economic situation of the company,
the negotiations are the basis of the conditions
previous collective bargaining.

Additionally, to have a collective bargaining
more technical and informed is necessary to establish rules
that allows the union have information
timely information on the financial situation of the company,
including information on the Income Statement
and balance sheet, the employer must deliver
compulsory.

We can strengthen the unions if not
we are able to make them more attractive. More participation
in unions should be synonymous with better conditions
for workers and higher productivity.
We will modernize our labor law to allow
extension of the matters that may be agreed in a
collective bargaining with the employer, where this is for
agreement of the parties, taking the safeguards to ensure
the representativeness of trade unions.

We also understand that to encourage negotiation
we must promote collective organizations
working women and promoting the program
union training that exists in the Ministry of Labour.
Establish mechanisms of union promotion
permanent public funding and competitive funding,
that allow organizations and union leaders have
access to development funds and union management. It should
put special emphasis on female unionization,
novice or young trade unionists, as well as in
outreach programs union organizations
civil society.

Additionally, we will move into a new legal framework
containing the Status of Temporary and agricultural activity
Season, to enshrine the protection of workers
and rural workers.
Regarding the protection of freedom of association must
encourage and facilitate the activities of these organizations,
for which one of the areas to be studied is that permissions
union should be extended and by the company,
in particular those used for education and work
union training and other activities of the work
association.

The current Labour Code establishes a process
cumbersome and complex collective bargaining, which does not favor
or it facilitates agreement between the parties. Modify
these regulations to introduce improvements and
simplifications to regulated collective bargaining process,
capacity and granting autonomy to the parties during the
negotiation process.

We must be aware that although we
implemented the above measures, yet there will be a
large group of workers, in particular the least
Qualified working in more precarious companies,
they will not agree to negotiations on equal terms.
Therefore labor income, wage policies more pro
employment must converge to an amount that can overcome
poverty. We will promote organizational consultations
national employers and workers, together with the
creation of a tripartite technical body and character
also composed of specialists, who advise the Government

2000, entered into force on ILO Convention No. 87
Freedom of Association and Protection of the Right to
Unionization, ratified by Congress. The country
has been notified on several occasions both
ILO (2008 and 2012) and UN (2004)
As for the labor standard replacements during the
strike constitute a breach of this agreement and
freedom of association. We advance in respect to freedom

93

on the adjustment of the minimum wage. This committee shall submit
a public report analyzing the labor market. During
the transition, within the range of expected growth,
reset the minimum income should reach $ 250,000 to mid-
the next presidential term.
Regarding the working conditions of home workers
particular, it is a particularly vulnerable group and low
income advance in the ratification of the commitments
International decent work for workers and
and domestic workers and give value and dignity of the
important role these people in our
society.
To achieve the full realization of the proposed measures,
institutions must strengthen monitoring and control
enforcement of labor legislation and the protection of rights
individual and collective rights of workers and employers.
We will promote institutional redesign and modernization
the Labour Directorate, giving it greater powers,
improve their technical capabilities and identifying features
key in its internal organization, promoting specialization
on gender issues. In addition, we establish a
System Certification Good Labor Practices
consider incentives, awards, distinctions assistance
compliance, among other promotional mechanisms,
to be established on the basis of an objective and consensual model
where levels of quality of work and practices are evaluated
business.
In addition, we must move towards a culture that prevents, controls
and reduce occupational hazards, implementing a National Policy
Health and Safety at Work actively incorporated into the
and modernizes the institutional actors.

Promotion of Labor Participation

We must increase the number of Chilean employed. Only 5 October
Chile has a job, this number drops to 3 of every 10 women
60% of the poorest households. We want to reach levels
developed countries where 6 in 10 women are employed.
These jobs must be formal, with all its benefits, and
with fair wages that do not show a gap between men and
women.

Michelle Bachelet Government Programme 2014-2018

To increase female employment in formal jobs
coverage will raise female employment subsidy coming
60% of low-income households. This will involve increasing
substantially beneficiary. Today the universe of potential
women can benefit who are working as self-employed
and the 40% underdog are about 350 thousand, 60%
We would spend about 550 thousand.

and guidance, diagnosis of employability, job readiness,
certification of job skills and training.
In addition,
are
will develop
programs
from
specialized training for those segments of the population
with particular difficulties in accessing employment. One of the
foci priority will be the 15- to 19 who do not study
nor work, together with those who drop out of secondary education
in the coming years mostly they belong to the first
two quintiles of income. The youth training program
will seek to deliver training and labor practices 150,000
youth in the period 2014-2018, along with remedial education and
Linking higher education.

In our country the burden of caring for children whose parents
work lies only in women. To avoid this discrimination
Negative remove Article 203 of the Labour Code
imposes have a nursery in companies with 20 or more women.
To cover the costs of the nurseries, we will create a fund
solidarity - constituted by contributions from workers, employers and
of the state to finance a universal child care system
and early learning for all children of workers
and workers. Thus, we will remove the higher cost of
today weighing on hiring women for this item and
ensure equal welfare for all children.

Women will also be a priority for policy group
training. We will develop a program for women
they are not embedded in the labor market, who are
will provide support and resources to opt for training
you enable them to enter the labor market or actions
microenterprise support. This effort will benefit
300,000 women in the period from 2014 to 2018, of which 40,000
They will be trained to develop their own projects
production.

The state can not be left behind in order to increase
female labor force participation, this will incorporate actions
feminine affirmative hiring policies within
Selection of Public Management System. Greater equity
in the public sector it is expected to induce the private sector in the
same direction.

To face the challenges set of programs and is described
It required to implement a significant modernization process
and strengthening the SENCE. Will separate functions
control, management and the resources allocated to
job training. Incorporate social actors
in the formulation and evaluation of training policies,
strengthening the system of accreditation of centers
opt for public resources to provide training services.
Additionally, we eliminate programs that do not show
Impact on employability, wages and have
targeting problems, and will redirect its resources towards
workers with greater difficulties in finding work.

Development Training and Insurance
Severance

The current training system, about the regressive
resource allocation and inefficient in achieving its objectives,
faces a crisis that makes clear the need for reform.
It is not reasonable that thanks to a special tax exemption,
companies finance the training of their workers, while
those who are unemployed, or facing restructuring processes
seeking work for the first time do not have that same opportunity.

We will promote a set of improvements to Insurance
Severance. We evaluate adjustments in the financing scheme
insurance by creating incentives for employers
have lower levels of labor turnover of workers.
We will strengthen the role of counter-cyclical insurance (providing greater
protection for unemployed workers, especially when
It becomes more difficult to find employment). Also, study the
increased use of joint insurance component, favoring
thus, in particular, middle-class workers. We will
a significant effort to disseminate the benefits of insurance.

We know that getting a job is not easy, often only
achieved through a "contact". Chile needs a new system
intermediation and job training, to support all
those with problems of integration into the labor market
in improving their employability, with
particular focus on those with a situation of greater
vulnerability. The new system will integrate information services

95

PENSIONS

PENSIONS
Within the pension system, thanks to the
Pension Reform of 2008, 450,000 men today
and 750,000 women are beneficiaries of the system
Solidarity pensions. In total about 1,200,000
people have accessed this system returned
the State of its role as guarantor of social security,
giving each and every age security
without fear of being helpless against disability.
If the contributory pension, benefits are added
the solidarity pension system, is increased
substantively called replacement rate,
in particular, the beneficiaries belonging to the
first income quintile.
Also, pension coverage is increased
vulnerable groups such as youth, women and
freelancers, and they implemented
Numerous improvements to the system
Capitalization to enhance their competence,
reduce costs and strengthen the Pension Savings
Volunteer.
However, we have significant challenges. Exists
a significant dissatisfaction with the quality
pensions, because after years of effort
in the labor market, workers see as the
level of pension they receive is not consistent with
their expectations, ie, very low amount of their
pension.
Give a satisfactory solution to these issues requires
rigorous, responsible citizens analysis
and deepen their diagnosis. Additionally,
credibility of the system of individual capitalization
It is lessened by the existence of extranormal profits AFPs.
Another matter corresponds to the high rates of evasion
and avoidance of contributions from employees, the
which vary by industry, geographic region,
Affiliate gender and occupation.
There is broad consensus that it is necessary in Chile
revise the pension system. Therefore in the first

Michelle Bachelet Government Programme 2014-2018

100 days of government, will arrange a study on
the pension system to a team of experts
national and international, to propose
alternative solution to these problems.

opening a debate on what is the feasible goal
and reasonable to the Chilean pension system,
serving, among other matters, the reality of the
countries with our level of development; iii) study
introduction of information technology for public use
reduce transit costs affiliates
when they choose to change their AFPs, and; iv) promotion
at different levels of citizen participation,
strengthening education and information on
the rights and duties of social security, and
particularly on security matters.

Without limiting the foregoing, to the Process
Solidarity pension advance in the following
measures: i) the accounts of members who have not reached
levels of savings to self-finance a pension without
solidarity and support must be administered on a background
low risk; ii) associate the solidarity pillar
Comprehensive programs Protection of the Elderly,
including protection and active aging, as
measures aimed at generating securities in
income seniors; iii) once granted
Basic Solidarity Pension (PBS) this will be an old age
benefit that is not subject to cyclical changes
the socioeconomic situation of the pensioner; iv) the
disability pensioners with PBS automatically
pass count on PBS age from 65
years; v) extending the death allowance
all the seniors with PBS and
APS beneficiaries zero balance in your account
individually in full.

It will also continue to improve coverage
(Membership contribution) and savings in the system
contributory. The Pension Reform of 2008 generated
compulsory contributions for workers
independent paid by the payment of
fees. Unfortunately, in recent years not
he made good progress in this area, especially,
with regard to the pension education of this group
workers. Therefore, we review the gradual
incorporation of independent workers
and instruments that take collection
account the precariousness of their income.

Additionally, once approved reform
The tax which will provide new resources
permanent equivalent to 3% of GDP in regime,
It will advance in parametric changes that increase
the benefits and coverage of the Pension System
Solidarity.

Strengthen the labor department on
control of the payment of social security contributions,
improving interagency coordination of this
task, involving different departments
units, expanding the monitoring goals and
reviewing the system of fines and strengthening
specialized in collecting pension justice

Regarding the operation of the system
Individual Capitalization: i) in the first 100 days
Government will send to Congress a bill that
AFP creates a state that allows greater competition
Price, the preferential treatment of groups
population of less interest to the existing AFP,
as freelancers, child
rents and those working in remote areas of the
large urban centers; ii) strengthen the Fund
of Pension Education for outreach and education
on replacement rates potentially
System gain different population groups,

Strengthen mechanisms pension savings
Volunteer to generate wider coverage
middle and lower income class.
In addition, resources will be increased
the pension education, essential to give
citizens know their rights and duties
material savings and old age pensions, and the
understanding of the institutions that deal with a
rapidly aging society.

99

SECURITY
CITIZEN

CITIZEN SECURITY
In any democratic society it is necessary to have an environment
sure, I understood as collective respect among citizens
their coexistence.

Gender Violence

Safety is one of the main requirements demanded
the population, as it directly affects their quality of life.
These needs are different to the extent corresponding
local dynamics and therefore require territorial responses
decentralized and adapted to each of the particularities of
the specific environments in which they occur. We must ask
further reforms that allow us to catch up with countries
developed in crime reduction.

Doubling the number of the shelters to protect
victims of severe violence and their children (as), reaching 48 in all
the country and will increase the Centers for Women in communes with
higher rates of violence.
The program will strengthen immediate attention of the Ministry
Public for victims of domestic violence involving contact
the victim within 24 hours and protection measures within the
48 hours maximum, and thus cover 100% of cases
reports of domestic violence.

The experience we have gained as a country, shows that the
Prevention is much more efficient in the fight against crime
deterrence by punishment or other similar mechanisms.

We will create 150 stations within the country called
family rooms, which will be attended by officials called the
service, so as not to affect the diversion of active police personnel
for the care of cases of domestic violence and issues
children and adolescents as 24 hours program.

Prevention

We will train police, judiciary and the health sector in the
awareness of the problem of gender violence
improve the efficiency, effectiveness and host families.

Government will develop a Plan for the period 2014- 2018
called "Security for All". We will review the framework
existing institutional which will facilitate the municipal role in
citizen security and cooperation with the police and the
justice.

We develop a national training program for instructors
-dirigentas social- community in matters of violence
gender. We will include the issue of gender violence and the resolution
non-violent conflict, in texts and education programs pre
Basic and school curriculum in careers education, and
School police and police training.

We create in the Secretariat for Crime Prevention Unit
Technical support to municipalities. We will promote the program "Together
safer "to support vulnerable communities and critical neighborhoods. East
program should be implemented jointly by police, government
central municipality and communal tables for citizen participation.

Drug

24 Hours extend the program to 25 communities in the country to give
rise to about 50% of the income of children and adolescents
to police units, on grounds of infringement and violation. In the
first 100 days of Government will announce the 11 new communes
which will add 24 hours to the program.

Regarding the consumption, we will add to campaigns
prevention of drug abuse and alcohol, those
oriented abuse of psychotropic drugs, to handle
clearly the risks of using unsupervised by a doctor.
We will increase the coverage of selective prevention in school
1,000 properties in primary and secondary education under the program
called "Liceo Drug Free".

Strengthen the mental health care through the centers
Community mental health (COSAM) creating equipment specially
for these purposes, in the most vulnerable communities in the country,
together with the Ministry of Health.

102

Michelle Bachelet Government Programme 2014-2018

strengthen the operational capacities of prosecutors and police in the fight
against drug trafficking; increase the use of financial intelligence
on issues of money laundering and international cooperation.
Dotaremos appropriate institutional support for Courts
Drug Treatment and extend its expertise to various
cases.

We will create the National Program for Second Chance Schools
exists to accommodate the needs of children and adolescents who have
dropped out of school in these most vulnerable communes
country, which enable a full reintegration to the traditional system.
We review the law 20,000, giving knowledge of faults
considered in this standard, not criminal justice, but the
Local Police Courts. Deliver to the regulatory authority
execution, the determination of the levels or amount of drug
It must be regarded as constituting micro traffic and consequently
one that is allowed to carry a person for consumption
immediate staff in time. We will review the Regulation
considers marijuana in Schedule 1) among the most dangerous drugs.

Prosecution

Review and improve the legal accountability mechanisms
public accounts under the respective organic laws both
administrative, budgetary and substantive management of the Ministry
Public and the police.

Regarding Prevention, will increase coverage

Selective prevention in 1,000 school education establishments
primary and secondary under the program called "Free Association
Drug ", with a coverage of 15,000 children and adolescents high
risk, including his family if he could.

We promote the creation of a National Commission on Policy
Criminal and Criminal Prosecution called by the prosecution,
and also integrating the police, gendarmerie and Ministries
Justice and Home Affairs, to support the development of a policy
prosecution of bi-annual basis.

We focus prevention in high social breach (communes
vulnerable and critical areas); that is, in those with high
probability of drug use. This is preventive programs
selective in these populations (5,000 quotas, which do not exist today).

The Public Ministry is facing a delicate situation
institutional prevents develop their full potential in
prosecution of crimes, therefore the workload facing
as new challenges arising from more complex forms
and sophisticated crime facing our country. Dotaremos
the Public Prosecutor of the resources needed to strengthen
prosecution of complex crimes, especially those affecting
to large groups of people linked to organized crime and
damaging the stability and credibility of the economic system.
Improve the handling of mass causes less complex
(Low and medium), by installing a regional level
Analysis Delictual units. Strengthen internal controls
on the quality of research, standardization of criteria
and procedures; and compliance with the general policies
criminal prosecution.

Regarding the treatment,

doubling coverage
drug treatment, outpatient and residential, for population
adult male and female over 20 years old. Will triple the
treatment coverage of male and female adult population
more than 20 years with early detection program consumer
risk and problematic and brief intervention. We will strengthen
treatments for adolescents under 20 years, which RISE
It does not cover (complex cases).
In addition, we will improve the management of programs for
adolescents under 20 years with problematic consumption
drugs and alcohol. We will focus and expand the range and coverage
for women, for which it is proposed to increase coverage
those who have children under age 5 and they can stay
with them during treatment.

Additionally, we will review the Organic Law of Public Prosecutions and
We send a bill to Congress aimed at flexible
its design, in order to allow more efficient operation of
the institution for prosecuting crimes, coordination
interagency and organizational structure. Strengthen the
processes of training of prosecutors and agency officials.

It also will promote a national plan against drug trafficking
incorporates strengthening border surveillance, customs, in
ports; joint work of specialization of prosecutors and police;

103

The Public Ministry personifies the state interest, and therefore
public, official persecution of the facts constituting
crime, which is of the greatest importance in the case
criminal phenomena characterized by the involvement
mass (crime of "white collar"). It is also
more traditional crime phenomena is essential
the exercise of criminal action be filed on a
organ that embodies the public interest. Therefore, we strengthen
the ability of the agencies involved in criminal proceedings (Ministry
Public, and police) to give prompt attention, so try
dignified, deliver quality information and protect victims.
Additionally, we will create a decentralized public service
-radicado Victim Support at the Ministry of Interior and Security
Publicly assume control of Care Centers
Victims, and lead Network for Victims. We will increase
state program offering health care network for victims,
respect of medical, counseling and support to victims
violent crime and other types of generating consequences
serious.
Since the beginning of the new criminal procedure system, a bottleneck
for its operation has been the ability of agencies
Auxiliary (Medical Legal Service, Institute of Public Health,
Police laboratories, etc.). We will modernize and
strengthening support services which are designed to
produce scientific evidence for the system.

Police

Today it requires police strategies
diversified,
specialized and targeted, adapted to local needs,
where local and situational look should be the axis of
job. We send to Congress within the first 100 days
Government's bill to increase the amount to 6,000
new police at the rate of 1,500 per year, and increase
called called into service. We will increase the strength of the
Police Investigations 1,200 new officers.
We will increase the decentralization of policing
the territory, creating a police coordination protocol -
municipality. We achieve greater retention of Commissioners
in their positions so that they can perform a job more effective and
long term.

Michelle Bachelet Government Programme 2014-2018

Adolescent Criminal Justice

Police task forces will promote mainly doomed
the disruption of trafficking networks, and presence of weapons
in critical and vulnerable neighborhoods. Refund
the organized community outreach promoting the Plan
Quadrant 2.0, which implies not only a logistical strengthening
Current plans in execution (150 municipalities), but a process
reengineering to ensure demonstrable and lasting results,
giving greater protection to broad sectors of the population,
particularly pertaining to media and vulnerable.

We define a National Policy on Adolescent Social Reinsertion
and create the First Statistical Indicator System and System Dei
Teen criminal. From the division of the current National Service
(SENAME), we will create the National Rehabilitation Service
Adolescent Social, and highly specialized public entity
qualified to assume direct responsibility, in coordination with the
other state agencies, through the process of social reintegration of each
young offenders. Regarding the other function of SENAME, protection
of irregular minors, it shall be based on the Service
National Child Protection under the Ministry of
Social development.

We will review and strengthen training programs
and police training programs and specialization
continuous training of both police forces. Reinforce
Departments or Units of Criminal Analysis, in
Commissioners and the Criminal Investigation Brigade, with
civil and professional.

Especializaremos all organs of the juvenile criminal justice
(Police, judges, prosecutors and defense), through training and
vocational training, the creation by law career incentives for
exclusive or preferential dedication, and the orientation of targets and indicators
to favoring the process of reintegration and respect for
rights and guarantees of adolescents.

Penitentiary System

A comprehensive prison policy should be promoted, whose axis is
rehabilitation and social reintegration. We will create a Commission
Biministerial (composed of Ministry of Interior and Security
Public and Justice) so as to assess performance of
operated prisons. We advance in the construction of new
prisons, in order to decrease the percentage
overcrowding which currently stands at 38% (19,000 seats
missing).

We will review the model of care and supply of proprietary centers
freedom of adolescents, enhancing their impact on social reintegration.
We will reform the alternative penalties to prison and measures
alternatives to the process, ensuring effective compliance and suitability.

Management and Information

We establish the public nature of provisioning
reintegration and rehabilitation programs in prisons, either
it is an establishment of direct administration
(Public) or concession. We will increase the program offer
including reintegration traditional areas (education,
labor, physical and mental) health, and specific programs (behaviors
violence, addictions, groups, gangs, etc.).

The Undersecretary of Crime Prevention will generate a system
evaluation and audits. Expert advice will also create
independent and representative of all sectors to guide the
Unit operate.

We will improve the amount and proportion of technicians and professionals
who they work directly with prisoners.

National Bank will develop a Project on
prevention and control of violence and crime. WILL
launched the unified system of safety indicators.

Implement a national system
classification and
segmentation of the prison population. We will promote
a national program of professionalization and training
Gendarmerie personnel, to incorporate diversity and materials
no discrimination.

We create cross security and coexistence indicators in
public policy, for example, in terms of design of public spaces and
living place. Develop surveys of "violence and coexistence" to
register other criminal realities beyond the crime of opportunity
most common (primarily property crimes).

105

JUSTICE

JUSTICE
In a democratic state of law system
justice has as one of its missions
Fundamental constitute a guarantee mechanism
and protection from abusive situations and injustices
which it may be faced with much of the public.
At present our country this involves two
fundamental concerns: the first is to
ensure the independence of judges; the second, consisting
to ensure genuine access to administration
justice, which today are, in fact, private
important social sectors.
During the first twenty years of democratic governments,
Chile developed a vigorous process of judicial reform,
which had an impact primarily on the areas of criminal procedure, labor
and family. However, the judicial system and multiple
services related to the justice sector can do more
effort to care for vulnerable groups and
of the middle class. Unfortunately, for most
of the population, services and means of defense
Rights provides that the judicial system is perceived
still distant, leaving many without the possibility
to exercise, a situation that hinders social cohesion
our country needs, and that stimulates the atmosphere of detachment
of the population to the institutions, a scenario that is
our obligation reverse.
All this encourages us to redefine a new and consistent
Agenda changes in the field of justice that
constitute a guide for the coming years, on the basis
a big goal: a real access to justice for all.
In this context, we will promote a new system of
Legal assistance to Chile. The aim of a new
legal aid system should be to ensure services
preventive legal, advisory and legal affairs
representation in court, for people who can not
finance all or part of a quality equivalent
to which people may seek to have the
resources for it.
We will work together with the judiciary in the
development of quality justice as a political
State of gradual development, evaluating improvements
introducing in the areas of the judicial system that have already been

Michelle Bachelet Government Programme 2014-2018

every marriage a common and effective responsibility
the family debts; and, modifying the setting of the
economic compensation.

being renovated and continuing with those who demand
Chile today. In this regard, we will promote the discución in
about the judicial government, with broad participation of
this power. Also on a judicial career aligned with
new incentives, so that responds to diversity and
complexity of the changes that Chile demand access
justice, transparency, accountability and fairness.

Within the scope of the protection of families and disposal
of discrimination Pursue legal regulation
allow, without discrimination, to protect patrimonial
cohabitants who do not opt ​​for marriage or otherwise
civil regulation, particularly at least favored in terms
pension asset or, in case of rupture or death.

We will continue on with the reform process to Justice
Civil, with a medium-term, promoting a
reordering of competences both locally and
judges of letters; promoting a review of the system
implementation, particularly in sensitive areas such as
recovery of maintenance payments and pension contributions
You unpaid; promoting the review and implementation of the system;
reviewing the proposed bill for the new Code
Civil Procedure. As a result of a new map of the
powers of the Civil Justice must take care of
design of a new judiciary, prioritizing the creation of
a new local justice truly independent of
communal governments.

The Life Settlement Couples (AVP), proposed by the current
government is insufficient and does not constitute a mechanism
"comprehensive" solution to the problems of the joints
heterosexuals and homosexuals. Therefore, for couples
They do not opt ​​for marriage Pursue regulation
Alternatively, according rights and comprehensive protection
cohabitants in personal mutual relations and
heritage. Notwithstanding this, as we establish in
Chapter of equality and nondiscrimination, convene a
open discussion with broad participation for the development and
then sending a bill of equal marriage.

In another area, we will take care of implementing reform
System of Notaries, Real Estate and Conservatives
Archivists, whose institutions are anachronistic, and is organized
as a source of excessive personal gain, not allocated in
reason of merit, which also provides services often
inefficient and expensive for citizens. We must
truly organize them as a public service
persons subject to standards of transparency and quality,
that safeguard the public trust in an efficient, accessible and
responsible.

Another area that deserves attention relates to prevention and
punish any abuse and violence in family relationships.
Within it, we will seek punish directly
failure of protective measures in case of
domestic violence and the crime of habitual abuse
be properly judged, and support training
judicial and police officials in human rights
women, as well as the generation of protocols interview
avoid undue repetition of the violence.
In the field of criminal law, we will promote a review
integral of the current penal legislation, without prejudice to which
We will take care of urgent reforms, especially in
the field of economic crime, compared to the premise
overcome the paradigm of law anchored in a vision
stereotyped class and crime. The penal sanction
Collusion is a clear example in that line.

Particular attention deserves our review of the rules
relating to the protection of people at
vulnerability or discrimination. In this regard, an area
priority is the promotion of the right of every child
and child to grow up in a family home that protects
properly secure their rights and their welfare, and only
temporarily under state protection, driving
a thorough reform on adoption, rationalizing
stages and deadlines. Another important initiative is to eliminate
discrimination against women, replacing society
a community of marital property, founded on equality
and the protection of family assets; enshrining in

Finally, within the agenda for the next Justice
years, we consider human rights issues,
promoting the creation of the Undersecretary of Rights
Human Rights and the Ombudsman or Ombudsman.

109

Decentralization,
LAND AND
DEVELOPING

DECENTRALIZATION

DECENTRALIZATION
A
from
the
higher
inequalities
than
face in the country is territorial in nature.
There are too many decisions on issues
important for the development of regions
They are taken in Santiago. They are also too
different opportunities facing
people depending on where they are born
and reside. We must involve all
citizens alike, both
construction as to the benefits of development,
regardless of where they live. This
It requires effective decentralization. We need
the contributions of the regions in the country. We need
close the huge disparities in wealth and
opportunities between regions and municipalities in Chile.
If we do not achieve development
inclusive.

regions of Chile and we will do so: more
decentralization;
higher
competitions
regional financial management; more
investment resources, and with a strong emphasis on
human resources and encouraging the talents
in the regions.

Institutions: Representation and
Management Regional Governments

Politically, our belief is that
each region must elect the authorities that
better represent the wishes, dreams and projects
of the community. If mayors are elected today,
Regional Councillors and MPs, that
mechanism should be extended to the highest authority
regional, today the mayor or intendant.
Our commitment is to provide the government
Regional political and administrative autonomy
especially in matters related to the
development and competitiveness of the territory.

In the past decade Chile has developed a policy
building productive chains or clusters
based on five sectors (aquaculture, mining,
food sector, global services and tourism
national interests). All of them have
comparative advantages and good prospects
growth. We need to revisit this way,
promote more competition and diversity
productive. Therefore we must restore and
boosting cluster policy based on a
strong cooperation and dialogue between the field
public and private. These clusters should be
defined in terms of the productive vocation
of each region. Foster a Agenda
Decentralization with schedule
coherent, integrated and feasible initiatives,
without altering the political and administrative organization of the country, transfer to the regions
higher degrees of power. This is advance
an effective decentralization that includes
political representation, development plans and
investments, strengthening human capital
and greater support for the end zones and
territories with special statutes.

In the first 100 days of Government create
one Presidential Advisory Commission for the
Regional Development to propose a timetable
handover of powers and skills and
specific content of the activities to be
transferred, financing matters,
the gradual implementation and
precise identification of regulatory changes
that will be required from the measures described.
The Commission shall be composed of a group
expert on decentralization
and territorial development representative
political sensitivities, it receives
hearing to all entities of society
civil, academic, professional, international and
Experts wishing to submit proposals on
these materials.
Regional economic development will
mechanisms, functions and resources

We will enhance economic opportunities

114

Michelle Bachelet Government Programme 2014-2018

deployed, seeking effective cooperation
private public to strengthen competitiveness
the territory and the social and economic inclusion of
their habitants. Therefore, a central focus of the process
It will be on the transfer of powers
terms of productive development and innovation,
which it should be accompanied by resources
its strengthening. At the regional level will be created
Technology Investment Programs, with the
involvement of regional universities
exceeding the segmentation of the public offering
and consistent with existing recovery
cluster policy. Regional institutions
in this area it will be a reflection of the national,
for which we will create the Regional Councils
Innovation and Competitiveness, heirs of the
Regional development agencies. From
Together, the committees will be strengthened
Innovation in the regions. Additionally, for
It is relevant regions of the existence
Business Development Centers that offer
training activities and strengthening
the management of smaller companies
size.

public support, through investments and spending
current, the realization of a vision
integrated and long-term territorial development.
To follow the strengthening
decentralization and regional development
the regional government spending will increase and
generate regional budget information
including a regional breakdown of
ministerial budgets in those
assignments are effectively this
character. Thus, the regions and the country
They know exactly the resources that they will
count, and citizens may require
their regional governments if these funds are not
used efficiently. Additionally, it is
Regional government must transfer to those
goods necessary for operation.
In terms of investment, in all regions
the country will create incentive mechanisms
for
to
to stimulate
the
concretion
from
associativism related investments
regional or community, in order to encourage this
practice in matters of common interest. In addition,
create a Regional Convergence Fund
to reduce gaps and support the development of
territories lag behind in development
socioeconomic. At the same time, improve
the criteria of composition and allocation
National Fund for Regional Development (FNDR)
and will diminish provisions for transfer
these resources to the investment budget. He
FNDR background of the development strategy
regional with a strategic sense and future.

To support this process, the Secretariat for
Regional Development (SUBDERE) will
special mandate. Establish in SUBDERE
specialized decentralization drive,
to promote, coordinate and evaluate the process
decentralization and transfer of powers and
powers to regions and the transfer of
Utilities, process will be gradual and
groups regions. This will be developed through
and strengthening the delivery of powers
Current SUBDERE. At the same time, it will be established
an agency to coordinate and support
planning and government decisions
regional, including monitoring plans
multiannual regional economic development,
social and productive generated in accordance with
ministries involved. The
regional plans become binding
and will constitute the framework under which resources

They must make policy changes
necessary to establish the conditions
to allow regional governments
have close relations of cooperation
with the municipalities of the Region
compliance with common objectives or
complementary, including budgets
investment. The participation of Municipalities

115

In developing Strategies
Regional Development (EDR) and the Regional Plan
Territorial Planning (PROT) should be
mandatory, and also the advice of the GORE
In preparing Development Plans
Community (Pladecos) to ensure consistency
local and regional investment.
Additionally, we will make changes
aimed at improving mechanisms
participation, transparency and citizen oversight
regional. At the same time, we will have a
appropriate incentives, transparency and
accountability to provide legal certainty
to public servants in the regions and the level
Central State responsible for discipline
prosecutor.
The Ministry of Interior (SUBDERE)
and regional governments establish the
mechanisms
from
query,
planning
Y
accountability to the community and
the transparency rules of the regional management.
Moreover, it is essential that each
region has a system of statistics
behavior can be registered in all
areas of government intervention
Regional and enable the establishment of lines
basic information for the design, monitoring
and evaluation of policies and programs, and to
establish
the
indicators
than
allow
objectivity accountabilities.

Human Resources

Create incentives to attract and retain
people
qualified,
as
also
for

Michelle Bachelet Government Programme 2014-2018

encourage migration to regions from Santiago
and even from abroad, both in the field
work as an academic. In the same line,
extend the Senior Public Management System
regional offices, with the consequent attractive
remuneration.

teaching and extension work with plans
productive, social and cultural development
regions and serve the purposes
citizenship and regional government have defined.
To do this, through the Education Reform,
Basal incorporate the mechanism of Funds
for public universities in terms of
promoting the production of public goods
macro regional and regional areas.

Regional universities should be best
members of the Regional Government to boost
development of the territory. Education Reform
promote an offer exists in each region
higher education and vocational technical education
quality. Generate incentives and opportunities
for young people in those regions that come to
study abroad, return to work at their places
home, just as we seek out those
postgraduates studying abroad their return to
Chile to work.

Extreme Areas and Territories
special statutes

Chileans living in territories
apart they are entitled to have standards
similar to the rest of the population lives, for
which it is necessary to address the differences in the
cost of living, difficulties in connectivity, the
access to education and health services, including
other factors.

As
are
he said,
create
gift
news
Regional State Public universities in the
Aysén and O'Higgins regions. Additionally,
create public Technical Training Centers
in each region, linked to a public university.

Therefore, in the first 100 days in office
We present the Special Development Plan
Extreme areas for the regions of Magallanes,
Aysen and Metro Manila, which will give them a boost
strong growth and development. In addition,
There are areas of the country which are lagging behind
regarding the development of rest and require
support to emerge. An example of these cases is
Arauco area. For that, we will present a
Territory Development Plan Laggards,
requiring momentum on poverty,
unemployment, public infrastructure, connectivity
and productive capacities in those areas.

incentives will be installed through the Reformation
Education, for regional universities
have an excellent academic cast
and will establish and support processes
minimum guarantee accreditation by careers
regional public universities, in such a way
that the State guarantees the generation of capital
human development of the regions.
We foster a new relationship between
public universities and regional governments
to ensure that research policies,

117

CITY,
HOUSING AND
TERRITORY

CITY HOUSING AND LAND
Our cities are built expression
our inequalities. Living in
place or another in our cities, very open
different opportunities. If we assume that the
good city is a right of all, we can not
continue building it with the same differences
revenue there. The State must order
access to urban goods for everyone.

initiatives, prioritization of 30 communes
intervention throughout the country, which
It represents a significant contribution to the quality of
lives of families. In the first 100 days
Government announce these 30 municipalities. In this
challenge reactivating the program advance
urban parks and modifying normatively
for ease of administration, both at the stage
Construction and maintenance of new
parks.

Cities must be equitable and fair. Do not
matter in the neighborhood where someone lives, all
people, in all neighborhoods, streets should be
in good condition, decent housing, transportation
right audience, bicycle paths and pedestrian spaces,
squares and parks.

Develop a Program Improvement
Squares, under the Plan "Chile Area
Green "that can generate a high standard of
Material quality of these spaces, on:
playgrounds, furniture, landscaping,
lighting bars
protection, among others
aspects.

Cities should be integrated socially.
There are areas of our cities that are
witness remarkable progress and seem
neighborhoods developed countries. We want to
this attractive and sometimes dazzling progress,
enjoy all our country and not a few.

Chile will implement the Affordable Plan
which will consist of interventions in centers
civic really enable people
handicapped navigate and access these
spaces, incorporating improved recesses, guides
advance insurance, clearing sidewalks and improvements
crosses. Refund civic centers
vulnerable communities, with pedestrian spaces, an
cultural center and improving the town hall,
with designs of first level, in line with geography,
climate and identity of the region.

The construction of the city should consider
democracy and participation. In all our
territory individuals and groups who feel
struck by what others it is progress.
In the city economic interests are expressed,
matters of common good against aspirations
individual or groups, which requires democracy
and participation.

For real estate and infrastructure projects
larger scale will set the standards
and procedures so that they are forced to
solve their urban impact and not just its impact
vial, like today. For this, they will be guided by a
methodology of "urban impact" to MINVU
that positively influence its buildings
the quality of life of the cities aspects
heritage, roads, cultural, economic
and environmental, which also includes the
definition
new quality standards
in the implementation of green areas, luminaire
equipment.

Quality Public Space

We want no more inequality goods
public.
We want
than
the
people
belonging to vulnerable groups and sectors
media can enjoy a public space
quality. We will create the Ministry of Housing
Urbanism and the "Chile Verde Area" Plan
It incorporates a program of Parks and Areas
Green. This will include as one of its main

120

Michelle Bachelet Government Programme 2014-2018

State aid, especially for those who
and homeless, but their living conditions
they are seriously affected by the deterioration of
their homes and neighborhoods and for those in
rurality conditions, reviewing the rules
health, which prevents its materialization.

We will create a special conservation program
of urban roads for metropolitan areas and
We will promote the use of non-motorized modes
transport, its positive impacts on health,
decongestion and decontamination of our
cities. We establish a policy and programs
to improve accessibility in cities
pedestrians. Moreover, as we establish in
Chapter of Transport and Telecommunications
We implement a Master Plan investment
in Ciclovías and other modes of transport
motorized nationally for both
cities and rural areas.

Can we
Mark
than
he
reset,
expansion and improvement of some programs and the
creating new ones, they will be accompanied
a big management challenge, delivering a role
very important to the state in search of
objectives of equity and integration, allowing
improve the living conditions of thousands of
Chileans, in sectors
vulnerable and media sectors.

To realize a redistribution of roads
urban, to incorporate cyclists and pedestrians,
reformulate road design manuals and
existing traffic.

Today there are many Chileans living large
neighborhoods with a level of impairment that prevents them
have a decent life for themselves and their families,
We carry forward this regeneration plans
integrated in deteriorated urban areas, where
not possible urban retrieve and / or socially
with improvement works.

Open Schools will create programs to
these are open to the community in activities
sports, recreation and culture, and programs
Targeted drug prevention.

Neighborhoods and Housing

In the first 100 days of government, we define
and announce the 200 neighborhoods where
We shall confine the second part of the program
Quiero Mi Barrio, also part of the Fund
Supportive Housing Choice, which seeks to recover
public spaces in areas marked by the
urban decay and social vulnerability from
a comprehensive approach that articulates various
Public and private bodies should work
set for it. We will aggressively work
incorporating with local organizations from
its beginning to the Neighborhood and establishing
joint goals with Development Centers
Neighborhood.

Today it is necessary to restore a political
urban housing to ensure equity and
social integration, continuing what has been done
in 2006-2010. The implemented have
a successful housing policy allows
today have an objective but critical eye, which
It motivates us not only to make corrections
in subsidy programs which are estimated
indispensable, but also to enrich,
always oriented to meet the needs of
housing, but putting emphasis on the quality of education
and the neighborhoods where they are located. With
above, should also pose the challenge
to generate new housing programs and
subsidies to meet requirements
of citizens today have no answer or

Linked to the previous initiative, apply the
Program Homestead Protection
(PPPF), which funds the repair and improvement
housing, at least 200 neighborhoods

121

identified. Thus recovery
neighborhoods and communities shall be such
Comprehensive, acting "door inward"
as "out the door".
We will review and program changes
subsidies that now exist for the middle class,
To extend its use as a part
integrating major city has
to do with the media sectors can
urbanohabitacionales be recipients of policies. In addition, we will create a new
grant aimed at improving public spaces
or make repairs to housing sector
means.
Currently it has lost a line
Attention
special
for
camps,
than
It must be restored to really finish
with those living in this unworthy condition,
it will produce a plan for housing
camps that still exist in Chile.
We will finance a program from the State
mass sterilization for pets and we
We commit to the work of educating our
citizens in responsible pet ownership
company. For this, we will dictate the rules
20,380 corresponding to the law on protection
of animals. We believe the state should be part
commitment to the care and protection
animals, putting the resources to solve
an issue that has to do with his being, but
also to public health.
As a measure to protect the middle class
and vulnerable sectors, establish a
regulations
than
force
to
the
Business
construction, to give each condominium the
set of technical specifications, drawings,
the list of suppliers and subcontractors
specialties of the property sold. This should
performed, by the contract of sale and
when applying for construction management
the municipality a certificate of final acceptance.

Michelle Bachelet Government Programme 2014-2018

Breach of this provision
punishable by severe penalties.

be

public land will serve management
urban and housing.

Institutions

Territorial guarantees

With the purpose of
ensure policy
urban infrastructure and coordination at its
implementing an institutional dotaremos
permanent Interministerial Commission
from
City,
living place
Y
Territory.
It will
composed of the Ministers of Housing, who
he will chair, Public Works and Transport
Telecommunications, National Property and
Undersecretary of Regional Development.

We define the standard for urban equity
for the evaluation of policies, plans
and programs, which will provide maps
regional baseline, which illustrate the situation
Current existing deficit in the communes
vulnerable the country's quality of life.
Based on deficits quality of life
shall develop multisectoral plans investment,
which are responsible of different portfolios
design and implementation of investment to reduce
gaps.

We will move ahead with implementation
institutional agenda emerged Policy
National Urban Development, important
technical effort achieved by the State
Chile. Among other points this Policy
a set of initiatives linking work
the central government to regional levels
and community, transferring the latter
skills, resources and responsibilities.

Citizen participation

We will promote
a
Plan
from
Ordinance
Territorial, in order to establish a new
balance
between
the
requirements
of
economic growth needs
communities and respect and care for the
environment. Balance must be born of the
participation and willingness of citizens,
decentralized in the territory, compared to
the location of energy infrastructure,
polluting agricultural plants, roads
the excessive expansion of productive forests
on agricultural land and indigenous communities.

Soils Policy

The Interministerial Committee on City Housing
Territory and develop a policy for soil
laws, regulations and management measures
to guarantee that the State access
public and private soil quality, integrated
socially with the city and allow
develop in them various interventions
urban and housing.

Expand citizen participation in the
territorial and local planning. It is required to move from
an informative participation, participation
dialogue and character, where the voice of the
local representatives really be heard and
integrated public policy decisions.

The Ministry of National Heritage will
new skills, resources and tools
laws that allow you to provide land for
projects of different ministries. Management

123

HALF
AMBIENT

ENVIRONMENT

Inequality is also expressed in the environment.
Environmental degradation and pollution affect with
more severely the quality of life of the population most
vulnerable. We have a duty to change this reality.
Sustainability requires not only balancing growth
economic and environmental protection but also, do
with social equity. This is the focus of our management:
achieve greater environmental equity.

and corrective. We recognize the contribution to sustainability
that increasingly takes the private sector, but not
enough. The State is called to be the protagonist in
the solution to inequality and this requires much more than
generate regulatory frameworks. The state requires schools
regarding ownership and management of natural resources
strategic and non-renewable.
The State must address land use planning, in
a comprehensive and convener process where as a society
We define what we are available to encourage
in our territories a comprehensive look
contemplates environmental, social and economic.

In environmental matters we have advanced. In the period 20062010, when present strongly demand
better ways of environmental protection, responses
they sought were aimed at what was estimated step
start of a "new environmental treatment": create a new
institutional and environmental regulation to surrender
the environmental issue more political hierarchy.
The result was the creation of the Ministry of
Environment, Environmental Assessment Service
and the Superintendency of the Environment. Also,
the basis for the creation of a judiciary sat
It specialized that resulted in the creation of the
Environmental Courts.

In terms of institutional strengthening, necessary
evaluate the System of Environmental Impact Assessment
(SEIA) in the light of the initial objectives that motivated us
to introduce reform environmental institutions
in our government, and we will promote decisively the
changes necessary to ensure to all citizens,
organizations and entrepreneurs, an institutional
validated from a technical point of view. Also,
We will strengthen the Superintendency of the Environment
giving organized presence in each region.

Today sustainable development that our citizenship
claims, implies a determined act of the State
preserve the natural and cultural heritage, make use
rational use of resources, promoting a better quality
of life and create a vision and balanced occupation
equitable territories, following the voice of our
people who legitimately requires greater participation in
definitions of projects that affect their quality
life-altering areas of high ecological value.

Also key to face the consequences of change
climate which, as we know, involves impacts
our country. We generate consistent policies and
This will strengthen the role of the Council of Ministers for
Sustainability will drive policies and regulations
axis sustainability and consistent with measures
to take over the effects of climate change.

A new and active role of the state inspired
in environmental fairness and the common good

Citizen Participation, Decentralization
and Land Management

Sustainable development requires that we aspire
new and active role of the state. The state can not give up
its obligation to promote sustainable development
and we must give the tools
necessary to take decisions on behalf of the
sustainability and the common good, preventively

As it noted in Chapter Town, Housing and Territory
will promote a Plan of Land Management,
with citizen participation, allowing to establish a
new balance between the requirements of growth
economic, needs of communities and the
respect and care for the environment. Additionally,

126

Michelle Bachelet Government Programme 2014-2018

experience has shown us how crucial it
is integrating socio-environmental dimension in the
decision making process. Communities do not
They have sufficient information and resources to
address environmental situations in their territories.
Therefore, we will establish institutional mechanisms
and resources for the effective delivery of orientation,
mediation and citizen environmental advocacy, to facilitate the
solving local environmental problems. For those
communities potentially affected by a project
subject to environmental assessment, design a
request technical support for analyzing and understanding the
implications of the eventual installation of that activity, and
to facilitate informed participation in the evaluation
environmental. Also, we will advance in the design of
new participation mechanisms, ensuring
increased decentralization as the realities of the
territories require different responses according to their
particularities.

Mining activity must conform to the new requirements
socio-environmental and we must show the world that
our vocation for sustainability drives us
establish the highest standards. The Cabinet
for Sustainability should establish guidelines
policy to take care of this objective.

Climate change
We must set as our environmental management
consistent with the importance of the challenge of the
climate change phenomenon. The Cabinet
for Sustainability should be renamed
"Council of Ministers for Sustainability and the
Climate change". This body should develop, with the
as quickly as possible, a new national plan
climate change with a transversal and integrated vision,
on adaptation, mitigation of impacts and creating
capacities, guiding the steps taken towards a
low carbon economy that will benefit doubly
Chile: they contribute both to reducing emissions
greenhouse gases as air quality
We breathe in Chile and the quality of life of Chileans.
Our goal, at least, is to fulfill the commitment
emissions of greenhouse gases, assumed by
Chile 2009 at the Fifteenth Conference of the Parties to Change
Climate.

We know that an important part of the socio-environmental conflicts in our country originate
in the absence of definitions for the territory
and their destinies, and where visions of its inhabitants
They have been poorly considered. We must address
land use planning in a comprehensive process and
convener. What incentives are available
in our territory, with a comprehensive look
contemplates environmental, social and economic, this is a
look sustainability.

Biodiversity, Protected Areas and Heritage

Natural Resources and Water

United Nations and the OECD are in the center of
their concerns and the protection of shares
because biodiversity loss is alarming and is
a threat to development. Chile can not be
oblivious to this task being a country with a wealth of
biodiversity is threatened. We must be able
approach to integrate biodiversity protection
transversely and it is therefore essential to strengthen
scientific research on it in partnership with
our universities, research centers, the
State, private sector and international networks.

We are called to build a new relationship with
our natural resources, source of our wealth,
where the shaft is properly use them and
not exhausting. The State, on the basis of criteria
sustainability, will play a decisive role regarding
our natural resources and their relationship with actors
private and public.
Water is key. The new Constitution recognizes the
water as national property for public use.

127

We will complete environmental reform initiated in the
2006-2010 period, in compliance with the law
created the Ministry of Environment, handling the
bill creating the Department of Biodiversity and
Protected areas, which define the categories of protection
and establish ranges of prohibitions and limitations
Activity for each, strengthening
protection of biodiversity, which is not only restricted
protected areas. We evaluate the application of the
Native Forest Law and study a solution
legal status must have CONAF. in the matter of
GM, means a participatory board
national biosafety policy meeting our
international commitments and raising his Congress
discussion.

Sustainable City and Territories with Good
Health and Quality of Life
We have an obligation to advance mechanisms
mitigate the chronic effects of pollution on
bless you. Accelerate the development and revision of standards
air emission and quality standards. Our
plans and measures for prevention and decontamination, which
today can be supervised by the Superintendence
Environment, require emission inventories
we must refine and update.
In terms of noise we will apply and will refine
the legislation is violated frequently, and
We will require compliance with firmness.
In terms of odors have tools

Michelle Bachelet Government Programme 2014-2018

let us act now, but begin
accelerated the process of drafting the regulations
pending.

Cleaner production, environmental accounts,
environmental education, science and technology

On waste, propose and give priority to processing
general waste law. Does not solve the issue the
partial and scattered regulations we have today. We require
a comprehensive law. We will seek to remove barriers today
there so they can apply the best technologies
available and already tested in the world.

We will promote investment and operation of a
Observatory of best available technologies and the
best environmental practices to generate bases
a clean and sustainable production, deepening
incentives for compliance, recognizing companies
responsible and especially supporting small and
medium enterprises in environmental compliance.

The participation of civil society and representatives
Therefore various academic areas as technical,
They participate in the development of a Policy
Sustainable heating, which among other things, address
residential use of firewood in Chile.

The public sector will require good environmental practices, and
will prefer friendly products environment.
We advance in a National Plan of Environmental Accounts,
to exercise the powers we deliver
the Ministry of Environment, the coordinate
progressive development and construction accounts
environmental, including environmental assets and liabilities, and
the capacity of the various environmental basins
from the country.

Responsible Company
We will promote a national plan of management situations
existing serious pollution, with the widest
participation. We propose a comprehensive plan to
decrease, to eradicate severe exposure to substances
and toxic pesticides that exist in those territories
severe exposure or severe inherited effects.
Also,
are
They draw
plans
Special
Y
they commit resources to communities that have been
deeply affected by environmental costs,
to improve the health situation in these areas, together
with special priority control program
the Superintendency of the Environment (SMA) for
projects sited in the most affected areas
environmental burdens.

We will strengthen environmental education content
both formal education programs in the
different levels, such as training and awareness
to various bodies and groups. We will
Research determined efforts to address the
challenges of sustainability. Generate consortia
multi-institutional
(Government-academia-sectors
-productive citizenship) to address problems
environmental most relevant.

129

CULTURE

CULTURE

Ensuring access to art and culture

They are undoubted progress made in
cultural matters since the return of democracy.
In a first stage, efforts were aimed at
service our creators and artists. Move
gradually to give way to the institutionalization
industry, going from the Division of Culture
the Ministry of Education until the creation of
National Council for Culture and the Arts. Also,
reestablecimos and increased year by year, resources
intended public culture.

Strengthen access to culture and the arts,
especially in municipalities with fewer opportunities.
For this, we will implement a system to facilitate and
Loans to the public network of cultural infrastructure and
as private entities, plan and implement
proper programming of works and services
Cultural and heritage, in districts and communes
country, facilitating the encounter with cultural offerings
quality.

In the period 2006 - 2010, it was completed on greater
History budget growth in the sector,
with an increase of over 100%. Regrettably,
in the last four years this trend stopped,
a meager growth of only 4%, which has involved
in practice the budget freeze
sector. Today the Chilean State, culture has
minor than four years ago.

We will support
he
performance
from
that
cultural infrastructure to develop a function
public at national, regional or community levels,
establishing conditions for its viability. For
achieve this goal, we will establish agreements
collaboration between the Ministry of Culture and
this infrastructure managers. In addition,
We will promote the dissemination and knowledge of the
culture and tradition from north to south and that of our
indigenous peoples, so that tradition alive in
every corner of our territory.

Despite the progress, significant gaps persist,
in particular with regard to unequal access
of the population works and cultural services
heritage and unequal recognition of
local cultures and creations, besides inequality
access to training and education in the arts and
the need to improve our institutions
culture, to take charge of the new challenges.

We will create a fund to access
basic resources for promoting participation
and organizing people around initiatives
cultural community to contribute to the
and strengthening social identity and integration
cultural diversity.

Chileans have relieved democracy culture
as a fundamental factor of its existence and development
social. Cultural communities demand thus a
substantial increase in government action to
Chile strengthen and dig a free people,
pluralist, tolerant and capable of ending the
inequality and discrimination, where it is alive
cultural diversity and multicultural relations
cultivation of memory.

For communities and smaller towns and
withdrawals, which have greater problems of access
cultural property, we create a program
internships, residencies for artists and volunteers,
cultists and cultural managers from all disciplines
installed for at least three months to develop
cultural programs and activities in dialogue and
coordination with its inhabitants.

132

Michelle Bachelet Government Programme 2014-2018

We will create a program of promotion and dissemination of art
and cultures of indigenous peoples, in order
rescue, promote and disseminate the art of our
indigenous peoples through various initiatives
related to the various disciplines and traditions.

Additionally, a program for children will be created
basic education belonging to establishment
subsidized, with outstanding talent
artistic disciplines.
We will create the National Development Program
Artistic aimed at children belonging to
subsidized basic education establishments,
aimed at creating a national network of choirs,
dancing bodies. Additionally, increase
coverage coverage level youth orchestras
basic education.

We create regional libraries in regions
they do not exist and strengthen the network of libraries
public school, preschool, and education
above as well as their collections with a
strong presence of local production.
We will implement a new national policy
museums, enabling them to finance and improve their
management and content offered to the public.
Additionally, we will develop a policy on
digital culture, which allows us to take advantage of better
so technological development, on the one hand,
expand the possibilities for public policy
to promote cultural creation and, on the other,
democratization, promote and facilitate better,
access to cultural property by the public.

Strengthen subsystem artistic schools
General education, tending to its improvement
academic, infrastructure and equipment; already
ensure their sustainability over time. With
this will establish a commission of experts for the
reviewing curriculum, learning methodologies
and teacher evaluation, to propose changes
necessary in the current formal teaching of art
at the level of general education. Additionally,
We will refine and implement the plan
national reading for students of Education
General.

Culture and Education

We will create a new program for Art and
Culture, into the full school day,
for artistic and creative development, character
mass, that from the experiences of the Council
National Culture and the Arts, provide training
in the various artistic languages ​​from the first
childhood.

We implement a national development policy
youth artistic talents, for which we will create
15 new youth centers of culture, thereby
generate a network of 20 centers. These centers
Cultural seek to provide young talented
the arts, especially those with fewer opportunities,
a space of excellence for its completion.
With this network operating in regime, more than 25,000
Young accede annually experience
training. In the first 100 days of Government,
will identify the cities in which they are installed
the new centers, along with the development of the plan
Annual implementation.

We will create the National Reading Plan and Policy
National Book to make Chile a country
readers from early childhood.

133

Financing and Advancement of Art and
Culture

In four years we will double the resources for
culture in the national budget.
We will increase funding programs
promotion of art and culture, to give a boost to
cultural industries and what today is called "economy
creative ". Generate a National Development Plan
Chilean industry and creative economy. In support
We create institutional Coordination Committee
Promotion of Creative Economy, chaired by the Minister
Culture, and representatives of ministries of Agriculture
and Foreign Affairs, CORFO, and SERNATUR SERCOTEC.
Modify and will refine Funds
Culture and sectoral programs. Among other things,
not implement financing programs
subject to concursabilidad in different creative areas,
used to finance projects whose
importance, size, execution time or other it
warrant.
We create an internationalization program in the
Ministry of the "country of Chile Artists" Culture, in
to strengthen and expand existing efforts, stimulate
and support international circulation of artistic works
national creators, knowledge and appreciation
our international artists and exponents.
We establish cooperation agreements between the
Ministry of Culture and cultural infrastructure that
to develop a public function in the national,
regional or community, intended to give sustainability in the
long term these institutions.

Institutions

In the first 100 days of Government to send
Congress a bill creating the Ministry of
Culture and Heritage, which is an institution
local emphasis, to promote culture, arts and

Michelle Bachelet Government Programme 2014-2018

multiculturalism, for which we will present a project
legislation to Congress. The Ministry must be capable of
action dynamic, modern and efficient, keeping
and deepening the current participatory structures and
creating new spaces and participatory methodologies
civil society; advancing qualitatively
effective decentralization formulas; increasing
responsibilities incorporating culture and
arts in education.

We will refine the legislation and oversight of
compliance with labor duties on
different sectors of culture. In addition, we will create
a program of "good cultural practices" with
systematization of successful experiences and exchange
these experiences.

Heritage

Implement public policies to ensure
adequate protection and flow of production
audiovisual, music and book.

We create a Regional Recovery Program
Emblematic Estate Infrastructure. The program
It provides a substantial part for decisions
intervention citizen participation in the communes
where interventions are made. In the first 100
Government days, we will start the implementation of
regional recovery program infrastructure
emblematic heritage in 4 regions.

Introduce amendments to the National Council
Television, incorporating the Ministry of Culture and
Heritage, expanding its powers, maintaining its
role of TV regulator, emphasizing its role building
the quality of the television industry, both at TV
open payment, regional and community.

We will design and implement a National Program
Sites, and Real Chileans declared World Heritage
Humanity, which shall coordinate the actions of the
Ministries of Culture, Public Works, Housing and Urban Development,
Public Property, Transport and Telecommunications, the
Mayors and municipal authorities, for the purpose of
contribute effectively to the recovery, preservation and
Disclosure of those assets.

We send a bill to Congress to make
a set of amendments on TV
public. They should expand the powers of TVN for a
effective fulfillment of the objectives associated with the
public mission that the law gives him. Directory is
shall apply the duties and responsibilities of the regime
Directors of Corporations and should impose
Directory obligation to the public channel to account for their
management once a year. TVN, should incorporate funding
public systematically, in order that it may
produce socially valued public goods that
private have no obligation to produce.

We will create a fund of tangible cultural heritage and
immaterial, for the purpose of financing programs, initiatives
and research projects, identification, records, commissioning
in value, restoration, preservation, dissemination, and other
safeguard measures, and education in all fields
cultural, tangible and intangible heritage.

In the new stage of digital TV, the public broadcaster should
develop at least two open and free frequencies
Additional. One, the channel 24 hours now only
payment platforms, and one for a cultural educational channel. Precisely these initiatives which require
strong support from the state.

We will create a program of Local Heritage Management
to make available financial and professional resources
competent to communities in our country, possessing
expressions of intangible cultural heritage and / or
which they are emplaced in geographical and
architectural heritage relevance.

Regional cultural policies incorporate the
regional development strategies and plan design
communal culture as part of PLADECOS of
and consistent way to generate synergy in all
territorial public policies.

Ratify and apply the Conventions of UNESCO,
on measures to be taken to prohibit and
Preventing the Illicit Import, Export and Transfer
Ownership of Cultural Property.

135

SPORT

SPORT
Sport and physical activity are essential for
the development of children and youth, and
contribute to healthy lifestyles and well-being
in the following stages of life. Nevertheless,
Chileans mostly remain
sedentary, with a high prevalence of obesity.
The continued practice of a sport is rather
the exception than the rule and need the
population, in all socio-economic sectors,
media and particularly vulnerable sectors,
join this activity. Implement
sport and recreation policies that consider
developing programs for our reality
bringing sports to communities, using the
public spaces, squares and parks, making
multisectoral efforts (Health, Education, Construction
Public Housing and municipalities).
This requires us to strengthen the institutional
Sports and promote policies that allow
massively physical activity, along with reinstalling
programs that encourage competitive sport and
high performance.
After the creation of the Ministry of Sport,
There is consensus on the benefits that this new
institutions bring to the country. One task
priority of the new Ministry will open more
opportunities for people to make
physical activity.
In infrastructure, will be built 30
new Integrated Centers Sports facilities
specialized with a new management model,
equipment and monitors capable of supporting
sports community and integrate
recreational activities, particularly the
service of public high schools in the communes in
they are located. Concerning the administration of
these enclosures (new and existing), the
Ministry of Sport will examine case by case the

Michelle Bachelet Government Programme 2014-2018

institutions that would ensure resources
required for its operation, may
this responsibility fall on the community level,
regional or central. In the first 100 days
Government establish the location 30
new centers.

various disciplines (football, volleyball, basketball, etc.)
and in which they participate only in the first year 30,000
children.
School Olympics develop and Education
Superior to encourage sport and
discover new talent. We will also develop
Olympics sport for the disabled.

For high performance, will implement a
Doping Laboratory, Recovery Center
Sports and study and implement the
requirements Training Centers
Regional.

We advance in the professionalization of the
Sports leaderships, with higher requirements
control and transparency in resource management.
Desperfilamiento face the functions and
roles of institutions linked to the High Performance and
reinstate working directly with athletes
elite, through planning medium- and
defining long-term objectives, costs, projection
and future results, replacing the Program
Bicentennial. Funding will have a look
comprehensive, incorporating the required technical equipment and
athletes' own needs: per diem
to ensure their maintenance, adequate insurance,
quotes forecasting and health, and insurance
studies.

Create
he
Committee
Paralympics
Chilean
Independent Olympic Committee. This is to recognize
sport as another expression of this group
social. Establish a line of credit
for sports, competition and high development
performance that allows development support
adapted sport. Also, we recognize
sports equipment such as wheelchairs and
other technical support for adapted sport
financing projects. In the sport
people with disabilities build and equip
the first Centre for Physical Activity and Sport
for people with disabilities, giving it
specialized professionals.

We will work to achieve that Chile is well
represented in the highly competitive sport
worldwide. What they have achieved outstanding
athletes who have achieved important victories
It shows that it is possible and should be backed
an efficient policy from the state.

We will create the "Sports in your commune" in
each municipality can design a Sport Plan
or incorporated into its Communal Development Plan
sport (incorporating sporting plans
neighborhood), in order that it considers the
organized community needs.

We will increase and will refine incentives
for elite athletes. Generate programs
Comprehensive Care athletes, not only
consider financial support for their preparation,
training and competition, but a set
fringe benefits that allow their
maintenance on the circuit during and after
to his sports career.

In general, children have few instances
they can also develop various sports
Football. Therefore, in the first 100 days
Government, we define the implementation plan
replacement program for schools
sports, which this time will consider

139

TRANSPORT AND
TELECOMMUNICATIONS

TRANSPORT AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS
The mobility to which we aspire requires guarantee a decent transport,
quality and accessible to all Chileans, but particularly for
underprivileged. This implies enhancing urban public transport
and intercity. The mobility of goods and services is also very
importance for their impact on competition in the markets and the
access for businesses and households goods of high quality and low prices,
Ultimately, it is an important determinant of economic growth.

We will expedite the development of projects of suburban trains
approach, we Melipilla-Alameda and others who may be
socially beneficial, and associate the same means of payment
Transantiago services. Together with accelerating the construction of the
Lines 6 and 3 of Metro, the Feasibility Studies will be initiated, which
consider expanding to Quilicura line 3 and line 2 to
El Bosque and San Bernardo.

In institutional terms, transportation infrastructure requires
long-term planning that considers all modes of transport and
urban dimension in the case of cities. In the immediate coordination
investment in transport infrastructure, will be held in the Commission
Interministerial Town, Housing and Territory, which will be composed of
Housing ministers who preside, of Public Works, Transport and
Telecommunications, National Property and Development Secretary
Regional.

We initiate economic studies, engineering and profitability
regional social projects to define their implementation: A
intermodal station in Valparaiso Merval with connecting services
Baron trolleybus station; only means of payment and mail
Great Valparaiso-Viña and Concepción; introducing a solution of
Modern mass transit bus or tram in Antofagasta; introduce
High-level solution, tram or another, in Concepción, in connection
with train service, enhancing the currently depressed use
this service further enlargement Biotrén suburban railway; plans
Road Construction in the capitals of each region; Enable
traffic management programs that give priority to public transport,
in cities such as Temuco, Valdivia, Puerto Montt, La Serena and others;
enhance existing programs and subsidies for school transport
transport in isolated areas, both programs financed by the law
national public transport subsidy; improvement system
public transport buses in regional cities through reforms
to decrease the average age of the fleet, regulate the frequency
and schedules services, through location-based systems
Automatic vehicle and reduce the rate paid by adults
higher. As in Santiago, we introduce projects
highway concessions program MOP transport dimension
public. Additionally, we will promote existing programs
subsidies for school transport and transport in remote areas.

Furthermore, as for the management of transport systems in the
cities, we create the Metropolitan Transportation Authority for each
Metropolitan area.
We endeavor that people and goods are transported from the
most efficient way possible from a social perspective, encouraging
use of those means which generate lower rates of pollution,
congestion and accidents. We will invest all the resources to
subsidize public transportation approved by law, both communes
where Transantiago operates as for the rest of the country. in this way
We will finance fleet renewal programs, school transportation and subsidy
transport in isolated areas, and increase investments
road infrastructure.
Accelerate investments Transantiago surface, both
brokers or exclusive lanes as operational infrastructure, moving
in developing road infrastructure and fleet control technologies
Santiago, thus allowing to increase the speed of these services,
reducing waiting times and travel users. They will be prioritized
traffic management measures as well as investments in stops and stations
exchange.

In combating congestion will form a panel
experts, involving citizens, political organizations, and
business, to prepare a package of measures "pro-mobility" in
2014.
We will promote the use of non-motorized transport, for their
positive impacts on health, decongestion and decontamination
our cities. We establish a policy and programs to improve
accessibility in cities for pedestrians. We establish a Plan
Master Ciclovías investments and other modes of transport
motorized nationally for both the cities and areas
rural. They will be built 100 kilometers of bicycle paths high standard
across the country and will triple the capacity of parking lots
Merval stations, Biotrén and Metro de Santiago, among others
measures.

Improve the management system through a thorough control
operation and contractual responsibilities of the operators. Have to
work with operators to improve the quality of tours and
service levels and reduce evasion.
Improve the quality of service, understood not only as decreasing
travel times, but also to aspects of safety, cleanliness and
with an information system adjusted to the reality of those who use it.

142

Michelle Bachelet Government Programme 2014-2018

Therefore, we will enforce the rules that have been
tax the private world in this matter and we will make TVN
become a major player in the push of digitizing
and the opening of new players, by way of providing
infrastructure to third parties, thereby improving quality and pluralism
the right to freedom of expression, to enable more players there
they have access to inform and entertain people.

Progress is needed on the modernization of freight transport. It
It means promoting a consolidation of a sector characterized
by atomization, high informality and low capacity utilization.
It would be beneficial to move to a model logistics companies
offer integrated services, and supporting greater associativity
technologization existing microentrepreneurs. To increase
logistics efficiency of transfer of the load on the central macro
and reduce the cost of transport of goods, we will evaluate the
project to build a cargo distribution center south of
Santiago connected to ports by train, along with study
funding and institutional dependence. Thus also
reduce road congestion and road maintenance costs in the
area.

Licitaremos concessions -of fiber optic infrastructure access
open to all telecommunications providers in communes
lower revenues from the metropolitan areas (Greater Santiago Great
Great Valparaiso and Concepcion). These networks allow suppliers
services compete to offer high-speed broadband telephony
and television at a lower current price. In public establishments,
We establish access to high speed internet for all and
students in their classrooms, as well as the possibility of having WiFi
Free on premises. Special emphasis will be on developing
the necessary infrastructure for connectivity, national and international,
via optical fiber for extreme areas of the country and strengthening of links
satellite island territories.

In telecommunications will reduce the digital divide and
will increase connectivity, for the benefits of society
the information available to all Chileans. So, the axes
Central in this area will be to protect the consumer, generating
including greater access to telecommunications services and boost
competition in this industry.

The law that created the new figure of civic community radios,
sent to Congress in 2007, it has been an important advance for these
means. However and in practice, this provision is not yet a
Actually, since the process of transformation of old radios
minimum coverage, as the disposition of a strip intended dial
community radio has been implemented slowly. With the objective of
accelerate this process, we will study the expansion of the development fund
telecommunications community radio.

We will continue to side with consumers. We will strengthen the powers of
regulatory agencies, increasing the staff assigned to these
work and study changes in law to stiffen penalties and
simplify the process of charges with poor service. Impose
international standards to implement regulations
techniques to telecommunications services in line with our
level of development. New controls will include contracts
services: prevent the inclusion of unfair terms, approval
authority for all contracts for services which are marketed in
market, obligation to incorporate standards of quality and service
compensation formulas in contracts for services, together with
improve transparency in the content of each contract.
For access to broadband Internet and establish rules
allowing wide access of the population, with express obligations
for companies, among others, of service in its concession area,
attention of users and compliance with technical regulations.

Competition in the telecommunications industry,
modify the existing tariff regime focused exclusively
in public telephony services so that, before the Committee
the Court of Defense of Free Competition, you can set
other fees intended to end public or other providers
telecommunications, including internet access. Establish
an independent and collegiate body to resolve divergences
arise between the parties to the rate-setting process.

It is known that digital terrestrial television has been the subject of an arduous
discussion for nearly 5 years in Congress, but there is still the greatest challenge
which it is the full digitization of service within 5 years. This task
It has been implemented in all developed countries, demanding large
efforts of the private and state sector, aimed at attaining
scanning periods, as well as the adoption of technology
by citizens.

Additionally, we modify the system of concessions for
you can provide multiple services through a single network.
We will promote the sharing of infrastructure, which will help lower
the impact on our cities, as well as improve competition
in this market, being necessary to encourage the vertical disintegration
market, separating the role of the infrastructure provider of
services.

143

MUNICIPALITIES

MUNICIPALITIES
The challenges we face today locally
They require us to properly interpret the political moment
and the changes that society has experienced further
when the municipalities, as institutions with
greater proximity to citizens, who are called to
be the first link in this effort.

At the institutional level, the strategic objective is to
Municipalities spend to fulfill a function exclusively
management, the establishment of true Governments
Local, expanding and developing current functions
giving them greater autonomy in management.
This is possible through devolution,
own resources, administrative autonomy and powers.
First, we study the establishment of a
guaranteed basic set of municipal services
with a certain level of quality, subject to indicators
auditable objectives, allowing inequities break
territorial and social issues affecting the people of the
different districts. To make this possible will require
progressive transfer of powers and resources from
programs and services at the local level.
One of the most important demands of citizens,
social organizations in the territories, regions
and municipalities, is to participate in decision
making on issues that affect them or incumbent
directly.
Move in this direction is not easy. For that
It is necessary to promote profound cultural changes and
shape new behaviors and / or political practices, both
in the political and social leaders, as citizens,
promoting a culture of rights and duties.
Additionally, we must refine and expand
community participation mechanisms, improving
Legislation establishing the Community Councils
Civil society organizations, establishing as
Competitive Funds public policy and budgets
participatory, extending the scope of the Offices
Information and Claims, improving regulation
plebiscites and citizen consultations.

Michelle Bachelet Government Programme 2014-2018

We must strengthen the City Council, handing
greater powers, powers and responsibilities
and give them to the council the responsibility of accompanying
and monitor one or more areas of municipal work with
accountability.

an amendment to the Municipal Revenue Act, the
discrimination and injustices that exist, particularly for
that large taxpayers to fund adequately
benefits and services they receive from the municipalities,
Y; normatively ensure that any new function or
task assigned to municipalities should contemplate
respective financing.

Manning and legal status of officials
municipal seeks to take up the discussion on Art. 121
the constitution that allows mayors decentralize
personnel management according to the particularities of each
municipality, boosting the statute granting the authority
to review the structure of plants. Discussion on Art.
121, should incorporate the review of labor standards
municipal officials, with due safeguard the
career officer and participation of all sectors,
allowing them to work in conditions of dignity and
safeguard their rights as workers.

In terms of City and Territory, the municipality

as local government is concerned to ensure the quality
the set of services delivered to citizens. For
Therefore, the participation of citizens is essential.
Citizens demand a Clean and Green Commune.
Public policy work for waste management
residential solid waste and based maintenance
cleaning of streets and public spaces, incorporating a
integrated waste management concept, encouraging forms
recovery, reuse, recycling and comprehensive management
bulky waste, eliminating illegal dumps.

In the field of modernization will promote the
associativism at provincial and regional level to solve
common problems and to address the very issues
government's metropolitan areas. We boost
a local digital agenda, progress in achieving a connection
Broadband in the communes and incorporate fully the
Information Technology and Communications (ICT) to
municipal management.

In addition, we will create a new local special program
new resources where communes with more presence
Indian rural, which are also behind and vulnerable,
They may finance professional and technical support for
carry out local development projects.

Chileans want to live in a commune
Friendly. We will promote the recovery and conservation

Regarding the institutions, we must implement a
new strategy to enable rural municipalities
develop the tools necessary to overcome
difficulties and special needs presented by
citizens in rural areas.

Proper public spaces and green areas from the MINVU
in coordination with municipalities.

We will promote the development of a commune
so environmentally sustainable work

In terms of financing, municipalities

require more resources. To do this he will promote a
set of measures among which: increase
the resources of the Municipal Common Fund (FCM), studying
strengthening and advancing public input
substantially in the decentralization of decisions
investment; study compensation from the budget
national, for various exemptions from profit taxes
municipal, for example, exemption from payment of duties
grooming, the payment of taxes, or building
social housing matters which affect further
the poorest municipalities in the country; correcting, by

the installation of a culture of environmental sustainability
with citizens, to make them aware of the values ​​and
opportunities given by their environment, and the rights
and responsibilities.

We will promote the right of citizens to live
in cities or safer locations. This implies

strengthen the role of social and situational prevention that
municipalities exercise, for which incorporate security
citizen as a transverse axis and the preponderance
municipal organization.

147

DEFENSE

DEFENSE
National Defence going through a new stage of its
history, and can and must make a substantial contribution
to the country. This is possible because between 1990 and
2010, it underwent a process of reform and
important institutional modernization, in the context
the expansion of freedoms and deepening
democracy in Chile through public policies that
They aspired to broad political support and citizen
in a democratic context. Consolidation
democratic governance on defense, added
their control by the society by
strengthening democratic institutions, are
the axis on which progress was made during that period.
Democratic normality has not only reinvigorated and
strengthened the relationship between armed forces and Chilean society,
it has also encouraged the modernization of
military institutions, their equipment, systems
teaching contents and strengthening their contribution
substantive foreign policy.
However, the process of democratizing reforms
and modernization is incomplete and could point out,
He has experienced a setback. From 2010,
year which took effect Law No. 20,424, Statute
Organic National Defense, some reforms
They continued, but most of these are stalled
and, in some respects, there were setbacks as a result
management of political authority held between
2010 and 2013.
During the period 2014-2018, the defense policy
National will have as main objective medium
and long term, generate a Security Community
in South America which guarantees peace and delete
definitely the threat of war, with the
UNASUR Defense Council of the institution
progress in this area. In the same vein,
promote cooperation and extension measures
mutual trust and crisis prevention with our
neighbors and the region as well as the commitment
collective and verifiable full policy
transparency of budgets and procurement
military among the countries of the region. Moreover, it
hard deepen the process already so advanced
dialogue, cooperation and integration with Argentina and

Michelle Bachelet Government Programme 2014-2018

will extend to Peru; and to the extent that the objectives of
materialize such a policy, you can review the concept
deterrence, and move towards a new concept of
defense policy focused on mutual cooperation,
integration and dialogue.

They were assigned budget items, as well as all
I related the procurement process in its aspects
reserved and secrets.
Likewise, the substitutive contain
eliminating so-called "flats" of
financing, whose existence is unjustified,
especially in light of the defense allocations
It was obtained, which far exceed those
"floors". Moreover, the surplus will be deleted
exclusive use of the defense and inflexibility in its
administration, and so the efficiency will be optimized
financial and budget.

With Bolivia essentially be back on track
dialogue, initiated in 1999, and the climate of trust
Mutual achieved during 2006-2010. The
full normalization of relations with Bolivia is a
goal to which we aspire. Also we seek to
significant steps for the projection of relations
between South America and Asia Pacific.
Domestically our main objective
will return with a vengeance institutional reforms
to develop better national defense
prepared for the tasks that you give the authority
civil, managing to be more transparent, and more efficient
and effective. In this regard, it is considered necessary
strengthening the command of Chief of Staff
Set in relation to their use in times of
peace even in instances such as preparation,
prevention and emergency response, as well as
social responsibility.

Chile must comply fully with the obligations
international human rights. To do this, such
as we noted in the chapter on human rights,
We will reform the jurisdiction of the Military Justice of
so that the causes civilian victims of crime
You committed by military and police are known
by ordinary courts. Progress will be made from the current
military justice model to a new one characterized
for equality between procedural safeguards
civilians and soldiers, with a judiciary
legal and fully independent of the structure
military command.

Also, funding for National Defense
It must be consistent with system operation
fully democratic. Thus it is to be sent
substitutive to Congress about
the bill repeals the law reserved
copper in it is established that the allocation of
resources for the financing of Defense
National will be through the formulation of a
quadrennial budget planning, that includes
financing of programs and projects
investment and operation and maintenance expenses
equipment. The draft Budget Law
each year will incorporate the corresponding annuity
the four-year budget planning. In addition,
and as a strengthening of democratic control over
the institutions of the National Defense, Congress
National should be informed about how they
run defense spending and how they develop and
implement programs and projects which

We will conclude the modernization of the military career,
ending with pension distortions.
We refund the inclusion of gender and
sexual diversity. Also we strengthen the role of
audit and strengthen ministerial control
management and transparency, eliminating conflicts
interest and ensuring regulatory compliance
procurement and supplier relationships.
The armed forces are a fundamental part of the Republic and,
such, the structure of the national community and its
institutions deserve our support and concern
for their continued institutional development, respect and
together with their commanders, convinced that they, in
in turn, they will better its important contribution to
national life, as directed by the political authority
of the Nation.

151

RELATIONS
FOREIGN

EXTERNAL RELATIONSHIPS
active role in promoting regional convergence, confirming
its commitment to a policy of regional integration active
and binding. Chile should positively value diversity
that characterizes Latin America and effectively address the
challenges our neighborly relations.

The international economic scenario has been, in the last decade
very favorable for Latin America and particularly in Chile,
although it is probably a little less auspicious in
coming years. The failure of the Doha Round of the WTO,
and the own dynamics of globalization, is taking
the creation and expansion of large economic blocs
regional.

The articulation of closer relations, but flexible
in intensity, with the Asia Pacific should be a
priority of foreign policy of Chile. Moreover if
It notes that the importance of this region is enhanced by the
strategic contribution it could make to the projections
our country in Latin America and the Caribbean in general and
South America, in particular. To do this, Chile should consolidate
their status as "country port" and "bridge country" among nations
Latin American South Atlantic and Asia Pacific, which
requires improving interconnectivity, increase capacity
our ports and improve our services. Chile is on
able to play a role as a link between the economies
on both sides of the Pacific, taking advantage of strong relationships
business we have in the region as well as our extensive
network of free trade agreements. Therefore, we will favor links
Latin American groups with ASEAN.

The negotiations began between the US and the European Union,
increasing coordination of ASEAN with China, Japan and Korea, and in
our region greater integration between North America
and Central America are manifestations of this trend. It
more evident the lack of integration between countries
South American and dispersion of initiatives fail
build a common horizon of convergence.
The change in US international strategy to privilege
the relationship with Asia Pacific, has put an end to decades of
priority of the Atlantic Alliance, however negotiation
trade and investment with the EU began.
The axis of international politics in the twenty-first century is the Pacific. The
Chile's foreign policy in the next government should contribute
to achieve greater regional unity. We must strengthen our
participation in various integration mechanisms
existing in Latin America and especially in
South America, as well as constituting this bloc
as a region. We must promote bridges of understanding
over ideological and subregional differences. UNASUR must
become a rallying point for initiatives
integration of South America, while CELAC should be a
instance of policy coordination in the region.

We have concerns about the urgency of negotiating the agreement
Transpacific Partnership (TPP). To ensure interest
Chile should make a thorough review of its scope and
implications. To prevent our country's priority areas
questionable arising in this agreement, then, evil
He managed, it would become an indirect renegotiation
our FTA with the US, weakening already established agreements
intellectual property, pharmaceutical, shopping
public services and investments, or lead to the installation of
new rules in the financial sector.

In this context, we appreciate the efforts of integration in the Alliance
Pacific, but we will work to guide our participation
in this initiative on a non-exclusive or antagonistic perspective
with other existing integration projects in the region
which Chile is also involved. Also recover the
momentum of the Alliance, as a commercial platform for
collectively projected in the Asian region.

Our relations with the EU and US have been
mature in all its expressions, based on the various
Treaties and agreements, among which stand out the Association and
TLC, respectively. Reimpulsaremos our political dialogue,
and economic cooperation with the EU, with a new agenda
focusing on science, technology, research and innovation,
to develop our international competitiveness, with
participation of SMEs, universities, Conicyt and AGCI. With
the states and the central government of the USA look for a
expanding the quality of cooperation in similar areas to
are identified.

Chile has lost presence in the region, its neighborly relations
It is problematic, has imposed a mercantile vision
our Latin American and ideological links have the
external insertion options. Our country must regain its

154

Michelle Bachelet Government Programme 2014-2018

promotion and implementation of international instruments
ratified by Chile on Human Rights and People
Migrants, as in the early Migration Policy
agreed in the framework of the South American Conference
Migration, the State of Chile assuming an active role in
humanitarian action settlement, legal residence,
Protection of Victims of Trafficking and development
migrants.

Chile requires strong international institutions and
respected by the international community, so we
role and increase our activity in these organisms. The country
He will be a member of the Security Council of the UN for two years,
posed an opportunity to express our opinion
and our action for Peace and Security, as well as
Human Rights and Equity internationally.
A modern and inclusive understanding of our action
International requires an Integrated Policy
Exterior, and shows us that this is no longer an area
exclusive of the chancelleries. For regions of the country,
activity has gained international legitimacy and work
fairly widespread abroad by their authorities.
In parallel, there are regional public-private initiatives linking, performing universities, social organizations
and associations of producers' organizations, which seek to promote
their own interests abroad independently and
autonomous.

In relation to the Chileans abroad, dotaremos agencies
State an active role in promoting effective recognition
citizens' rights of Chileans residents
abroad, as well as increasing permanent link with
our country of Chilean communities around the world.
Therefore, we will evaluate the legislation changes
immigration to change the current approach, based on a perspective
security and management of migrant labor on the one
inclusion perspective, regional integration and approach
rights to ensure the effective integration of this population
the country and allow a dynamic coordination, cooperative and
efficient of all public bodies related to politics
immigration.

Consultation and coordination mechanisms shall be restored
the productive sector, workers' organizations, the
Congress and civil society in general, so that the
definitions and working lines undertaken in the field of
international economic relations regain their status
State Policy legitimacy founded on a comprehensive
participation.

Strengthen public structure Aliens and Migration
in the regions and municipalities of greater immigration presence
to design and implement public policies to
greater and more rapid inclusion of immigrants.

To fulfill the above objectives, it should be instituted
a new diplomacy that demands a modern Chancellery, with
flexibility and responsiveness to the challenges of the XXI century,
having specialized personnel and civil service career
based on skills and merit, accompanied by a design and
strategic vision that generates the aforementioned National System
Foreign Policy.

We will bring government services to Chileans abroad,
through the consular network, seeking their representation in
for citizen participation and ensure the full exercise
their civic rights in their country of residence.
We undertake to promote the processing, to its
approval of a bill to grant voting rights
Chileans abroad.

International migration has gained importance
growing in Chile. According to estimates of the Department of
Aliens and Migration of the Ministry of Interior, the population
immigrant in Chile stands at around 400,000 people,
while the Chilean foreign resident population,
estimated 860 thousand.

Through these proposals we define the content of
Chile's interest in the international arena as a political
State, have consensus and continuity. For the same,
convene a broad dialogue involving other powers
government, regional governments and all instances of the
civil society for the construction of these agreements.

Immigration policy and develop a culture based on

155

RIGHTS
CITIZENS

OVERCOMING
OF THE
POVERTY

OVERCOMING POVERTY
decisively to address the more structural phenomenon
various forms of inequality that segregate society
Chilean.

Chile has positive results in reducing
poverty. Regardless of the controversy with the Government
the methodology for estimating the numbers and the debate more
noun on the effectiveness and representativeness of the
shape measurement, the problem of poverty is more complex
and is not exhausted in absolute poverty figures. Poverty is
a dynamic phenomenon, as families transiting
poverty spells more than once throughout its cycle
vital.

In the first 100 days in office,
We send to Congress with discussion
immediately, the bill's Contribution
Permanent Family March. This Family Contribution

will be delivered in March of each year, will amount
of $ 40,000 per deceased, being: i) beneficiaries
family allowance; ii) the beneficiaries of family allowance
and maternal allocation, and iii) families who perceive
money transfers associated with the Ethical Family Income
and those users are not receiving Subsystem
Securities and Opportunities. The contribution will cover about two
million families, representing about 7 million
people.

Inequality is especially critical and intolerable for
the poorest, who are routinely exposed to
inherent difficulties have limited resources
economic to meet the basic needs of their
families. But it is also critical to many compatriots
who they are in a situation of extreme vulnerability
to the eventual loss of employment, illness of a
family or other unplanned expenditure which becomes
a permanent fear of what the future may hold.

We will create the Fund for Strengthening Communities
Experiencing Poverty. The Fund will, among other
materials, finance the design and implementation of Local Plans
Social Development. The allocation of specific resources
the design and implementation of each plan should prioritize those
territories where poverty in its many dimensions
is more prevalent, concentration and depth. The
important is to give the banks broader regions
freedom to prioritize resources and propose criteria
investment from the private profiles of deficiencies
facing different parts of the country without losing
view the structure of socioeconomic opportunities
It provides each territory.

While poverty remains an urgency to resolve the
vulnerability or fragility of the non-poor sectors
society, including the vast majority of the middle class,
It has become the challenge to overcome. The subject of
a new social policy must be Chilean society as a
set.
Public policies and programs to reduce
poverty should target simultaneously to ensure
thresholds, to expand opportunities, and improve
the domain of individuals and communities on their own
development projects. The initiatives to be developed should
recognize and incorporate into its guidelines not only deficits,
but also, and with particular force, resources
in people, blaming co-citizens
through a renewed participation style, typical of this
new political cycle.

For the launch of this Fund reassign
the resources currently allocated FOSIS, to tasks
psychosocial and socio support to finance initiatives
support entrepreneurship and employability of families
Ethical Family Income beneficiaries. In a second
phase advance to the Fund by incorporating other resources
running programs from other ministries and
utility for similar purposes, so as to
simplify the public offering of social programs that put

Strengthening social protection is the answer to Chile
You need to address the ongoing challenge of reducing
poverty and abate its most extreme expression, but above all,

160

Michelle Bachelet Government Programme 2014-2018

a dignified sustainability. For this we must establish a
transparent and fair administration of the sheet, adjusting
operating procedures; identify individuals and families
sort by social strata; establish a new model
score calculation to collect the proceeds
income and consumption depending on families
household needs, correcting the formula Ability
Income generating.

multiple demands and requirements to thousands of Chileans
access benefits that sometimes double and sometimes
They fail.
Local Plans of Social Development will finance three
types of activities: capacity expansion, welfare
Community and investment opportunities.
Moreover, since labor participation it is essential
to fight poverty, expand coverage
grants to women's work and job training
for women and youth.

Most immediately, within the first 100 days in office
implement changes to the Social Protection Record
seeking to restore those benefits.

We need better and more demanding
our measuring instruments and
characterization of poverty. We must establish

On specific institutions,

the Ministry
Social Development will serve Social Protection
Universal. We will work on creating an Integrated System
Social Information with territorial breakdown, which
articulates all the information available to the Ministry, which
allows suitable characterizations of people
and families, but also on the conditions of the environment where
people conduct their daily lives, working or studying
which, as we know, are very unequal across the
country.

more accurate measuring instruments and adequate
the multiplicity of poverty. We propose
measuring poverty in several ways: absolute poverty,
lower income households, vulnerability and deprivation
multidimensional being. We will update our
poverty line, so as to visualize the situation
gap in living thousands of Chilean families,
incorporating a multidimensional dimension of being.

To support and make possible the implementation of the Fund
Regional capacity building and Plans
Local Social Development, will make an important
restructuring of Solidarity and Social Investment
recovering the spirit for which it was created FOSIS: the
support local social innovation initiatives.

Survey CASEN apply every two years, alternating
measurements with national / regional representation (every two
years) with other representatives of the welfare state
all communities in the country (every 4 years).
Initiate a process to gradually overcome the
Social Protection Record (FPS) as an instrument of
targeting, so as to move towards allocating
cash transfers by the mechanism of exclusion
the higher-income sectors. Thus, the State
who is responsible for identifying and selecting,
not the citizen.

We will create a new institutional framework for measuring
poverty. We rebuild the credibility of the process
measurement, analysis and delivery figures in four stages:
developing the questionnaire, measuring per capita income
CASEN route, construction of the variable income and delivery
facts and figures of poverty, distinguishing precise roles
of different institutions, including an independent entity
responsible for monitoring and process validation.

In the meantime, the FPS should be allowed in the most
Reliable possible to identify households, assuring
fair and equitable access to income to

161

RIGHTS
HUMANS

HUMAN RIGHTS
Human rights must be the main basis and axis
articulating the actions of the state, both the Government of the
State authorities and institutions and especially of the activity
legislative and public policies adopted. In turn, the
Human rights must be the basis of a minimum standard
democratic society that allows national coexistence
around principles of dignity, equality, justice, diversity and
tolerance.

During the government adopt a State Policy
Explicit and Integral Human Rights, that includes,
at least the following four areas: promotion and guarantee
the full observance of all human rights; a
adequate institutional framework for the design and monitoring of the
State policy; Public policies designed to "focus
rights "; truth, justice and reparation for victims of
crimes against humanity of the dictatorship, relatives and
the whole society.

Adopt all necessary measures to ensure full
validity and effectiveness of safeguarding human rights and
improving institutional and achieved. We will promote
new legislation to apply the principles and treaties
international.

Recognize the maximum value in the Constitution,
international treaties and conventions on rights
human and in particular, we incorporate a rule
providing that in any constitutional or legal interpretation,
They should prevail such treaties or conventions. Establish
in expressly in the Constitution that Crimes
Against humanity, in time of war
in peacetime, are imprescriptible crimes whatever
date on which they were committed and not subject to amnesty,
nor pardon general or particular.

It should also continue to demand truth, justice
and repair in relation to crimes against humanity
occurred during the dictatorship, adapting the rules and means
necessary for that purpose. At the same time, should
develop plans for education and historical memory tending
to definitively banish the possibility of such serious
violence to life and human dignity and encouraging repeat
a culture of peace and tolerance.

We will promote legislative and administrative
prevent impunity in human rights, such as preventing
any application in court on crimes against humanity
the D.L. No. 2191 1978 Amnesty, and the rules
regulate the limitation period for criminal offenses or
limitations on civil responsibilities.

The advance of democratic society and empowering
citizens present new challenges for
full respect for human rights. The citizenship
It requires the term abuses and the satisfaction of needs
individual and social, demanding equity, quality and rights
in health, housing, employment, security
public, education, healthy environment, the right to work,
to collective bargaining, among others.

We create a single information system on the state
and outcome of legal proceedings on crimes against
Humanity. We will support the maintenance of institutions
civil society advocacy of the rights of
victims of the crimes of the dictatorship, especially
which they have a historic and symbolic experience in the field.

The Government, as it deserves, should take over
these expressions and demands, which must be addressed with
a genuine vision of human rights, duties and
corresponding obligations, promoting recognition
legal or constitutional to you.

We ask for the appointment of Judges of dedicated
trials for serious rights violations
human and assign special resources to the judiciary
for these effects. Strengthen Rights Program
Human Interior Ministry, departments
human rights legal medical service and the Police
Research, through the appointment of human resources,
technology and materials.

Therefore, we face challenges not only in terms of
violations committed under the dictatorship, but also
regarding guarantees for those rights arising in
democracy.

164

Michelle Bachelet Government Programme 2014-2018

Adopt measures, legislative if they are necessary to
recognize the right of victims of serious violations
human rights and their families, reparation
civilians from the perpetrators and, if appropriate, the State. We will review
reparation current laws. We assign an entity
permanent State to take charge of recognition,
host, legal, and social assistance for repair
victims of crimes of the dictatorship.

We must strengthen existing institutions. This today
considers the National Institute of Human Rights and
Museum of Memory and Human Rights. But not
enough. We will create the Human Rights Department
in the Ministry of Justice and Human Rights, manned
human and budgetary resources to work
coordination and implementation of human rights.
We expand the present level NHRI regions
gradually. We promote the creation of the Human Rights
Pueblo or Ombudsman.

We develop a systematic national program
recovery and preservation of evidence of memory
historic massive and systematic violation of rights
humans. We develop a policy of recovery of all
historical memory sites where rights are violated
human, ensuring their basic and ongoing maintenance.
We develop a specific strategy to link
sites of historical memory with the new generations.

We will reform the military justice system, limiting it to military subjects,
military and military facilities legal rights. We will reform
Law 18.314 to bring it to international standards
Regarding the right to a fair trial.
We design a National Plan of Rights Education
Humans, for all educational levels, it
participatory and comprehensive training.

We will review referred to the judicial files
Human Rights violations that have a period
50 years to be known and reviewed.

We will encourage academic research on issues
human rights and historical memory. We will promote
development of teaching materials and teaching strategies
human rights and incorporation Technologies
Information and Communication as a tool for
training in human rights issues.

Additionally, we will develop a legal initiative
regulating the right to assembly and review the regulations,
protocols and practice of the Police Forces for their suitability
to international standards.
The complexity of today's world is reflected in the advance,
new recognition and protection of human rights. The
rights of children / as and adolescents, sexual and reproductive,
the rights of indigenous peoples and seniors,
among others, constitute a challenge and a priority for our
country while seeking to ensure that those who
They are socially disadvantaged in access and enjoyment of rights,
do so in conditions of equality and non-discrimination.

Strengthen human rights education in all
parent schools and / or academies of the armed forces, police
and Investigative Police, preparing a proposal for
update curriculum that incorporates training in topics
human rights since its theoretical and normative aspect as well
as training in protocols.
We encourage the ratification of the Convention on
Applicability of War Crimes and Crimes
Against Humanity, 1968 and ratify the set of
human rights treaties of the United Nations system
OAS and earrings.

In short, we will adopt a comprehensive system of promotion
and protection of human rights, in addition to taking
over the outstanding debts to victims
serious violations of human rights in the past, too
strengthen and guarantee respect for civil, political,
economic, social and cultural rights.

Additionally, measures establish legally
designed to ensure compliance and respect in the country
international judicial decisions on
Human rights.

165

EQUITY
GENDER

GENDER EQUALITY
The effort to achieve equality between men and women has
It weakened since 2010. Last year Chile fell from 46th to
87 on gender equality index compiled by the Economic Forum
World. While female participation is close to 50%
this figure is concentrated in the population of greater resources, not
He has brought with it a redistribution of responsibilities
household and family, so that the overall workload of the
women remains higher than that of men.
The wages of women are lower on average to receive
men for the same work. In the political situation
It is not better: fewer women in positions of power in government and
in elected positions. In the municipal elections
2012 fewer candidates stood in the elections
2008 parliamentary and the average reaches 13%, against 21%
Congresses of Latin America.
The crudest expression of discrimination is violence
gender, one in three women has experienced physical, sexual or
psychologically by their partners or former partners.
This reality imposes the need for a gender agenda
based on rights, equality and empowerment of women,
driven by a renewed and senior institutions.
Within the first 100 days of Government we will send to Congress
the bill creating the Ministry of Women, looking place
equality between women and men at the highest level on the agenda
policy. Along with this, we will reinstall the Council of Ministers for
Equal Opportunities and strengthen its operation,
creating a permanent body of technical advice.
The deployment of this agenda will cross, it will be linked
closely with major public policies
they drive. Thus, the gender will be present, among others
areas in designing the educational reforms in the electoral system,
labor policies and the new Constitution. Similar view
will exist in the National Investment System in design
National care system and reforming the system of nurseries
for children of workers, which will ensure non-discrimination
of working and will include responsibility in parenting.
At the local level, we will promote the strengthening and expansion of
Municipal Offices for Women and Gender Equality, with the
order to promote equal participation in policy
local development.

Michelle Bachelet Government Programme 2014-2018

We will promote the design and implementation of the National System
Care, who will take care of two central problems. On the one hand,
traditional concentration of multitasking care
women, a situation incompatible with their increasing participation
in paid work. On the other, of an insufficient supply and
dispersed public care services, subsidized or private
with large differences in quality depending on the economic capacity
the families. In an aging country, care of both people
older as of prostrate sick, disabled and children and
children, becomes a priority for the state and society.

the significant increase in children's nurseries and gardens, which
ensure the provision of quality education for kindergarten
children.
Measures will have balanced participation of women
and men in Congress, the directives of political parties,
public institutions in management and directory charges
companies with state participation in the cabinet
and regional governments; develop outreach programs
rights and a National Fund to support initiatives to strengthen
partnership and leadership of women. Additionally,
incorporate affirmative action for female recruitment
in selection policies Senior Management System
Public.

We will promote policies to strengthen the autonomy of the
women. This includes a law on sexual and reproductive rights
according to the realities and choices for people; sex education
secular humanist in schools; access to sexual health services
and reproductive; effective contraceptive methods,
including emergency contraception; and decriminalizing
voluntary termination of pregnancy in case of danger of life
mother, rape or non-viability of the fetus.

We face major barriers to access
women to the workplace, developing programs
education and job training, to support entrepreneurship, to
dental health and extended hours in nurseries, gardens and
schools.

Will strengthen policies to prevent violence,
doubling the current Shelters and increasing centers
of women in the districts with the highest rates of violence.
Within the first 100 days of government will detail where
They will implement these 24 new foster homes. Create a
only record of violence against women and femicide
and advance in the specialization of prosecutors and judges. Also
We expand the concept of sexual harassment to the educational field.
Modify the current Domestic Violence Act incorporating
all kinds of violence, not only that we live in
families or between spouses.

Regarding the link with the education system will reinstall
in teacher training, curricula and texts
school, axes and educational guidelines to modify
practices and gender stereotypes and promoting respect for
sexual diversity. Additionally, we will evaluate, we will design and
implement human rights programs with focus
gender equality throughout the school year, along with establishing
the most appropriate institutions within the Ministry of
Education, to protect and assist, in other themes, students
and students affected by discriminatory practices. Fiscalizaremos
compliance and support continuing education
of pregnant teenagers and mothers and will be implemented
programs to prevent child abuse in public gardens
and private.

Strengthen the enforcement of existing rules against
gender discrimination in the workplace, revise the law
of equal pay to make it effective, we will delete
rules that prevent real autonomy of women in relation
their economic rights and promote reform law
the conjugal partnership, currently approved in the House of
Deputies.

We will create a comprehensive program of Quality of Life and Self-Care
Women consider more timely access and better
access to preventive care in physical and mental health,
recreational programs, self-care, culture and sports in the
communes. Also in the field of quality of life, we will promote
in the current housing policy mechanisms that facilitate the
equal access of men and women to public subsidies.

As noted in chapter Working foster a reform
the regime of nurseries for children of workers,
will ensure no discrimination against workers and include the
responsibility in the upbringing, eliminating the traditional bias
genre of the current labor legislation. This policy will complement

169

PEOPLES
INDIGENOUS

INDIGENOUS PEOPLES

We want everyone to Chile Indigenous Peoples
including fully. We look at our history, what
we have done well, what is pending and what to
to correct. A new relationship should be based not only
on individual rights but also the rights
groups of Indigenous Peoples, with a proposal
real participation and overcoming all forms of
marginalization, racism and discrimination. We recognize as well
the Chilean state and society held a debt
historic. We have not achieved their full recognition and
so we have great challenges ahead.

the recognition and effective implementation of the
Rights of Indigenous Peoples in Chile. We have
ahead to recognize the urgent challenge
constitutionally Indigenous Peoples in the
framework of the discussion of a new constitution for
Chile, and debate around a new way of living together as
multicultural society. This idea refers to the existence
in a territory with different cultures. The bottom
is that these cultures are related, that is not only
share a common space, but develop a
exchange and mutual influence.

At the beginning of the Government, we will announce a detailed
Agenda for the Development of Indigenous Peoples, which
It will include, among others, the areas of education, health,
land and productive development.

Indigenous Peoples and society in general will
key players in this debate. We analyze
together the best form of participation
Indigenous peoples in their own destiny and the country.

The four pillars on which base the
Indian policy of the next government are:

On a path of peace, dialogue and understanding.

The lack of recognition of indigenous rights has
led to a deep crisis in the relationship Peoples
our society and the state, we all regret
deeply. We will correct this situation and errors
committed in the past and the task reemprenderemos
rebuild trust, away from repression and
violence. We find a way of understanding with
desire for dialogue and justice. We consider very
Important recommendations Rapporteurs
United Nations and other international organizations
who they have examined the reality of Indigenous Peoples
our country and have made important instructions,
especially in relation to situations of tension and
conflict.

The Chilean State has obligations to be
comply. It is a duty of the State of Chile to implement

treaties it has ratified on rights
Indigenous Peoples and adapt its legislation to
It is consistent with these standards and develop a new
indigenous rights-based policy.
The new indigenous policy will be based on the framework
international rights guaranteed to the People
Indigenous they can provide, the better way
political, economic, social and development relevance
cultural. In that sense we implement
in
fully the ILO Convention 169 and assume the
unfinished tasks and new challenges, including:
assume the defense of the language of Indigenous Peoples
and recognition of its authorities; improve their
living conditions, to support its economy and productivity;
protect their cultural practices and traditional medicine;
consolidate the free expression of their beliefs and their
spirituality; promote better and more spacious
political, social and cultural participation, respecting
autonomy and self-determination and extending their
political rights. The hallmark of the next decade should be

Building together a new relationship for
improving the quality of life, both
rural indigenous communities to
urban indigenous population. Respect
Rights of Indigenous Peoples and their
Natural resources. Indigenous peoples have

right to decide on the use of their land and places
where they live. We will promote an effective policy
respect of urban Indians. Look in
set the best use of natural resources

172

Michelle Bachelet Government Programme 2014-2018

We send a bill with immediate discussion,
conferred the rank of Minister of Indian Affairs
the Director of the Conadi. But this is the first step.
To be stronger this institution will be sent
Congress the bill that creates the Ministry
of Indian Affairs, who is also the manager
to collaborate with the President in the
definition of an indigenous policy in Chile. Beside
this, we send the bill that creates the Council
Indigenous, autonomous and representative Peoples
various peoples that exist in Chile. The Council shall
have advisory and problem-solving functions and ensure
duly represented by Peoples, among other subjects.
This initiative will be consultation with indigenous peoples.

to benefit the country and with respect for the rights of
indigenous peoples. This is point our gaze
towards a model of life that integrates different visions
on development, on the environment and on
economy. No doubt a key issue in this
Matter is the right to participation and consultation
Indigenous peoples. To this end, we must rethink
and review the issue of consultation and consensus in a
participatory process with the people and their leaders,
mechanisms that best represent their rights
from processes already underway.
The proposals are organized into four areas, which are
described below.

Political, legislative and
institutional

Will adapt current regulatory frameworks
applicable to the rules of Convention 169, so as to ensure
their proper implementation and respect. This includes
review and possible modification, with consulted the
general regulations for consultation in the approval process
as far as the new regulation system
Environmental Impact Assessment recently
force, in order to meet both instruments
effectively with the standards of Convention 169.
In addition, a funding mechanism will be assessed
these consultation processes.

We will ensure the full participation of the People
Indians in the entire process of discussion and decision on
A new constitution, bearing in mind the idea
a multicultural state that guarantees their rights
groups.
We will conduct a consultation process with the Peoples
Indigenous to ensure political participation
these at different levels of decision making.
We develop a consultation process with the Peoples
Indigenous to establish reforms that generate spaces
autonomy and self-determination at regional level
by generating Special Statutes
Autonomy.

We study and implement, in consultation with
indigenous peoples, procedures and initiatives
to effectively protect natural resources and
economic rights of indigenous peoples.

Policy Indigenous Land and Water

Foster a new indigenous institutions that
collect historical experience of organizations such as Conadi
and the Indian Act and to raise the standard of relationship
Indigenous Peoples with the State. Indeed,
Indigenous affairs have been in charge of the Conadi a
institution that is a subsidiary corporation of a
Ministry, which weakens their actions. We need
give a different status to such an important issue for
Chile. Therefore, in the first 100 days in office

Besides generating Special Statutes
Territorial autonomy and local level, it provides greater
hierarchy Indigenous Development Areas (ADI) to
through a new and better planning.
We study alternative mechanisms to purchase

173

land to meet outstanding claims.
Compliance be given to the land restitution process
indigenous and resources are provided to protect
Peoples' rights over their lands and resources
ancestral. All the commitments will be respected
land purchases made with accompaniment
technical and productive communities.
The location of his land be given special consideration
prosecutors currently occupying Indigenous Peoples
and whose transfer is still pending. They will study the
complaints about pollution and problems
environmental impact currently affecting many
indigenous lands to object to adopt measures
corresponding mitigation.

Reforms of public order and
defense of human rights
Indigenous Peoples

We are strongly committed to the non-application of the
Terrorism Act to members of Indigenous Peoples
for acts of social demand. The Terrorism Act
It will be modified to conform to the standards
international, as they have recommended to the State
Chile international protection bodies
human rights.
A committee of representative personalities
Chilean society and indigenous examine court cases

Michelle Bachelet Government Programme 2014-2018

that they have occurred as a result of the application of
This law, investigate allegations of violence and abuse
police against indigenous communities, particularly
Mapuche and Rapa Nui and especially with regard to children and
Mapuche girls; and give special attention to families
Indians and smallholders affected by
stressful situations experienced in the Region
Araucanía. The Commission shall, within 6
months formed the new government, measures
and recommendations necessary to address all these
situations appropriately and with respect for
international human rights standards.

Under the Education Reform, will be encouraged
the implementation of intercultural education
all Chileans to ensure integration
content on indigenous history and worldview
all education so that our students
are aware of and respect for the value of the
culture of indigenous peoples to develop
Chile. Particularly important will be the expansion of
indigenous kindergartens. It promotes the creation
Indigenous Cultural Institutes and strengthen the
Indigenous scholarship program for higher education.
We implement a Rural Development Programme
Indian, which considers the areas of integral development
indigenous communities and the development of supply
public sector culturally relevant.

The Ombudsman will have among its competencies
the defense of indigenous rights. They will be strengthened and
efforts will extend training and education
human rights of law-enforcement and
the judiciary for the proper performance of its
functions.

It will be given special impetus to policies related to
Health intercultural programs through initiatives
recognition and promotion according to the
recommendations of the World Health Organization
(WHO).

Sectoral Policies

Resume the Urban Indian National Consultation,
developed during 2007, and will promote, on a
fully participatory process, an effective policy
regarding urban indigenous, aimed at strengthening
cultural practices and identity, spaces
ceremonial, intercultural health and entrepreneurship
Indian. Also we develop programs
tend to improve and strengthen their
productive and artistic abilities. Public policy
urban Indian will have a national character.

The transverse dimension introducing guarantee
Indian public policy, to be studied
and implement methodologies and changes
institutions that make it possible to meet this
objective. This is essential to give relevance
Indian ministerial plans and programs,
and adapting them according to flexibilizándolos
characteristics of each region and indigenous people.

175

CHILDREN AND
YOUTH

CHILDREN
victims of sexual crimes, a commission shall constitute
all competing institutions on crime
sexual offenses against children and adolescents, in order
to reconcile a process which governed by interests
Child, let turn all agencies comply with the
the law mandates them.

The next government will place the center of its policies
Children held in public, creating a comprehensive protection system
which will benefit the lives of about 4 million people
under 18.
Comprehensive protection of the rights of children is a
essential to overcome inequality based. We must put
the center of our public policies Children. Create
the National Council for Children to be responsible for the
coordination of agencies with jurisdiction in matters
related and assume the responsibility to promote reform
regulatory and institutional, which inspired a new relationship
State with children, founded on respect for their
rights.

In addition, we dotaremos the Legal Medical Service Unit
Mobile Forensics for each Region and Forensic Hospital Units
in the regional capitals, in order to improve
timeliness and quality of expertise, factors affecting
secondary victimization experienced by children victims of
sexual offenses.
Eliminate the waiting list of children as SENAME
judiciary to improve enforcement of protective measures
issued by the Family Courts.

We send a draft Law on Protection of the
Rights of Children and Adolescents legal framework
recognition of all rights enshrined in the
Convention on the Rights of the Child and establishment of guarantees
all children and adolescents without discrimination
a. Mechanisms be established enforceability
rights. This Act repeals the current Minors Act, No. 16,628.

The Child Advocacy Program is responsible for representing
adequately the rights of children and adolescents
in judicial proceedings, for which it will review the situation
justice of thousands of children in residential care. For other
part, in criminal matters, may be partly as complainant
in the prosecution of crimes affecting children in the
residential systems, helping to reduce victimization
secondary in the penal system, avoiding judicial outcomes
unsatisfactory for children.

This new legal framework will involve reforming the following
instruments: Law No. 20,032, strengthening the powers
State for effective and efficient action on
and special protection; SENAME transformed the Service
National Child Protection under the Ministry
Social Development and Law No. 19,620 dictating rules
adoption of children. Adoption current law presents
Empty disputed that put the interests of children and other
interests.

Also strengthen areas of everyday life
the children. This is relevant to the population, marking the
universal character of the State's concern for children
and adolescence, recognizing the responsibility of supporting the
family in their primary role of welfare and development officer
of children. The measures proposed in this
field are: define a policy Strengthening
Parental ability of the family; strengthen Subsystem
Child Protection Chile Grows with You; strengthen the
social participation and advocacy capacity of children and
adolescents in the community, neighborhood or other contexts field,
Y; program will create a generation of urban spaces
for children: playroom, library, media library, spaces
school activities and recreational spaces outside.

In this way, we will create the Code of Children. Tool
Legal which will integrate all the wealth of dispersed laws
matters relating to children and adolescents, harmonizing
the Law on Protection of Rights and conventions
international childhood.
They are addressed with urgency infringements
rights of children from institutional practices.
To reduce secondary victimization experienced by children

178

Michelle Bachelet Government Programme 2014-2018

YOUTH
Open more opportunities for young people is one of the shafts
development of the next government. Being young often means lacking
something: the ability to be heard by authorities and leaders; experience
finding a job; support networks to realize a project or
notion; assertiveness to convince others that things can be done
differently. A country that does not trust his youth is doomed to
anquilosarse in their practices and visions.

Volunteers work in all regions of the country, in summer season and
winter. For the success of the initiative a coordinated effort is required between
educational institutions, student organizations and municipalities
and other local organizations to help identify the needs of
destination locations.
As noted in the chapter on Public Safety, we will review the law 20,000
giving knowledge of the faults considered in this standard to
Local Police Courts. Establish by regulation the determination
drug levels to be regarded as constituting micro traffic
and, consequentially, one that it is able to carry a person
for personal consumption. Additionally, the regulation considers
marijuana in Schedule 1) among the most dangerous drugs.

We will strengthen public institutions, so that the Institute
Youth (INJUV) can make an effective policy coordination
multisectoral, and create at the Ministry of Social Development, a
Undersecretary of Youth. At the same time, must be responsible INJUV
the implementation of public policies, programs, plans and projects
designed for youth.

The INJUV promote the creation of youth structures in all municipalities
and will sign performance agreements, participatory available funds
and will implement youth programs with different structures
municipalities, with the aim of developing local issues and challenges
national on youth.

Young people will be priority objectives for policies on education, health,
culture, sports and training. Indeed, the education reform is
one of the three structural reforms of this program, with a special
emphasis on general education and higher education. In health, they are set
special youth programs in dental field. In culture
put special emphasis on access to training young people in different
artistic expressions, as well as access to the enjoyment of culture. In sports
They will be implemented multiple measures that benefit mainly
to young people, such as construction and orientation of activity
sports centers to educational institutions centers. In the area
training, young people are a priority group, implemented
massive training programs.

In an alliance with SERNATUR, significantly expand coverage
study tours program in middle school to municipal schools.
With that stimulates tourism low season dates, at a time that is
It provides an opportunity for vulnerable youth access to know your country.
We will create a fund that will finance 1,000 projects annually and
for young people throughout the country. Should take special care systems
of application, so that no bias is generated against youth
most vulnerable, who may have more difficulty raising their
projects. It will motivate you to apply to the Fund's network of alumni center
nationwide, youth clubs, youth NGOs and other organizations in
which young people participate.

In addition to these policies, we will develop a program
to provide specific assistance to vulnerable young people who neither work nor
They are studying and are outside any system of protection or political
public. Furthermore, in the workplace, we will promote work practices
professional and technical service in the public areas, with possibilities
career in public service and continuing studies.

The use of a new card will be young with a strong increase
activities and associated benefits, giving value and meaning of
Membership in this group. We will seek to achieve coverage 4m
youth, regardless of their economic status, struggling
focused on distribution to vulnerable youth.

We will also promote citizen participation of young people,
encouraging them to join organizations of their commune and stimulating
the creation of centers of students and introducing the theme of participation
and civic culture in educational establishments.

To sweeten the card, it will coordinate with program suppliers
promoting the use of empty seats of various artistic expressions,
cultural and sports. The goal is to deliver across the country in the months of
January, February and July (summer and winter) a total of 500,000
free tickets. For this public bidding will be held ticket
low cost and agreements with cultural and sports organizations will be made.

We will create a national volunteer program permanent,
linkage with society, developed by young people, students and
Professional addressing multisectoral issues. This type of program
It generates positive empathy between state agencies and youth
organized, and linked specifically to the needs of the country way. For
students in higher education, implement the realization of

179

DISABILITY

DISABILITY

The construction of the system of social protection in Chile
It has been based on ensuring rights to all
Chileans who are against vulnerabilities
less chance of development and inclusion
social. So far, the actions have been directed to
families most vulnerable through
programs such as Chile Solidario, Chile Grows with You,
Join the recent Ethics and Reform own
Pension.

common. It adds that the National Service
Disability (SENADIS) lacks the powers
sufficient to coordinate, promote and monitor the
inclusion of persons with disabilities and
respect for their rights.
Establish public institutions will be a priority.
We will create the Secretariat for Disability, which
transversely will push the issue, taking as
axis and integration needs of people with
disabilities and their families.

Advance social protection from a focus
of rights is an unavoidable commitment under
new realities that shape new situations
vulnerability.

We will create a Presidential Advisory Commission that
participatory, develop a national plan for
addressing Disability and Mental Health Care.
This commission will have a transversal approach
inclusion, also considering aspects of
urban infrastructure and labor inclusion policies,
among others. We take out a second study
national disability that allows to have at the end of
2014, a comprehensive strategy for the next 10 years
the subject of disability and mental health. She must have
with the assessments and proposals of the Ministries of
Health, Education, Transport and Telecommunications, of
Social Development, Labour and Social Welfare, Housing
and Planning and the National Disability Service.

In Chile, more than 2 million people have some form
disability, of which more than a million have
physical disability. In one in three Chilean households
a disabled person lives, associated with situations
dependency and poverty. Only half of the people
with disabilities have completed basic education and
71% of people with disabilities makes no
type of paid work. Moreover, in recent
years there has been a large gap in access to services
rehabilitation of people with disabilities.
As a country we are to be in compliance with the
commitments in the framework of the "International Convention
on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities "and
Optional Protocol, ratified by our country in 2008.

In the workplace, we incorporate a focus
inclusion in regular programs SENCE, FOSIS,
SERCOTEC and others, whereas people with
disabilities are the most significant vulnerable group
actually. Strengthen the system work
Labor Intermediation allocating the necessary resources
that will address how relevant processes
job placement for people at
disabilities and their municipal building programs
productive.

To make real progress on greater inclusion, we must
take it as a collective task and carry it forward
from a comprehensive perspective.
The State does not have the necessary institutional framework for
address this issue, being held mainly
of non-profit institutions, without a focus

182

Michelle Bachelet Government Programme 2014-2018

Will adapt the selection processes and regulations
hiring in the public sector for services
conform to the provision of preferential access to the
people with disabilities to the administration
public, ending with situations of discrimination and
exclusion.

We establish a deadline for the evaluation
disability by the Medical Committee
Preventive and Disability (COMPIN) of Health Services.
Generate a national plan of dementias (Alzheimer)
and the gradual creation of 15 pilot centers of attention
(Day centers, one per region) and devices
specialized technical dependence of COSAM
communes, working in primary care network.

In education, we will address the needs
from early childhood education to ensure access
children with disabilities at this level of education
strengthening capacities of the public system of rooms
nurseries and gardens. We review and improve
operation of school integration projects
basic and intermediate levels to reorient actions
the multidisciplinary and interdisciplinary teams to
most relevant requirements of students with
different needs.

Strengthen rehabilitation services 4
regional hospitals, according to macrozones that
would advance them equal access to the
population throughout the country, especially population
adult.
FONASA incorporate the tariff and coverage
private insurance benefits Therapists
Occupational. Increase the number of scholarships
training programs for medical specialists
Rehabilitation and Physical and Technical Ortoprotesistas.
GES evaluate the incorporation of rehabilitation
post cerebrovascular accident (CVA) as principal
cause of acquired disability in adults.
In addition, we will study the regulation of condition
preexisting in health insurance when people
longer disabled or are hired and load
They must contribute directly, to avoid losing
benefits of their previous health program.

We will ensure the elimination of barriers
to higher education for students with disabilities
and increase the number of technical aids for
University students.

In the area of ​​health, we will promote Health Network
Community Mental, based on a network of devices
territorial character as part of the general health network
from the Community Mental Health Centers
(COSAM).
We incorporate coverage of orthotic and prosthetic
health insurance, by type of Warranty

We evaluate the incorporation of universal examination
called "newborn hearing screening," which
includes newborns in the country. The evaluation should
consider the diagnostic stage, amplification and
follow-up therapy.

Explicit Health (GES), making the transfer from the
SENADIS to MINSAL of technical aids, eliminating
current application processes.

183

EQUALITY AND NOT
DISCRIMINATION
AND PARTICIPATION
AND INCLUSION

EQUALITY AND NON-DISCRIMINATION
A more inclusive and less unequal country is a country that
values ​​diversity, promoting and ensuring
equal rights for all. Build Chile
Todos is unthinkable without an unconditional commitment
the eradication of all forms of discrimination and
whether for reasons of race or ethnicity, nationality, situation
socioeconomic, language, ideology or political opinion,
religion or belief, union membership or participation in
trade organizations, sex, sexual orientation,
gender identity, disability, disease, condition
civil, age, affiliation or personal appearance.

Dotaremos the National Institute of Human Rights
capacities to promote and coordinate the implementation
the principle of equality before the law and non-discrimination,
so that efforts made by the State in this regard
They are coordinated and efficient, maximizing resources
exalting public and, ultimately, to diversity as
a social virtue.
We will ensure and deliver the support for
work properly mandatory programs
prevention of discrimination in the whole system
School, including training teachers and assistants
education.

Equality and non-discrimination is but respect for
Human rights in all their dimensions and eradicate
infringements requires cultural changes without
beyond doubt a government. This country is a task that
You must commit to all. The commitment
New Majority aims to lay the foundations of a society
that respects the difference just ensuring
equal rights to all.

On the legislative front, we will promote a reform of the Law
20,609, non-discrimination, responding to demand
Cross organizations of civil society
They intervened in its processing, so that it is not
simply reduced to the consecration of an action
court, but that duty is established for State
to develop public policies against discrimination,
affirmative action in favor of groups historically
discriminated against and remedies.

In this context, the drafting of a new Constitution
Políticaofrece an excellent opportunity to boost
the cultural change that involves eradicating
discrimination from a policy perspective, being
It is the foundation on which our system is structured
political, social coexistence and legitimacy of laws.

Along with this, we will evaluate an initiative against the
I hate, that includes all categories
established in the current law of non-discrimination.

Immediately we will enforce the law
in effect forcing each of the bodies
State administration in the areas of
competition, to develop and implement policies
to ensure to all persons the enjoyment and
exercising their rights and freedoms recognized by
the Constitution, laws and international treaties
ratified by Chile. This will manifest itself in
concrete steps to move forward in this direction and that is
reflect a symbolic, institutional, legal and political level
public.

We will promote legislative reforms to ensure the
full respect for the rights of people who are
part of the Gender and Sexual Diversity in the framework of
international treaties signed by our country,
including:

Equal marriage: convene a debate
open, with broad participation for the development and
then sending a bill on this matter.
Act gender identity transgender people

They are probably one of the groups found in
most vulnerable in our society. TO
Following the discrepancy between his legal name and identity
gender barriers have basic access to the world
labor, victims of situations of discrimination
and violation of fundamental rights. We will promote

And we will develop monitoring mechanisms
so that the focus is properly inclusion
incorporated into the design, implementation and evaluation
policies and programs.

186

Michelle Bachelet Government Programme 2014-2018

processing the gender identity law, which
still pending, responding to the need for
legally enshrine the right to gender identity,
and establishing a judicial procedure, according to
International standards supported by our country,
allow trans people bring their name and sex
registration according to their own gender identity.

Administratively we will ensure access to
social programs for all family types.
We develop an educational program at national level
training and prevention of all forms of discrimination,
developed and implemented in a participatory manner
with representatives of civil society, containing
prevention strategies, promotion and protection of
human rights as a whole.

Participation and Inclusion
The invitation of the project is the New Majority
participate to transform and carry out reforms
allowing deep defeat the enormous inequality
existing in our country. In this regard, one of the
areas where Chileans now living this
Inequality is also the time to participate in decision
making.

You will have the task of disseminating and promoting the right
citizen participation and oversight for
public bodies are adequately discharging their
obligations in this area. The Council will consist
representatives of Citizenship and the Executive, and
coordinate a comprehensive system for Citizen Participation
which will form part of each Council of Society
Civil created under the wing of the law 20,500. Will be present
regional in the territory to ensure, inter alia,
Citizenship decentralized processes.

Take further measures to strengthen and give
both institutional and political participation
citizen participation in public management,
ensuring that we all have the same right
to influence decisions that affect us without any
of arbitrary discrimination. Our Government will integrate
transversely focus of citizen participation
all sectoral public policy. We will start
to review and strengthen institutions and mechanisms
existing citizen participation (Law 20,500)
on partnership and citizen participation in the
governance, Law on Municipalities and neighborhood,
improving standards and developing programs
strengthen one steward and exercising citizenship
proper social control.

The Council will have as one of its functions design
and implementation, together with organizations
territorial, functional and civil society in general,
a regular annual report that results
an Index of Citizen Participation account the
progress and difficulties in the field, as well as disseminating
of good practice.
We will design and implement participatory manner
Comprehensive Strategy to Strengthen Company
Civil, which implies a redefinition of objectives,
the amounts and forms of Fund allocation
Strengthening Public Interest Organizations.

We review and will refine the design, implementation and
evaluation of the mechanisms of citizen participation
Today existing programs and policies
sector at all stages, including those who
conducted by the Environmental Assessment Service.

We will create a Division of Citizen Participation
the SEGEGOB, so as to provide adequate follow
and enforcement of ministerial goals
participation matters.

Pointing to that participation be carried forward
with a focus on rights and transversely,
We create a Council for Public Participation and
Strengthening Civil Society, which relates
with the Ministry General Secretariat of Government. East

And the social and neighborhood leaders are actors
fundamental in our democracy and in general
community life. Promote programs that
strengthen their leadership and recognize their work.

187

ADULTS
MAJOR

OLDER ADULTS
The aging of the Chilean population is accelerated and
additionally they have grown strongly segments
seniors older. More and more Chileans
Barrier exceed 80 years.
The group of 75 and over is the fastest growing way
proportional and more affected by diseases
which they result in chronic loss
functionality, autonomy and situation that comes
finally dependence.
In Chile there are about 400,000 seniors
with some degree of mild, moderate or severe dependence,
ie requiring another person to perform one or
most basic activities of daily living, most have
more than 75 years and are predominantly women.
This large and growing age group has today
pressing demands on pensions, health,
policies of care for people with problems
dependency, recreation and culture, as well as other
social benefits.
This software includes important announcements to
older adults in health, particularly
in the prevention of chronic non-
communicable diseases, which affect the quality of life of this
age group. Among other measures, implement
a prevention program for adults at risk of
developing diabetes or high blood pressure, which generate
healthy eating habits, physical activity and
stress management. We establish programs aimed at
autovalencia maintain and prevent the sedentary, the
depression and isolation boost their levels
dependence and prostration.
On pensions was established that as
reform the tax system is approved, will be
advance possible changes to both the amount of
pension coverage and pension system
Solidarity, established in 2008.
Notwithstanding the above, we know that many adults
elders have lost the benefit of winter bonus,

Michelle Bachelet Government Programme 2014-2018

Product minimal change in their income. Therefore, in
the first 100 days of government pay back the Bonus
Winter to those seniors who have lost,
without having undergone significant modifications to
their socioeconomic conditions. Additionally, there
pensioners who lost the benefit of the Board
Basic Solidarity (PBS) without any apparent reason.
They pay back their payments if their situation PBS
socioeconomic has not changed.

We need to add a new component to the system
social protection, the National System of Care,
focused on social services in care. It
It includes both the empowerment of people
larger, and the systematic and continuous support
who they are in situations of dependency.
Tele assistance and support will be provided
home to functionally independent people, and support
to adapt their homes to special needs
security and deployment.

Additionally, we evaluate and implement one
regulations permitting to extend the allowance
death to all seniors who have
PBS and beneficiaries of APS with zero balance in your account
individually.

For adults over high dependency on
situation of abandonment, a public network will be established
establishments with a system of care that integrates
benefits and pension system
public health, together with other care needed. They
15 facilities put into operation, one in
each region, with the aim of having a public offering
secured and set the standard of care for this
population. During the first 100 days of Government,
identify the geographical location of the establishments
and the annual implementation plan.

In terms of recreation, we will extend the program
age third holiday more of
Consolidated beneficiaries and combine destinations
Emerging destinations in all regions of the country. Is
expansion will allow more than 220,000 seniors
this significant part of public policy.
Transportation and evaluate the implementation of
subsidies for the elderly in the systems
different regions.

The current regime is also regularized residences
long stay for seniors and will be a
compulsory registration of these centers and who provide
home care services. Those who provide this
such services must comply with new regulations
to establish quality standards and attention to
ensure that people under their responsibility are
adequately protected and safe.

However, people in situation of total dependence
or part will continue to grow at a strong pace in the
coming decades, as a result of a combination
Demographic, medical and social factors. Until now,
the care they require seniors have been
provided by relatives, mostly women,
as part of a traditional role. But the incorporation of
these to work, the questioning and modification
the traditional roles of men and women, along with
changes in traditional family models have generated
the need to find a way this necessary
social function is assumed responsible manner, and
it rests in a discriminatory manner only on them.
The situation becomes more acute when needs
forcing an older person who would care to stop
work, reducing family income and often
Family condemning the marginalization and poverty.

We advance in the recognition of the rights of
Elderly. In each region there will be a center that will offer
public, free care quality for people
elderly who they are abandoned, without family,
avoiding falling into destitution. In addition,
We will have National Drug Fund,
a public network of centers for adults
seniors, a general policy of respect for their rights
and promoting, healthy, active life with spaces
recreation, access to culture and integrated into society.

191

AVANCEMOS TOGETHER TOWARDS ALL CHILE

This government program is more than a sum of
measures ordered by areas. It's a look on
Chile currently being experienced on the big
challenges we face to make our country a
nation with prosperity, with growth, progress,
with entrepreneurship and opportunities for all and
all. A country without inequality. A country with participation
citizens with decent housing, integrated neighborhoods,
friendly cities. A country girl without abuse or letter. A
country more powerful and autonomous regions. A country
that respects its people in all their diversity. A
country where we all know that we are important. A
country to be his people and that gives you a better life.
That is the challenge we want to do with all
you. That is the horizon that encourages us. That's the country
we want and we are called to build. Together.
For this collective dream a reality, not only
we need a government program. We must go
Beyond this program; we must understand that, as
essential as having a roadmap, is to have the
joint will that this ship is important to us and we
commits all comes to fruition. And will not
It is voluntarism. Will is the permanent disposition to
build, to listen to different actors. It is also
opening for many and many and join
are part of the decisions that we take and
solutions. Is cooperating in the certainty that our
Differences make us more diverse, we fortalecen.Que
we have a common destiny calls us and invites us
to pass over individual advantages, to build
a society for all. You trust each other and
care that confidence among everyone from the audit, the
citizen control, dialogue and transparency.
This is a time in our history that demands
the best of each of us. Why? Because it is
a defining moment in which we can choose

192

Michelle Bachelet Government Programme 2014-2018

as a country make the great leap we need to grow
including, to include growing. Why can not we
waste this opportunity. And also because this task
is not easy. Because there who have no interest in that
the current situation will change, who do not want to give up
the privileges of inequality that hinder
development of our society. Because some see
immediate advantages in this inequality, abuse and
the lack of opportunities for millions of Chileans and
Chilean.

This program ensures that changes the country
It requires occur. No more time to waste. The
implementation of the measures included in this
program requires that people are at the center of
work of the government.
This program requires us to enhance the value of service
engaging public and best in tasks
We carry forward. That is the good governance that
Chileans expect. It is the good governance
our economy needs to make the leap to take us
to inclusive development.

None of this should make us doubt. The future is good.
A country with more education, more knowledge, with
decent employment, more equitable integration of
genre, with more dignity, more and more health protection
social is also a country where you can take a
reliable country. It is a country that knows how to dialogue, is a country
which provides tools to all its inhabitants and
also it promotes competitiveness, innovation,
productivity, sustainable growth. It is a country that
It grows and enlarges in every way.

The changes included in this program
They need to be accompanied by other changes. Changes
in relations between government and citizens.
Changes in relationships between men and women,
employers and employees, between neighbors. They are
spaces confidence we need to do
things right, right and meaningful future.
This is the beginning of a new political and social cycle.
It belongs to a candidate or a political group
determined: it belongs to an entire country and especially
its people, which is what makes it go. And it is
because time is pressing us, we should start
this way soon.

It is an important task, which requires us to be at the
height.
Our commitment to citizens and citizens'
It is to make this objective we have built between
everyone, the first term of the Government of the
New Majority. And we will responsibly, with
governance.

We know what the tasks are. We have proposed a
way to address contained in this program. But
the greatest achievements of a country built alongside
citizens.

Four years is a short time for the magnitude of the challenge.
Some changes must implement immediately,
others will be launched. This is the beginning of a
transformer long-term project. We are talking
to make the necessary changes in the development model
which has had Chile that should guide our
efforts as a country for decades to come.

This is the invitation. This is commitment.
Only the certainty and confidence of a common destiny,
a common desire and a common effort will be
able to realize the Chile All we deserve
and love.

193
