1

CONTENT
SOCIAL COHESION ................................................................................................................................
A country with fairness and opportunity for all .......................................... ............................... 8
Without education, there is no peace or progress .......................................... ..............................................eleven
Health quality vida........................................................................................................16
A country with decent jobs ........................................................................................................20
Reducing poverty and protecting the most vulnerable ......................................... .............. 22
Women with equal opportunities ............................................. ........................................ 26
Children and Adolescents Equal Opportunity ......................................... .......... 31
Ethnic Communities Equal Opportunity ............................................ .................. 32
DEMOCRATIC SECURITY .................................................................................................................
Security Nacional.......................................................................................................................34
Security Ciudadana....................................................................................................................34
Our Agenda Seguridad......................................................................................................35
Our proposed Public Safety ............................................. .................................. 36
Justice ..........................................................................................................................................38
Agenda to work all for a Drug Free Society ........................................ ........ 38
Our Agenda for Peace and Reconciliation ............................................ ........................................ 41
Our Agenda Justicia..........................................................................................................44
CONFIDENCE INVERSIONISTA................................................................................................................
A strong and confident economy for investment ........................................ .............. 48
Trade and Entrepreneurship ........................................................................................................49
Competitive Infrastructure ..........................................................................................................52
A mining and energy sector as the engine of development .......................................... .................. 53
Recognition of the agricultural sector as the primary factor of economic development and
Social Colombiano ........................................................................................................................55
Culture, creative economy and technology as pillars of progress ........................................ ....... 58
Austere, EFFICIENT STATE AND CITIZEN PARTICIPATION ........................................... ...........
Austere State ..............................................................................................................................65
State Efficient - (Running policies focused on sustainable long term not
by the short-sighted politician circumstantial and handling) .......................................... ................. 65
A modern foreign policy ......................................................................................................66
Near Government - Community Participation ............................................. ............................ 67

2

GOVERNMENT PROGRAM
SIDE OF COLOMBIAN

Colombia is a country full of history. A story that shows us that we can
face adversity, progress in the midst of storms and build future.
The history of my family is that Colombia's history. My parents had to face
many difficulties and never stopped dreaming of a better future for their children. They
They instilled the fight for ideas and ideals, knowing that in education and individual effort is
an engine of progress and recognize that only values ​​we can become better people and
contribute to the community.
My family taught me that we can not be conformists. We must think big, that
we can not be mediocre and that it is our duty to work to build a better country.
This campaign is not about me, it's about YOU. WHO ARE YOU IN
Next elections will define the future of a new generation.
Colombia deserves a new government because we tolerate NO policy is made
with patronage perks and not with ideas and projects to meet the needs
the most vulnerable.
Colombia deserves a new government because WE CAN NOT tolerate terrorism
make fun of our institutions and lead us to the triumph of impunity.
WE CAN NOT TOLERATE that education has been neglected for the past four years
within government priorities.
WE CAN NOT TOLERATE that the State is handled waste and popular dialogue is abandoned
fraternal, patient and full of genuine affection for the ordinary citizen.
WE CAN NOT TOLERATE that political parties are characterized by their malnutrition
ideological and patronage voracious and insatiable appetite.

3

WE CAN NOT TOLERATE that the middle class is strangled by a tax system
Inclement with employees who dream of higher education for their children, housing
own and a decent pension.
WE CAN NOT TOLERATE four years have passed and the reforms to the justice,
education, health and territorial finance have been forgotten by the fear of the great
established interests.
SIMPLY WE CAN NOT TOLERATE that the country is declining in
EDUCATION major global indices, business climate, competitiveness and
FIGHT AGAINST CORRUPTION. WE CAN NOT ALLOW RETURN TO COLOMBIA
TIMES distrust, insecurity, and inequality.
So this application is the result of many citizens who dream of a Colombia
different and we know we can achieve.
Our vision is very clear. The shield of Colombia shows the balance between freedom and
order. That spirit of allowing the exercise of individual freedoms, ensuring the order
social, it is the base of the Democratic Center.

SECURITY AS BASIS FOR PEACE AND FREEDOM
Security is for us an indispensable value. No freedom without security can
exercise. No Security free press, political opposition, trade union, there is no capacity
simply ideological expression and individual initiative.
Colombia has experienced the barbarity of terrorism and drug trafficking. Our collective bravely
faced with a policy of Democratic Security that joined the security forces and the
citizens to corner the executioners of the people who hide in false ideologies
to hide its true face criminal.
Le Security is the true path to peace. Peace is not on paper,
on a table or in a palatial agreement. True peace is the absence of fear and effective
operation of the rule of law.
So I believe in peace and not with the aim of a prize, not with the goal of enrolling my name
in the history books, let alone to differentiate myself from my predecessors. I believe in peace
that has no owners and sponsors, in peace without impunity, in peace without terrorism take
institutions, peace which is based on the sovereignty of the rule of law.
Peace can not be achieved with an agreement; peace will be achieved when every Colombian feels safe
because the state protects and guarantees their life and yet, when he feels internal security,
because he knows he has every opportunity to develop their dreams and potential.

4

Social cohesion as engine of progress
Social cohesion is the central objective of the project we propose to Colombia. We believe
in an equitable education from preschool education provides knowledge,
early stimulation and analytical rationing.
We believe in a single school day to ensure children and adolescents in schools
public adequate levels of nutrition. We believe in a society that dignifies the teacher
with pay, training and promotion based on merit. We believe in education
integrate academic education with technical training SENA do bilingualism
a seal of quality and to make sport and culture make a perfect addition to the
talent a source of wealth. And we believe in a society where all children, and
especially the poorest fulfill the dream of free access to higher education.
Our commitment to Colombia is based on a health service that will enable the poor to be
served with the best quality. To make prevention the basis of a healthy society well
fed, able to defeat the growing threat of heart disease.
We will work to integrate health service quality with appropriate compensation
professionals and employees in the sector, the easy access to drugs and the defeat of the
conglomerates that want to enrich at the expense of operating a service you deserve
above all the commitment to human dignity.
The Colombia by the thought that we want to work on providing housing solutions, not for
deliver improvised houses for electoral purposes, but to create cities where
Bring a decent home community education, health, recreation and sense
society.
The Colombia for which we work is committed to a prosperous country, insurance,
with quality services, dignified employment, investment, the balance between agribusiness and
smallholding, connectivity, access to credit and relevant education.
Our commitment is also based on attracting investment, promoting innovation,
entrepreneurship, creative industries, green growth and responsible with
biodiversity.
We work toward a society where women and minorities are true protagonists and
no cosmetic symbols of state propaganda. We will have a society where mothers
have a balance between work and family where domestic violence is confronted with
determination and where sexual minorities feel proudly supported by the
government.

A CHANCE TO CHANGE THE WAY TO MAKE POLICY
Friends: some believe that in Colombia can still talk to vote
tied to the strength of the clientele. Some believe that the Colombian people can
handle.
We make Colombia a proposal for social transformation because we want to change.
Because we believe in a politics of ideas, principles, high conviction. We are a
match with a youth caucus of senators and representatives, professionals outside the
5

traditional and motivated by partisan public service honor and duty structures
patriotic.
We have a steady hand to say no to the politics and big heart to give
opportunities for a new generation.
We have a steady hand to apply the law to terrorism and to give big heart
generous to the guerrilla reintegration.
We firmly reject patronage for hand and big heart to form agreements
where first the interests of the country.
You now have the choice between the politics of tradition and vocation policy.
Among the party elites or Colombia made freehand. Among demagoguery and principles
ideological. Among the triumph of impunity or peace with justice.
Therefore we offer to Colombia this manifesto for social transformation, full of ideas,
bankable, executable programs and capable of solving real problems
citizens. Our proposal for Colombia focuses on Social Cohesion, Security
Democratic investor confidence, citizen participation and an austere state. These
five elements are the fundamentals that will disseminate proudly throughout the territory
To achieve national Colombia with opportunities for all.
I invite you to make this show a tool of political education, to make
these proposals as a tool rejection mechanism politicking and power
sow hope.

COLOMBIA not give up. COLOMBIA not satisfied. COLOMBIA NOT WANT TO LOSE
Rumbo. COLOMBIA WANTS A NEW PRESIDENT. I WANT TO BE PRESIDENT OF THAT
COLOMBIA we dream, where together we're a team.

THANK YOU

6

7

A COUNTRY WITH FAIRNESS AND OPPORTUNITIES FOR ALL
The biggest challenge we have as a country is to build a true partnership of
opportunities. Our commitment is to ensure that over the next four years we set
the solid foundations of a true social transformation in Colombia. To achieve
we must ensure universal access to quality education and health and to ensure that our
social support networks effectively attend to the poor and we have to protect
the rights of our children, the cornerstone of our social policy.
If we can lower income people rely on the existence of a route
progress based on the opportunities for talent, discipline and strength permit
social promotion, we are creating a Colombia of equality. That is our duty.
For a country with equity and opportunities is important to address the needs of
our Colombian children, it began to make a characterization of the
nutritional status of young children. A proper development in our children requires
of the nutrients needed for growth, optimal early childhood development is
will result in stimulation, learning and health for them; elements that allow them to obtain a
better educational performance and quality of life.
According to ENSIN (National Survey of the Nutritional Situation in Colombia 2010)
1
chronic malnutrition for children under 5 years according to the WHO standards
2
It was 13.2%, underweight according to WHO standards also represented
3. 4%.
FIGURE 1. DELAY IN SIZE IN CHILDREN
And adolescents 5 to 17 years.

Source: ENSIN 2010.
1

Indicator that relates the size with age, and is mainly used to establish malnutrition
Children in children under 5 years. FAO.
2
Indicator of the proportion of children under age 5 whose weight is low relative to their age. FAO.
8

FIGURE 2. Overweight and obesity in stature in children,
And adolescents from 5 to 17 years.

Source: ENSIN 2010.

After reviewing the nutritional status of children and adolescents had to review a
indicator that tells us about the quality of our education. Currently results
Colombia in 2012 PISA tests are not encouraging, it ranked 61 among 65
evaluated. Recall that PISA tests measure skills students
Math, science and reading. For 2009 Colombia had held the position 52 of 65 countries
evaluated, but three years later found that the results of 2012 place us
in a lower position than we were, the students have not acquired
necessary skills to apply their knowledge and skills in solving
problems in the area of ​​mathematics, science and reading, this result is an indicator that
Colombia is worsening in the quality of education.
Bilingualism in the results are not good, in the English level index (EF EPI) to
2012, Colombia remained very low level, which means that the average ability
English adults in our country does not meet the standards required for averages
proficiency.

FIGURE 3. POSITION OF LATIN AMERICAN COUNTRIES
EPI through the ranks (2012).

Source: EF Inglés Proficiency Index 2012.

9

Faced with this, the gap becomes bigger when we differentiate between the results
measuring the level of English in official and unofficial schools.
4. SCORE CHART ENGLISH know 11
BY TYPE OF EDUCATIONAL ESTABLISHMENT.

Source: BANREP.

Facing the quality of education teachers have a crucial role to Colombia
moves forward in the field, to achieve this, it is necessary to strengthen the powers of
the same teachers and their working conditions so that they can pass on to their
students with the necessary knowledge and level of education in Colombia is improving.
Then we see in Figure 5, which according to the results of the tests Knowledge 11, the
higher percentage of graduates with level 30% lower entering Sciences education.

FIGURE 5. DISTRIBUTION OF RESULTS IN TESTS know 11
ENTRY TO INSTITUTIONS OF HIGHER EDUCATION BY AREA.

Source: Study After teaching excellence. Share Foundation.

10

Figure 6 indicates the difference in monthly income received by that teaching population
facing a population with other professions where it is evident that the teaching profession
generates less income.
FIGURE 6. MONTHLY INCOME (IN MILLIONS)
BY GENDER AND AGE.

Source: Study After teaching excellence. Share Foundation.

In reviewing the results of Census Citizenship Competencies Knowing 5th and 9th (2012), is
evidence a high rate of school violence. If we consider that is one of the causes of
dropout (approximately 13%) is necessary to have tools that we
help to restore the values ​​in the school population, respect for the other
3
person again be important in our society.

Without education, no peace or progress
FIGURE 7

3

Competence in Citizen Census (2012), he was in the 5th grade at the national level, the
37% of the evaluated students reported having been victims of school violence, and in the 9th grade
result was 32%. Additionally, in grade 5 53% reported having observed some kind of
school violence, and in the 9th grade fell to 65%. According to results presented by the ICFES.
eleven

To achieve a society where equity shine and opportunities, education must be
protagonist of social change and the great vehicle to take advantage of the demographic bonus with
young country, full of talent. A country reaches a quality education, with a hand
Widespread coverage is forming its citizens to let you know one
source of wealth. Today Colombia presents great challenges in Child Development
Early teaching quality, learning ability, desertion, low income to education
superior and a disconnect between academic and labor market demands.
Our proposal to make education the foundation of national development is based on the
following principles:
1. UNIVERSAL COVERAGE IN COMPREHENSIVE EARLY CHILDHOOD DEVELOPMENT: It is
demonstrated scientific, social and economically it more profitable for a company
It is investing in the development of children in their first five years of life, especially,
in its first 1,000 days. A Comprehensive Early Childhood program will facilitate
physical, language, cognitive and socio-emotional development. This will be achieved by its
survival, growth and development, school readiness and preparedness
life.
The allocation of capacity and skills development at an early age has an effect
notorious better life decisions for that individual. Comprehensive interventions
within five years they allow a better brain development, improving
and forward motor skills, more education, better salaries and more
productivity. Externalities have also demonstrated in its social context,
thus decreasing crime rates, teenage pregnancy and dependence
social programs.
To achieve universal coverage at integral development of early childhood
will implement the following actions:
•

COMPREHENSIVE CARE OF QUALITY IN EARLY CHILDHOOD FOR ALL 2.8
MILLION CHILDREN UNDER 5 YEAR THAT ARE IN COLOMBIA
POVERTY IN OUR FIELDS AND slums: Through different
schemes focus on child development centers, with mobile equipment and
Community Homes These children attend nutrition, physical development,
creative and highly qualified staff play as educators, workers
social and nutritionists. Special emphasis will be given to the mobile care areas
rural and remote of our ethnic communities.

•

Attention will be given 220 days of the year and 80% NUTRITION
REQUIRED FOR AGE: Over 11 months parents more
vulnerable in Colombia can count on government programs
will support in the care and development of their children.

•

QUALIFICATION TO 70 THOUSAND community mothers: We will ensure that
Community Mothers and not only receive the minimum wage, but through
get a degree of technical or professional in early childhood are large
managers development services and community child care.

•

SCHOOL PARENTS: Around the child development centers and schools
Public Schools Parents will be created in order to contribute to their training
XXI century as a family, so that they can better support this way
12

new generation of Colombians. Schools and teachers are not
responsible for the education of children. Therefore, it needs to be developed in the
protective family environments and also promoting their talents.
2. ONE DAY SCHOOL 8 HOURS: The great educational revolution that requires
Colombia to make progress in their development, should be initiated in all schools
public, achieving better quality study time. It requires that each child or
girl for life forms and is the school and the school site that lets you
find and promote all their talents.
Achieving Quality Education for Life, it requires that the Day is implemented
Only school in all public schools. The characteristics of this program
are as follows:
•

8 HOURS WITH QUALITY EDUCATION AND TRAINING: In all schools
public the One Day School 8 hours will be implemented. We can not wait
with just four hours of training to close the gap between private education
and public education.

•

There will be training and opportunities to develop talents AND
PROJECT LIFE OF YOUNG PEOPLE: During the extracurricular Jornada
will develop activities to achieve bilingualism, tutoring and development
talents in sports and cultural. In addition to receiving training emphasis on
values, strengthening democracy and training in entrepreneurship and
technology. Training of talents will be encouraged to have a better
life Proyect.

•

There will be FREE AND FULL POWER IN ONE DAY: In all
and public schools for all students will be free food and
complete. There will be nutritional support and develop good habits
food for a healthy life.

The new Single Day School will bring real benefits and transformers for
primary and secondary education in Colombia. Coverage and infrastructure will
improved. We will concentrate on training young and not at the mercy of
microtrafficking or the street, unable to develop their talents and potential. It will
special emphasis on the unique day training processes that may decrease the
embrazo teenager, to reach a goal of less than 15% annual teen
pregnant, just that ensure student retention and increases
decrease child labor.

3. TEACHERS ARE THE VALUE OF TEACHING: The success of a good system
education is the quality of teachers. So we must ensure that the
teaching profession is recognized by society and faculties engaged
training of education professionals have the best tools
pedagogical. A good system of teacher training should focus on the process
training, selection, evaluation and compensation of teachers. So our
proposal focuses on the following elements:
•

POWERS OF EXCELLENCE TO BE TEACHERS: Motivate the
Universities and faculties of education to promote greater dynamism
training programs, will structure a national system of grants for
attracting students with excellent academic performance in high school for
13

entering teacher training. Within this scheme will also be provided
Master in Education scholarships, in order to attract professionals from other
disciplines to explore future employment applied to the systematic transmission
knowledge.
•

Rigorous selection incentives: In addition to training
Teaching is vital that an objective selection process is achieved, based on
academic performance and socio-emotional skills. Under this concept
ensure that those entering the teaching profession not only have the
professional commitment, but incentives for permanence and recognition
social. Maestro will be a hallmark of excellence.

•

REMUNERATION ACCORDING TO EXCELLENCE: To get an education
quality, based on attracting the best students to the teaching profession, we will
a salary increase for teachers. With this proposal we want the salary
income professional education resembles that of other professions,
adding incentives to teachers to perceive bonuses or premiums
supported in their performance.

•

RIGOROUS ASSESSMENT AND TRAINING: In the process of academic excellence
it is proposed, will ensure a rigorous teacher evaluation process,
accompanied by lifelong learning through new technologies and
Our programs, with the desire to articulate the evaluation as a
tool for identifying weaknesses and lessons that must be addressed
constantly.

4. INFRASTRUCTURE LEARNING: Within the agenda of education quality
we propose to Colombia is necessary for students to be trained in centers
having adequate educational infrastructure for learning and
coexistence. Our proposal includes:
•

Forward calling new school infrastructure design competitions
architectural with the powers of the country, rewarding those projects better
use of materials, energy efficiency, adequate ventilation and responsibility
environmental.

•

School infrastructure provide better classrooms, kitchens, laboratories,
art classrooms, libraries, sports fields, school gardens and parks
recreation for children. Quality school infrastructure will become
heritage of the community for both their care and protection, as for use
some facilities during the weekend.
We will encourage private sponsorship and co-sponsorship and international cooperation
to provide technical training classrooms.
School infrastructure and ensure equal access to children with
disabilities.

•
•

5. A BILINGUAL COLOMBIA: Another of the cornerstones of our agenda indicates that
2018 high school graduates have an intermediate level of English. In an environment where
Colombia joins the world trade and where technological advances training
in English, we bet on being a bilingual country. To develop this ambitious
given hope:

14

•

Promote bilingualism in teaching faculties.

•

Forward agreements with regional English-speaking countries in the Caribbean as
in Central and South America, to bring train our teachers
teachers and that advance exchanges in schools.

•

Use digital training programs through wireless devices and
computers.

•
•

Forward massive online education courses in partnership with universities.
Promoting exchanges with students of high academic performance and English
for a semester.

•

Promote bilingualism from an early stage of formation, through the
inclusion of English as a subject, access to books and movies in English.

6. DOUBLE DEGREE QUALIFIED FOR MORE JOBS: With the aim of stimulating
education for grades 9 °, 10 ° and 11 °, we propose to offer students,
plus the unique day with sport, culture and technology, the possibility of taking
technical training programs certified by the SENA. Thus, the
Students can opt for complementary technical studies at the time of
Graduation gives them the title of academic degree and technical SENA
by opening opportunities for skilled employment.
7. A RELEVANT EDUCATION FOR THE PRODUCTION SECTOR: For the sector
education know what the needs of the productive sector is necessary
implement a database that stores these needs, this in order to
the education sector consider the information to provide careers
suitable to the needs of the sector.
8. BEST RE-TRAINING OPPORTUNITIES: For the hundreds of thousands of
young people who are no longer in the education system, who are between 14 and 20
years and have no training, will promote a program of re-training through
SENA to improve their job opportunities and income.
9. UNIVERSAL FREE ACCESS TO HIGHER EDUCATION FOR MORE
VULNERABLE: To ensure access to opportunities by segments
most vulnerable in society, we will provide free access to higher education
for people who are at levels 1, 2 and 3 of the SISBEN.
This will help close the gap in access to higher education, where only 34.71%
the most vulnerable class of access.
10. EDUCATION FOR ENTREPRENEURSHIP: For education to become a
trigger for innovation and business development, we offer to Colombia to
's shake the link between academic training and entrepreneurship. Thus
multiply the Undertaking Fund SENA to provide it with two hundred and fifty
million, which will be used to provide seed money or capital
expand entrepreneurial initiatives developed by students
higher education. The bankruptcy process will become increasingly strict and select the
best proposals to be communicated to the whole country through media
traditional and electronic.
fifteen

11. GRANTS LOAN FORGIVENESS FOR BEST STUDENTS: ICETEX
will expand its educational loan programs, as well as its ability to provide
higher education scholarships. For a period of loans will be established
grace of three years to allow the student to enter the market stability
labor, having a better credit position amortization. These loans may
have forgiveness for students who perform with excellence
academic, certified by the educational institution, and based on an overall average
Throughout the curriculum.
12. FAIR FEE FOR NEW BUSINESS: We will implement a system
college credits which have ICETEX fees not exceeding 10% of
wage of a young worker.
The only day school education will encourage youth are less exposed
the risks of the street, the recruitment of crime and drugs. An education
with one day to supplement traditional training with culture, sport,
technology and creativity, will open new opportunities and will identify ways of
individual growth based on talent. Similarly, the double degree graduates
both academically and in the technical field with support from SENA, will form
a Youth better prepared for jobs and more committed to the rejection of
violence as an option.
We will promote the active participation of the family, but in particular children and
Youth in management and continuous improvement of all schools and
all public policies that affect them. A truly democratic society is formed,
when children are involved and their voice is heard.

HEALTH QUALITY OF LIFE
As education a cornerstone for building an equitable society lies
to ensure the whole society health service quality across the country.
In addition to access to health services, should establish a public policy of prevention
In order to improve the quality of life of the population and this will reduce costs generated by
procedures and drugs in the future. When reviewing the percentages of guardianships health
for treatment, it is representing a 25.69%; followed by participation
health wards at the request of medicines corresponding to 17.57%.
Similarly if we create a culture of prevention from the patient complemented
with a health-oriented policy, could decrease the main
causes of death in our country, as in the case of cardiovascular disease
(Approximately 52% of the population is overweight), which the National Institute
Health is the leading cause of death in Colombia today.

16

GRAPH 8. Birth weight EDUCATION LEVEL

Source: Health Situation Analysis by region Colombia.
Ministry of Health and Social Protection. 2013.

Another case is that of babies with low birth weight. If we consider that these babies
future may suffer serious complications in adulthood, it would be important from the
management quality are cared for in the future have less need for the
Health services.
Another important aspect is the employment status of health personnel, a survey conducted in
2012 general practitioners found that only 9% of these health professionals
are satisfied with the quality and professionalism with which the health system
lets you make your current medical practice in addition to that 55% of respondents
He reported that currently do not enjoy the right to paid holidays once a year
and that 92% of them are satisfied with the income from their exercise
professional.
To achieve Colombia with Opportunities for All should serve us equally, where
the priority is the patient, the health professional satisfied with his
remuneration and provide quality service in care. Where the patient does not feel
unprotected and receive timely guidance, in real time.
Therefore, it is necessary:
1. ZERO EXCLUSION IN HEALTH CARE: The patient will attend regardless of their
ability to pay, sheltered under a single system and a single Compulsory Health Plan
(POS) for all Colombians, without distinction of any kind, maintaining the regime
especially the police. All users will be subsidized
treated in any hospital in the country with no requirement that you show your card,
independent of the place of residence of the patient.
2. Prevention, Prevention, Prevention: We focus on Primary Care
Care (PHC), renewed and focused on community and health risk management. Low
this scheme will promote healthy eating habits, practice
sports, basic regular checks, knowledge and risk mitigation and
personal hygiene necessary for disease prevention.

17

Additionally, EPS must ensure a checkup a year as a means of
prevention. The same shall include the basic labs.
3. lookouts for community health: returning to strengthen the position of the promoters
and lookouts health, stimulate and support the training of specialists and Promotion
Prevention, as in Family Medicine to ensure public policy
prevention, community-based education. Adequate force may lookouts
address questions and questions of the community, a dialogue based on trust and
the ability to directly address the needs of citizens.
4. INTEGRATED PROGRAM FOR DISPOSAL OF ACUTE MALNUTRITION: The Ministry of Health
together with other entities will lead a program to eradicate acute malnutrition
in Colombia, it will give special priority to rural areas and indigenous communities.
5. protection and care of the disabled population: We have to compensate
our social debt to the 5 million citizens living condition
disability, giving them and their families a priority health care. The
disabled, especially those belonging to levels 1, 2 and 3 have SISBEN
medical care to give them access to timely and quality service.
6. ONGOING TRAINING FOR HEALTH PROFESSIONALS: We will implement
a system of continuing education for health personnel promoted by the State that they
allows update and improve their performance. These programs include the use of new
technologies, technical service provision and humanization of health services,
among others.
7. BEST WAGES FOR HEALTH PROFESSIONALS: We will raise the
wage conditions of health professionals with a view to an improvement in the
quality of service and professional dignity commensurate with the efforts in training,
specialization and care service providers.
An agile 8. PAYMENT SYSTEM IN THE STRUCTURE OF THE HEALTH SYSTEM: We check
that economic resources flow swiftly between FOSYGA, EPS, hospitals and
suppliers, to ensure the full exercise of the fundamental right to health. A
flexible payment system and sector management will allow greater effectiveness in the provision of
service without weakening financially and operationally to the lending institutions.
9. STRENGTHENING NATIONAL HOSPITAL NETWORK: We will have public hospitals
and deprived of quality, protected and abuses of dominant positions in the market or
some EPS. Hospitals regional networks operate by ensuring that the
patient will attend and if necessary be moved and their situation is resolved.
We will fund public hospitals and strengthen PHC focused on regions
distant as the Alta Guajira, Choco, the Amazon and Orinoco.
10. PUBLIC-PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS FOR QUALITY SERVICE: We will support the development
Public Private Partnerships (PPP) for the construction, provision and management
and hospital management models and health services management infrastructure
(Specialized logistics operators). This scheme will seek an appropriate balance between
financiers, operators and supervisors of the system, allowing rapid influx of
resources to expand and improve the existing health infrastructure in the country.
11. A NEW GOVERNANCE FOR PUBLIC SECTOR: We will establish a period  fixed to the Superintendent and a strict meritocracy for all officials.
We will fight the politics in the field of health monitoring and improve the
technical levels of officials to exercise strict supervision of the provision
18

service, with rapid functional capacity to impose sanctions and ensure the
patients' rights.
12. Line 711-EFFECTIVE HEALTH: We will create a single toll-free care
work across the country, from the cell, so that the patient can communicate with the
Superintendent of Health and solve problems in real time. This line, which is governed
for the highest standards in material Call Centers, will be able to meet
complaints, questions and complaints from users with the purpose of guiding citizens
in obtaining adequate service.
MEDICATIONS 13. A FAIR PRICE AND FAST DELIVERY: We will continue to control
Price on medicines to prevent abuses that impede access
society health service worthy. Likewise, we will direct government purchases
in case of shortages and we support the national industry. Complementing
We design a system for delivering medication directly to the place of residence
patient, eliminating the effect on quality of life that often brings
slow or long lines in service.
14. EPS zero tolerance POOR: The EPS will be evaluated
deep technical, operational and logistical rigor by the Superintendency of Health.
Which adequately manage risk and operating under the highest standards of
technical and capital adequacy continue. Those with inefficient management and
presented chronic weaknesses in the provision of services and drugs
will leave the service.
15. INTELLIGENT GOVERNMENT AND ONLINE FOR MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS
INFORMATION: health information systems must be robust, unified and
must account for the health status of all Colombians, management and control
resources, drugs, state of patients, populations of the
hospitals and clinics, in any place and time of the country. The platform also
It will be supported by a management system that prevents corruption standardizing
costs and processes, and allowing online payment between health institutions.
16. COMMON DRUG WITHIN THE POS: This measure will make it easier for
patients access to drugs and avoid you having to go to the tutelage
to access the necessary products for the treatment of health.
17. NETWORK sexual and reproductive education: Colombia is called to face the
proliferation of teenage pregnancies and the incidence of disease transmission
sexual, mainly in the population of young people with lower incomes. Our proposal
contemplated for this purpose:

i. Conduct a national sexual and reproductive education campaign
with support from the private sector, civil society and local governments.
ii. Identify and address socio-cultural causes that influence
increased prevalence of teenage pregnancies and
STDs.
iii. Single Day School will address the issue of sexual health and
reproductive youth.

19

18. CONTRIBUTION TO REDUCING HEALTH FOR PENSIONERS MOST VULNERABLE: With
purpose of improving the quality of life of the most vulnerable pensioners will be reduced by
50% health contributions by pensioners who receive less than three
minimum monthly wages.
19. Incentives for universities to expand quotas for training of specialists.

A COUNTRY WITH decent jobs
So that Colombia will become a country with equality and social mobility
dynamic,
you need to constantly create lasting decent employment. The dignity of work is based
the ability of the family to provide opportunities to access to housing,
education and pension, among others. Unfortunately we are far from achieving that
purpose in our country. Really do demand a review of the labor policy
We generate teamwork between government, workers, the private sector and society
civil.
FIGURE 9

Our work proposal is summarized in:
1. PRODUCTIVE CLUSTERS FROM THE REGIONS: In the hands of mayors and
governors, private sector and academia, we develop clusters
productive able to capitalize on the comparative advantages and export potential
of each region. These specialized business clusters, will create jobs
Targeted work from and to the country's regions.
2. ECONOMIC STABILITY AND GROWTH: Colombia To generate positions
needs work, it is essential that the economy grows in a sustainable manner. Y
for growth to take place, it is vital to maintain fiscal stability,
targeting of spending and a high rate of investment. Without these components operate
under an environment of balance it will be difficult to have an environment conducive to the expansion
formal employment.
20

3. labor inspectorate to decent work: We will ensure that the Ministry of
Job training and supervision develop the private sector to:
to. Increase coverage of pension contributions and contributory health scheme.
b. Expand the system affiliation occupational hazards.
c. Reaching a coverage of at least 50% of voluntary insurance systems
unemployment.
d. Ensure due to severance payment and delivery.
e. Enforce payment of premiums and legal holidays.
f. Prevent child labor programs to combat the worst forms of
child Labour.
FIGURE 10

4. PLAN generating industries USE: As an integral part of the agenda
labor, the government will encourage the creation of jobs in the sectors
labor intensive industry such as large capacity, construction,
trade and services sector. In these sectors should be further opportunities
expansion, like opening new export markets or investment.
5. EMPLOYMENT-FAMILY BALANCE AND FLEXIBLE SCHEDULES: Under the concept of telepresence work full guarantees will be provided to employees to agree with the
Employers schemes balance family and work flexible hours, subject to
compliance with job performance goals.
6. vigorous MSME: Micro, small and medium enterprises should have full
guaranteed access to credit expansion and sustained investment in generation
jobs. Therefore we accompany from the state with better policies
access to credit, attracting capital and market access.

21

REDUCING POVERTY AND PROTECTING THE MOST VULNERABLE
To fight poverty and open a path of social equity, we offer Colombia a
Macroprogram to Overcome Extreme Rural and urban poverty that will enable 3 million
Families of the Colombian rural areas and slums (7 million Colombians)
major cities, access and remain in education, as well as the
improving their homes and have opportunities to generate more revenue
sustainable. This initiative will allow the country to meet the MDGs by 2020,
achieving 50% reduction in rural poverty and eradicating it in urban areas.
Integral macroprogram Overcoming Extreme Poverty in Rural and Urban will consist
by:
1. Families in Action: Increasing the value of the subsidy in rural areas and
poorest, also gradually to 10 ° and 11 ° degree municipalities with a
special support for job training for youth and family.
2. IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM COMPREHENSIVE HOUSING URBAN AND RURAL:
To one million families in the countryside and cities. With emphasis on floors, ceilings,
restrooms and reduce overcrowding.
3. HOUSING BONUS FOR LOW-INCOME WORKERS: We will create
a premium of housing for employees earning less than four minimum wages
minimum, which will be compensated by the employer tax credits.
4. RURAL EMPLOYMENT IN ACTION: This is a program focused on municipalities
small and intermediate 5000 to build small infrastructure works
social and road improvement, labor is linked to the occupationally
communities.
5. URBAN OPPORTUNITIES FOR INCOME GENERATION: This is a program
for creating and expanding ventures urban families more
vulnerable and saving initiatives Women in Red States
25 major Colombian cities. The program will include incentives for the
occupationally linked private sector to hire vulnerable and small
these families companies and their suppliers.
6. TWO MILLION HOMES WITH SUPPORT FOR AGING WITH DIGNITY: With this
initiative will give direct financial support to the elderly who are in the
extreme poverty and guarantee adequate and timely access to services
of health.
The implementation of this ambitious initiative is structured as follows
manner:
1. FAMILIES IN ACTION: more rural and more focused on ensuring that young
Graduate and forming FOR WORK IN CITIES AND FIELD.
Conditional Cash Transfer program seeks to improve capital accumulation
Human children and youth from the poorest families in Colombia. Currently the
program has a cover 2.8 million families in the 1102 Colombian municipalities.
Seeks to reduce poverty, improve levels of health and nutrition of children under
22

Yet seven years, school retention of children 8-17 years. The subsidy scheme
Families in Action is differentiated for health, where, received about 70 thousand
pesos per family and education grant for each child is given depending on the degree
who you are. Ranging between 20 000 and 55 000 in transition in 11th grade. On average
family receives 127,000 pesos every two months.
The program through different impact assessments has shown very effects
positive at the level of nutrition and growth of children, in reducing diseases
diarrheal, respiratory and nutritional deficiencies. Also particularly important
Children improvements in academic achievement and increase the number of years remaining in the
school. More than 150 thousand young people are already the result of over a decade of support
poorest families. They are young people who have graduated from 11th grade and are advancing in their
higher education and are more likely to get a job.
Over the next four years Families in Action has the following transformations
adapt to the new approach to overcoming extreme rural and urban poverty:
•

INCREASE VALUE OF SUBSIDY IN THE NUTRITION AND EDUCATION
FAMILIES IN ACTION IN RURAL AREAS poorest. This in
to contribute to improve the indices of inequality and break the high attrition
school still persists. Approximately 550 municipalities and 1,245,000
families are more than 5 million children directly in advance
overcoming poverty.

•

Families in Action GRADUALLY INCREASE THE VALUE OF
SUBSIDY FOR GRADES 10 ° and 11 ° ORDER TO ENSURE THAT
STUDENTS GRADUATE EDUCATION advance MEDIA AND WILL ALSO
A SUPPORT SUPPORT FOR THOSE STUDENTS TO FOLLOW
College and through 6th semester. This will benefit
around 2.7 million young people between 13 and 17 who are part of today
program.

•

BONUS A mother leaders to empower as managers
SOCIAL: The Leader Mothers of Families in Action will become again,
the managers and promoters of social cohesion in their municipalities. It will
training program to all of them as managers and community leaders. They are
recognize a bonus transport to perform their duties, plus
incentives for those who achieve their mothers improve their Headlines
results of nutrition, school attendance and community participation. All the
Leader Mothers will have access to a package of financial inclusion account
savings, microinsurance and microcredit.

•

It would create a training module for both mothers and
Young Families in Action, as part of its responsibilities to them
allows increase their knowledge and work skills.

2. PROGRAM IMPROVEMENT OF RURAL AND URBAN HOUSING FOR A MILLION
FAMILY
36% of families in the Red States, households living in extreme poverty present conditions
critical overcrowding in their homes. 80% of the total of 1.5 million families have
conditions or inappropriate materials in roofs, walls and floors.

2. 3

There is a total of 3.8 million households in housing deficit in Colombia, of which 1.3
million do not own their homes and 2.5 million households need to improve the quality of their
homes.
Colombia requires urgent and massive form of a housing improvement program for
achieve a significant increase in the quality of life of the most vulnerable families,
particularly in rural areas. Only to the extent that conditions will improve ceilings,
bathrooms, floors, access to public services and housing materials, the country will continue
progress in overcoming extreme poverty.
The housing improvement program is proposed for the next four years to develop
most ambitious ever undertaken by Colombia. The program features would be
following:
•

•

•
•

1,000,000 households will benefit from a program of improvements
housing, especially in rural areas, as well as in the neighborhoods
marginalized districts of cities.
In a community and led by the Municipal Mayors effort each household
will receive materials, technical assistance and direct support to improve their
housing. (Floors, ceilings, walls and restrooms)
All beneficiary families, including children in this program will receive
training in healthy lifestyles.
All families will receive technical assistance and support of architects and
engineers to ensure dignity and quality of interventions.

3. PREMIUMS FOR HOUSING low-income workers
We build half a million new quality housing for workers earning
below four minimum wages, they can access a housing solution to improve
their quality of life. To make this project a reality establish a premium housing
for the employee, replacing part of the income tax.
To prevent the exclusion of informal workers, establish a system whereby the
National Savings Fund subsidizes the value of the down payment and monthly installments fund
ensuring that they are in accordance to the value of a lease.
4. RURAL EMPLOYMENT IN ACTION: ACT NOW TO REVIVE INCOME IN THE FIELD
In 99% of the most vulnerable households in Colombia, their householders do not have a
formal employment and income level is very low. In the past two years, the field has been
affected by the deterioration of their production conditions and increased levels
poverty and extreme poverty, in particular by a drop in their monetary income.
The government and the country must take decisive action to help restore the level of
income and employment in the Colombian countryside, as they begin to pay off the program
agricultural and rural development. 5000 built a program that works will start
social infrastructure and improvement projects of roads and rural roads.
The program seeks to simultaneously activate the monetary income of the farmers leave
works installed to enable it to improve their access to social services and connectivity
Local, in turn, will provide an opportunity to improve their skills and job skills.
It is a project of urgency to prioritize employment in the field of shock.

24

The emergency program RURAL EMPLOYMENT IN ACTION have the following characteristics:
•
•

•
•

It will focus on the more than 550 small municipalities in Colombia that have
the highest levels of Multidimensional Poverty
It will build a total of 5,000 small social infrastructure, such as
boarding schools, education centers, health centers, community centers, improvement
rural and neighborhood roads, sidewalks and parks. Just as cleaning and maintenance
secondary and tertiary roads. These works will be targeted by the community
and executed at the municipal level.
The labor required in these works will be women and men
community belonging to the lowest levels SISBEN.
During the time of employment relationship, up to a maximum of 1 year will receive training
to improve their skills and competence have any social security.

5. URBAN OPPORTUNITIES FOR INCOME GENERATION
The other major challenge facing the Colombian social policy, is how to get families
most vulnerable improve their access to stable employment or develop
microenterprise initiatives or undertaking to improve their income so
sustainable.
In Colombia still 32% of the population remains poor, that means nearly 15 million
or more than 3 million families. 70% of them are located in the 35
main cities. All these families live daily moonlighting at work
informal. Their cry loudly are labor and income generating opportunities.
The response programs to address this problem has been timid and reduced by
of the government. If Colombia thinks seriously reduce poverty, meet the objectives
Goals and achieve higher rates of formal employment requires rethinking the policy generation
income and improve the quality of employment for the poorest families and victims of the
violence in the countryside, who daily come to swell the misery of
major urban centers.
URBAN OPPORTUNITIES FOR INCOME GENERATION will support a major initiative
entrepreneurship and job creation for vulnerable families. The bet will be supported by the
talent of these families and create opportunities to generate income in a more
sustainable and achieve its way into the formal economy. This requires building basic skills
that will enable them to labor, psychosocial support and guidance towards sectors
have market potential or connected with value chains.
Key features of the program URBAN GENERATION OPPORTUNITY
INCOME will be:
1. Annual investment of 1 billion pesos to support new ventures or
existing for poor families, victims of violence and reintegrated in the
main Colombian cities.
2. The creation of enterprises will be promoted in sectors with potential
and market growth. He bet on winning sectors for the poor, such
such as recycling, manufacturing, trade. There will be a sectoral policy for
enterprises of the poor.
3. The program will favor women and youth, especially develop in them,
promote saving habits and their associativity.

25

4. All beneficiaries of the program will be banked and receive assistance
art in their own businesses.
5. will include incentives for private sector companies link
this population occupationally or hire their micro and small enterprises as
part of their supply chains.
6. EVERY CHILD WITH HIS PENSION UNDER THE ARM: From 2015 the state will create a
Futura Special Pension Fund will provide the equivalent of three million pesos per
child born in the strata 1, 2 and 3. With this contribution and projected yields
Financial until retirement age, we can ensure that when the
retirement of the workforce access to a minimum pension guarantee. This scheme will allow
informality minimize long-term and provide a minimum social coverage to people
most vulnerable in the country.
7. TWO MILLION HOMES FOR AGING WITH DIGNITY ATTENTION: To improve
quality of life of those people in the third age of the prisoners are
extreme poverty, we will implement the Plan Mi Viejo, which provide economic aid
directly by the Department for Social Prosperity, complementing the contributions
monetary mechanisms of health care. In the structure of this plan
It will include the presentation of a bill of Dignity for the Elderly to provide
access to recreational facilities and care discounts for over 70 years
cinemas, insurance, restaurants, and mass transit fares.

WOMEN EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES
While there is a recognition as to the differences between the
men and women, it is necessary to have tools that respond to the diversity of
each person, so that equality of opportunity and treatment between them is guaranteed.
Women in Colombia account for over 50% of the population, however; They are still
far from reaching opportunities that allow them to develop their skills in
society and be the engine that can help boost the country's formal economy.
According to the National Demographic and Health Survey 2010:
•

•
•

55 percent of adolescents with no education are already mothers or are pregnant,
while women with higher education the percentage is 11
percent.
50% of cases of teenage female dropouts were caused
Home pregnancy.
Approximately 20 percent of adolescents have been pregnant.

To state that teenage pregnancy continue not being part of the
dropout statistics, it is necessary that they receive special protection during
pregnancy process so that they can continue their studies and help break the
circle of poverty by entering the quit school because of this, for this
We propose:
1. SUPPORT FOR MOTHER: We will promote the psychosocial support
female teenagers mothers so that they can finish their secondary education and
Parents of these, to accompany them during pregnancy and completion of
studies, so we hope to counteract one of the causes of dropouts.
26

If we consider that 13% of under 20 have their first sexual intercourse
before the age of 15 years; and it occurs earlier in women with no education
(15.8 years) and those living in rural areas (17.5 years) than in those with
4
higher education (18.9 years) or live in urban areas (18.5 years), joined rate
5
teen pregnancy, found that measures are needed to help
reduce this rate.
A greater number of children at an early age restricts the possibilities of participation
female employment and income generation; generates less education both
mother and children, are less likely to participate in the labor market, more
number of children and also more likely to marry more than once (Núñez and Cuesta,
2006).
11. GRAPHIC pregnant teens
And parenting by Wealth Quintile

Source: PROFAMILIA

GRAPH 12. PERCENTAGE OF TEEN PREGNANCY
BY LEVEL OF EDUCATION 2005-2010

Source: PROFAMILIA

When women have their children very early, it is more difficult to access formal education
by economic factors, affecting their employment and wage opportunities.
Address the issue of women who have received sex education, 19 percent of which
They are between 15 and 19 years and 54 percent of those between 20 and 24 are
pregnant or are already mothers. In which they did not receive sex education, these percentages
6
are 51 and 85 percent respectively.
For the most vulnerable women by their low economic status sex education should go
focused on the prospect of life, decision making, self-esteem and leadership, because according to

4
5
6

ENDS 2010.

According to the UN in Colombia about 20% of pregnant women are between 15 and 19 years.
Ibid.
27

literature, are the ones that pregnancy associated with personal fulfillment and as an option
life.
For this we consider essential:
2. AN ADEQUATE TRAINING IN SEXUAL EDUCATION: We will develop processes
education and training in responsible sexual education, self-esteem, perspective
, relevant to age. Life and Leadership The family will be a key player in this
process, is the responsibility of parents and not only the establishment
education and government.
A scourge suffered by women is violence, here are some
Forensis percentages recorded by physical violence and partner violence
domestic, with the caveat that there is a high percentage of women who do not report.

GRAPH 13. PERCENTAGE OF PHYSICAL VIOLENCE
AS PARTNER FOR SEO 2006-2010

Source: Forensis 2010.

Physical violence against women by an intimate partner is the most common. For 2012
It is reached 64.8%, according Forensis 2012.

GRAPHIC 14. DOMESTIC VIOLENCE BY SEX 2010

Source: OAG.

28

To counter violence against women we consider important:
3. COMPREHENSIVE CARE situations of domestic violence: will train
health personnel (doctors, professional and auxiliary nurses, psychologists) vs.
the attention that should be given to patients victims of abuse, staff
health should be given immediate referral to receive psychological care (referral
for psychosocial) support and legal guidance (entities responsible for making
track giving rise) to women victims of violence.
4. INTEGRITY OF JUDICIAL SYSTEM REPORTING SYSTEM, AND CONTROL
FOLLOW UP. Strengthen the judicial system to ensure its effectiveness,
efficiency and relevance of law enforcement in cases of violence against
women.
We will train the staff of the judicial system to cases of violence against
women to give good care to women victims of violence,
We give you a precautionary handling this type of case. We will ensure follow-up
cases of violence against women as a preventive mechanism.
In response to one of the Millennium Development Goals we have found Colombia
that the situation in political participation of women is as follows:
FIGURE 15.

Figure 15 shows that women have little presence in the political arena, if we
specifically meet the MDGs is necessary to implement conditions promoting
participation of women in public spaces, to consider it as a tool:
5. RECOGNITION OF RIGHTS: will train women in perspective
rights and political participation to promote empowerment and impact on
public spaces decision. This is done using the unique school day.

29

Although the proportion of men in the economically active population with education
higher (technical or technological, university and graduate) for 2012 stood at 15.1%
while the proportion of women was 23.2%, ie 8.1 percentage points more than
men, the employment rate for the moving quarter November to January 2014 according to DANE
for men was 70.3% and 46.6% for women.
Added to this according to the Ministry of Labour in 2012 comparing
men and women the same educational level showed that men earn on average 21%
more than women. Although women gain more education than men,
the gap remains for men to all levels of education.
51% of employed women are informal, well that on average women work
7.
10.8 hours more per week than men
If to this we add that having dependents reduces female labor supply
17.5% male and only 2.5%, it is clear the need to formulate policies to
expand job opportunities and wage conditions for women.
FIGURE 16.

Source: DANE

CHART 17.

Source: Time Use Survey. DANE

7

Ministry of Labor.
30

To decrease the wage gap for women and provide better options for women
enabling them to have better quality of life propose:
6. BEST INCOME, BETTER OPPORTUNITIES: Promoting jobs for women
by developing projects for income generation. Strengthen
job training and create opportunities for access to formal employment and
equal promotion.
7.

PLAN FOR EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES: Formulate a Plan of Equality
Opportunities from the participation of different groups of women where
discuss the practical needs and strategic interests they have.

CHILDREN AND TEENS WITH EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES
Our government wants to join the Alliance for Colombian children and therefore incorporated in
our Government Plan 10 commitments submitted by the UNICEF:
1. We will ensure that all children and adolescents in the country have a
family and are cared for in a responsible and loving.
2. We will ensure that every child and adolescent country to have access to
quality health services and opportunities, and expect proper nutrition.
3. ensure that every adolescent have the knowledge, resources
friendly services for a healthy and responsible sexuality.

Y

4. We will ensure that every child and adolescent education, culminating access
initial, elementary and high quality.
5. We will promote each child and adolescent exercise their right to participation
in the private and public spheres.
6. We will ensure that every child and adolescent count on protective environments and
appropriate mechanisms of restoration of rights for vulnerable
situations of violence, abuse and exploitation.
7. We will ensure that every child and adolescent victims of the internal armed conflict
and forced displacement count with the conditions that enable their
reparation and restitution of rights.
8. We will ensure that every child and adolescent in emergency situation
natural phenomena has the protection and priority attention.
9. We will ensure that every child and adolescent in poverty and poverty
extreme context of rurality and improve their living conditions.
10. In our Government childhood and adolescence will be a priority in our policies
social and economic for all levels of governance.

31

ETHNIC COMMUNITIES WITH EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES
Afro-Colombian and indigenous communities are most affected by high levels of
Poverty, malnutrition of their children and the most affected directly by violence group.
For this population we will promote:
Differential and effective policy in all public policy: We will create a special program
called Productive Ethnic Territories, enabling them to have food security,
undertake agricultural production projects in accordance with their traditions and achieve
strengthening their organizations. This will be exclusively applied Receipts
indigenous and Afro Community Councils.
They will be the first African and indigenous communities in advance repair programs
collective
Indigenous peoples and Afro be built with all services and in accordance with their
traditions in areas that require greater institutional presence.
1.

2.
3.

Four.

5.

6.

7.

PRIVATE SECTOR COMMITTED TO DIVERSITY: Government
require all national companies that aspire to contract with the State,
have a diversity policy and have built on their payrolls
Employees belonging to indigenous and Afro-Colombian groups. In the
qualification criteria will take into account the diversity in composition
companies.
PROMOTING THE USE OF MINORITIES: Businesses enjoy discounts
tax on their payrolls to employ employees from population
Indian and African descent.
TOP INCLUSIVE EDUCATION: Public and Private Universities
They must be at least 3% of its student level, students
belonging to Afro-Colombian and indigenous minorities. Such access will involve
grants and public-private partnerships for funding in the case of
Private universities.
COLLEGES for cohesion: Public and private schools to have
a minimum of students belonging to indigenous and Afro
to facilitate access to higher education and encourage the construction of
an inclusive society.
HIPPOLYTA SCHOLARSHIPS FOR INCLUSIVE LEADERSHIP: A fund will be created
International Scholarships for Master's, Doctoral that build 1000
indigenous and Afro-Colombian students over the next four years in the
Top Universities. These students will then return the
academic year to community and social work under the coordination of
Administrative Department of Public Service and ICETEX.
Standardized infrastructure PLAN FOR COMMUNITIES: It
Fund will create a standardized and coordinated with projects
indigenous and African descent in order to provide the municipalities where
the population of these ethnic groups in social, cultural infrastructure is concentrated and
Basic sports (aqueducts, schools, health centers, libraries, theaters,
recreational centers, etc).
MINORITIES WITH ANCIENT TALENT: We will implement a program of
identification, training and promotion of creative talent in communities
indigenous and African descent. This will allow us to make the talent for
dance, arts, music, sports, theater, acrobatics, etc a source of
based on the human capital wealth and riches of the ancient
community.
32

33

How are we today?
NATIONAL SECURITY
8
Between 2010 and 2013:
• The pipeline blasts have increased by 735%.
• Blasting of bridges have increased 400%.
• The blasting power towers have increased 177%.
• The extortion increased by 166%.
• The illegal checkpoints have increased by 136%.
9

CITIZEN SECURITY
2012
• 69% of people in the main cities of Colombia feels insecure in
public road.
• 52% of robberies are violent in Colombia.
• In Colombia 25% of people have limited their recreation by
insecurity.
• In Colombia 29% have limited their shopping places insecurity.
• In Colombia 81% of homicides are presented with a firearm.
CHART 17.

8
9

Ministry of National Defense.
DANE, UNDP.

3. 4

OUR SECURITY AGENDA
1. LAW ENFORCEMENT TO PROTECT CITIZENS THROUGHOUT
NACIONAL: The armed and police forces remain effective presence throughout the
national territory and ensure its constitutional mandate to protect the life, honor and
property of citizens. Program will be implemented wins again
Early that will restore the confidence of citizens in the police.
2. OPERATIONAL COORDINATION OF ALL FORCES: All armed forces and
police operate under a strict coordination to ensure the effectiveness of the policy
Democratic Security and dismantle criminal structures operating in the
territory. The Head of State personally deal with the continuing joint work
of all the forces of the state is maintained as an essential element to implement the
public security policies.
3. Secure Borders: Using an agenda of bilateral cooperation with countries
neighbors, we will endow the police better tools to combat
smuggling, drug trafficking and the mobilization of members of terrorist groups and
criminal organizations in the border areas. Colombia will not allow low
direct responsibility of the head of state crime and narco-terrorism operate
in our territory, much less engage in any way the sovereignty
national.
4. reclaim COOPERATION WITH CITIZENSHIP LAW ENFORCEMENT.
Our security agenda is based on a relationship of trust between the population and the
public force. Therefore we will give priority to perform weekly Tips
Regional Security, led by the President of the Republic and strengthen the
cooperating citizen networks.
5. ENSURING MILITARY COURTS AND CRIMINAL JUSTICE REFORM STRUCTURALLY
MILITARY: A professional army should have a military justice system that requires the most
high standards for the practice of acts of service, do a trial with full
knowledge of the operational circumstances of the military and punish
exemplarily those who commit punishable acts. This will be a fundamental commitment
our government towards those who defend society without reasonable factors
ideological or political order in shaping it.
6. release will advance PLAN SUBJECT: For the military it
They are deprived of liberty without conviction for acts of service, so they can
worthily exercise their right to defense.
7. HIGH COURT create a pro tempore: sentences to be reviewed
members of the security forces for acts of service and act as second instance
ongoing processes, in order to provide effective, professional and criminal justice
transparent.
8. Wages will increase soldiers and police: We will improve the quality of
life and recognize a better income for their work in defense of the Colombian people.

35

9. approve a new statute ANTI-TERRORIST: dotaremos the country better
legal instruments for detecting, preventing and punishing acts of terrorism around the
National territory. This legislation must conform to international legal framework, be
temporary, respectful of human rights and submit to the controls necessary to
prevent abuse.
10. CONSOLIDATE AN INTEGRAL HUMAN RIGHTS POLICY IN FULL FORCE
PUBLIC: For our military and police forces continue the process of
dismantling and submission of the groups outside the law, is necessary for your
operational behavior is exemplary and respectful of human rights. Our policy
will be zero tolerance of abuses by security forces.
Defeat crime and terrorism with the institutions and the protection of the
Constitution demands that citizens and civil society all conduct trust
of his officers. A safe state must be a priority for every purpose and every
one of the citizens as well.
11. DECISIVELY dismantle STRUCTURES OF DRUG TRAFFICKING: The action
police to control the supply chain, and financial vehicles
physical operation of drug trafficking must be increasingly effective. With this will increase
operational costs of this scourge and make it increasingly difficult drug trafficking
from Colombia. The increased costs also demands effective cooperation with
military and police forces from other countries and strengthening systems
monitoring and action against money laundering and other illegal economic activities
financed by drug trafficking.
12. INCREASE TRANSPARENCY AND ACCOUNTABILITY OF PUBLIC FORCE:
In a rule of law it is vital that the police is an example in
transparent management of resources. This will facilitate public scrutiny and
international organizations creating confidence in our operational discipline and
our administration.
13. improve the social conditions of our active and retired military:
Considering the invaluable service provided to him and lend to the country thousands
soldiers and police, it is important to design a comprehensive policy for veterans who
recognize the service provided and give them the opportunity to achieve a decent life. Is
policy will include benefits in education, health, housing and employment, ensuring
the country repays the years in which their lives have recovered the
economic growth and progress of millions of compatriots.

OUR APPROACH TO SAFETY
Like golf, the cities of Colombia are affected again
severe form by the rapid growth of criminality. Urban insecurity has
turned into a serious threat to the quality of life of citizens and threat is the duty of the State,
hand with local governments, face this phenomenon with determination.
Our proposal of Public Safety for all Colombians is structured
to dramatically reduce this scourge and enable citizens to exercise their freedoms
individual in places that live throughout the territory. This is our proposal
for Colombia:

36

1. BEST CRIME INFORMATION SYSTEMS GEOGRAPHIC AND IDENTIFICATION OF CRIME: To successfully confront the crime required
strengthen information centers urban crime, including within the
georeferenced analytical platform for identifying neighborhoods, cities,
apples, quadrants, to detect movements of criminality organized by type of crime. An intelligent analysis of this information will make it
effective reaction capability and anticipation of the security forces.
2. COOPERATING CITIZENS: In major urban centers
We will encourage citizens to contribute as cooperating authorities
to warn of crime trends and the presence of organized crime. The
authorities in turn articulated reward payments for effective complaints
allow the capture and submission to the law of criminal structures.
Constantly improve the ways and means of communication between the community and the
police put at a distinct disadvantage in generating crime
Natural prevention against crime.
3. MORE FOOT POLICE FORCE IN CITIES: Under the leadership of the Police
National, we will increase the number of troops in urban centers, in order to achieve a
higher density of police per capita and urban quadrant. This density
there will allow better public reaction force in real time, increasing
mobility costs and criminal action of organized criminals.
4. BETTER USE OF MONITORING URBAN TECH: We will implement best
security camera systems and sensors for sound urban centers
crime detect, track and identify the perpetrators incidents
firearm. We will also make easier the sworn complaint of crime through
virtual platforms and mobile devices that consigned the actions under the
oath.
5. Develop a comprehensive disarmament campaign: One of our main
policies to combat crime is based on a massive campaign
disarmament with regard to the possession and illegal possession. This will be conducted by
seizure of the security forces and voluntary disarmament campaign that will include
monetary compensation from the state, especially for all weapons
lacking registration.
6. COLLECTIVE CONSCIOUSNESS TO FIGHT CRIME AS ACCELERATORS
DRUG OR ALCOHOL ABUSE: Under the leadership of the Ministry of Health and entities
We will advance land mass campaigns to raise awareness and rejection
types of crime and accelerators such as alcohol and drugs.
7. IMPLEMENTING THE URBAN DESIGN IN LIGHTING AND PUBLIC SPACE IN POLITICS
CRIME PREVENTION: We will work hand in hand with mayors and
governors so that they can apply urban design and public space
They provide security for citizens. From the design of sidewalks, street lighting,
transportation terminals, bus stations, street vending environment, including
others seek to make safety a guarantee passer and the user. East
design is a fitting complement to the use of technologies such as cameras, sensors
sound, movement and speakers among others.
8. USE THE CITIZEN CULTURE AND PROMOTING A CREATIVE EXPRESSIONS
AS EFFECTIVE MEANS FOR CRIME PREVENTION: The
urban insecurity sow not be defeated but a civic culture based on
37

coexistence, tolerance, inclusion of all social groups and rejection
collective to violent expressions. Since the State will do civic culture
the focus of prevention, accompanying a promotion of expressions
creative as crime prevention. Neighborhood programs in art, music,
theater, dance, hip-hop, digital animation, among others, will attract youth schemes
collective joint sow social cohesion in every neighborhood and in every
small community.

How are we today?
DRUGS
•
•
•

10

1 in 3 Colombian university students report having used the drug
least once in life.
The Colombia consumption rate is significantly higher than the student
the other three countries, as well: 32% Colombia Ecuador Peru 21% and Bolivia 11%.
63% of students in Colombia declared that it would be easy to get
marijuana and 21.7% of Colombian students report having received offers
marijuana, either to try or buy, over the past 30 days and nearly 47%
last year.

JUSTICE
•
•
•
•
•

eleven

Impunity in murder cases is 95%.
12
Only 24% of the population complaint when the victim of a crime.
In Colombia the time to run a business contract in the first instance is
13
1346 days, while in Peru and Chile it is 428 and 480 respectively.
Binding processes per 100,000 population in 6337 is process efficiency
14
very low compared to the US where the jam is 686.
With regard to the legal situation of the prison population, 30.8% are unionized and
fifteen
69.2% condemned.

ALL WORK AGENDA FOR A DRUG FREE SOCIETY
Our approach to create a drug free collective culture is based on a framework
conceptual and operational covering all the areas where they are formed, they deepen and expand
the effects of drug trafficking. Since the concept of struggle or war against drugs
anachronistic and ignores many aspects, we offer a comprehensive approach to Colombia
based on the following points:
1. eradication and substitution Illicit Crop: It is vital that we continue to create in
Colombia a culture of change against illicit crops, which not only damages
impact on the expansion of drug trafficking, but derive dangerous environmental damage
and social. To make a coherent plan to reduce Crop we propose:
10

Second Andean Epidemiological Study on Drug Use in the university population. Regional Report, 2012
Excellence in Justice Corporation
ibid.
13
Private Competitiveness Council 2013-2014
14
Excellence in Justice Corporation
fifteen
INPEC
eleven
12

38

to. MANUAL ERADICATION COMMUNITY AND FAMILIES RANGER: You
will expand the collective commitment of communities and manual eradicators
They are provide job opportunities as protectors of the recovery,
growth and conservation of the rainforest and native forests, against
which will advance verifiable reforestation, with training in the future are
You can become a way of life with a sustainable income.
b. SUSTAINABLE REPLACEMENT: We will promote the support center
research institutes, universities, NGOs and enterprises
socially responsible, the substitution of illicit crops sustainable farming
that they have access to national and international markets. This program will
accompanied by an international collective conscience agenda for the
citizens consuming countries contribute to the acquisition of products
substitutes to the solution of social problems in producing countries.
Both programs will be accompanied by an agenda of international collective conscience,
Governments and citizens consuming countries contribute to the acquisition of
substitute products.
2. EDUCATION, PREVENTION AND CULTURE OF NO TO DRUGS: It is a central duty
society have a culture of prevention of drug use, recognizing its
nature as a public health problem. Prevention must be based on three pillars:
to. COMMUNICATION FROM PREVENTION: The State will use its full capacity
Information on the support of the media, through campaigns
creative civic code that create an awareness of social consumer rejection
of drugs.
b. PREVENTION EDUCATION: we commit to all educational institutions
in promoting prevention, through academic applications to inform
clearly on the harmful effects of drugs. This action must be based on
sponsor an educational vision and constructive debate and discussion with the
students.
c.

FAMILY PREVENTION: To advance the containment of drugs as
public health problem, it is essential that the family acquires leadership
as solid core of society. Through campaigns Contact
direct invite parents and children to discuss the causes and effects
drug use, family pedagogy making a trigger large
changes and habits.

3. dismantling of production networks: Controlling drug production
It implies that there is a set of national and international actions consistent between
crop producing countries, suppliers of precursors and processors.
Our proposal includes:
to. DIPLOMACY OF RESPONSIBILITY IN PRODUCING COUNTRIES
CHEMICAL PRECURSORS is important that Colombia lead a global campaign
awareness and work with chemical precursors producing countries
so they can make detailed monitoring of mass orders
purchasing and production and distribution in countries which in turn are producers
drugs. This will accurately identify core elements of the chains
illegal or identify triangulation in other nations. This approach inspection

39

Global inventories and trade in precursors generate a stronger commitment
international and effectiveness intelligent production control.
b. Dismantling of illegal laboratories: By actions
offensive intelligence and security, identify and dismantle the networks
illegal laboratories dedicated to drug trafficking. The follow up
production inputs, control the lawful and chemical suppliers
geographical areas, will be vital in this effort.
4. dismantle drug trafficking networks and micro-trafficking: keep the pressure
of the police and the judiciary to deal with trafficking networks and
existing micro-trafficking in the country. Our tools are as follows:
to. OFF NETWORK OF MONEY LAUNDERING: Cooperation between the FIAU,
the Attorney General's Office and the police, should be deepened to detect
and dismantle money laundering networks that constitute the fuel
drug to increase their economic power. Colombia will expand its
cooperation with other nations in this regard and strategically involve the
financial sector and formal networks of traders.
b. Accelerate the process of forfeiture: In the process of moving
effectively in dismantling illicit trafficking networks, we will advance
a review of the rules of forfeiture to expedite the
expropriation process, liquidation and monetization of assets confiscated. He
produced by these processes it should be administered so that serves to afford
education, prevention and treatment of people consuming
SPA.
c.

SUBMISSION TO THE LAW OF cartels: Our commitment
with Colombia also is founded on the desire to bring to justice the pressure
of the police and the judiciary to the citizens and organizations
(Posters) dedicated to drug production and drug trafficking. Not only
maintain international cooperation for purposes of extradition and catches,
but strengthen the operational capacity of the armed forces to be
each stronger in days to dismantle organized crime.

d. Increase penalties and prosecution of drug dealers in
URBAN CENTERS: In order to address and prevent microtrafficking
sale of drugs in urban centers, which represent a serious threat
against youth, endureceremos penalties to punish retailers and
prevent large distributors to recruit vulnerable population
deepen their supply channels.
5. a modern approach to the consumption and addiction: Recognizing
drug use as a public health problem (which now reaches magnitudes
endemic) and protected by article 49 of the Constitution, we give a structural change
against the consumption and addiction. The basis of our policy towards these two
circumstances are as follows:
to. Decriminalize drug consumption: Consumers will not be treated
as criminals and they shall not apply deprivation of liberty. For him
administrative penalties and fines otherwise apply under the features
a contravention additionally applying the pedagogical instruction
damage to physical integrity that produce and psychotropic hallucinogens.
40

b. VOCATIONAL REHABILITATION provide care to the addict: The State
addicts informed, consent and provide educational services
motivating therapeutic rehabilitation and mitigate the social impact of the
drug addiction. To meet this objective, the Government will create
a national agenda for Rehabilitation in close coordination with the governors
local.

OUR AGENDA FOR PEACE AND RECONCILIATION
Peace is a state that is reached when the whole community takes on a culture of respect
its rules and represents an ideal state for which every society has to work
constantly. All actions related to the attainment of peace entail rights
and duties. By this we understand that it is the duty of the state and all of society seek,
guarantee it, achieve it and keep it in a few balances that favor rights
encourage all Colombians and the duties that society imposes a culture as being
a society that can live peacefully.
The effects of the absence of a stable, true and just, have made our
living society insecure, terrified, with hopelessness and disinterest. That is why to talk
peace, you can not start from wrong premises such as the militarists absolutisms
let alone irresponsible and false inmediatistas concessions.
Any violent action creates mostly irreparable damage to society, families and
people and so has the community the need to work for reconciliation and
only way to a peaceful coexistence. We propose a line of effective action,
achievable and to ensure long-term reach true conditions, stable peace and
Ultimately, not only for the good of all Colombians, but in line with our
international obligations coexistence and security.
We PROPOSE:
1.
NO PEACE WITHOUT DISARMAMENT: Achieving peace through negotiated
it can only be effective through a disarmament, demobilization and reintegration
verifiable and effective.
2.
PEACE WITH TERMINATION OF CRIMINAL ACTIVITIES: The State is obliged to
ensuring peace and security and therefore can not give up the legitimate monopoly
weapons or subtracted to ensure the rule of law and strengthening the rule
Social Law. The desire for peace can only come from an immediate cessation
criminal activities of those who live outside the law.
3.
INSTITUTIONAL PEACE WITHOUT COMPROMISE: Negotiations
they can only be from a real desire for peace, and not as a means of pressure
political or imbalance between the state's obligation to maintain order, and
government's intention to sign immediate success. This results in the
impossibility of making territorial concessions, replicate or demobilize forces
legitimate armed state, or allow groups outside the law are
temporary guarantor of order and security through negotiations or
approaches, let alone who determine the boundaries of the freedoms and
constitutional rights of citizens as well.
Four.
PEACE WITH TRUTH, JUSTICE AND REPAIR: The truth is the value
essential in order to achieve peace, for it is imperative that actions
41

cease armed terrorists, and accountability for actions that occur during
negotiating phases are assumed, investigated and punished by the State, even in
under approaches.
5.
COMPLIANCE WITH PEACE OF OBLIGATIONS TO THE RIGHT
INTERNATIONAL HUMAN RIGHTS: The armed forces obey a
command line where the commander in chief is the President of the Republic. his
act should always be in line with the constitutional legal order, domestic and
international, especially in matters that relate to human rights and IHL. In
Likewise, the only possibility of real peace will come from a total subjection
and absolute armed actors such obligations.
6.
PEACE with deprivation of liberty for CRIMES AGAINST
HUMANITY: The effective and definitive demobilization of effective organizations
outside the criminal law presumes accountability, and therefore must
be accompanied by the (custodial, penalties and repair
cooperation), you needed to meet the transgression of the rule of law in the
a negotiating framework that responds to the gravity of the crimes committed in
consistent with international obligations regarding the protection, promotion,
defense and observance of human rights and IHL, especially those that encompass
crimes under international law.
7.
PEACE AND COEXISTENCE WITH REINTEGRATION: The armed group bases
terrorists - to the extent of their criminal liabilities - must have a
adequate supply of effective reintegration into civilian society through study, work
and the possibility of a better future as productive members, either through
enterprises, establishment of culture of peace and / or cooperative association for purposes
lawful.
8.
PEACE WITHOUT ELIGIBILITY POLICY criminals against humanity:
failure to ensure political participation responsible for crimes
International does not become a political whim, but legal obligations
higher order on effective protection of human rights and international humanitarian law, constituting
these obligations of international public order, which can not be limited,
nuanced, or suspended by the Colombian State.
Those who have committed political crimes - as well qualified by the laws and authorities
State in accordance with international law - they can access the
eligibility policy in compliance with the principles of non-repetition and submission
the rules, especially those that deal with political participation, without their
condition "demobilization" generates them additional rights or future immunities
by administrative, criminal and / or liability dismissal
disciplinary prosecutor.
9.
PEACE WITH CARE AND REPAIR OF VICTIMS: The repair
victims is a duty of the perpetrators. That is why, as well as the State is responsible for
violations and penalties that are imposed, and seek effective mechanisms and
efficient as repair administratively, those armed groups
wish to achieve peace are obliged to ensure effective repair,
which must be based on not continue recruiting minors, the delivery of goods
acquired during the development of criminal activities, to establish a fund
administered by the State to redress and compensate the victims.

42

10.
PEACE UNDER THE PRINCIPLE OF NO REPEAT: The bleaching of capital,
concealment of goods, the absence of truth, and any other conduct that violates
Against effective remedy, it shall be punished as a violation of the principle of
"Non-repetition" and generate consequences of legal and political order for recidivism.
eleven.
CHECK WITH INTERNATIONAL PEACE: Peace is a common goal of
humanity. Participation and international verification of compliance and guarantees
impartial, and therefore should anticipate accompaniment under the law
International and diplomatic relations. For this, the state and groups outside
law may accept international verification States or Organizations
International wishing to contribute to that effort, according to the framework
existing law on enforcement, impartiality, non-interference, non-
intervention and respect for sovereignty. This is critical for the signing of a
mandate and roadmap to ensure balanced participation of third.
12.
PEACE WITH RECONCILIATION: For real peace to reign in our country
we have to make reconciliation engine coexistence. Reconciliation
It requires specific, timely and credible measures. Therefore we offer to Colombia:
•

PREVENTION, PREVENTION AND PREVENTION: We will not allow
violence and illegal armed groups continue to generate more families
victims. The democratic security throughout the country is the main
guarantee mechanism of non-repetition of the conditions of belligerency
and continued violence against society and its institutions. Sure
that criminal gangs are captured and met victims and
supported.

•

TRUE AND REHABILITATION Psychosocial care at all
LEVELS: useless to continue advancing in repairs and compensation
but the grief is overcome and managed to reduce or overcome the resentment and hatred
that is inevitable. The health system will provide a comprehensive program and
effective psychosocial care for victims of violence. Especially,
for women, widows and children victims.

•

INTELLIGENT USE OF REPAIR TO BUILD THE ASSETS

VICTIMS 'FAMILIES: We will work so that important amounts of
repair will be given to victim families, they are invested in
education, housing or land. So to protect themselves better
way to future risks.

•

RETURN TO COUNTRY AS PROMOTER OF RURAL DEVELOPMENT: It
an active program will return to the field, with incentives security
food, agricultural production and improve housing and services
essential public. The Colombian Army will ensure that all
have returned to the safety and security fields. We will ensure that
capital cities to invest resources in areas housing
Nearby return.

•

We will build and rebuild 50 population centers
RECONCILIATION: These are towns in rural areas
potential for agricultural development. Will housing solutions, services
public, health center, school, access roads
to
properties, plus a digital telecenter and solar energy. There may
voluntarily settle for no less than five years, families
victims resettled, reintegrated and poor rural population.
43

•

ON JUSTICE AND PEACE ALL LEADERS AND HEADS OF
Guerrilla front PAY JAIL AND BE THEIR PROPERTY
DELIVERED OR SEIZED in order to be used for repair
victims of violence.

OUR AGENDA OF JUSTICE
1. AN EXECUTIVE AND EFFECTIVE MINISTRY OF JUSTICE The Ministry of Justice should
become an effective body design and implementation of public policies
contribute to better coordination between the executive and the judiciary. He
Ministry is called to promote better technical training of officials
branch, building technology infrastructure that facilitates the speed in
sector management, facilitate analysis of the factors that trigger and speed
crime, with the aim of identifying preventive and punitive measures, accompanied
the decentralization process of judicial services with the highest standards
performance and service to the citizen.
2. Improve the penitentiary and prison management and reduce SO
PRIORITY overcrowding: the government needs to face the situation
penitentiary and prison sector efficiently. The condition of our
They show overcrowded prisons, insecurity and violation of
human rights that must be addressed structurally. This involves
construction of new infrastructure, monitoring the prison population,
constant monitoring humanitarian conditions, improved standards
safety and geographical decentralization of inmates. Similarly it required
rethink the prison benefits to most dangerous inmates, preventing
recidivism from prison.
3. UPGRADING THE OPERATING PERFORMANCE OF JUSTICE SECTOR: The Government
Central must accompany the Superior Council of the Judiciary and the entire justice sector
in modernizing its institutional structure. The orderly systematization
judicial offices, management of real-time information and access to
jurisprudence and doctrine on the part of judges and prosecutors is central to greater
efficiency of the branch. Undoubtedly this process should be accompanied by programs
training and innovation and a new political talent identification and management
human resources for the future.
4. STRENGTHEN THE ATTORNEY GENERAL OF THE NATION: To make increasingly effective
the justice sector requires that the Attorney General's Office (FGN) meets the
budgetary and operational resources. With an independent prosecutor and
based on a transparent accountability, the fight against crime will become
more robust and efficient. In this process the Government should be urged to improve the FGN
their selection processes and appointment of officials, seeking the best
technical, ethical and personal standards. Similarly, the accusatory system
It should be strengthened by ensuring that their operation meets the highest standards
international process.
5. STRUCTURAL FAILURE TO CORRECT adversarial criminal justice system: Le
give priority to a revision of the accusatory penal system focused on:
A. Ensure the presumption of innocence. It is necessary for all
citizens enjoy full guarantees to exercise the right to defense.
44

B. Ensure that follow the principle of opportunity not constitute a
pressure procedural mechanism that undermines the full guarantees of
right to defense.
C. Ensure proper evaluation and assessment of evidence.
6. JUDICIAL decongestion and IMPUNITY: Colombia faces high
judicial congestion levels mainly concentrated in the ordinary jurisdiction
criminal and civil areas. This phenomenon becomes critical because the caseload of
courts affects the prompt administration of justice. For this reason we have set
targeting a reduction of judicial congestion around 50%. Do what
will require, among others:
TO.

B.

C.
D.
E.

F.
G.
H.

Streamline processing systems and decision cases
less complexity through the creation of "judges of general jurisdiction"
to allow municipal judges make better use of its powers,
focusing on cases more carefully.
Forward procedural reforms that are required to evacuate
efficiently without sacrificing quality in the performance of judicial services
characteristics of processes that amount, type and relevance should be
treated with priority and experienced technical staff.
The launch of mobile courts that address the lawsuit
the most remote areas of the country.
Increase the use of alternative dispute resolution mechanisms
for reconciliation through lawsuits are resolved effectively
require the attention of the judicial apparatus.
Develop the concept of community justice for the population to
consolidate conflict resolution instruments based on securities
groups. This instrument will be limited by such disputes, amounts and
sanctions.
Encourage the creation of private conciliation centers supported by
Universities, chambers of commerce and other organizations of society
civil.
Make oversight more open citizenship versus quality
administration of justice and to define clear management standards
to measure the performance of officials of the branch.
Define appropriate procedural mechanisms to streamline the
investigation and resolution of business processes that represent, according to figures
official over 70% of the civil caseload and more than 30% load
proceedings of the ordinary courts.

7. Impunity NO JUSTICE FOR WOMEN
A. As part of the structure of the current Prosecutor General's Office there are 27
Integral Attention Centers Research Victims of Sexual Offenses
(CAIVAS) and 29 Service Centers and Integral Violence Research
Domestic (CAVIF) for the whole country, which is clearly insufficient to
address national problems, generating impunity. We therefore propose
CAIVAS and CAVIF expand throughout the national territory, creating a subunit
specializing in CAIVAS and CAVIF - to meet all kinds of crimes
women, not just sexual or domestic violence crimes.
B. Amend the Criminal Code to include and aggravate any conduct that violates
against women and reform the Code of Criminal Procedure regarding
security measures, legal system of freedom and accumulation of penalties
when the victim is a woman.

4. 5

8. SYSTEM STRENGTHENING Adolescent Criminal Responsibility
A. It is necessary to revise the Code of Children and Adolescents. We must avoid
children continue to be used to commit a crime because of a weak system. Is
bring important specialized care centers for youth
Violators real resocialization. Condition jails
adults with special wards for minors. Likewise strengthen
public advocacy for children.
B. be designed in concert with civil society, justice programs
restorative, looking for the rehabilitation of offenders under age against
himself, his family, the victim, the community and the state, within a framework of
respect, protect and guarantee human rights. We must achieve
effective programs to ensure that these young people overcome their problem
drug.
9. STRENGTHEN JUDICIAL STATE DEFENSE BY THE FOLLOWING
ACTIONS:
A. Provide Legal Defense Agency of the State of appropriate instruments
coordination with the legal areas of the central government,
to optimize defense resources, sort storylines
State protection, assess the system of evidentiary foundation and generate
efficiency and economy in benefit of the State.
B. Select by meritocracy State agents in major processes
national and international disputes. In this process there will be
lists submitted by law schools, bar associations and
Specialized schools in different areas of law.
10. PROMOTE AGRICULTURAL CAMPS FOR CRIMINAL OFFENSES low hazard:
In order to advance new prisons schemes, colonies were created
resocializing allowing agricultural criminal detention and community service
I specialized. This instrument will be supervised by qualified managers and guards
social, with special focus on non-recidivism and social work.

46

47

A STRONG ECONOMY AND FULL OF CONFIDENCE FOR INVESTMENT
For years Colombia must set concrete goals on economic,
ensuring the sustainability of growth based on political stability
fiscal and monetary with a horizon of medium and long term.
Our agenda on economic matters then points to:
1. Transparency and Accountability: Our fiscal agenda is based on the
stability, trust and sustainability of spending in the medium and long term, the
hand with meeting social goals:
to. A flexible budget: We do a structural reform
budget management capacity by removing rigidities that affect decision
making and implementation of countercyclical measures.
b. BEST ALLOCATION OF EXPENDITURE: We will create the Ministry of Finance one
Specialized assessment unit results, impact and externalities
the execution of public spending. Such tools allow
public finances are best used and that anticipates control
inter regarding goals and assignments. With this it is intended that
fiscal spending in the nation to have greater impact on the regional level and area
social.
c. SIMPLICITY AND EFFECTIVE TAX: By 2015 we will
structural simplification to the Tax Code, facilitating the process, report,
calculation and payment of taxes by natural and legal persons.
d. A NEW TAX FRAMEWORK FOR REGIONAL AUTHORITIES: the same
I so do a structural reform framework for territorial tax
Mayors and governors have better tools to collect and
strengthen local tax revenues, systematization, planning and
use of revenues from land taxes. This agenda is
vital to safeguard fiscal sustainability and improve their management capacity
Local.
2. STRENGTHENING THE MONETARY, EXCHANGE AND CREDIT: Our Agenda
guides the Bank of the Republic made every effort to maintain
the confidence of our countrymen and foreign investment in the credibility of
our monetary guidelines. This requires ensuring that inflation targets
are met and to ensure that no speculative turbulence generated
unsustainable, which produce negative effects in the medium and long term.
3. IMPROVE THE INVESTMENT GRADE: Colombia should aim to achieve confidence
investor translates, among other things, continuous improvement in the degree of
investment. This will give more security to international investment and allow the State
48

borrow improved credit conditions, as well as create a better climate
our business that favors private sector
4. MORE INVESTMENT MORE EXPORT: To ensure a sustainable economy and
Colombia dynamics should gradually increase the gross capital formation, the
as well as increase their exports to major captive markets, it should
promote exports of those products and enterprises to benefit
comparative and enter new countries in a diversification strategy
minimize our dependence on volatile markets.

How are we today?
TRADE AND ENTREPRENEURSHIP
•
•
•
•

16

In 2013 they were allowed to export approximately 1,300 million.
17
Despite the FTA with the United States exports to this were 15% less.
18
60% of manufacturing companies are not innovative.
Investment in Science and Technology of Colombia is 0.19 as% of GDP while
19
in countries like Brazil and South Africa is 1%.

In 2018 our country should be a model of development based on social economy
market to develop the entrepreneurial potential of our citizens. The agenda
Government focuses on the following pillars:
A NEW APPROACH TO OUR BUSINESS MODEL
1. COUNTRY OF ENTREPRENEURS: Colombia is called to establish itself as a country of
minded entrepreneurs to innovate, invest and develop products with value
added. To achieve this goal we intend to advance the following
areas:
to. CHAIRS OF ENTREPRENEURSHIP: From elementary to training
university programs should be oriented training
training in entrepreneurship. This involves teaching the value of money,
accounting, investment, human resources, innovation, among others. A
company formed this criterion will have a better capacity
involved in the economic life of the country.
b. ACCESS TO CREDIT FOR NEW BUSINESS: The State and the Private Sector
They must work hand in hand, to take entrepreneurial initiatives
seed resources to experiment and grow. The establishment of incubators
youth with universities, the expansion of the Entrepreneurship Fund and SENA
strengthening of INNPULSA be vital vehicles.

16

DANE
ibid.
18
ibid.
19
DNP
17

49

c.

FRESH CAPITAL MARKETS: We need markets
Capital robust and vigorous to grow the national climate
entrepreneurship. Our proposal focuses on that every time we have a
more companies issuing debt and equity and we can see
new companies coming to market through initial public offerings. A
country that manages to involve its citizens in the business strengthening is
also a country that better distributes wealth.

d. INTELLIGENT PRODUCTION EXPERTISE: We will promote a policy
explicit national oriented prioritizing productive sectors
specific, with the aim of promoting and strengthening "regional clusters".
We develop regional and local comparative advantages, always
market orientation either domestic or export. Such policy
Vertical support of the Government, coordinate efforts in critical areas
as human capital formation, logistics and transport infrastructure,
access to markets, access to relevant information.
2. Venture Capital for business expansion: We in Colombia
a hub for the installation and growth of Venture Capital Funds, Capital
Entrepreneur and angel investors. With a more flexible regulation and at the same
Close supervision time, create conditions for the flow of capital into
value-added business initiatives Intellectual Property and talent.
3. STRENGTHEN INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY POLICY: We will promote
comprehensive strengthening of our institutions to Intellectual Property
more effective registration, marketing and protecting our creators,
designs, trademarks and patents. This agenda will be included coordination and
elimination of institutional dispersion, the granting of logging functions to
Chambers of Commerce, strengthening payments to artists, composers and
producers and encouraging the Colombian private sector to do the design and branding
a centerpiece of its insertion into the world economy.
4. BUSINESS CLIMATE: During the last four years our country has deteriorated
notably in the international business climate indices, as they have
proven studies by the World Bank and the IFC
International. To prevent this situation deepens in advance:
to.
b.
c.
d.
e.
f.
g.
h.

Create and liquidate enterprises with speed.
Guarantees and expeditious protection to investors.
Efficient tax collection.
Fight against corruption.
Transparency in government procurement.
Haste in approving licenses.
Speed ​​trial in the judicial system.
Ease of mobility of financial flows.

5. exporting SMEs: Colombia is a country of small and medium enterprises and
So open up opportunities requires stable and secure access to new
markets. For this objective reality we propose the following actions:
to. Creating the national directory of exporting SMEs to be widespread in the
Proexport offices located in different countries.
b. Building a Public-Private B2B portal designed to facilitate alliances
business between companies from other countries and domestic SMEs.

50

c.

Developing Macro-wheels exporting SMEs in the countries where they have
signed free trade.
d. Facilitate logistics, legal and operational advice to overcome bottlenecks
market access.
6. CONSUMER PROTECTION AND FIGHT AGAINST ABUSE OF POSITION
KEY: Colombia is the regional leader in consumer protection, the sanction
abuses of dominant position and control the formation of monopolies and
oligopolies that affect the free and healthy functioning of competition. Impose
sanctions where abuses occur, we will make a great social pedagogy on
consumer rights and make the company a strategic partner to
identify violations of the right of free competition.
7. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT FOR BUSINESS INNOVATION: In
Colombia next four years to quadruple investment in research and
developing. This is not strictly a public challenge and instead demand
the private sector to design, branding, patents a factor of increasing value. By
That is why we will give awards to the best research firms overtake
to innovate in products, methodologies, technologies, among others.
8. COMPETITIVE departments and regions: the real competitiveness of a country
begins with the regions, cities and departments where they are born and grow
enterprises according to their natural vocation, or market needs. Without a
strong competitiveness of our local authorities will be difficult to make Colombia a
country able to grow at more than 6% annual rate. The agenda that we propose to
Colombia is based on:
•
•

•

•

•

PHYSICAL INFRASTRUCTURE: To improve the national road network and make more
geographical fast interconnection of the country.
DIGITAL INFRASTRUCTURE: reach 100% coverage of band
High-speed broadband for cities with more than
three hundred thousand inhabitants and achieve a 100% digital penetration
throughout the country.
ACCESS TO CREDIT: In the main cities of the country can be
access to credit at lower levels and entrepreneurship
bureaucratic processes.
Tolerance, respect and inclusion of all minorities: The
cities in Colombia is characterized by respect and inclusion
racial, religious, sexual, diversity becoming capable places
attract creative talent, which we encourage.
EDUCATION AND TECHNOLOGY: Our regions are fertile ground for
public-private coordination in business research, based on
commercial strengths of the departments and cities.

9. not negotiate TLC FOR 4 YEARS: Whereas Colombia has entered into an
TLC dozen during the past ten years, we will finish the negotiations
currently ahead and freeze further negotiations for a period of 4
years. What will we do to deepen the already established markets, strengthen the industry
In this context national and accelerate investment from countries and regions with
which we have narrowed trade ties.

51

How are we today?
COMPETITIVE INFRASTRUCTURE
•
•
•
•

20

The quality of tertiary road network in good condition does not exceed 15% on average.
21
The secondary road network in good condition does not exceed 50% on average.
The state of the roads means Colombia will cost overruns transport within the
22
35% country.
Poor logistics operation is cost overruns of 20% over other
2. 3.
Latin America and the world

1. A ROAD NATIONAL PLAN FOR THE XXI CENTURY: Over the next four years
Government should advance the investments needed to meet the
goals of the national road plan. To carry out this policy of state we need:
•

•
•

Forward with Public Private Partnership schemes to attract investment
Foreign and engineering world-class partner with firms
national processes of design, construction and operation of roads and
railways.
Increased participation of pension funds and other investors
institutional in financing infrastructure.
Attract foreign institutional investors to finance
infrastructure.

2. MODERN AND INTEGRATED AIRPORTS: The national network of airports should be
Hubs designed and maximized by facilitating not only the flow of tourism to
country but positioning Colombia as the main airport logistics corridor
South America.
In carrying out this plan:
• We will promote PPPs in adjustments and reforms, design, construction and
concession operation
• Create consistent with airport hubs and tourist demands
logistics regions.
• We will improve the technical and operational conditions of airports
better national safety standards.
• We will ensure timely and efficient air service, protecting users.
3. efficient ports: We will create incentives to expand port infrastructure
the country, providing benefits to the domestic and foreign investment, promoting culture
Port-Free Zone and Industrial, positioning new port infrastructure
National for offshore services, and promoting Colombian ports as place
competitive services, taking advantage of the expansion of the Panama Canal.
4. INTERNATIONAL INFRASTRUCTURE INTEGRATION: During our government
We deepen integration with other countries through the realization of projects
20

FEDESARROLLO notebooks.
Ibid.
22
Private Competitiveness Council.
2. 3
Achievement Office FTAs.
21

52

priority backed IIRSA and Plan Puebla Panama Pacific Alliance agenda.
This integration is key in the process of greater trade integration, logistics,
tourism and customs.
5. SOCIAL PROGRAM BASIC INFRASTRUCTURE -PIBS-: We will launch the
Basic Infrastructure Program Social-PIBS. The support PIBS Plans
Water departmental initiatives and social services with the command
Governors and Mayors. The program does not create new state bureaucracy and will be an
instance of coordination and institutional assessment. The government will inform the review
public every 90 days on the progress of these programs.
6. We will modernize the current production-minded cities Trade
providing them with the necessary infrastructure abroad.

How are we today?
MINING ENERGY SECTOR AS AN ENGINE FOR DEVELOPMENT
•
•
•

24

63% of mining in Colombia operates without mining rights.
25
65% of mining in Colombia do not pay royalties.
75% does not handle any restoration plan, recovery, management or license
26
environmental.
FIGURE 19.

1. REVIEW THE MINING REGULATIONS: The Mining Code requires review and
modernization to adapt to new conditions in the country. Our mission
will focus on include new items that take into account the realities mining
They are occurring under the situation.

24

Departmental Mining 2011 Census
ibid.
26
Private Council of Competitiveness
25

53

The legal proposal should raise specific legal procedures and differentiated
the three concrete manifestations of mining, which require a
clear, expeditious and differential legal treatment:
i.
ii.
iii.

Great formal business Mining
Small and medium legal Mining
Illegal Mining

The new legal architecture will be based on the following grounds:
•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

Regulated procedures, subject to explicit terms that eliminate
discretion of the authorities in the assessment of environmental risks
and product impacts on mining communities.
Making explicit some clear rules for all actors,
business to the environmental authorities, mining authorities and
local authorities and communities.
Regulate a clear, expeditious and balanced process of consultations
prior to indigenous, native islanders and Roma communities (ROM); establish a
compulsory registration of these communities and information system
detail of the location of ancestral groups constituted authorities and
members, representatives of these communities.
Facilitate expedited environmental licensing process. Remove
discretion of the environmental authority in managing the requirements and
time for processing environmental licenses. Include a procedure
regulated, to decide concrete terms; such requirements
explicit licenses to applicants, and which must be complied with
Such terms and procedures procedure shall be enforceable
both for those seeking the license to the environmental authority
You must approve. Precise definition of terms of duration of procedures and
stages.
Explicit rights and duties of mining companies regarding management
environmental and mitigation of environmental impacts and social impacts
mining.
Explicit rights and duties of the communities affected by the activity
mining; specific procedures for processing complaints by communities and
people affected and definition of precise terms to enable the Authority to
the charge resolved.
Mining companies equal about sanctions deal. The
Mining Code proposal must contain an exact definition rules
regarding grounds for sanction, the rules for establishing dosages
fines / penalties according to the seriousness of the offense. Terms
clear in time to punish.
Establish clear mechanisms to coordinate between the mining
energy, environmental and agricultural sustainable patterns of occupation
territory that minimize use conflicts between different interests
sector, identifying solutions coexistence with local authorities and
community.

2. NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT FOR ELECTRICAL ENERGY: In the next four years we
propose to move forward in the works that will expand the national electricity network,
order to respond to economic and population growth. Furthermore, as the
review of on-costs that prevent extensive development of the sector. It should also
build a state policy regarding long-term water resources and
project developments for the country to be used in the future to capacity
54

hydropower production and optimum utilization of water resources as its
main natural heritage.
3. ECOPETROL A WORLD CLASS COMPANY: Our national company
Oil will continue to strengthen, improving its operational capacity and
presence in strategic investments for the country. To do improve their
corporate standards, their governance structures and rankings
national and international capital markets. During the next four years
will increase its production capacity, we create new agreements
International exploration and exploitation, and deepen new markets.
4. MAJOR INVESTMENT IN OIL: Colombia requires further expand its
production capacity and exploration in the hydrocarbon sector
(Onshore / offshore), taking into account the sector's impact on investment,
exports and its contribution to GDP. Our government will provide guarantees for advance
seismic research and environmentally responsible production, and legal stability
security, efforts to improve the profile projected reserves. Within this
strategic conception give incentives to offshore exploration, ensuring
the highest environmental schemes, marine and coastal protection.
5. FIGHT AGAINST ILLEGAL BUSINESS OIL AND DERIVATIVES: With the support of
Armed forces and police, like the judiciary and the Department of
Taxes and Customs, will launch a program to combat
smuggling of oil and derivatives in special control areas
border. As additional measures is the application of technologies
geographic positioning for tankers, the application of a stamp
Intelligent lubricant and research and submission to the Law of the Heads of
cartels who profit from this business.
6. A Sustainable Energy Matrix: By 2016 Colombia will define a
long-term strategy regarding the national energy mix for the next
decades. The matrix will define the national energy balance, the necessary investments
renewable sources and the benefits of using new technologies in sectors
intensive consumption.

RECOGNITION OF THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR AS PRIMARY FACTOR
THE COLOMBIAN ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
During our government to the agricultural sector will be given the prominence it really
It corresponds with regard to socio-economic growth, employment generation and as
stabilizing factor in our economy. To achieve this purpose we propose a plan
which promotes a balance between the opportunities for small producers and the need to
deepen agribusiness investment. This goal we want to achieve with the following
proposals:
1. DEBT RELIEF AND FORGIVENESS FOR SMALL FARMERS MAY RETURN
PRODUCE: One of our flags government will forward a relief plan
Producers debt, improving their financial conditions for access
borrowing and facilitate their capacity to undertake optimal land uses, but
55

with due support and assistance of the State in all those factors
determine their efficiency in the cost function and productivity. We will provide a new
financing scheme with fixed rate of 3% for the acquisition of machinery and
production.
2. PROTECTION OF HAVING GOOD EARTH AND EFFECTIVE FOR forfeiture
LAND OF DRUG TRAFFICKING AND CRIMINALS: We will give full protection to
our peasants land by the security forces and advance in the
forfeiture of the lands of the drug to be applied to new
EU agriculture schemes and productive association.
3. REDUCTION OF PRICES OF BASIC SUPPLIES FOR FIELD AND DISPOSAL
Of VAT for agricultural machinery and equipment: One of the requirements for
improve the competitiveness of the agricultural sector has to do with improving access to
machinery and agricultural inputs. Therefore with the sectoral institutions and
DIAN support, we will reduce the VAT to the necessary machinery to improve
production and achieve a reduction in prices of inputs and fertilizers by 50%.

4. LARGE INVESTMENT IN WAY FOR TERTIARY and village the peasant
CONNECT WITH MARKETS: Our field requires road infrastructure
improve conditions for market access for producers. For this,
We develop an expansion of the national network of rural tertiary roads. East
project will be implemented with the support of mayors and governors.
5. OFFER AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION OF TAKING ADVANTAGE OF THE FTA AND ACTIVATION
SAFEGUARDS WHEN NEEDED: MINAGRICULTURA and will apply with
Mincomercio with its ancillary institutions such as ICA and Proexport a series of actions
support to supply and trade to allow our agricultural products
find better access to markets that are supposed to open
through FTAs. This requires a major effort to put our offer
exportable to the demands of quality and price competitiveness of markets
external, to find buyers and / or adequate marketing channels and
all have state support in terms of size and production support,
process and transport.
6. CRITICAL SUPPORT PROGRAMS IN INNOVATION, SCIENCE AND
TECHNOLOGY ENTREPRENEUR FARMER TO THE FIELD, AND OUR
SOCIAL ENTREPRENEUR OF MORE COMPETITIVE FIELD: We will give contributions to Funds
Capital, assistance and entities like Colciencias and the ICA SENA support
sectoral agricultural producers to implement better technologies, systems
risk control and market intelligence. We will support more districts
irrigation and other forms of technical assistance and subsidy, always provided
that rural workers are covered by social security. Expand
the scope of the CENI agricultural extension institutions while strengthening
its technical capacity in human resources and applied research.
We will facilitate imports of all factors and agricultural inputs provided
these really fulfill its mission to multiply our production efficiency, which is
For new technologies, seeds, genetic material and soil improvement.
7. SPECIAL SUPPORT POLICIES sectors of great social impact
COFFEE AND MILK: we continue to promote the renovation of coffee plantations
complemented by simultaneous food crops to ensure safety
food and other sources of additional income to coffee, such as bananas. If
56

the dairy sector policy will help reduce production costs and increase
purchase price per liter to peasant producers. Intermediation will be regulated
between the farmer and the dairy industry.
8. A FIELD OF ENTREPRENEURS: We will promote partnerships and cooperatives
agricultural producers to integrate vertically and generate processes
added value and own marketing, reducing intermediation costs.
We offer training programs for young farmers.
9. A COUNTRY OF WEALTH MARINA: Colombia is a country with enormous wealth and coastal
Marine therefore should have a framework of government policies oriented use
said sustainable wealth. Therefore with the sector authorities and support
DIMAR institutional and INVEMAR and collaboration of universities and industry
They will be launched private research programs, development and
protection of our marine biodiversity.
10. Elimination of monopoly of seeds and fertilizers.
11. THE RURAL FAMILY COMPENSATION: We agree with the Compensation Funds
development of programs to benefit rural families.
12. BUSINESS SECTOR INSTITUTIONS: The Ministry of Agriculture and
Rural Development and related bodies should be strengthened to ensure
proper research and shocking sectoral policies. The National Institute
Agricultural-ICA and the National Institute of Food and Drug Surveillance -
INVIMA- must be converted into increasingly technical institutions and
independent of political interference, ensuring stability in its directives
interest and shielding their policy and regulatory functions.
13. agriculture and mining. There is a connection between mining and underground
proper recovery of resources and land as development can not be
aside and that takes priority in our government. The positive revolution
field must be based on joint action by the head of government with its
Minister of Agriculture supported by finance, transportation, mining, environment,
culture and foreign trade. Land reclamation, soil, mountains and
especially rivers and springs or water births after a formal mining
shall be compulsory and well done. It should legislate and create the controls and mechanisms
executives to make the law and enforce priority determination
policy machined end illegal mining.
14. MAINTENANCE, RECOVERY AND CREATING tropical forests
SUSTAINABLE NATURAL DIVERSITY WITHIN across our geography.
Forestry development in our country, the substitution of illicit crops by crop
agriculture, culture, youth approach to nature live, development
municipal nurseries and awareness and vocation of a massive tree planting.

BIOTECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT TOOL
The consolidation of biotechnology as one of the country's development tool, we
allow locate up to countries like the US, Spain, Japan, Israel, India and
Brazil, among others, found in this science a source of sustainable development
their economies. It is a sector in continuous growth that has demonstrated its favorable
implications for the quality of life of the population and habitat preservation.
57

Biotechnology allows for the optimization of raw materials and investment. Our intention is
there is an appropriation of this science at all levels, as their social impact
will allow for greater competitiveness for Colombia. Our mission is to articulate those
They are working in these areas with the peasants, with producers, with entrepreneurs.
Science used to be more competitive and make progress, a science socialized at all
levels and it can be implemented by every Colombian.
Biotechnology is use of biodiversity and sustainable way of generating sustainable wealth.
1. biocorridors FOR PROGRESS: Creating biocorridors regionally for items
specific agricultural, seeking to make science more competitive crops and
optimize revenue for farmers (support in the generation of seedlings, management
seeds, pest management biocontrol).
2. INCLUSION Biotechnology: will be provided via education programs
appropriate technical, technological and professional level, the biotechnology tools
mood boost development in rural areas, and promoting industrial development and
Defined business bioregions.
3. MARKETING OF BIOTECHNOLOGY: According to TLC and needs
expressed by the signatory countries will be promoted for the development of early victories
future sales markets for specific products. The country should understand that their
position, signed by TLC, and the consolidation and coordination of their scientific and
technology with efficient work program may be a power in the agricultural sector
industrial, pharmaceutical and cosmetic. (Production of plant varieties and efficiently
optimal, bio-production, biofuels from non-food products, creation
dietary supplements starting from Colombian plant varieties, production
biosimilar medicines, cosmetics formulated with ingredients biodiversity
Colombian).
4. CREATION OF Logbook: A tricolor country, in this book look so
capture how each specific agricultural and industrial sectors, in their production chain
support the biotechnology sector and how to implement it.

CULTURE AND TECHNOLOGY CREATIVE ECONOMY AS AREAS OF PROGRESS
CURRENT SITUATION:
• Only 59.4% of Colombians read households with children under 5
27
years .

27

Cultural Consumption Survey 2012. DANE.

58

20. GRAPHIC BOOKS READING IN THE LAST 12 MONTHS
By age (persons 12 years and over)

Source: Survey of Cultural Consumption 2012 DANE.

21. GRAPHIC FILM ASSISTANCE IN THE LAST 12 MONTHS
By age (12 and over)

Source: Survey of Cultural Consumption 2012 DANE.

GRAPHIC 22. Attending cultural SPACES
IN THE LAST 12 MONTHS (12 and over)

Source: Survey of Cultural Consumption 2012 DANE.

1. cultural prosperity: During the next four years will strengthen the
Ministry of Culture and the engine will become a creative enterprise,
dissemination and protection of folklore, historical and ancestral heritage of the country, like

59

the counselor of public policy for sport. Among the fronts of action
find:
•

CONTINUE WITH PLANS ASSESSMENT AND SPREAD OF HERITAGE
CULTURAL: The promotion of artistic products of all our cultures
regional as well as our ancestral heritage and should be a priority
demand a strategic integration with the Ministry of Culture
Foreign Ministry and our diplomatic and consular representations in the world
whole.

•

ORCHESTRA FOR PEACE: As they have done such countries as Venezuela,
this initiative, hundreds of young people have found in music a factor of
discipline and personal training. We will give greater continuity and support
Program budget to BATUTA involving the private sector and
international cooperation.

•

World-class museums: the local authorities will promote and
private sector to build world-class museums that attract
domestic and foreign tourism.

•

FESTIVALS AND CARNIVAL FOR COLLECTIVE IDENTITY: We will
International campaign to promote festivals and carnivals in the country,
highlighting his ancestral wealth and cultural potential.

2. CREATIVE ECONOMY AS A FACTOR OF WEALTH: During our government we
We propose increasing the contribution of creative industries to the Colombian GDP,
increasing its capacity to generate employment and export potential. Our
agenda includes:
•
•

•

•

•
•

•

•
•

STRENGTHEN THE BUDGET OF THE MINISTRY OF CULTURE: Today equals
less than a week the Budget of the Ministry of Defense.
INFRASTRUCTURE: Support the construction of cultural infrastructure for
coexistence in the country (museums, cultural centers, libraries,
Conservatories, theaters) To provide greater tax incentives for contributions
Private construction of cultural infrastructure.
STRENGTHEN INSTITUTIONS IN THE COUNTRY ON PROPERTY
INTELLECTUAL: To protect our creators and remove as much dispersion
institutional.
Integrate the work of Mincultura, MINTIC And MINCOMERCIO: For
deepening of the creative economy (Increase share of GDP,
Stimulating exports and higher domestic content).
Encourage through SENA and Mincomercio creative incubators and
Capital funds specializing in the sector.
WORK ON A COMMERCIAL POLICY, STARTING WITH ALLIANCE
PACIFIC: To create a regional market for original content to provide
Co-Production, Co-Distribution, Co-Protection and Co-Consumption. This will open
opportunities for our artists in a regional market, not yet
developed 590 million people.
Orange promote tourism or creative, national and international tourism, to
our carnivals and festivals in the regions of Colombia. Equally
protect and disseminate all the ancestral wealth of Colombia.
Deepening creative cities agenda led by Findeter.
Making Art and a leading creative training curricula
academics and talented forward a policy that identifies potential

60

our human capital to access scholarships and training opportunities and
professional development.
3. recovery of historical heritage: In conjunction with Mayors and
Governors of the national government should encourage recovery centers
urban and rural history. This initiative will encourage domestic tourism flows and
abroad, promote new private investment aimed at providing
services to the tourist population and allow new destinations spread in the territory
national.
4. INCREASE THE NATIONAL AVERAGE READING: In addition to the day
only school will promote reading as a vehicle for creative training in the country.
Library networks, reading incentives, availability of libraries
Solidarity will assist the national average in reading and in duplicate
quadrennium.
5. DIGITAL TECHNOLOGY AND UP: When will our government Colombia
a normative, operational and entrepreneurial leap towards new technologies.
Among the key points of our proposal to government it is:
•
•

•

•
•

Strengthen the legal framework to protect our architecture Cybersecurity
Data with assertiveness and punish the hackers.
Promoting the systems engineering early training
Colombia to expand its domestic and international supply of talent applied to the
technology.
Forward program Digital Cities where Creative-Cities
ensure network coverage broadband high speed using
citizen technologies for public transport, security and coexistence
citizen.
Outliner public information for creating platforms BigData solutions applied to citizens.
Make Colombia a hub of Cloud Computing to develop lines
technology businesses with added value.

How are we today?
ENVIRONMENT AND BIODIVERSITY AS ACTORS OF PROGRESS
•
•
•

•

the country lost the last two years 295,892 hectares of natural forest, about 1.6
28
times the area of ​​Quindio.
29
Rural water supply coverage is 72%.
In 800 municipalities with less than 20,000 inhabitants, the water is deficient in
for quality and drinkability, which affects 20% of the population
30
national.
50% of households in Colombia living in highly vulnerable to
natural hazards due to inadequate land management and insufficient
31
housing standards.

28

Min. Environment
Mission system of cities: Environmental Sustainability DNP - Carlos Costa.
30
Ibid.
31
Ibid.
29

61

The development agenda that we offer to Colombia is based on protection
ecosystem and natural resources and environmental sustainability of the nation. Work
for better environmental policy and a sectoral institutions rigor and impact on
management. Within our concept will integrate adaptation to climate change, the
Access to Drinking Water and Territorial Development. These are our suggestions:

INSTITUTIONS AND ENVIRONMENTAL POLICIES FOR PROGRESS
1. Ministry of Sustainable Development: For the next four years we have
proposed improving the institutional capacity of the National Environmental System, SINA,
strengthening the Ministry of Environment, Housing and Territorial Development and entities
attached to assume institutional leadership against the territorial development and
urban planning. The functions related to water and housing will join the
environmental functions building a lead agency in the sector guidelines
proactive. The Ministry of Sustainable Development will strengthen its environmental powers
and take a strategic approach in the areas of climate change, water, housing and
Territorial Development. In environmental matters will be emphasized:
to. The environmental responsibility of the private sector with regulation
transparent and effective.
b. Ensure compliance with international commitments under
treaties on environmental matters.
c. Protect national biodiversity
d. Protect and promote natural parks.
e. Defending national forest cover.
f. Act as a strategic partner of regional governments in the design and
implementation of good public policies for sustainable development.
2. CAR SOME STRENGTHENING technically and functionally: Our proposal is based
a redefinition of the Autonomous Regional Corporations making them
more technical and professional institutions with independence and authority for decision
expedited decisions on their responsibility to protect the regional environment and
Local.
3. A LEADER IN THE FIGHT AGAINST CLIMATE CHANGE COUNTRY: To address the
challenges of Climate Change we will focus on:
to.

ADOPT A CULTURE OF ENERGY EFFICIENCY: Applying
better consumer habits, programs with social housing
construction standards that achieve lower energy consumption using
new materials and even adopting, where geographical conditions
permit, solar panel systems and widespread use of bulbs
lower consumption, are some of the actions we will undertake.

b.

CITIES WITH GREEN HABITS: The national government hand in hand with the
Local governments should set reduction targets and greenhouse gas capture
greenhouse effect. We therefore propose:
i. Encourage the use of public transport
ii. Encourage the use of hybrid vehicles.
iii. Set additional charges vehicles increased pollution.

62

iv. Encourage citizens groups transport drivers
solidarity or "Car Pool".
v. Require mass transit systems are based on a
environmental responsibility strategy to reduce
emissions.
saw. Create a civic culture committed to the environment
adopted recycling as an everyday practice.
vii. Improve the management of solid waste throughout the country
promoting alternative capture and use of methane gas.
viii. Energy efficiency goals set for public buildings.
ix. Advance development plans and urban expansion less dependent
the use of private vehicles.
x. Set incentives for greater corporate responsibility expressed in
capture and emission reduction.
c.

CREATE AN INTEGRATED INSTITUTIONAL RISK MEASUREMENT AND
DECISIONS OF ADAPTATION TO CLIMATE CHANGE: During the last
years our country has adopted awareness against the effects of
climate change, but it is increasingly necessary to have a comprehensive view
in public policy towards the subject. Based on this reflection our
proposal suggests that:
i. A system of risk assessment Climate Change
ability to project different tax implications
scenarios.
ii. Modernize the institutional system of care and prevention
disasters.
iii. Promotion of insurance and hedging instruments to address
risks of climate change.
iv. Using satellite technology to model risks in the sector
agricultural and Argentina has developed.
v. Measure the implications for public health and its
tax consequences of climatic variations in several areas
from the country.

4. WATER FOR DEVELOPMENT. Colombia is the country with one of the largest
water riches of a world in which this resource is depleted at an accelerated rate. He
country is in default of having a world-class institution, if possible
magnitude and national and international coverage that addresses all prospecting and
formulation of policies and actions for the management of national water resources in all
those fields which apply and to lead a program to future hand
education become the two axes of sustainability and economic development and
social of our nation.
5.

WATER FOR NATIONAL HEALTH: To combat child mortality, eradicating
certain infectious diseases and ensure better social conditions in the
countryside and urban centers, potable water should be governed by factors
of excellence. During our government we will:
to.
b.
c.
d.

Achieve the highest historical level of sewerage coverage
Achieving greater coverage of rural water supply and sewerage.
Improve the technical capacity of the Water Regulation Commission.
Develop a civic culture on rational and responsible management of the
water resources.

63

64

STATE AUSTERE
Our public administration will be characterized by making efficient use of their
resources, the public budget for us is always oriented to meet the
needs of the population, never have interests.
If we want an austere state will require:

1. LESS BUREAUCRACY: dismount the ministries that have functions
Concurrent with some ministries. If we do not squander the budget
public, it will be necessary to review the state structure in order to optimize
resources.
2. LESS MORE INVESTMENT SOCIAL ADVERTISING: Currently is being spent from the government about 1.6 billion pesos in advertising to
we will not need to invest so much money on advertising, on the other hand
we will use those resources to promote social development.
3. EFFICIENT CONGRESS: Congress will reduce the size of approximately
20 percent. To think that we could join the quarters commissions
Senate and House with third saving 20 percent of Congress without
affect its operation.
4. WE ARE ALL EQUAL: We propose that the President's pension scheme
It is like any Colombian, the ordinary, that has to contribute and
work the same time.

EFFICIENT STATE
1. IMPLEMENTATION OF MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS WORLD CLASS: Entities
the executive branch of government at the national, will implement Models
Management and Excellence to improve the quality of its services,
service to citizens, the welfare of its employees and optimization
resources through the application of international standards such as ISO 9001
for Quality Management (Complementary to the Technical Quality Standard
NTCGP 1000), ISO 14001 for Environmental Management, OHSAS 18001, for
Occupational Health and Safety, ISO 27001 for Security Management
Information and ISO 26000 on social responsibility; likewise is
will implement programs which will demonstrate that public bodies are
Alcohol and Drug Free.

65

2. MANAGEMENT TRAINING QUALITY, WARMTH AND EXCELLENCE: Entities
develop public induction and training programs that contribute to the
generating a strong culture of Quality and Excellence with warmth; through
virtual and mechanisms, where the vocation of service to strengthen the
good deal for citizens, as well as the efficient and transparent use of resources. He
leadership, teamwork, time management and productivity form
of education and training.
The participation of public servants, and parts suppliers will be encouraged
interested in academic processes through diplomas, specializations and
Masters taught by different institutions in the country, issues related to the
Quality Management, international standards and world-class models.
3. LEGAL FRAMEWORK IN THE QUALITY OF GOVERNANCE: the legal framework will be extended
current Quality in Public Administration, local and regional authorities,
encouraging the adoption of models of excellence and the application of standards
international to local governments. Leading a large
High School Government to ensure management quality and excellence in the
departmental and local governments, coordinating with the public sector
efforts to strengthen the quality in the sectors of education, training
for work and health as a strategic imperative. A High Level Group on the
Public administration will make constant monitoring to ensure this
result.
4. EFFICIENT MANAGEMENT WITH HIGH TECHNOLOGY AND INNOVATION: be implemented
digital devices and procedures, services, files and processes not
Paper demand in physical form; the digital signature as a strategy that does more
austere and efficient public management, streamlines procedures for citizens, simplifies
procedures, and protects the environment.
5. austerity STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT AND RESULTS: The drive models
management of world-class excellence, results-oriented; They will be incorporated
reference practices based on benchmarking and successful cases in five
continents; indicators aligned to the principles of the Iberoamerican Charter
Quality. Constant monitoring and follow in the management of public resources,
optimizing and ensuring their proper use with transparency, timeliness
and quality in the acquisition of real services.

A MODERN FOREIGN POLICY
In our government's foreign relations will be an engine of development in all
areas, is inserted to Colombia in the international context, stimulating
foreign policy bring us much closer to a comprehensive development and better relations
with our neighbors, making Colombia a regional leader and reference point
the continent.
For this our proposals are:
1. PRESENCE IN MULTILATERAL CHANNELS: we continue strengthening
Colombia incorporation of the various multilateral organizations like the
Colombia access to the OECD, peaceful alliance, IDB, CAF, among others, a role
more active and more discussion and influence in the UN and OAS.

66

2. SUB-REGIONAL FORUMS: We will promote clearing the Andean Parliament and
later we will draw UNASUR letter condemning terrorism, drug trafficking and
transnational crime, besides rejecting abuses arising from
democratic rights in some countries, will raise actions, solutions and
sanctions.
3. INVESTMENT AND MARKET ACCESS: We will have more coordination and strategic in
embassies, consulates and foreign offices with Proexport, detailed goals, attraction
investment (Missions, Business Round, investment treaties, clearing
double taxation) and a huge responsibility to facilitate the implementation of
FTAs in countries which have such agreements.
4. INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION: Cooperation will orient issues such as
sus1tución of cul1vos, equity and quality services to areas with high NBI,
access to basic opportunities, prevention of natural disasters, housing
sustainable, etc. And we will prioritize the neediest regions.
5. CONSULAR SERVICE: We will improve, and expand services abarataremos
consular service with more digital and international notaries window
only to return and continuous day 9-5 pm.
6. SAN ANDRES AND THE HAGUE: We epicenter of San Andrés cultural and diplomatic,
through referendum we will close the legal limbo (Preservation archipelago
historical and rejection of the ICJ judgment).
7. Democratic Charter: Defender and report violations to the democratic charter
and political rights in other countries (The Silence makes us accomplices).
8. CONSTRUCTIVIST DIPLOMACY: We will promote our neighbors one
integration into energy, social, institutional, commercial and security cooperation
(Fight against smuggling and transnational crime).
9. SOUTH - SOUTH Colombia provide greater cooperation to countries
regional issues such as vocational training, combating organized crime,
sports and social assistance.
10. CULTURAL DIPLOMACY: We will make the central pillar positioning culture
international, will position together with the Instituto Caro y Cuervo and a network
National University as a place for studying Spanish, aimed at
diplomats and executives Country Brand will be responsible for leading this effort
hand with Mincultura.

GOVERNMENT CLOSE - COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT
In our government we will be attentive to the needs of the population,
We develop strategies that bring us closer to the social problems, so
programs are focused to provide timely solutions that favor
governance.
For this our proposals are:
1. accountable to the population: will design an incentive scheme for
all local governments accountable publicly and
67

permanently to citizenship; and we make extensive use of social networks
for young people to fulfill a permanent role in monitoring and reporting against
corruption.
2. Intergovernmental Communication and coordination
EFFECTIVE: We will promote relations of trust and cooperation with mayors and
governors. This in order that at all levels of government there is a
coordination in the implementation of public policies and ongoing dialogue
to meet the needs of the region.
The joint teams from various institutions that deal with due
implementation of policies is an essential part of the approach of public administration
distinguishes our proposal of government and experience behind it.
3. A democratic state: We will build an increasingly participatory democracy
through the Community State model.
4. Bringing government closer to the people, recover the popular dialogue of all
Saturdays in the communal councils of government. These will be open to the public,
scripts or vetoes, and will closely monitor the Presidency through
specific deadlines and measurable goals and will feature officials
monitor compliance with the commitments made to each community.
5. ALL PARTICIPATE IN THE BUDGET: We will promote budgets
participatory to empower communities and their community leaders and
Community. This will help us prioritize spending according to programs
allow to solve the problems of the communities, it will also strengthen the
citizenship skills for the exercise of social control.
6. CITIZENS TO PUBLIC MANAGEMENT veedurías: We will invite civil society and
citizen communities to enjoy the main public works oversight committees, the
social programs, particularly education and health. The youth will be
veedurías and protagonists of these children also have voice

68
