Penalosa #Podemos:





- Defeat with citizens politicking and corruption, which are the main obstacle in the country
- Change the current economic model that prevents build a more egalitarian country and environmentally sustainable
- Making peace with all Colombians, especially farmers, with or without agreement of Havana
- Recover citizen security, justice and ensure depoliticize the Colombians can live without
fear

#PROPONEMOS For Colombia:
I - #Podemos defeat to citizenship politicking and corruption, which are the main obstacle in the country
Our allegiance is to the citizens and the citizens they will revolt against politicking and
corruption. #Podemos Defeat politicking and corruption and govern without machinery or distribute jam. The
















#Podemos Do with our citizens' alliance, free machinery and compromise. Thanks to that #Podemos:
- To appoint the most competent Colombian officials and choose free appointment and removal based
on merit and not partisan political representations or recommendations without qualities to the charges.
- Remove the presidential election that distracts the President to govern responsibly and set a period
only 5 years.
- Investing clean and efficient public resources for projects to solve the problems of
Colombian and do not go into the pockets of politicians and their contractors. For example, we will not solve problems
our farmers, while the Ministry of Agriculture "The jam has flowed Rodos sector entities
agricultural, read Incoder, Banco Agrario, ICA, "according to its own former Minister of the current Government, Juan Camilo
Restrepo.
- Do not buy the support of congressmen to our projects in Congress to change positions in power
Executive.
- Will remove the indicative quotas to Congressmen and assign public resources for works in the regions
with its active and transparent participation and Mayors, governors and communities but without jam.
- Let's take away the electoral functions to the High Courts. What the judges to concentrate on justice and not on the
policy.
- We will strengthen justice to punish and expropriate the corrupt and crime desvertebre links
organized and this includes some fronts of the FARC with the Congress, justice and local and regional governments.
This articulation of corruption with organized crime on a large scale is the main threat to the institutions of the
country.
- Strengthen citizen participation and will promote the social organization to promote an effective dialogue and
production between the state and citizens.

II. #Podemos Change the current economic model and build a more egalitarian country and environmentally sustainable
Our ambition is to build a more egalitarian Colombia, without misery, with a large middle class and urban than rural
is the heart and engine of our economy. #Podemos Build equality because we will:
- Change the current development model and implement it in reality citizens are
equal before the law and that the public interest prevails over the particular. It is shown that a model based on a
mining locomotive, which affects the environment and does not generate employment; signing FTAs ​​and right and left, not
sustainable. #Proponemos A development model that respects ecosystems, organized around territorial development
Water and sustain growth in food production and innovative industries with decent jobs and well
paid and modern infrastructure to compete successfully in international markets. The investment must
directed not only to the exploitation of non-renewable natural resources and importing finished products. Let's go to
generating strategic stimulate value-added activities that use new technologies. We will sign more
FTAs until our field and industry are better prepared to compete and if necessary apply the
safeguard clauses as required.

- ENVIRONMENT We are green! We see in our wonderful nature a sacred treasure, which must be
protected for the preservation of life on our planet and for our happiness. In our era not only is
have a policy of environmental protection but adapting to global climate change,

which should be the backbone of the territorial system of the country. That policy should be based on information and
permanent scientific research of the highest quality. Environmental management, territorial and
SOCIAL of Colombia should be around water. The main effect of climate change is that the water
We no longer fall naturally from the sky, we have to help produce on earth. Water is the common element
links the quality of life, social policy, environmental protection and adaptation to climate change. THE MAIN
STRATEGIC RESOURCE for economic, environmental and social development of the country is not mining, is water. He
priority water use is human consumption. We will promote sustainable, compact, forested cities, which
mobilize public transport, cycling and walking. In terms of mobility we think of advanced city, not as
one that even low-income citizens use the car, but one in which even the richest are mobilized
public transport. Colombia Our dream is one that protects our moorlands, forests, jungles and water, values
treasure we have in our trees, butterflies, birds and rivers. Multiply the ability of the Parks Unit
Nationals in the Ministry of Environment. And we'll make the Autonomous Regional Corporations have the
technical capacity and decontaminate the politicking and corruption that affect many, if
necessary, with a deep legal reform. We want an environmental tourism that contributes to protecting nature and
turn create jobs.
Declare a moratorium on mining development of new megaprojects involving resource extraction
nonrenewable natural and risk to the right to a healthy environment. This moratorium would be used for the following



purposes:
- Adjust the mining institution, which is much weaker and ineffective that the oil or energy.



- Modify the approval process of mega projects. Prior consultation is paralyzed and the effectiveness of
public hearings and public consultations is in question. It is necessary to design a social licensing process
effectively avails the concerns and local interests by the central State. Citizens can and must
participate in decision-making on the extraction of underground resources; When do ?; And with whom
scope ?; Who participates and who should promote participation ?; In what territorial levels?



- Issue a new mining code to remove the absurd principle of "first to file, first in right" by the
principle of best proposal for specific project, as is done in the oil and energy sector.



- Attention to early childhood #Podemos ensure our 5 million children from 0 to 5 years receive the best
health, nutrition, protection and early and preschool education. For there to be true equality of
employment opportunities for women, we need that for example, can work with peace of mind that their
children are well cared for and looked after. Let's move from verse to make this reality and the real generation
peace. For that most children born to be desired and planned by their parents. To grow
surrounded by love and their families to protect them and make them happy. Children born during my government will have a
education cycle that begins in early childhood and ends in higher education institutions. Throughout
We pursue more training time, access and space for play, sport, literature, art and culture. Than
all children have access to quality preschools, music lessons, swimming pools, sports fields,
cultural activities and enjoy the wonderful parks and study in schools so that when they are young
they can travel in any heavenly fields, mountains or forests without fear.
We propose a policy with emphasis on the care of children in areas affected by violence,



difficult rural and urban marginal and access the highest poverty rates. Integrally children attend 0-5
years, with emphasis on the care of children in a vulnerable situation, for which we propose:
- Build, lease and develop appropriate infrastructures for comprehensive care with materials and technologies
for rural and urban contexts.



- Professionalization of educators in early childhood.



- Ensure continued funding for the program.



- Improve quality at all levels of preschool, primary and secondary education.



- Work with women so that their only option is not to become mothers before the age most
edad.Nuestra priority is to prevent teen pregnancy and unwanted, empower women and ensure their

equal opportunities and income. For that we will monitor and ensure equality of income to the same job
played and greater political representation.



- Education is the priority. It was in Bogota and will be in Colombia. During our mayor in Bogota (19982000) we spent seven times more on education than on Transmilenio. We began construction of luxury megacolegios
in poorer neighborhoods. In three years we increased by more than 200,000 the number of places in public education;
built dozens of schools luxury the poor, as we build in poorer areas
Colombia. New infrastructure were unprecedented in Colombia, but then replicated in many cities.
It's time to get to the smaller sections of the country and municipalities. Beyond that we build infrastructure
close the wide gap of social inequality that generation. We propose an education for life in society and the
working world: Shaping values ​​and guiding principles for life on collective principles and relevant education; form in
capabilities and skills for autonomous income generation and their connection with productivity. The
Education is the way to become happy citizens, with a value system that allows us to reconcile
with our environment. It is the most effective means for achieving equitable, supportive, and environmentally sustainable country
opportunities for all. Making teachers to be protagonists as there is no more important profession
this: it will contribute to dignify the teaching quality is the most important in improving the impact
quality of education. This will require improved training, evaluation and compensation of teachers. Education
builds equality, wide opportunity for them to have better income. Colombia needs a more competitive
education. Education must serve us for that too and appreciate life more, be more creative and
felices.Qué all our children have access to gardens and guaranteed good quality education, in good
schools with good teachers, well-paid and highly motivated.
Provide basic average quality education for all and, in urban and rural areas, with pedagogical models
relevant. Dropout Prevention of about 400,000 young people, ensuring they finish high school and
access to a democratic system of higher education and of excellent quality, where all young people, from any
region, with the potential to take technical, technological and university courses.
For public and private higher education:
- Strengthen the National Science, Technology and Innovation (SNCT & I) and partnerships between institutions
Higher Education, Colciencias, the iNNpulsa background, research centers and technological development and the company
for greater private investment in applied research, innovation and new product development
technology such as patents, utility models, varieties, among others.



- A national pact for the right to quality health care for all. We will vaccinate the health system against
corruption, to organize an efficient public health system that does not tolerate abuses and ensure service in Colombia
Rural and a mixed system based on preventive health from indicators of well-being and quality of care to
patients and remuneration criteria for service providers. Create a public assurance system without
EPS without intermediaries, organizing public hospital network by region. Regardless of our income level, all
Colombians will be well looked after when we have a health problem through greater control
Health Superintendency. We do not have to get up early at 4 am to stand in line or wait weeks for a
consultation or a medical procedure. The current system does not work because the EPS gain as people become ill
and they can charge their services to the state. There are not enough hospital beds and specialists, and efficient care.
We will strengthen state control over providers in terms of good attention to Colombians. Come on
to improve the management system at all levels, from the government to hospitals. We will promote the construction of
more public hospitals and preventive health care will promote nutrition education in sexual health and activity
physical, etc. We must resolve definitively jam and sustainable financial sector and implement reforms
Congress has proceeded to ensure its functionality. We will regulate more strictly operation
insurers, in particular investments in financial stocks. A contribution we can make to justice is
decongest the use of resource protection by strengthening the control to the EPS not deny services. Let's go to
promote the formation of an excellent system of information for everything related to the provision of services
social protection. It's amazing that after 20 years does not count on this system. We will completely eradicate
the political criteria in appointments in the health sector. Give good health to Colombian requires management
politicking free and totally independent of the pressures of economic interests.



- A deep urban reform to improve the safety and quality of life. We will improve the safety and
quality of life in Colombian cities. 80% of Colombians live in unsafe cities, neighborhoods with high
risk to the lives of its inhabitants, quality public space and, at very high rates, have emerged
illegally. On the other hand, only 53 municipalities generate more income transfers they receive. That means that

a few cities support more than 1,000 municipalities. We buy large amounts of land around
cities to grow well planned, with linear parks, with pathways, so that the neediest children do not have
to go to the hills or cross rivers to study. We will advance a well located urban land reform not only
for housing but sustainable habitat parks, sports fields, clean transport systems and
infrastructure for the delivery of quality social services: libraries, and hospitals megacolegios as those
It has been implemented in the major capitals of the country.The quality of Colombian cities, determined
largely Colombian welfare and competitiveness in the coming decades and hundreds of years into the future.
The case of our cities in the Pacific is particularly dramatic: for decades have been abandoned by the
Been. Of course, I invite you to one of the measures of the success of our presidential term, is the transformation and
modernization of Quibdo, Tumaco and Buenaventura and integrate their territories to the Pacific Rim, the region of greatest
economic dynamism and greater opportunities for Colombia in this century.
- Lost #Podemos citizen security, justice and ensure depoliticize Colombians
we can live without fear
Radically improve urban security, reform the justice system to severely punish the recurrence
crime and the use of violence such as armed robbery. Insecurity and impunity reproduce inequality
that impede investment and the generation of formal employment.

8 out of 10 Colombians live in cities and towns ... and we live in fear. We fear when our spouses or
children are away from home; we are afraid of taking a cell phone in the street. #Podemos Live without fear.
Insecurity prevents not only live well: hinders tourism, attracting investment to our
development, generates unemployment. Urban safety is an indispensable ingredient of civilized life, for that reason you
We give priority in our agenda of government.
We will implement a strategy to prioritize urban security, with measures such as:
Most of the crimes committed in the Colombian cities the organized gangs made. As well as
create one of the best armed forces and police of the world for war against guerrilla organizations,
paramilitaries and drug traffickers and war in the jungles, we now need to prioritize the fight against gangs
that destroy the possibility of living well and hinder investment, tourism and therefore employment in our
cities.

IV. #Podemos Make peace with all Colombians, especially farmers, with or without agreements on the
Havana
We agree with the political solution to the armed conflict, we support the peace process and negotiations
Havana. Moreover, we ratify the negotiating team, which is qualified and responsible. The negotiations
Havana, such as international relations, must be a matter of state; that should not change from one government to
other. We can not abuse the generosity of the Colombian peace to play politics with it, as
unfortunately so he is the president candidate.
No peace is possible with impunity, but neither is peace possible without generosity. We will follow the guidelines outlined
the Constitutional Court has indicated that it can not suspend all penalties. But more important than the
penalties, which depend on the system of justice, our priority as Executive will be the guarantees of non-repetition
of crimes and tragedies of war.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the agreements in Havana will not solve the problems faced by Colombians in their
daily life, security and crime, health care, access to quality education, good jobs, or
roads to take peasant production. This means that you need to work on many fronts, with or without
Havana agreement on a comprehensive agenda to improve the country's health system and social security, to ensure

access to quality education, to generate equal opportunities and formal employment and decent both
the countryside and the cities, to fight more effectively against poverty manner, crime and corruption.
It is therefore essential to face with determination and with Colombian team capable, prepared and committed to
all regions, the many challenges we face, to realize the Colombia we want.
I reiterate our support for the negotiations in Havana they do not imply any sympathy with the FARC or
crimes against Colombians. Nor shall prevent every day we strengthen our Armed Forces
and police to ensure security and the right to live without fear of all Colombians and combat
crime. Reducing impunity, inequality and ensure effective justice is the true way for
Colombians support, create and consolidate peace.
The two items on the agenda of negotiations so far known - rural development and political participation me
They seem acceptable. I also believe that the guerrillas, once met with some sanctions-because it is already clear that
all suspendidas- should not be able to participate in politics. I think if we have to swallow some toads,
it is best to avoid killing more soldiers and the suffering of so many Colombians.
We are going to deliver for the FIELD AND FARMERS WITH OR WITHOUT AGREEMENT OF HAVANA.
10 million people live in the countryside, where the biggest problems of poverty in the country are concentrated. To
violence and the many structural problems in the field, has joined the firm to "right and left" Treaty
Free Trade by the two previous governments, no study about the impact they could have on farmers
and without offering alternatives to ensure their subsistence largely aggravate the situation of the rural sector.
Besides the lack of technology, irrigation districts, roads and marketing programs, will have inputs
expensive, high transport costs and reduced consumption of some products such as sugar cane farmers and
fique. I do not believe the indiscriminate signing FTAs, but serious agricultural policy and strategies
Industrial sustainable long term, incorporating innovation, human capital formation, technology,
forms of financing, marketing, redistributive taxation, infrastructure and logistics. We will support sectors
strategic field, we will give special advantages for development: they have regional impact, create value
added, adopt technology and innovation in their processes and generate formal and dignified employment. So #Podemos improve
productivity, competitiveness and quality of life of our rural areas to insert ourselves appropriately to
globalization. We declare war on the smuggling of products such as rice entrants borders with
complicity and corruption of customs officials. Adopt the necessary measures so that those who
cultivate the land they have access to the public media (regional, local and national), funded by
the State, to advertise their products on the market. We Colombians know the great
variety of agricultural products, through public advertising financed by the state, promoting and stimulating the
Frequent consumption of products produced in the Colombian countryside.
