Election platform
for the parliamentary elections in 2013

Foreword
Dear voter,
Dear voter,
You hold the
Election program
DIE LINKE to
Federal election on
September 22, 2013
in the hands.
"100 percent socially" -
Here is the name in the truest sense of the
Word program.
DIE LINKE - these are good 64 000 members,
Deputies in county and state legislatures,
Mayors,
Landrätinnen and district administrators, members of the
Bundestag and the European Parliament.
Their experiences, their experiences and
their skills are in this program
incorporated. However, proposals from
Associations, initiatives or trade unions,
of individual interested parties are of us
been taken into account. The program
bundles our approaches to social
just, democratic and self-determined cooperation of all people.
100 percent - this includes you, dear readers, with a. The vast majority
you are on the side of those
will find that our proposals
are relieved, their life easier,
is anxiety and worry-free. The other
we say that parts of fun - if
It serves all and a part of their wealth
flows in the education and infrastructure.
Some of our priorities, I would like
previously mentioned:
n DIE LINKE demands an area-wide

the legal minimum of ten
Euro per hour and a minimum pension
of 1,050 euros. Only in this way can wage dumping
be prevented, just as are wages
and poverty-proof pensions.
n The Hartz IV rulesets must to 500
Euro increases, sanctions and so-called
"One-euro jobs" abolished. Us

want to bring in a concept where in
Future no longer Guaranteeing
less than 1,050 euros.
n Strong shoulders must bear more

as weak. This is, mutatis mutandis, even
in the Basic Law. Therefore it is clear for us,
that the top rate must rise,
Super rich pay a millionaire's tax
have to. The Left continues as the only
Party consistently for equal living conditions in all regions of our country. Equal pay and equal
Pension in East and West are 23 years after
reunification overdue.
n education and culture have all
be accessible. Too often the educational success of children nor the purse
the parents dependent. And culture - creative
and varied - needs freedom to
to be able to develop, and public
Promotion.
n We do not believe that military

Make the world a safer interventions -
But on the contrary. Therefore, we want the
Bundeswehr from their missions abroad
retrieve and call for an end of
Arms exports.
Many issues are only through us on
Agenda set, many claims
only through our pressure from others
Parties discussed - every vote
acts for the left. And we promise:
We stay tuned.
This manifesto is our offer
to them. See for yourself, come
with us this week about it and take
Make the right choice - on 22 September.
Sincerely

Matthias Höhn, federal campaign manager
Die Linke

Election program of the Left Party
for the parliamentary elections in 2013
decided at the general election Congress, Dresden, 14 to 16 June 2013

Content
Introduction

6

Universities beyond the market? 36

Reinvent I. Solidarity:
Good work and social
Gerechtigkeit? 11

Democratic sciences? 37

? 

Good work instead of lower wages
and insecure jobs? 12
Expand participation
and shorten working hours? 14
Fundamental social rights
guarantee instead chicane
and poverty by Hartz IV? 16
Good pension: standard of living
secure, prevent poverty in old age,
Align eastern pensions? 18
Solidarity and quality in the
Strengthen health care -
An end to the two-tier health care -
Health is not a commodity? 20
Good care: dignity for
In need of care, relatives
and Beschäftigte? 22
With tax reversal:
Wealth is divisible? 24
Redistributing social
Justice, education and
socio-ecological transformation? 24
Profiteers of the crisis to checkout? 25
Finally Tax Justice
Manufacture: - small and medium sized
Relieve income? 26

We can live with,
as we want: Emancipation
and gender equality? 38
Time, money and social guarantees
for a good life? 38
Discrimination against women
comprehensively eliminate? 39
Effective protection against
Violence against women? 39
Strengthen diversity: freedom of choice
the lifestyles? 40
Colorful and reliable: for a
emancipatory family policy? 41
Childhood and Adolescence -
free from poverty and exclusion? 42
Culture for all - creative,
diverse, conversational? 43
Cultural and creative industries
from links? 45
II. Overcome the crisis.
Democracy and the welfare state
defend - and here
Europe ? 46
For an equitable way
out of the crisis: no bank bailouts
at the expense of the population? 47

For strong communities and a
better public infrastructure? 26

Restart the European Union:
democratic, social, ecological,
peacefully ? 48

The Public strengthen: Expropriation
stop the population? 27

III. Peace and justice
in the world. No to war? 52

For affordable rents and social
Housing: speculation
Stop living room? 30

Peacefully resolve conflicts -
End foreign missions? 52

Education is not a commodity.
A good education for all? 33

Strengthening international law
and human rights for all? 55

A school for all? 34
Good training and
good training? 35

Social justice world? 53

Peace without Weapons:
Prohibit arms exports,
Promote disarmament? 55

IV. The society socially, environmentally
and rebuild barrier-free and
democratize the economy? 57

Freedom and Security:
Expand citizens' rights? 75

A new Solidarversprechen
for the regions in the East and West? 57

Not a foot to the Nazis:
Anti-fascism is lived
Democracy ? 76

Justice for the people
in East Germany: equivalence
making the living conditions? 57

Democracy for all who live here.
Equal rights for migrant women
and migrants? 77

Regional Development and
equal living conditions? 59

Policy for minorities
to European standards
align ? 78

Logic of profit in the barriers have? 60
Industrial policy for the future:
change what we like to produce? 61
Economic democratize:
of the participation to
Self-determination? 62
The power of the monopolies break:
Energy supply in the hands
the population? 64
Mobility for all - with less
Transport: flexible, ecological,
wheelchair accessible, affordable? 66
Ecological lifestyles for all? 68
Protection of soil, water,
Air and biodiversity? 68
The rural areas viable for the future
do. Protect nature and animals? 69
Consumers and
Strengthen consumer? 71

Expand asylum,
European refugee protection
solidarity customize? 78
Self-determination and in the middle:
an inclusive society
without obstacles? 79
For a modern drug policy:
Criminalization and exclusion
counteract? 80
Right to Feierabend:
enjoying free time? 81
Democratization
Media: Information
and self-determination? 82
For an open and
Free internet: digital
Combat divisions? 83

Tourism: ecologically compatible
and socially just? 72

Realizing religious freedom,
Religious communities
equal treatment, church and state
institutionally separate? 85

V. Democratic Participation:
for a democracy in which
there is something to decide

Scriptures? 87

?

73

VI. Together the country
change ? 86

Introduction
Social justice is the program
DIE LINKE. Before the election and after
Choice, in parliaments and in Offn
other settlements in operation, on the street,
in initiatives in everyday life: We want poverty
eliminate and redistribute wealth.
Fundamental social rights, good jobs for all
and free education. We want to preserve the natural foundations of life and for
improve future generations again.
We want the public common
Strengthen ownership and the public
Expanding and improving public services.
We have a vision of how we the ecolo
make logical rebuilding social justice
want. We stand for peace.
We defend the citizens' rights and
we object to the constant reduction
of civil and human rights. That
makes from the beginning our policy.
Our belief does not change because
Elections are. Many talk now - on time
at the beginning of the election campaign - again
social policy, but words do not cost anything.
The Left makes pressure. We want it
ensure that the talk.
No one may be poor because he or
she's old, unemployed, disabled, chronically
ill or because their parents are poor. Us
want to fight poverty: The Hartz IVSystem has to go. Instead, should in the medium term requires a comprehensive, sanctions
Free Guaranteeing be introduced.
Unemployed are harassed because they
Do not even the worst jobs
refuse to penalties. The increased
the pressure on the employees,
to accept low wages and overtime. Children must be effective against poverty
be protected. We want for employees as for the unemployed respect, dignity
and a good life.
Our demands are not abstract,
but very concrete: for better wages
and working conditions must be generally binding collective agreements easier for
can be explained. The pressure on the
Employees must be stopped: no
Dumping competition by temporary,
6

Work contracts and low pay. Lots
work until you drop, and it is sufficient
but the front and back is not for life.
This is also a result of mass unemployment. We need jobs,
of which it is good to live, for all.
The pensions are not only against poverty
protect, they have the standard of living
to back up. Finally also in East Germany! More than 20 years after German reunification
the country is still divided.
We will not accept.
These are the interests that we take up, defend that important to us
lie. The lobby of the corporations and
Rich is not heard from us. Social
Justice and growing inequality
are incompatible. But inequality may
only effectively fight, who has the courage,
Limit wealth and so umzuver
share that it benefits all. Us
Do not bend to the rich one: We
want kingdoms and riches - millionaires,
Billionaires, capital assets - couragiert
tax and to ensure that they
to finance the community
adequately contribute. We want to
Stop expropriation of the population.
Few gather great wealth
in their hands. We want him in the
public services invest:
Education, child care, public
Transport, health care, water,
Energy supply, affordable housing - the need is great. So is
at the same time strengthen democracy
and the participation of all secured.
Chancellor Angela Merkel wants a
"Market-oriented democracy." For stand
we are not available. On the contrary: We
want to strengthen the social rights and civil rights. We want the power of
Banks and corporations break. That's why
we call for a social, democratic
and solidary Europe, which the
Deprived stranglehold of the financial markets
becomes. Between countries like limits
run. But the populations and
have the workers of these countries

common interests: the fight against
Lohndrückerei, recession and mass unemployment.
The Left is the party of social-ecologi-
logical reconstruction of society. Access
is the ecological reconstruction only if it
is also socially. But the converse also applies:
The struggle for global social justice must
include the environmental issue. With the
Project Plan B has DIE LINKE committed
Submitted concept. We do not stand for a
environmental policy is available, the only
the high earners has in view and
E.ON, Vattenfall & Co. allowed costs
the energy revolution the population aged
zuwälzen - and decouple the poorest.
Energy is a common property, it belongs to the
Hands of the population!
DIE LINKE is the peace party. We have
the only faction and party in the Bundestag the Bundeswehr missions abroad
it will not be approved and in
Do future. The German troops
have withdrawn from Afghanistan immediately
become.
The responsibility of Germany goes
even further arms exports and the production of armaments in the Federal
public must be banned. Arms
exports, even within the framework of the European
Union and within the military alliance
NATO, rejects the Left. DIE LINKE is
the socialist civil rights party. Of the
Restriction and degradation of basic and civil rights, we have consistently
contradicted. Any other in the Bundestag
represented party has not significant
Intervention in the civil and human rights
made which, if any,
only by the Federal Constitutional Court
be undone
could. We also call the future
belongs to the engagement in civil and human rights, because their inventory
for us to critical parts
a just society.
Making these positions and demands
the core of our policy. Which we align our work in the next Bundestag. We bring them over and over again in the

Discussion - and with success. The other
Parties shy away from a policy of
social justice at the latest
back when it comes to poverty and
Effectively combat low pay and
the social policies associated with redistribution of
Finance wealth, employees in operational conflicts
to strengthen the back and all the same
Access to health care to
to back up. And pensions to increase as,
that they not only protect against poverty.
In this sense: the Left puts pressure.
Together we can develop policy,
customize and deploy resistiveness.
We moved together with others
Question of how we want to live tomorrow. That
is a question of democracy: What strengthens
our cohesion, creating
equitable access for all, what can we do without in the future? We want
Experiences and ideas connect that our
Living together peacefully, productively,
sustainable and make more secure.
We do not need banks that risky
speculate and thwart entrepreneurial ventures. Nobody may look away when children in a rich country
morning on an empty stomach to school
go. This is exclusion rather than freedom.
The poverty of children and the elderly in our
Society is growing. And that's just the
Tip of the iceberg of injustices,
the way we live together threaten. If
it is hopeless to find gainful employment,
if the income is degrading,
if people with disabilities or
Asylum seekers are equal to multiple disadvantages - if existential angst and
Prospects become part of everyday life
, then the policy has failed. The social and the liberties of the people
are disregarded and this participation and
Inclusion fall by the wayside.
Our answer is democratic, creative
and open to new ideas. We bring different experiences one: from the
union struggles for good
Labour and Social State of feminist
and anti-racist movements, from the
Peace movement. Even from the start
1989 against repressive Staatssozialis7

mus. to speak critically about the experience of the state socialism, so that
they are not the diverse life experiences
delegitimize, is also a left task.
All these experiences, we bring in our
Policy against a repressive capitalism,
for the strengthening of public interest
and a socio-ecological reconstruction,
against arms exports, for good wages
and pensions, social liberties.
Freedom for the people, that's something
but the freedom of the markets, or
the 'free' competition, the people of
Germany and worldwide in winners
and winners and losers and losers divides. We refuse that
the poorest are still abused and
treated that refugees like criminals
become. On the social fissures and divisions of society build everyday
Racism and inequality ideologies
the Nazis. Obviously, state structures have failed here, trivialized
and covered up. Through social cracks and cleavages sexism, anti-Semitism can,
Hostility against gays, lesbians and
Trans people grow. The cost of these
Cracks and faults we come ultimately more expensive, as the renewal of what
strengthens the relationship and the social
Makes fabric of society. Therefore
we need social investment.
The federal government promotes the lie,
"We had to make it through the crisis."
Threatening show government and media on
the developments in the other countries
in Europe, claiming that it "us"
however go well. Good through the crisis
came the banks, the rich -
Here, in Europe and worldwide. The company, however, drives apart. The official
measured unemployment is lower than in other countries in Germany.
Correct. But if the figures adjusted
are, there are still five million
People. And what kind of work
relationships? Low wages, time limitations
and accept precarious working conditions
to. Many workers suffer from the
increasing pressures on its
Workplace. They worry,
because rents and electricity prices rise or
8th

if they can find enough time for their children.
Many have at poor pay
work longer, so that they just barely
make ends meet. Others need
do more in less time. Lots
can not work as long as they
want, others are from the job center in
low-paid jobs, unentgelt
Liche internships or one-euro jobs forced. Stress and fatigue are at
many of everyday life: where, the low
Wages obtained in the self-employed,
the need to fight for every job,
with those who in the production or
Hospital work. The causes are
the same: the threat of force Hartz IV ago
and can no statutory minimum wage
Press Companies easier and wages
Working conditions deteriorate. Of the
Capitalism is a profit maximization on
oriented system that currently still
more on short-term gains at the
Sets financial markets. Public Goods
be privatized and trimmed on profit:
Housing, water, energy,
Health. The expansion of temporary work
and starvation wages, the Hartz laws,
retirement until 67, the abolition of
Joint financing of social security systems, the deregulation of financial markets
and tax breaks to corporations
and the reduction of the top tax rate
are a result of the policy of CDU, FDP, SPD
and the countryside. This redistribution from bottom
upwards of SPD and Greens under
the Schröder-Fischer government was initiated, was of great
Coalition and now continued by the Merkel government. The SPD chancellor candidate
Steinbrück has both as Prime Minister
in North Rhine-Westphalia as well as finance minister in the grand coalition this
Significantly influenced policy.
A society that gives priority to profit
market and is aligned, can and will
the needs and interests of always
not satisfy more people and supplies
in the ecological disaster. Despite of
makes the federal government simply
way. If people in Europe arm
are, if wages and salaries everywhere
fall, threatening also in Germany
Recession, the economic downturn.

The government wants the competition between
exacerbate the employees in Europe.
She wants to increase the pressure on the wages and salaries in Germany. She puts on
a lean, famished state
and thus to a ramshackle, poor public
infra- structure and public services.
The federal government provides the people
and their demands for a good life as
Cause of the crisis is, instead of seeing that
it is the task of democratic politics,
to make this good life for all human beings possible. The loyalties of the Merkel government lie elsewhere. It assigns
Democracy and social justice
the interests of the company and the
Financial Markets under. Social inequality is increasing. There are more poor people - and
more wealth. This is the everyday crisis.

n We want that no one at the age and

In contrast are the people for us LINKE
at the first location. Pushing Together
we profit orientation and privatization
back to space and air for solidarity
To create alternatives. Fight for
we in the parliaments, in the factories,
on the streets, in the cooperatives,
in the citizens' initiatives.

of 1,050 euros net - including the threatened
Poverty.

is poor in the work. We call for a
statutory minimum of ten Euro
per hour. Wages have to rise
and the level of pensions has again
53 percent are raised.
n We want good work instead of worse,

unsecured and underpaid jobs.
That is why we want a comprehensive
Regulation and protection of all
Working conditions.
n We want public and social

Expand services and bring the ecological reconstruction ahead and so
with good work reduce unemployment.
Therefore we call for a future program.
n We want a Solidary minimum pension

n We are sure that the rich and

Companies in the financing of
Be involved community justice
and private wealth to public not
Resulting poverty.

We want a future program:
missing Kita-places, schools, public
Services, infrastructure needs
be improved. We have in our
Program investments provided that
are taken together to about 100
Billion euros amount. We want
improve the supply of the population, combating mass unemployment
and strengthen the welfare state again. Us
want the public services
expand - by investing in education,
Make the energy transition socially just and - hospitals and nursing
improve public, barrier-free movement of persons. And we want additional
create collectively sheltered employment.
The issues of this future program
are by our approach to redistribution
covered.

n High incomes need to re-
a top tax rate of 53 percent
be taxed. We also want a
Introduce a millionaire tax on high capacity and a reform of inheritance tax.

Our program is feasible, affordable
and an introduction to a better, more human
lichere society. In brief, it includes
the following points:

n We want the repression of rent

n The Left defends the Fundamental Social

rights of the people as the basis of
Democracy and justice. We want
an inclusive society in which all
People on social wealth,
partake of culture and education - and a say in how the company continues
developed. We demand better services
for the unemployed and: away with the Hartz IVSystem. In the first step must be the
Eliminate sanctions and the Hartz IV sets
be increased to 500 euros. To Children
effective to protect them from poverty, want
we introduce a children's basic security.
stop gutters and tenants and rents
lids. We need more homes
with social obligations.
9

n We are committed to a peaceful, cosmopolitan

and solidary Europe, negotiated in the common social standards and the
Rich on capital levies on the
Financing are involved.
n The financial markets and banks must

effectively controlled and in the service
Company are provided. We want
a financial transaction tax and a
Europe-wide unique delivery for
Assets over one million euros.
n We want business and society
ecologically rebuild while the social
Question move into the center of the reconstruction.
The basic supply of energy needs as
Fundamental right guaranteed, the waste of energy to be curbed. The
Supply must not in the hands of
Corporations are. Electricity and gas locks
we want to ban. In the medium term the
Are transport free of charge
and the offer will be expanded.
n We want to strengthen citizens' rights and

the social foundations of democracy
expand. The influence of the business lobby on the policies we want to end.
Democracy means that common and
public about important things in life
is decided. Therefore, to public
Strengthened property rights and the participation of
People are ensured. There is
many options: The participation in
the company will be expanded. Private
Companies of public services are rekommunalisiert. Cooperatives in the housing sector will be strengthened.
The possibilities to improve that
Workforces take over their farms
reasons or cooperatives.
n We are committed to the destruction of the

Welfare state with the "debt brake"
and therefore for its abolition from the
Constitution and all constitutions
on.
n Instead of monitoring, restrictions
legal protection and creeping loss of constitutional standards must
a reversal takes place. Notice must
ensures the - social - access

10

to justice must be secured and government action back to the rule of law
Be oriented principles.
n We want a solidary health insurance: a fund for all. All
pay one, all are equally well
supplies. All co-payments and additional contributions will be abolished, and the paritä
Tables funding is restored.
For most, the contributions will go down,
private health insurance is on
Insurance limits.
n The Left is the party of peace -
the only in the parliament. We stand for
an immediate, unconditional withdrawal
the Bundeswehr missions abroad
and to stop arms exports. The
Production of weapons must be stopped and -
with the participation of the workforce - in
a production of civilian goods are transferred.

Anyone who wants can quickly in a feasible
other policy board: Introduction
the minimum wage of ten euros per hour,
Curbing of temporary, fixed-term contracts
and mini-jobs, increase of pensions, withdrawal of the pension until the age of 67, pension Lohnund justice in East Germany,
solidary health insurance,
Wealth tax, abolition of Hartz IV sanctions and raising the Hartz IVSätze to 500 euros, withdrawal from Afghanistan
and completion of all missions abroad
Bundeswehr, ban on arms exports -
These are decisions that a new
Government could take immediately, which are
our immediate demands for a
Policy change.
For us, these measures are just one
Beginning. You can Spawn in a new
Model of society be, an alternative to finance capitalism. A model of the
Togetherness, of practical solidarity.
Solidarity is not a call for personal sacrifice. The idea of ​​solidarity
expressed therein of how we organize our society: the common
Shaping public life and the
public infrastructure; in a responsible and sustainable model of

Economic activity, the social and ecological links, overcomes the classes
and serving democracy and you do not
harm. We want a democratic -
libertarian, ecological, lustful -
Make socialism. Along the way,
applies it to go many steps. they begin
with the needs and concerns, wishes and
Dreams of the people.
We have a program of feasible alternatives, which we, together with possible
we intend to develop and implement many other. We draw a picture of a
altered Federal Republic: it is socially
equitable, Ernst makes with the energy revolution,
it is peaceful with views of international
Responsibility and working toward a solida
skills towards Europe. It enables all -
regardless of the source - in education
and development, ever participate in the social wealth.
Changes only succeed with the
People. That is why we need a
new democratic everyday life: in parliaments as well as in the workplace and in

public life. We do not
Policy on behalf of others. We are
Part of the crowd, the more justice
and freedom, dignity and sense of community
fight. Our ideas and
Concepts, our theories and beliefs may be different.
Together we: We mix in
a social struggles, support initiatives
social movements and trade unions.
And we give a voice to those
which are allowed by politics alone,
where existential distress and missing
Prospects have taken courage.
Our place is at her side - and the
remains that way.
We are committed to strengthening the
Public, for more self-determination
and thus make for greater democracy
Pressure on other parties, giving it a more
other policies follow.
All great changes begin
first, determined steps. Our
Program for the federal election is a
Invitation, the way to go with us.

Reinvent I. Solidarity:
Good work and social justice
Getting into a just society
requires several decisions at the same time: define poverty and wealth,
So with taxes and fees for
Rich take the funds with which
public services and good
Infrastructure can be financed;
regulate the unequal income and
prevent the people are poor
to work; fight mass unemployment and protect the unemployed against debasement; social participation
guarantee and prevent fear
people against Hartz IV in poor
Employment forces; prevent,
that the job dominates the whole life,
so time remains for recreation, family,
Fun, even to interfere politically;
guarantee a life in old age with established standard of living. It must be safe,

that of Education and Child-Rearing
sufficient and good public
Infrastructure is provided. Also
who has little money, it must be possible
have to get his health well.
Each and every one has the right to work
and the right to specific job adverts
reject, with no blackout periods or other
To fear sanctions.
A caring society has wealth from top to bottom, from after privately
distribute publicly and thus new
create: mainly a powerful
public services - education,
Health, culture, transport, energy etc. - provide for all. This
When it comes to large investments as well
as the small practical steps
for a better everyday life, for example,
11

a gratuitous hot and healthy
Lunch in all day care centers and schools.
It is only fair, for the financing of these
Those measures much more
Recourse, the wealthy and rich
are. In this respect are good employment, a
good wages, protection against unemployment
and poverty as well as efficient public
Services and infrastructure on the one hand and higher public revenues
due Reichen-, millionaires' and higher corporate taxes on the other hand
two sides of the same coin. Both together form the basis of fair
and solidary society. THE LEFT
represents such an entry into a new
Justice.
Good work instead of lower wages
and insecure jobs
"I work as a nurse to
Exhaustion, and it is not enough yet for
Family. Is hardly the patient time
must always be handled quickly,
since privatization, it's all about
Time saving and profit. I often work
longer to deal with more patients
to. Then I often lacking at home
Time for the kids, and I have a bad conscience. The children are under enormous pressure at school. And I do not know how
I still can offer what you times in the
Vacation, pay off the house. And if that
a decision is made by the pension so come
I just 730 euros, if I to 67
staying. And that I can not do, every
Day lift the patient and so on. When there's
for us a bailout? "Katrin, 42,
Nurse from Zwickau
Good work means that we are on our
Employment life, make our lives more independently and to develop further
be able. The claim that the job well
must be, refers to the amount of
Wages and salaries, the content, the work processes and the design of the workplace
and the working hours. Many people
work too long, because they earn too little
or because the work is so organized that
they take literally home
and no longer get out of your head.
Many suffer from stress and exhaustion.
12

Additional physical and mental
Pressure arises due to unsafe
Working conditions. Others
suffer because they have no job.
The Agenda 2010 presented the previously deepest
Incision is in the social systems and labor conditions of the post-war history.
The labor market and the working conditions are the Agenda 2010 the then
SPD-Green Party government in the interests
the company has been rebuilt, the
social rights of workers and
Job seekers have been severely restricted. In the past ten years
are more than two million full-time jobs have been eliminated - are simultaneously
almost twice as many new jobs bad
emerged. Temporary positions, temporary work,
Work contracts and mini-jobs were a
declared aim of the Agenda 2010 and are
Today everyday: hollow collective agreements
and are deliberately used
the salaried employees with fixed
their usually higher wages under pressure
to set. Simultaneously, the mass unemployment has solidified. She works
together with Hartz IV as a threat scenario
and disciplining of employees.
We want to combat unemployment
and the shortage of staff in the public
Interest balance. But are
public investment and other
Alignment of industrial and economic policy imperative (see. Chapter IV).
DIE LINKE wants the job, their distribution,
their pay, their organization and new
govern better: Wages must be clearly
grow faster than prices, collective agreements
be universally applicable, fixed-term contracts may not be normal,
but must be the exception.
All have their gainful employment
can live, have time and peace,
to recover, living with the family
to maintain, pursue hobbies and interests and to be politically active.
n DIE LINKE demands a ban on lending

job. Up to its implementation is
immediate effect the same pay
for temporary workers and contract workers
and workers of the permanent workforce

enforce. The rental period is on
limited a few months and a flexibility allowance of ten per cent of the wage for
Temps and contract workers will be introduced. You need the lender in
Principle be employed; Time limits for the purpose of synchronization
with times of ceremony are inadmissible.
The use of temporary workers and contract workers in the lending operation is only possible with
To allow the approval of the works council.
n No wage dumping via contracts for work!

Misuse of work contracts -
whether as bogus self-employment or
Outsourcing - has effectively suppressed
become. Without approval of the works no work contracts may be awarded
become.
n We want that mini-jobs first by the
Time to be converted to full social insurance contributions.
The goal does not have to be that part-time work
made less than 18 hours a week
is that workers are on an
Have legal right.
n The escalating fixed-term contracts of employment

relationships we want to push back -
permanent employment must again
normal employment are. Chain time limits and properly baseless limitation we want to prohibit. The Expiration
we want to once, maximum of one year
and few objective reasons are limited.

reverse this trend, the need to
Rights of workers and trade unions are strengthened.
In the public sector there are doing more direct
political options. The
Policy can ensure that especially
in the area of ​​social services
the wages and salaries increased significantly
become.
We are committed to ensuring that wage
development must compensate for the price increase Produktivitätsund and the wage cuts at least, the particularly
for real in the course of the agenda Policy
Wage cuts led.
n We want the low-wage sector
push back and these bad
Convert work into good.
n wage dumping must be prevented:
with a comprehensive legal
Minimum wage of ten Euros. The income of nearly eight million employees
would rise directly and noticeably. The minimum wage must rise each year, is
at least to consider the productivity and price developments. Until
End of the legislature should be the legal
Minimum wage at the brand "60 percent of the
national average wage "are aligned. These are currently twelve euros.
n The legal minimum wage is not

and interns as cheap labor
we want to finish. Internships that within
are provided an education, are in
Part of the training compensation, however,
paid monthly with a minimum of 300 Euro
become. Internships by a career
a completed education are
collective agreements to be remunerated.

enough: We want industry-specific
higher minimum wages as well as afterwards,
constructive wage structure, which shall be negotiated by unions, lighter
than before and even without the consent of the
Says employers generally binding
can be. Collective agreements must on
Be declared generally binding application a collective party, the trade union side has veto rights.

Real wages in the years from 2000
by 2011 dropped by five percent. Lots
feel the in their daily lives: enough money
front and rear not. This was not
vorgebaut the economic crisis, such as the
Government claims, but kept the downward spiral of wages in transition. About

n We demand that the award of public contracts to minimum wages and
compliance with prevailing local wage agreements
is attached. We are committed,
that collective agreements again in all areas
public procurement are specified
allowed.

n the misuse of trainees

13

n If the owner of a company changes, the existing collective agreements must
permanently in their current version
unlimited stay protected. Tariff flight
and wage dumping by operating transitions
can be prevented.
n Equal pay for work of equal value:

The structural underpayment of women
needs to close. Unequal pay is not due to different jobs such as
Contract workers are made possible. Rates in
East and West need to be aligned.
Equal pay for equal work and the
statutory minimum wage are also
People with disabilities.
n It is crucial that the sanctions
regime of Hartz IV - the compulsion to accommodate even the most bad-paying jobs -
is eliminated. It is not only antisocial,
but also leads to blackmail the
Employees. The threat of job losses is against this background
threatening.

Who criticized low wages and that
People in spite of their poor employment
remain or are allowed by Manager
salaries and exploding Board
salaries not in DAX companies
silent. When the (usually male)
Board of a DAX company in
Average 54-fold which receives,
which earn his staff, then
is not motivated by power. What
is it fair? We want to share
with representatives from
Trade unions, churches, social organizations
and science - even responsible companies - a debate
abut how much inequality in
Income is acceptable and at what point
the cohesion and democracy
suffer in our society including.
We suggest that no more than
40 times should earn as much as the
social minimum - with the current distribution would still scarce
half a million euros per year. We demand
binding rules for all public
Companies - the limitation of
14

Executive salaries at the Landesbanken
here can be a role model - and argue
that such schemes in all
Companies apply. We urge the members of supervisory boards on, inflated
No longer approve salaries and
on a voluntary commitment
to work the business.
n We also demand an end to tax

deductibility of annual salaries
over half a million euros. Bonuses and
excessive severance payments, we want to exclude a whole.
Expand participation
and shorten working time
That we can create more and more goods and material wealth with ever
less work is actually a good
Message. So therefore, could be shortened working hours, so that work
is distributed differently and people
more free time at leisure and
have democratic organization of society. However, the benefits come
this development only to enterprises
benefit. Not the employees: The one
have to make a lot of overtime, other
must be forced part-time and
settle a few hours. Flexibility that employees more
Could bring self-determination, is to
become a prophecy of warning. Work is more
as gainful employment. To work also include
all volunteer activities, educational work, care work and the like
more. These need to be better recognized in our society. So that
Paid work can be combined better,
for example, family life and
Education of children, we need new
Working models. Then the parents can
Household chores and the education of
Children equitable than previously among themselves
split. The concept of flexibility must
finally based on the needs of employees in the workplace. Example: Employees should twice in their
Professional life will have the opportunity for a
Year alight (sabbatical), connected
with a right of return to the same
or an equivalent post.

The workers need greater
Self- and co-determination rights in relation
on their working hours and the organization of their
Work - loads have degraded
become. Only in this way remains enough free time
for recreation, leisure and self-determined
Activities. The profit pressure is today
increasingly passed on to every single employee. the company
wants not only the worker, it wants to
whole person: his motivation, his
Creativity, knowledge, in order to save costs and increase the performance even more.
It is time to turn this trend:
Work and jobs will have on the
Designed needs of employees
become. There is a right to Feierabend.
n We want the Working Hours Act so
Change that the tolerable weekly
Maximum working time of currently 48 will be reduced to a maximum of 40 hours. Exemptions have greatly reduced
effectively limited to, overtime
be and there must be tighter controls,
especially those by independent
Employee representatives, law
be prescribed.
n expansion of collective participation
the employees and the company
Activities of membership: In the office, in the
Workshop, in sheltered workshops,
on station and the business must
Rights of employees as well as the
Works, SHE representatives and workshop councils and their
Participation in shaping their
individual activities will be strengthened -
for example by means of veto rights and
with regard to establishment plans, in the design of collective workflows
and in staff assessment.
n We support initiatives to the
"White spots" of participation,
such establishments without any involvement
of employees, piece by piece to
clear off.
n Germany must finally the supplementary

Protocol of the European Social Charter
ratify Collective Complaints,
so that, inter alia, trade unions

the euro Council a right of appeal at
Get violations of the Social Charter.
n We support initiatives to limit the legal closing time stronger,
especially on Sundays and holidays is
a few, strictly defined exceptions
to restrict.
n Instant is feasible to introduce a
Anti-stress regulation, as well as
IG Metall is required, and an individual right of veto in the transformation
Work Items.
n We want to occupational safety and
Health and improve the youth employment law.

We want the working hours at full
Wage and personnel compensation shorten.
The notion that "full-time" is an eight-hour working day, comes from the
Battles of the 19th century and in 1918 required by law. Us
urgently need a new goal: Six
Hours are enough. Good work for all,
but less work for individuals -
we want a new full employment.
We support the initiatives of trade union
unions, a new social
Debate on working time limits
advance. We strive for a maximum of 35, in the longer term of 30 hours
at. This shortened working hours not to
Work intensification, and thus to wage cuts "degenerate" and so thwarted
are the co-determination rights must
the employment offices are expanded in personnel and establishment plans.
Capital and labor are in our
Society always opposite. The ideas of what is fair and reasonable, are in political and social
Fighting negotiated. The power relations are in favor of neo-liberalism
of capital has been postponed.
n The participation rights must
expanded, information, control and
Veto rights and supplemented on economic
Questions, in particular operation
changes, location changes and

15

Layoffs, and on the design
the activities and the working conditions
be extended.
n DIE LINKE supports workforces,
their holdings in crisis in
Want to continue on their own. Build cooperatives and employee holdings
on knowledge, experience and planning skills of employees and give
give them more opportunities, on the nature and
Say in content production.
n The right to strike is indivisible - that applies

also for workers in the church, Diakonie
and Caritas. It is time that workers
ecclesiastical institutions the same rights
get like all other employees.
The church staff representation rights
is worse off materially. This will need a
Betriebsverfassungsgesetz unrestricted
apply for the church employees.
Clause 118 Works Constitution Act
should be deleted accordingly. Religious
Institutions, public subsidies
receive, must apply to all workers as
and users and user accessible
be. The General Equal Treatment
Law must be found in Church institutions use. The labor law
must ensure that a view from the
the churches' lack of private Wohlver
keep "not based on redundancies in ecclesiastical institutions and
Must be made factories.
Strong trade unions are essential
for good working and living conditions.
DIE LINKE wants to restore the area rates. That requires the right to strike
Improve trade unions and above
any legal restriction to
preserve and a right of collective action to
Compliance with collective agreements and law
introduce regulations. Collective agreements must, at the request of a bargaining agent
are considered universally applicable.
Fundamental social rights guarantee instead
Harassment and poverty by Hartz IV
Jörg (51) and Anja (43) are unemployed, since
The automotive supplier three years ago
Went bust. The Job Center sends
16

Jörg and Anja regular invitations.
Every time they wanted to them about their
speak occupational situation, but could
offer nothing. Jörg was car mechanic. Finally, the case manager wanted to impose him a job as a security guard in
which he received just 5 euros an hour
would have. He wanted a job that his
Qualification corresponded. But the main reason was that they felt the reward as degrading. The case manager shortened
Jörg then the money.
The Social Security manages the
Foundation to help people with dignity
can live. So can read on her
are as important for justice
Company: Who is poor, must not
are marginalized, poverty and
to fight its causes, belongs to
The center of politics. It should be understood that all the alive
Can participate in society. Because the
social fuses, for example,
through the introduction of Hartz IV, syste
were weakened cally, has the
Poverty in Germany receive a new dimension, more and more people are
forced bad jobs with bad
To accept wages: That was "reasonable"
and belong to a "new voluntary".
In truth it comes to higher profits
for the company and to the reduction
of wages, also with the help of government subsidies for those whose
Wages are still below the subsistence level. Increasingly propel poverty
Sanctions and pressure them into isolation,
they are from the participation in society, its wealth, its cultural assets
and the many small yet very important meetings and events in
Everyday excluded.
The mass unemployment can only
be reduced if additional jobs will be created and the work is fairly distributed. A labor market policy, the cause of the unemployment
looking at the unemployed themselves, can
therefore fail. We need a
Change of course in the social and labor market policy, consistent with the
Hartz IV logic breaks:

1) Insurance against acquisition
unemployment, which secures the standard of living
and a crash in poverty prevented.

n In the area of ​​public life
precautionary have full, tariff
Working conditions are created.

n You must also wait at unemployment

n It must immediately more funds for education
and qualification of unemployed to
Be made available.

the social services to ensure the previously achieved living standards approximate. DIE LINKE demands a jobless money that is more accessible and more
will be paid. Self-employed, we want to
the unemployment insurance include,
so that they in case of insolvency are entitled to unemployment money. The
OFF periods must be abolished,
they have rejected claims that regularly
have been acquired and developed.
Job offers to the unemployed must
take account of their professional qualifications and their ethical beliefs;
no one may be compelled against his
or their conviction a gainful employment
to accept.
n All unemployed should independently
of the duration of their unemployment
a legal claim to funding
have education and training.

2) A labor market policies, with the
public funds more good work
Offers creates.
n With a publicly funded
Employment Sector (ÖBS) we want
People who currently no regular
Can pursue employment, new
Open up prospects in the labor market. The ÖBS creates additional, meaningful,
minimum living and collectively secure jobs. This allows civil society structures as community centers,
Strengthened initiatives and cultural projects
become. Publicly funded Staff
ment needs to the needs
the unemployed and the regional
Align circumstances. Remuneration
allowed an hourly wage of ten Euros
and a monthly gross wage of
monthly not at least 1,500 euros
below. Again, the minimum wage should be by the end of the parliamentary term
rise to at least twelve euros. The
Integration based on the principle
voluntary.

n We are committed to a legally enforceable
Legal right for the unemployed to
Skilling and counseling a.
n The crisis returns: We need
a new initiative to work to
. protect The protection against dismissal must
strengthened and profitable company
forbidden to collective redundancies
become.

3) Finally, we still say aloud
and clear: Hartz IV must go! Stead
which we need a demand
and sanction-free guaranteed minimum income,
secures the victim against poverty
and social participation guarantees.
We want to expand public social services and infrastructure:
public no-cost and ecological
Transport, a health care
without additional payment, free access to internet as well as cultural and artistic offers,
a publicly organized power with social pricing, free and high-quality food
in school and day care, access to a
Computer with Internet access for everyone
Students and any student, social tickets
at the railway.
n the short term, the Hartz IV rulesets have increased to 500 euros and the penalties and so-called "one-euro jobs"
be abolished. We want a concept
contribute, where no guaranteed minimum income
more below 1,050 euros. Possibly
must be able to be at high rents supplemented by housing allowance. The minimum
Backup backs up both employable
and non-working age adults,
z. B. disability pensioners
and -rentner.
n Proven special needs
additionally assumed.

17

n The Left insists instead of
Commodities and use the Communities
Individual principle under consideration
statutory maintenance obligations
introduce. The special arrangements for
young people up to 25 years
must be abolished.
n The legal aid
has expanded rather than restricted
become. Legal counsel in judicial proceedings must also people with a
low incomes will allow.
Transitional have the options
be extended to decisions
the Job Center and agencies proceed.

Portions of the left representing the concept
the unconditional basic income,
about the right to a secure existence
and social participation of every individual to decouple from gainful employment.
This concept is highly controversial in the party. Want this discussion
we continue. We also advocate
the establishment of a commission of inquiry
for basic income in German
Bundestag.
n Together with social Ticket initiatives
are from all over Germany
we in the states and municipalities for a
Social ticket for public transport
Make pressure. Perspective is the
public transport free of charge to
to organize.
n We support the self-organization
of unemployed and low-income earners
and together with unemployment initiatives in parliament and on the street
for a penalty-free Guaranteeing
to become active. We demand free and
independent advice.

We stand on the side of the people,
from their homes and neighborhoods
are marketed and to contrast
Wehr set.
n Forced removals have to be stopped.

DIE LINKE will adhere to any government
participate, the privatization of Daseins18

pension or welfare cuts operates or
whose policies of the fulfillment of tasks
public service deteriorated.
Good pension: Securing life style,
Prevent poverty in old age, Eastern pensions
align
"I have all my life as a saleswoman
worked as a pension I get 846
Euro. If the pension plan so
goes on, get my younger colleague
2030 just 677 euros, although it up
Must toil 67th If they do that
persevere. "Emily, Berlin
The contributions that are paid into the pension system, are increasingly
less "value": The pension policy
Deforestation in recent years is the
Performance level of the statutory pension to
2030 fall further - up to 43 percent.
A pension of 1,000 euros is then formerly
worth only 800 Euros. The gaps are
Close the workers themselves, by
they private provisions. This bill goes
not: many need their whole A
come to finance the daily and
can be an additional pension
literally not afford. In addition, the
Insurance quotes often poor. In
many Riester contracts are the administrative costs so high and the returns so
weak that the money just as well under
the mattress could be placed. The
billions promoting private
benefit pension by the tax payer
especially the insurance industry
and increases the serious search for yield
seeking private capital to the financial
markets. Thus, existing crises
fueled and new ones created. Forever
more people have aged basic
apply for insurance or in spite of its
deserved retirement to continue working.
n The safety level of legal
Pension has increased again to 53 percent
be to ensure that the standard of living in old age
can be secured and the pensions for
all rise appreciably. The condition
for this is that since the agenda Policy
introduced reduction factors from the
Pension formula should be deleted.

n We want solidarity in the pensions
Insurance Stronger times lower
Wages, unemployment, child rearing and care have significantly better
be secured so as not to
Poverty pensions lead. So should independently
from the year of birth of the child mothers or
Fathers three years of child-raising
shall be counted in the pension.
n All earned income must in
the pension received - also
of self-employed persons, civil
Officials, politicians.
Income thresholds are aufzu
raise the amount of benefits is flatten.
n We want to create the possibility of the

acquired in Riester contracts Claims
to transfer them to the state pension.
All know that the pension only from 67 to
most people is not feasible.
You can not work as long as
Do not for a long life
are more healthy or at that age
have or get any more work.
Thus, the pension is only 67 mostly one
substantial pension reduction equal. The material halfway secure retirement
Device as in danger or is a priori
an illusion.
n abolished the pension until 67 must
- without ifs and buts. Each and
everyone must return no later than 65 years
may go without deductions in retirement.
n After 40 years of contributions - including
assimilated periods - we want a
create unreduced entry into the pension. This should already from the age of 60
to be possible.
n Access to the earning capacity

pensions must be made easier, the
Haircuts we want to paint.

To prevent the threat of poverty in old age, the conditions on the need to
Labor market will be greatly improved.
The people can not acquire sufficient pension claims,
if it with enough good jobs

are good wages or salary, in particular
this applies to women who are the majority
the make up for low wages employees. We also need sufficient public offers for child-rearing and
to care for family members. The
Pension has the standard of living in old age
secure and prevent poverty reliable.
Such pension policy is feasible and
affordable, if the legal system
will be strengthened and the company again
participate equally in the costs of pension schemes.
n The contributions to statutory pensions must equal numbers from the
Employees themselves and the companies
or the employer and the clients
financed. This applies to all workers. The level of contributions should be after
set the desired backup destination
and not by the willingness to pay the
Companies.
n For a retirement that is dignified and for

social participation in old age for each and everyone
we need a minimum standard in the
State pension. Therefore wants DIE LINKE
introduce a Solidary minimum pension. This is supplied on the one hand the
own contribution reasoned pension rights and on the other hand from tax for those whose income and
Assets to a life below the
Poverty line would result. Therefore put
we chose in the next parliamentary term
a minimum pension of 1,050 Solidary
Euro net a. Higher rental costs should
are collected with the housing allowance.
Special requirements for. As for the chronically ill,
People with disabilities are in
Granted context of Solidary health insurance.
DIE LINKE fights for a policy that
public systems strengthens and
Privatization of risks combated. they
stands for a policy that an independent life in dignity and social security
allows the ages. LEFT pension policy
means more than just minimum protection. A good life in old age also means
the standard of living of the acquisition phase
without too much compromising least
19

hold, and his life also independently
Income from previous employment free from constraints in acquiring dignity
to be able to make. Therefore include
For us living standards and
Minimum fuse together.

one that is not the maximum profit for the
Provider, but the optimal therapy
for the patients in the
Center provides. We oppose
any aspirations, medical Offers
rationing.

n We do not forget that the government
Merkel one of their central campaign promises has broken: the approximation
of pensions in the east to the western level.
DIE LINKE demands, the pension value Ost
quickly align it with western levels. The
Alignment needs no later than the end of 2017
to be finished. The lifetime achievement in
East and West must finally in the same way
be acknowledged. The approximation may
not to the detriment of policyholders today
lead. Therefore, the high rating must
obtain East German wages
stay as long as there is still strong wage differences between East and West.
Disadvantages in the transfer of the pension schemes in the pension system East West
for various occupational groups and in the
DDR divorced women should be corrected.

n We advocate for an effective limitation
the price of medicines a. The responsible authorities should these prices
fix. The introduction of a positive list
is overdue: All meaningful drugs
must be fully reimbursed -
expensive drugs, the only seemingly new
are, on the other hand do not belong in the catalog. Where recognized for serious, especially for rare diseases
Diagnostic and therapeutic technologies not
Available or not in individual cases
act, the health insurance companies are also
finance unconventional methods,
if it can be expected that the
Not harm patients
and at least a genuine chance
consists of efficacy.

Solidarity and quality in health care strengthening - End
the two-tier health care. health
is not a commodity

and accessible supply of medical practices
on. New Models of Care and Patient as buses, Gemeinschaftsund part-time practices or Medical
Care centers in the public sector
can work in rural areas
for young medical students
make more attractive, as well as
supportive social and health services with non-medical personnel.

People below the poverty line
life, death, statistically speaking seven
Years rather than the average population. Poverty causes illness and disease
makes poor. This vicious circle can only
be broken if the health care system for all real solidarity
is designed. For almost all health
Services are co-payments payable -
no matter whether for drugs, hospital
stays or Aids and appliances.
n Any additional payments and additional contributions
must be abolished. All revenue and surpluses of health insurance
are to be used for the benefit of policyholders.
n All medically necessary services

must again by the health insurance
get paid. We are committed to a
science-based care
20

n We advocate for good coverage

n We are committed to ensuring that the
close to home and directly with the
Patients employed
medical care appropriate and
are not rewarded worse than
other medical services.
n DIE LINKE relies on the qualifications and

Experience pharmacists in the care of humans
with medicines and pharmaceutical consulting. We want to not advertise and no mail order
prescription drugs,
because patient safety is our
in the Centre.

n Corruption in health care
not only harms the health insurance
financially, it also undermines the relationship of trust between physicians
and doctors and the people who
need their help. That's why we put
us to ensure that corrupt practices at
Healthcare consistently pursued
and will be prosecuted.

In recent years, health care has been increasingly on the market and
Profit interests aligned. Profit and
Competition mean, for example,
rejected that necessary treatments
and increasingly expensive services without proven benefits offered
could. Employees must always
take on more work, so they for
the individual patient
have less time.
Hundreds of thousands of jobs have been
mined in hospitals. This should
hospitals cheaper, better and
more efficient for employees and patients, they said. That
Opposite happened: For employees
followed from this dismantling work intensification, time pressure, strain and stress. All
Health professionals need to be involved in the MRP. Health
Liche supply is more than medical
Supply.
A comparison: In Germany looked a
Caregiver on average 21 patients
or patients in Denmark ten, in
Norway and nine in the United States eight.
n Hospitals must demand
and be solidly financed. Federal and
Countries have sufficient funds for a
provide comprehensive infrastructure.
Health insurance companies to the operation of
Secure hospitals adequately.
n There must be no further privatization of

Give hospitals, already privatized
Hospitals we want in public and
noncommercial sponsorships convict. Employees must also at
organizing and planning their work
have a say more.

n The lack of personnel in sick

homes, nursing homes, outpatient
Care and home care needs
be eliminated. We are committed to a
binding, from the medical supplies
derived personnel assessment a.
The system of DRGs (DRGs)
wrong incentives: It rewarded possible
many cases with minimal staff
to treat in the shortest possible time.
Costs are reduced at the expense of employees. Hospitals strive
to lucrative but medically unnecessary
Interventions. For the patients
DRGs mean early discharge
and frequent readmissions ("revolving door
effect "). Therefore, the Left advocates
the elimination of all forms of power
billings, provide incentives to Überund misuse.
n The underfunding of hospitals must be stopped. The DRGs
as market-based pay system
are inconsistent with the meaning and purpose of
Facilities of general interest. The
Financing needs to the needs,
medical, not economic
Oriented criteria.
n The quality in the psychiatric
and psychotherapeutic care
must be ensured. The introduction of a
Payment system with per diems in
psychiatry (analogous to the DRG system)
endanger a well-coordinated, integrated
humanistic psychiatry. Instead,
have sufficient outpatient and
inpatient treatment options
and therapy spaces and enough
Staff are ready.
n In order for the health care

secured coverage in urban and rural areas
is must, planned across sectors and
are supplied. All health professionals
must be included in the MRP
are, not just doctors.
n Does the separation of outpatient and inpatient care and canceled
hospitals must be allowed,
to conduct a clinic or polyclinic.

21

n The self-governments in health

beings are democratically develop. The rights of insured missions should be extended.

n Health Promotion and Prevention

must contribute to the social
Causes of unequal chances
Reducing health. We demand
this a prevention law and a
Coordination and decision point
at the federal level.
n The electronic health card

(E-card) has failed. The storage
of health data on central servers is no advantage for the supply
of patients, ensures
bureaucracy in the medical practices
and is risky from the perspective of data protection.
In addition, the system will cost billions to
Insurance contributions is inflexible
and must be renewed every few years.
n The Left is committed to the development

IT solutions in healthcare,
which are flexible, inexpensive and decentralized.
Personal health data include
exclusively in the hands of the patient
or of the patient.
To ensure good care for all
ensure it needs a solidary health insurance: a checkout
for all ("Solidarity and Bürgerinnen-
Citizens Insurance "). Thus, the
Contribution rate for health insurance on
Years to consistently low at something
held more than ten percent of their income. On wages and
Pensions would have insured only
a share of 5.25 per cent instead of the current
Pay 8.2 percent. Even employers
would a share of 5.25 percent instead of
pay 7.3 percent previously. This lower
Contribution rate led to an income of 5,800 euros a month to clear
Savings for policyholders. Workers with average incomes
would net about 1,000 euros a year more
available.
Health expenditures are for
20 years constant at ten to eleven percent
22

of GDP - there are so
No cost explosion. The contributions of the
rising public health insurance
for only one reason: You are on your own
the wages and salaries paid shares, and
this fall. The fastest growing incomes - gains and capital
income - are not used.
Well-paid and healthier insured migrate to the private health insurance
assurance from.
n In the solidary health insurance "Solidarity and Bürgerinnen-
Citizens Insurance "pay everyone,
who live in Germany, according to
of their income, a solidarity. All types of income are contributions.
n insured with an income above the previous income threshold, we intend to meet with the
same contribution rate in the solidarity
Include financing.
n The private comprehensive health insurance is so

obsolete and will be abolished. The private
Health insurance is confined to benefits and the employees
the insurance companies a socially
friendly transition to the statutory
Health insurance allows.
n For income from wages and salaries

and grade pay the employer or
the masters half of the contributions,
in pensions wears pension
half the contribution.
Good care: dignity for
In need of care, relatives
and Employees

"When my mother from the hospital
was released, there was nothing like it
was before. Suddenly she was on care and
Services dependent. I have to specially
take time off and risking my job. All
going fast, fast, even with me at work
in a nursing home. For all the money is there for
the most important things not. As it is with da
only people who do not know how to care
works? "Johanna, 42, a nursing assistant
in Kassel

The federal government has not been able,
care insurance develop so that they meet the needs of
People will do justice. Long term care insurance is a "third party insurance"
and also chronically underfunded. they
grants people with care needs only
a grant for the cost of care,
which the family, neighborly
intended to supplement or volunteer care.
Sufferers have on their income
recourse and assets. Many are
dependent on social assistance or support from their relatives. These
in turn are often overtaxed and greatly
loaded.
n The present since 2009 new care concept and the new assessment procedure must finally from legislators
implemented, cognitive and / or psychological
Limitations as well as physical
are recorded.
n The new assessment procedure must

also a method include, according to the
the care of children and
Teenagers can be determined.
People with dementia are
finally appropriate to include in the long-term care.
DIE LINKE sees care as a task
society and thus as part of the
public services. A policy
which is justice and solidarity, a
effective, decent and to the
individual needs aligned
Organize care and support and
. finance Stop the Teilkasko principle: A socially just nursing care
fuse must perspective all necessary
Services take over. Will be financed
that when all income solidarity in the
Long-term care are included
(solidary citizen's
Insurance in Health and Care).
Especially women - marriage and Lebenspartne
gutters, daughters or daughters-in -
take care work. But the family structure, the family picture, the employment biographies of women are changing - and
that's a good thing. Also want of care

People do not automatically from their
Relatives are maintained. A self-determined decision on the issue,
Who cares for me, is not, in many cases
possible care depends increasingly
Measurements of the size of their own
Purse from.
n DIE LINKE demands, the achievements so to
make it possible to all people
is to self-determination, decide whether
she outpatient, partial inpatient or outpatient care or assistance services in
Want to take advantage of. An expansion of the
affordable, barrier-free living space
is indispensable.
n Good care is not of their own
his financial situation dependent.
For such a new Care Policy
manage the performance level must
Significantly increased long-term care
become. This provides for interested parties
Opportunity to professionally at home
leave to care for.
n We demand that the five-month Euro
subsidized private care insurance ("Care-Bahr") to stop. Of the
Entry into the privatization of care
Prevention is antisocial, economically
nonsensical and disadvantage low-income earners and people with disabilities.
Instead, as insurance companies are not sponsored, with up strong
Political Contributions retaliate. While
Low-income earners and people with
a potential risk of care, the
Insurance can not afford,
it's better-off and healthy
possible to cheaper, non-subsidized
Resorting products. That leads to
a two-tier care, against the
we turn decided.

Good care is critically dependent on
qualified and dedicated Staff
preferential from. The everyday life of nurses
is of work intensification, rigid time
specifications and poor pay
coined. Suffer all those involved:
the nursing staff and the caring
People and their relatives. Care
is a serious and challenging work,
23

the socially recognized and
must be paid accordingly.
n Raising the level of performance of the
Care hedge opened the financial
Leeway to pay nurses better.
Mini and midi jobs in nursing need in
regular and collectively paying jobs
be converted. Thus wage dumping
is prevented in nursing, is as the lowest
Limit an area-wide legal
Introducing minimum wage of ten Euros.
n order to ensure the quality of care,

DIE LINKE calls for nationwide standards
a quality-related personnel allocation. Until then, have federal and
Countries jointly set the target,
at least half of the posts
manned by professionals.
n To the equal participation of

To ensure those affected in the middle of our society, have communal
Help structures such as maintenance bases
and furnishing advice to be strengthened.

n The nursing education is contemporary
further to the requirements
to high-quality care
to do justice and nursing professions
to make it more attractive. These are the
Pflegeberufe to a three-year dual
Training will be merged.
A two-year basic training follows
the one-year priorities in
general nursing, pediatric nursing
or elder care.

With tax reversal:
Wealth is divisible
If in a democratic society
the main financial burden lies on those
have the least impact when
Democracy does not mean that all the
Community help - then something
out of balance. To the direct
recover weight, we need
a new model: the wealthy and
businesses need their share
to finance the commonwealth,
public services and
provide social services. Often
24

claiming that the left especially money
wanted to spend. In fact, the left
the only party that through a gerechnetes
Control concept has the feasible and socially
is righteous. We believe in redistribution
from top to bottom, from private to public and redistribution in favor of a
sustainable economic and social model, which at social and
environmental needs and interests
aligns.
The private wealth in Germany
has grown despite the crisis - and as a result
neo-liberal policies always unjust
spread: The top ten percent have
more than half of all assets,
has the lower half of the population
almost nothing. This is not acceptable.
Redistributing social justice,
Education and socio-ecological reconstruction
The private wealth increases also
because the taxes for the rich and for business about ten years ago by the SPD and
Greens were drastically reduced. Who much
has received numerous ways the
Assets continue to proliferate and
the financing of the common good to
escape. Who has little need much and
multiple pay - for example,
public because of the privatization
Property and the dismantling of social
Security systems. High capacity,
Tip income, capital gains,
Financial transactions and large inheritances have become stronger or even taxed.
n We demand a millionaire tax -
ie a property tax for millionaires -
introduce. It remains the first million
the assets tax-free. Thereafter, a
Applicable tax rate of five percent on private and business assets, under
Deduction of burdensome debt. For
-operating tangible assets
Single entrepreneurs and sole proprietors and unincorporated companies applies a
increased allowance of five million euros.
The control provides the ability to act
by (small and medium) companies
not in question. It prevents private

assets moved in operating assets and thus deprived of the millionaire's tax
can be. For a private bid or
Real estate assets of two million
Euro would for example 50,000 euros
Taxes per year are paid. Yearly
More revenue: 80 billion euros.
n Large inheritances are in Germany compared to other EU countries
much too low taxed. With a reform
the tax rates and exemptions
we want to increase the revenue from inheritance tax significantly. Normal
owner-occupied housing and other smaller properties remain on the
Inheritance spared. The unnecessary to secure jobs, only the
Obtaining private multimillion fortune
serving favors corporate heirs we want to abolish. Yearly
More revenue: EUR 7 billion.
n The corporate taxes were
massively reduced in recent years.
The corporation must again
25 percent increase. DIE LINKE sets
for a Europe-wide standardization
of company taxation to prevent a tax competition. The
Exemption of capital gains, we want to take back. Yearly
Revenues: € 35 billion.
n The enforced by the CDU / CSU and FDP "Mövenpicksteuer" (reduced
VAT rate for hotels and accommodation services) must be withdrawn
become. Annual revenues:
1 billion euros.
n To compensate for the anti-social effects of VAT, the reduced VAT rate on products and
Services for children, labor-intensive craft services, pharmacy-only medicines, and for the
Rail passenger transport introduced. In
Products and services for children
and labor-intensive craft services we wish to commit ourselves,
that with the EU requirements, the corresponding applications to be extended for the reduced VAT rate.

n The tax enforcement at country level

needs to be improved, in particular, needs more
Set technical personnel and the control
enforcement to be unified nationwide.
Tax evasion, money laundering and
Combat fraud more effectively subsidy
can, in addition for the Left occurs
building an a federal financial police.
It is realistic, with a more consistent tax enforcement and the fight against
tax evasion in tax havens
annually etwa15 billion euros more
take.
Unauthorized exception and exemption regulations for the industry in eco-tax
and energy taxes must be abolished
become. Ecologically counterproductive
Breaks and subsidies to
u. a. through the introduction of a kerosene
control, the reorganization of the service and
Company car privilege and road tax
be abolished.
Profiteers of the crisis to Checkout
During the crisis, the richest of the
Company invests its assets significantly ver
could increase, contributes the bulk of the
Population the burden of the crisis. The
Causes of the crisis are not eliminated,
they are not even named: There are
too much private capital for investment bankers desperately profit pregnant
Search plants - in the financial markets
and in speculation.
n In Germany and in all EU countries

is a one-off tax on large
Assets are levied. This should
by bank bailouts and financial crisis
incurred higher government debt
recycled and the capacity to act
the public sector can be improved.
For Germany DIE LINKE calls for a
unique assets levy
by ten percent from a personal
Allowance of one million euros (at
Operating assets of two million euros)
20 percent from ten million euros, 30 per cent
from 100 million euros. The additional revenue
then be unique at least 300
Billion euros.
25

n want with a financial transaction tax
we curb speculation in financial markets and the polluter Interior
and caused the crisis at their expense
participate. We also demand that the
monies received in equal parts
for sustainable development in the
Countries of the South and for global
Climate change on the one hand and for the
socio-ecological reconstruction of our
On the other hand used industrial society
become. For each financial transaction should
A tax rate of 0.1 percent will be due.
Annual revenues in Germany:
at least 30 billion euros.

n THE LEFT wants the withholding tax
abolish and income from capital once again in accordance with the individual
Income tax rate tax.

Finally Tax Justice
Manufacture: - small and medium sized
Relieve income

The current social inequality is so
serious that it blocks the whole of society and slows a positive development. Future investments -
For example, in a socio-ecological
Energy revolution, in a good Gesundheitsund nursing care for all and in a
equitable education system - can not
financed. A just society is better for everyone. The municipalities
need finally enough
Financial resources. We want to cities and towns - and not without - libraries, day care centers, swimming pools, theaters and
Cultural centers. In the transmission of
Tasks must concomitant financing
("Who ordered to pay") at last
be implemented. DIE LINKE advocates
a comprehensive municipal finance reform
one that increases the autonomy of municipalities.

Not only the assets and the private
Wealth have unevenly developed,
the scissors of income has
opened further. DIE LINKE wants a reform
the income tax, which is guided by the following principle:
Who less than 6,000 euros a month
Has income, less taxes must
pay a higher income who
features, will be charged.
Specifically, the following applies:
n By the basic allowance on
9,300 euros is raised, be on
Gross wages up to 1,000 euros a month
no more taxes due. The collective history
income tax is smoothed. That
means: For a monthly
Have earnings in the amount of 2,500 euros
paid around 85 euros less taxes
become. The top tax rate on the other hand
is from a taxable income
of 65,000 euros per year on
53 percent (as under the Kohl government)
increase.
n Very high income we want
particularly taxing: Each euro -
after deduction of Sozialversicherungsbei
sluggish - is over one million income,
should be taxed at 75 percent
(Wealth tax).

26

n The splitting should be abolished spouses

become. Instead, we want a
introduce individual taxation. In order to
Communities not having children
be worse off, we want the
Use savings to the combined
living with children to promote.
For strong communities and a
better public infrastructure

DIE LINKE wants the existing trade tax
put on a broader basis and in a
Convert municipal economic control.
This is the basis of assessment
extended (inclusion of leases,
Rent, lease payments and license fees)
and enlarged the circle of taxpayers (inclusion of self-employed
and freelance professionals). Of the
Allowance is raised to 30,000 euros
and the assessed tax in the income tax into account. In this reform
included the abolition of the trade tax apportionment, what cities and towns is relieved financially. More revenue
for municipalities: EUR 15 billion.

Bottom line:
The control concept of the Left leads to
Annual revenues of the public
Budgets totaling 180 billion
Euro. This means that our demands
against funded. With the property tax
are to repay the national debt
once ingested 300 billion euros due to bank bailouts and financial crisis.
The Public strengthen:
Stop expropriation of the population
To act to "the public good"
deemed to be task of politics and the state. What
but is seen as a public good and
as it is best to serve the subject and result of democratic
Discussions of social conflicts and
Fighting. Who generates the wealth of society and who has it?
Who decides what, when, how, where and
to what extent is produced, and
Who is it available? This question
concern at its core, the question of ownership
and therefore the nature of democracy.
The expansion of public ownership,
infrastructure and public services
must be accompanied by efforts
to democratize the state. It must
give more participation and transparency.
Participation is not only a say to
may, but decisions take effect
be able to influence. That is also,
that for example in the planning of infrastructure projects not only on the "how",
decided but also about the "whether"
can be.
At all political levels, in particular
in the community, people should also
in matters of finance, of economy,
the development of cultural life
and the formation and shaping
Participate directly and administration
have a say: through participatory
Budgets and planning processes to
regional councils for a socio-ecological
Structural policies, the industry and services includes alike. Of the
Wealth of a society must be after

We believe in a public
Wealth and the life chances of all
knock down. Only this kind of wealth will benefit all and forms the
Basis for Democratic Interaction. Without effective public
Property, without state, municipal,
regional, but also cooperative
or communal property can
a democracy do not function.
n The Left argues that citizens

and citizens a say in the end, public enterprises and public
Able to control companies and institutions; they must in decisions
and be involved in the shaping of their living environment.

n We want public companies and institutions transparent
work and contracts that the public
Administration concludes, be disclosed.
The co-determination rights of employees must be broadened. Temporary work,
Privatizations or services and works
Contracts undermine fundamental rights
of employees and their participation. In order to protect these workers,
Not only must such forms of work
be combated: DIE LINKE advocates
one that the staff representation rights
fully applicable to all people,
working for an agency.

In the past 20 years has been
public property in a large scale
Sold: apartments, hospitals,
Electricity producers, transport and water businesses, town halls, hospitals and
Nursing facilities. It was promised: Privatisation makes everything better.
Detectable the opposite has occurred.
Citizens and municipalities
often need to perform worse
more and pay dearly. Privatization
means that people are paying more
need: for private care, doctor visits,
Dentures, swimming pool, music school.
This rule is as primitive as unmerciful: Who can pay, can participate.
Anyone who has too little money is left out. The
Rich demarcate and have
long established in their own world.
27

The Government refers to the State
debt. Supposedly could "we" Us
no longer afford the public, otherwise
we would our children and grandchildren
only left debts. We put
HOWEVER: Especially in the interests of our
Children and grandchildren, we must the common
nature does not respond to the market.
Because: Where interest in private
Hand operated, is no longer the
Power for the people in the foreground,
but profit and Mark ink
Ressen. The foundations for an equitable
Society with the privatization
of water on energy, transport and
destroyed in the formation.
n We stand for a new model of a
powerful, democratic, public
union general interest and infrastructure.
n All have public services and

Facilities can be used independently
of where they live.
n Public services must

affordable for everyone, diskriminierungsund be barrier-free.
n Public services must
a high environmental standard justice
become.
n Therefore: "Abolish the debt brake"!
The only thing that slows them and destroyed
is the social, cultural and democratic
Development of society. We sit
us. for their removal from the Constitution and from all state constitutions

Privatizations of the popula
population rejected by a majority. Citizen
Decisions such as in Leipzig,
Dusseldorf or show in Freiburg that
the resistance to privatization
grows. Even the municipalities themselves
with did not consider consequences of Priva
tomation to fight. The financial crisis
discloses mercilessly as risky
cross-border leases
(Cross border leasing) or undurchsich
term interest rate transactions are. These financial
Crash landings are just like the
increasingly expensive loans the Kommunal28

budgets significantly for years to come
burden. Several privatizations are
undone and facilities
been public services municipalized successful again.
Not infrequently there have citizens' initiatives
and referendums a crucial
Played role.
DIE LINKE relies on privatization brake
held debt brake. We will
participate in any government or
tolerate the public interest
privatized.
n We want that privatization
of public services
just stopped as Public Private Partnership projects.
n It is important to rule again:
Public bodies are in
operated public responsibility.
n civil and Referenda to privatizations are often in the past
in favor of public ownership
assumed.
n We want water and other
Goods of general interest not for sale
are. Until that is enforced, all
Privatization projects to citizens
presented and citizens for voting
become. DIE LINKE fights also at EU level against privatization and pressure
Intervention in the local self-government. We turn to such date
Advances in water supply and
Sanitation that from planned
Changes of the Services Directive
and follow the EU's concession policy
be able. We therefore support the
European Citizens' Water
is a human right ".
n Privatized areas of existence
precaution we want to re-municipalise.
We want the basic interest
such as health services, housing, education,
Culture, energy, water, public
Transportation, Highway and
Waste in the public sector
to organize. Even the federal level

made privatization of
Post, Postbank and Telekom we want in
Interests of the company, the users
and users and workers concerned
undo.
n Privatized hospitals, nursing homes Jugendhilfeund we want to convert them into non-commercial sponsorships.
n The civil service and the public
that undertaking must be on
oriented social needs.
Among other things, this means: It is not a
Personal degraded more. Administrations
be modified accordingly there
or increased, where necessary,
has changed.
n The civil service is a model
when it comes to training. The proportion of
Employees with an immigrant background
is to be increased, even to where it
is a need to multilingualism in
the administration to ensure.
n The employees in the administration,
in public institutions and enterprises have influence on their development
can take, ie in decisions
the institutions and companies directly
be involved.

Privatize public property
means loss of transparency, public influence and co-decision
on the development of municipal services and to public scrutiny. Just
public enterprises and public
Property offer the chance for democratic control and participation by
Citizens and employees.
Public ownership and citizen participation belong together. Citizens and
Citizens from the outset in municipal
Involve decisions. It must
be discussed in public, which on
gifts and deals to be done and made public responsibility.
Democracy works only if they
the objectives of democratic majorities also
may prevail over economic power. The company must

the objectives of economic activity and a clear
defined framework for action by the
Parliaments are specified. That's why
we call for a new economic and
A social order. The financial sector needs
democratically controlled. In future, all banks are in the public interest
serve. Therefore it is imperative that private
Major banks to socialize. It is precisely they are the ones who with their power states
blackmail and played off against one another.
The subject belongs economic democracy
also on the agenda. Become
Companies and the financial funds free
Hand leaves, prevented democracy. Precisely
This we are now experiencing daily. Every single
Companies must in their decisions the social obligation of property
satisfy.
We want private banks vergesell
companies, the financial sector of public
Subjugate control and strictly regulate,
the private banking sector in the public
Convict hand and - in accordance with the
Sparkassen - to the common good
undertake (see. Chapter II).
The economy we want to democratize:
Workforces are at the big
Can participate companies; State
Aids are only in exchange for respective ownership interests of the public
Hand and workforces awarded;
Nationalization or partial nationalization are subject to democratic control
and to connect more participation.
In order to support solidarity-based economy,
must be further encouraged cooperatives, also with the instrument
the labor market policy.
In various social movements,
especially in the global South, has become the
Concept of "commons" of the commons,
disseminated. Free software that do not for the
Will develop and disseminate market, has
this discussion conveyed: Computer, Internet, digitization play in life
more and more people a big role.
"Commons" means often "resources" as
Land, Housing, water, also nonmaterial
Goods such as knowledge and information. in the
Focus is that the goods gemein29

cally be used. They will not
owned and not in free competition
(on) used - and how they used
be, must not run according to rules
dictated by corporations. Us
want to discuss how forms of
demand-driven, democratically organized and solidary production and
Can be supported and use
the importance of the "Commons" and
the commons economy belongs here.
For affordable rents and social
Housing: speculation
Stop housing
Apartments are a popular object
become for financial speculation. In the
Metropolises fight against initiatives
"Gentrification", against the repression
of low-income residents
and residents of their districts. they
fight against that affordable rental housing through demolition, conversion
be destroyed and misappropriation
and that masses of dwellings and
Warehouses for speculative or
subsidization and grounds are empty.
Tenants are from their
Flats sold to them by
Refurbishment market with high returns.
Just climb in conurbations
rents rapidly. Many can be the
rising living costs for rent, utilities, water, electricity and heating not
afford more. Are Hartz IV Affected
forced to move. The population
whole districts is substituted.
Brokerages looking with semi-legal
and illegal methods, the most lucrative candidates among home seekers. The German Tenants' Association
speaks of a two-tier society
in metropolitan areas, social housing has come to a virtual standstill.
The state has from the steering function
fully retracted and limited for a socially oriented housing supply
only to subsidy Gifts
for the construction and property industry.
Housing has become a field of social Off
confrontations, the housing problem
30

become a key social issue. The
Financial crisis exacerbated this trend;
safe systems are in demand. Financial Investing
tors buy large-scale apartments
in order to then with maximum return
to operate. At the same time are in structurally weak regions, especially
empty in East Germany, many mansions.
The term exposure to debts
and the leakage of urban redevelopment
aggravate social programs
Urban Development.
The withdrawal of the state from a
socially controlled housing policy and
the liberalization of the housing market
lead to a dramatic decline
of affordable housing. Disabled
affordable housing is hard to find.
New residential construction is within the
past 20 years for a third
shrunk.
Are municipal housing stocks
privatized. Will rent
en masse in condominiums
converted and as apartments
or used for purposes for other uses
alienated. Many apartments and than
Living room usable commercial properties
stand empty for speculative reasons.
Since the rights of tenants
were dismantled, the rents of can
the owners and owners in
the amount to be driven. We want to
Strengthen rights of tenants.
Their interests must be in the foreground
are not laws of the market and return on investment.
Housing for the left is a part of
Interest. The right to housing is
to anchor in the Basic Law. We support the local authorities in building housing industry Eigenbetriebe who do not
profit-oriented, but act the common good, the public controllable
are and directly affect good
Take quality housing at low rents.
To this end, we call for a Rekommunalisierungsfonds as a federal program so that the
Communities formerly able to acquire privatized housing stock again.
To facilitate this, to the Community

to a legally regulated right of first refusal for these and other rental housing
obtain. We support the democratization of housing cooperatives and
want the cooperative law amended accordingly so that the cooperative members get a greater say and
on the amount of rent, as well as investment and modernization can decide for themselves. The business processes
and cash flows of the cooperatives
have against their members
be fully disclosed.
Social housing must again
be revived and reoriented. Him
to public and cooperative
Promote housing construction, in particular,
the ecological and energy refurbishment
existing dwellings. The funding
it must be permanently increased and may
not refinanced on private capital market
become. Private investors, public
Business support to complete, we want
the pro rata construction of social housing
undertake - with the aim of living
to develop a variety of quarters. The
Rent control must be unlimited.
DIE LINKE wants the State Housing
continue promoting, expanding and
where dwellings are missing, the direct
Promotion of the new building of apartments
focus. In addition, to secure social housing promotion, that in housing stocks dismantled barriers and energy saving measures to be carried out
can without increasing the rent. The
Countries are annually a guaranteed,
dependent on the needs Grant for
Receive housing assistance and this
increase from its own resources. In order to
are powerful public
Housing Fund be set up.
For these special funds to the
Social housing / social housing funding from budget to strict
Conditions knotted and construction loans
be promoted by the participation of the Fund in the equity of public non-profit housing companies.
n less than 150 000 apartments with

Social bond must occur annually.
It should be noted that this

demand, barrier-free, ecologically
and is scheduled to be energy efficient.
n tenants hostile schemes of

have recent Tenancy Reform withdrawn a new right of collective action
created for tenant organizations
become. By rental law change
law, the rights of tenants
degraded and tenants and the cost of
energy efficiency of residential buildings
passed on to the tenants.
Housing must be democratic: the left
wants the citizens' participation in planning and
Expand construction law. Even neighbors and
Neighbors and stakeholders who are not owners, and owners have at,
Construction inquiries and planning are involved
and able to sue. We support
democratic participation of tenants
demand and tenants in tenant councils and members of cooperatives and
more possibilities for their participation in
Decision-making processes.
n No one shall marketed in consequence of a change in ownership or due to renovation work from his living environment
become. There must be no forced evictions
give. The right to subsistence dismissals has limited the protection against dismissal for affected tenants
and tenants to be strengthened.
n Land public owners
allowed only in leasehold and preferably
the common good undertook housing companies are awarded.
n We want a cap on rents: The
Rent index should be introduced across the board and be based on all existing rents, not only to the
Financial statements in recent years. The municipalities have the right, on the basis
this Mietspiegel establish maximum rents to stop the rise in prices. The
Net rents in existing tenancies must, in principle without significant improvement in housing quality only under
the inflation compensation up to the maximum
Rate of local comparative rent
increase. Rent increases alone
for re-letting is not permitted.

31

n We want to ensure that
People with medium and low
Income is not more than 30 percent
of their net income for adequate
Living room - ie rent, operating costs,
Water, heating and electricity - spend
have to.

Let the speculation with apartments
fight.
n The tax-deferred sale
of residential buildings is abolished.
Apartment sales in the context of company sales are tax-private
Apartment sales equate. For
Housing stocks, the public
Funds have been built, to the
Municipalities a legally regulated
Receive preemption. Otherwise, should
for a holding period apartment sales
apply to avoid speculation. Also for alternative living arrangements
there has to be security. The Occupy
of speculative empty houses
must be legalized. Alternative
Residential forms of Bevölkerungsmin
Minorities for financial or ideological
Be used for reasons such. B. Klein garden plots, trailer courts may of
the authorities do not "cleared" or
Be harassed. Here applies
It integrative forms of regulation of
Gather communities and
"Unconventional living 'in the sense
recognize cultural diversity and
legally secure.
n The mass conversion of

Rental into condominiums and the
Misappropriation of properties to rent
We want to stop. Local authorities must
given the opportunity, this is on the
Prohibit decree.
n vacancy to housing. The masses
exemplary vacancy of residential and commercial premises should be remedied by use or conversion. In areas with high
Demand for housing as in university towns are empty property
primarily to create living spaces.
To this end, should the municipalities after
Vacancy period of six months,

32

Receive possibility prepare the vacancy premises for residential purposes
and to prove. For the control, punishment
and elimination of vacancy are the
Municipalities sufficient human resources
to provide. Vacancy from
speculative reasons, we want to
tie. The tax deductibility
should losses from rental and leasing due to vacancy
be restricted to intentional
Vacancy for speculative reasons
to prevent.
n The local housing oversight must
expanded personnel and content,
to e.g. Vacancy, exorbitant rents and housing deficiencies effectively counter.
n brokerage commissions are basically
to bear by the client or by the client. If a landlord
or a landlord or a realtor
commissioned a broker, then allowed
the cost is not the tenant or
the tenant shall be allocated. Alternatively DIE LINKE seeks the establishment
municipal housing agencies at.
n We want to make modernizations tenant friendly: The allocation for
Renovation and energy modernization is therefore from eleven to five percent
reduce and after a period of
Withdraw 20 years.
n The energy efficiency of buildings
must be publicly funded, so
they do not unilaterally at the expense of tenants
and tenant goes.
n is the appropriate federal funding
demand increase (5 billion).
The tenants are allowed after
the structural interventions no longer rent
have to pay as a result of this they
Measures to save (warm rent
neutrality).

People who receive transfer payments,
. achieve eg Hartz IV affected, or low income, can not be displaced from their homes:

n Forced removals are excluded.
The assumption of costs of accommodation
must meet the rent, which requires in simple and medium-sized residential areas
become.
n The housing allowance must be individualized
and based on the gross warm rent
are, the local housing allowance tables
should be reviewed and adjusted.
Heating costs have to again in the housing allowance
be included.
n The East German housing companies are in debts to
relieve. The Urban Redevelopment East is from
Continue to support the federal government, but must
not lead to the apartment shortage
and must improve the quality of
Have apartments goal. The urban development of the Federation (urban redevelopment,
Social City, monument u. A.) Is
demand and provide programmatic further develop so that cities,
Local and Regional Authorities in the situation
are added, the different
Challenges of demographic
Development, social cohesion
and the energy conversion to
deal with.

Education is not a commodity.
A good education for all
The existing education system
exacerbates social differences, instead of
to ensure greater fairness. It cemented privileges and social exclusion,
instead of overcoming them. There is hardly any
other industrial country determines the social
Origin so much about the educational career
like in Germany.
For the left education is a human right. Education helps people confidently their lives, even
intended and designed independently and
evaluate and change social conditions critical. Therefore needs
every human being access to education
are made possible - for a lifetime.
No person shall be excluded,
Educational barriers have broken down,
Disadvantages are compensated. Same

Access to education is a fundamental
Prerequisite for successful participation in society and social justice. We need an inclusive education system that is geared to all
Children, adolescents and adults
regardless of their social and personal
prerequisites the best
Language Progress allow:
n For that it is necessary for all children
all day the common from the beginning
Learning and living with other children in
To allow child care centers.
n For this, the early allocation of
Educational opportunities through a gliederndes
School system to overcome.
n given sufficient training places to be made available.
n This requires access to higher
Education, therefore, also to study up
the master, be made easier for all.
n DIE LINKE demands a Germany-wide support in key
Daycare at least one
Governess or a tutor to a maximum of
four children aged up to three years and
at least one teacher or one
Educator to a maximum of ten children aged
3-7 years.

Education has as a public task
also be financed publicly and
be organized democratically. We disclaim
the privatization and commercialization
from public education and do not want,
that educational content and education goals
unilaterally by economic Verwert
bility are determined.
n A good education costs money. In children

day care centers, schools, colleges
and in education and training is lacking
at all corners and ends. We call for a
immediate boost in public
Education spending.
n A good education is to secure for all

A shared responsibility of the federal government and
Countries. Only when they join forces
33

pull, can the necessary reforms
addressed and sufficient resources
be applied. But that's in
Banned moment. Have SPD and Union
2006 Cooperation ban on federal and
Countries imposed in education. The must
immediately undone and
a joint task training in
Basic Law are anchored.
n Education must not from purse

hang out. We are fighting for the abolition
of any fees in public
Education System. These include
toll-free daycare.
n For educators and
Teachers can work well, must
the conditions are right. Us
fighting for a greater appreciation
for training occupations. This applies not only to
their pay and their employment benefits
Nissen also their education. To do this
educational professionals more and better
be trained and the training
be raised as an educator or educators in early childhood education gradually at university level.
n We are committed to minimum fees
and fight to ensure that the industry-specific minimum wage is increased in the training. We want
the allocation of employment agencies in the
vocational training quality
of education and a good payment
the teachers at the center.
Precarious employment
in education, whether in the (high) school
or include in the training area
abolished.
n Education without Bundeswehr! The Bundeswehr is no longer in schools or
Universities may advertise. Soldier or
Soldier is not a normal occupation: He sets
willingness advance on command
to kill and be killed. Therefore sets
the Left committed, the existing
Cooperation arrangements between
Terminate Bundeswehr and ministries of education. At all universities should with
a civil clause military research
be excluded.

34

A school for all
More educational opportunities for all to
create, we want to overcome the differentiated system. The Community School as a mainstream school, where all children
and young people longer to learn together,
reduced dependence detected
the educational attainment of social
Origin. You can more pupils
Students to educational outcomes and higher
Qualifications lead. It corresponds
the pedagogical self-image
Community School, that all this
include, nobody is excluded and
Diversity is normal. Disability
is not this considered a "deficit"
but part of human diversity.
We want community schools, including all-day schools with smaller learning groups and more teachers and teachers
Educators and teachers, school social workers and school social Interior and
other education professionals are.
The education system has changed
be that diversity of origin and
the cultural background as an opportunity
can be understood, so that discrimination against migrants, migrant
is terminated and refugees. Exceptional
Have skills such as bilingualism
be promoted and worse
Start chances compensate.
n We want that at all schools

Created conditions for inclusive education
become. No child should be referred to a special school longer. This requires the
Bund its responsibility financially and
content better perceive.
n We call upon the Federal Government

effective initiatives to improve and
Approximation of teacher training between
countries. The training must be practical and V. A. be aligned with the requirements of inclusive education.
DIE LINKE stands for a schulformunab
dent training for teachers and
Teachers in secondary education.
n We want all schools Schulsozialarbeit is secured. To do this

on the federal level, the necessary
legal framework to be created, and there must be a permanent
Federal participation in financing
be ensured.
n We are committed to teaching and learning material as well as for free
Access and open exchange of digital teaching and learning materials. For this purpose, under
including the establishment of "Open Educational
Resources' (OER), which is the common and self-determination of teachers
and educators, students
and started by students and free
nachnutzbaren teaching and learning materials
contribute. The Left continues
Therefore, establishing a support program of the Federal
one that OER pilot projects financed,
coordinated and conceptual design
scientifically monitored.

Good training and
good training
Means a sound vocational training
a comprehensive and modern training
with high quality. It serves all young
People to realize their own interests, inclinations and abilities and
to expand. We therefore advocate for the
Right to an education. An Education
improve opportunities for independent living and vocational participation
in the Company.
n The vocational training is for
all forms of education free of charge
be. Include training fees
abolished.
n There must be a training allowance

be paid, the training framework
Conditions have collective agreements
be regulated and there is Social
compulsory insurance. Perspective
has a training allowance
enable independent living.
n The Left come back to share
the unions to ensure that the
indefinite employment of apprentices does not remain the exception, but
is the norm.

n companies that do not train,
we want to impose a levy, with
we support the companies that
their social obligation to
Descendants training. The aim is a
selection enabled range of operational
Provided training places available
become.
n people who were previously excluded from education, must
are supported so that they can acquire a recognized vocational qualification.
DIE LINKE demands an immediate action program, which
the necessary framework and the
necessary resources provides.
n As before, the choice of occupation
Men and women strong sex
specifically marked. Therefore, we want
Establishments, the women not women
typical jobs or men in non-
typical male professions educate,
specifically promote.
n Even businesses that increasingly people
train with a migration background, their
Designing training provision included
and those who integrate the years
are excluded from education, want
We specifically promote.
n Workers should have the opportunity
for regular vocational training
have - for the personal development of
Individuals as well as for the sustainable
Opportunity to participate in the labor market.
n DIE LINKE is committed, under

take to take in a duty on the training of their employees. To finance
cation can set up industry Fund
are, in the enterprises in accordance with the
Deposit number of their employees. Us
contact us for a Federal Weiterbildungs
Act one, the continuing education as a public
Defined task and a legal claim
secures. We support initiatives for
Educational leave or Exemptions for all
Employees in the federal states.
Offers education and political
Continuing need for all accessible
be. These are better financial and
legal frameworks required.
35

n The precarious employment in the Next
Education industry has pushed back
become.

with the equality of people
chronic illness or disabilities
actually guarantee.

Universities beyond the market

Still has a social background
high influence on the decision
or to study. The social barriers to higher education were by access restrictions and interviews
In many places even increased. And the universities are increasingly less able to their
Function as a critical instance against
the Company and as a social
Support of independent science
to do justice.

Universities have been increasingly focused on competition, market and promote elite. The funding
is tied to market-based criteria.
Direct private sector influence
on teaching and research collaborations
with major corporations to take. Simultaneously
missing places, lecture halls, teachers,
university infrastructure and housing
for students.
The introduction of Bachelor and
Master has in the course of the Bologna reform
the courses in addition transplants:
Studying is from time pressure and
Prüfungsstress determined.
n We demand the abolition of the
Bologna system - away from repressive
Study regulations towards a self-
specific, interdisciplinary and
critical study.
n The study places should demand
be expanded: for all eligible students who wish to take up studies.
The study places have so financed
are that the supervisory relationship
improves and ensures good teaching
can be.
n We want the federal funds from the
former joint task of university for an infrastructure program
Insert. It shall barrier-free,
social infrastructure such as dormitory rooms
and cafeterias as well as scientific and
digital infrastructure for the university 2.0
financed.
n We want an inclusive university,
the each and every access to and
Participation in research and teaching inde
pendent of chronic disease or
Disability grants. This requires
an accessible university construction,
adapted teaching methods and
Advisory and support structures,

36

n We are committed to the abolition
any form of a tuition fee.
Fees have a deterrent effect on lower-income strata and pushing
Students in supposedly market-oriented
Courses.
n We want a demand-oriented public funding of higher education institutions in
the width rather than unilateral promotion of excellence and selected third-party funds awarded. The only way to guarantee that
not in the interests of financially strong vested interests and large corporations as well as political
Is taught and researched individual interests.
n We want to open the universities.
DIE LINKE is committed to overcoming
of access and licensing restrictions such as NC, selection interviews, IQ tests
or job interviews, as well as for the
free access to the Master for all students as part of a federal law
for a university admissions. The study
leaders should be able to self-determine,
what subject and where they study and
what degree they wish to pursue. In addition, the permeability between academic and professional needs
higher education programs can be increased.
University courses must also
those who have a vocational training according to the Vocational Training Act
(Vocational Training Act) or a comparable education
have to be opened.
n The BAföG we want parents independently
and rebuilding needs coverage and the

Adjusting the maximum duration of payment
the real average duration of study
bring forward. In future, the BAföG
be paid back as a full grant.
Given the increased cost of living, we are committed for an immediate
Increase by ten per cent, including a
annual adjustment and for the abolition of age limits a. We fight
for the introduction of a requirement-covering
Study fee. About the BAföG addition
Special requirements are granted, z. B.
for the chronically ill and people with
Disability in the context of Solidary
Health insurance.
n The Left fights for the democratization

tion of universities. We want stronger
Participation rights for all employees
and students. We want nationwide authored student bodies with
general political mandate to enforce.
University committees should quadripartite
are occupied, so all status groups
the university co-determination is secured. Supervisory Similar bodies
as university councils have on the high
School is no place, because colleges
are not undertakings.

Democratic Sciences
Research, innovation and
Technologies shape our lives and the
Working world of tomorrow. Science
also has a critical role towards
society. It is provided with analysis and
Criticism of society and social
Grievances and ways of
Alteration of central importance
for social movements and left-wing politics.
This new research findings all
can benefit, research must
and teaching through financial independence
before unilateral economic interests
be protected. We want the basic funding of the public research system towards externally funded research
significantly reinforcing the intrinsically motivated
Research by scientists and
Scientists support. The Excellence Initiative, we want to favor the
Hochschulförderung replacement in width
phasing out.

The research and innovation funding
the federal social needs to the target and
oriented environmental sustainability
become. DIE LINKE wants decisions
democratize about the multibillion-dollar funding and transparency
in which cooperation between universities
bring and economy. Knowledge, with the
Control agents was developed, must
all are available. For this
Basically, we advocate mandatory
Open Access publications and
Accessibility of research data by
the principle of an open data. THE LEFT
shall work for a Federal Research Act
a, the, and the structure, tasks, profiles
the development prospects of extramural research in the Federal Republic
describes in principle.
n co-operation agreements and
other contracts between public
Universities or research institutes
and private companies have to disclose
be placed.
n We support all initiatives aimed at
Anchoring of civil provisions in the
Higher education legislation and in too
creating Federal Research Act:
Research is exclusively peaceful
serve and civilian purposes.
n municipalities and other public
Administrations, also hospitals, social or transport carriers are to After
questioners of research services
can be.
n The advisory bodies and the addressees
the funding programs of the Federal Government
we want to NGOs, employment agencies and labor unions and other civil society
enhance society actors.

Good science requires good working conditions for women scientists
and scientists. For long-term tasks
need to create permanent employment.
We see the promotion as an entry in
scientific careers.
You should usually on a tariff
Location can be completed which to work
37

their own qualifications in the labor
allows. Traditional hierarchies
must overcome and equality
needs of women in science
be encouraged.
n Temporary jobs are
only for scientific qualification
projects and all for the duration of
Project be completed. For
better working conditions in the scientific Mittelbau we propose a
Federal-funded start-up program
for 100 000. perpetual Imagine.
n Copyrighted Works

are under an exemption
for purposes of education, research and
Teaching be harnessed.
n scientists

are an indispensable republication rights get for their works,
thus the use of non-exclusive rights
appropriated by publishing companies
can be.

n DIE LINKE calls for a binding
sanctioned quota in scientific institutions, of a minimum proportion
50 per cent for women at any career
level guarantees.

We can live with,
as we want: Emancipation
and gender justice
A gender-equal society
begins with a consistent DC
equality policy, the women at work, in
politics, in education, in the media
equal participation and guarantees
protects them from discrimination and violence.
Disadvantages such as the continuing
Pay gap of more than 20 percent,
the low proportion of women in decision-making positions, sexism and human rights violations refer to structures of domination, to overcome it
applies. Equality alone is not enough for us.
Gender-neutral policy is social policy and relates to equality
of women, men, transgender people and
Intersex without a Gender
38

set or a way of life as the norm
becomes. Our notions of gender equitable policies culminate not in the
Requirement that women the same good
Conquer seats on the Titanic while
Racism, social struggles and the environment
Disasters remain unprocessed. Precisely
so do we want that all the families
May not engage in low-wage jobs with the same lousy pay. Starches such as social
Competencies of all sexes and the
Wealth of skills and abilities,
must not only profitably exploited in labor and distribution struggles
become.
Time, money and social guarantees
for a good life
A self-determined life requires
other power over the existing Time: for employment, for family,
for education and cultural exchanges, for
political interference, adequate
Recreation and time for yourself. The sets
a corresponding existence assurance
Salary or an income that guarantees a dignified life, ahead.
The immediate and permanent entry into
a re-evaluation of all socially
necessary work is through concrete
to ensure policies.
Because it is unfair that a kindergarten teacher is paid less than a
Auto Mechanic. It is not acceptable,
that the low recognition of children
education and care periods in the pension calculation still to poverty pensions
contributes to women. In our social
systems is an outdated and male
embossed employment history of 45 years
Full-time work the scale. In order
the real life paths of women and
Men in their present circumstances
continues to ignore, solidarity and
Emancipation prevented.
A re-evaluation can be carried
a new distribution of all paid and
unpaid activities between
Sexes and between acquisition
loose and full-time employment lasting
push. A first step is a

radical reduction of working time on acquisition
initially 30 hours per week toward a
shorter full-time and a long part-time.
It is not only the full wage compensation,
but also the equivalence of
Secure payment and there are diverse
family and education-friendly working time models to establish.

care, care) need to better
Pay and better working conditions
be revalued.

We demand equal pay for equal and
work of equal value. The wage inequality,
that in Germany 22 per cent women
are paid less than men,
is overcome.

n self-determination over their own
Body and its own reproduction
including the freedom of the recipe
"Morning after pill" is secure. Us
want to paint 218, 219 of the Criminal Code, §§.

n Legislators should the social partners
legally require that collective agreements
according to gender criteria
revise.

Effective protection
violence against women

n The federal budget must be on the

Criteria of gender budgeting are designed gender justice.
n The 50-percent quota for the public
union service can by law
immediately at all levels and in all
Imported content groups.

Discrimination against women
comprehensively eliminate
Odds are a means and not an end to
the equal participation of women to
to back up. DIE LINKE demands quotas for women -
not just in corporate boardrooms. All Politics
Areas have their contribution to Geschlech
tergerechtigkeit afford to. The employment rate for women in well-paid, permanent and subject to social security
Employment is increasing.
The partner or partners dependent
Power calculation in case of unemployment
should be discontinued.
n DIE LINKE demands a Gender Equality Act for the private sector. Companies in which women or men
in payment, promotion and responsibility
are disadvantaged, must be binding
Introduce equality measures.
n Professional care work and personal services (for children

n For migrants and women and
Girls with disabilities are mandatory
Measures needed to pick up multiple discrimination.

Protection of women and children against violence
is a federal political duty task
recognize and legally binding
to anchor. Safer, faster, less bureaucratic and needs-based protection
and qualified help in women's shelters
and other shelters and women's counseling centers have affected
regardless of their physical condition,
their residence status or of life
his situation accessible. A uniform federal funding must be guaranteed.
Victims of forced marriage require special
those help.
n protection and assistance institutions should
individual cases independently, sweeping and ver
reliably funded and are wheelchair accessible.
Widespread financing
Daily rates must be stopped finally.
The financing of women's shelters
Part of a duty of protection and must
no longer remain a voluntary service.
These demands are also part
international agreements which the Federal Republic of Germany has ratified.
n The federal policy is responsible,
that public authorities such as police,
Courts and offices for the issue of violence
be sensitized to women and
converts the Gewaltschutzgesetz uniform
becomes. Particular attention is given to the
Access and custody rights when children
as witnesses or even violence
are affected.

39

n All forms of violence against women
are publicly condemn, on the
Causes must be informed. Gewaltverherr
cations against women in different media have consistently fought
become.

A special role is played by the violence
against women in war and crisis zones.
Thus, sexual violence, such as mass rapes of women,
still as a weapon in war
Disputes used.
The binding commit the
Conflict prevention and reconditioning,
the prosecution, the civil protection
of human rights and the guarantee
social rights belong to the center
an action plan.
n The various forms of human

trafficking and sexual exploitation are active
to fight. Victim protection and compen
have endings independently of any
Willingness of the victim, as a witness or
Testify witness in a criminal case, be granted. Therapeutics
and integration measures and a
safe and bound right of residence
for victims must be granted.
Strengthen diversity -
Freedom of choice of lifestyles
Social and civil rights belong
inseparable. They apply to all
People regardless of gender,
sexual orientation, national origin, disability,
Religion, social and ethnic
Origin.
Legal Equality and
social acceptance of diversity
the ways of life is to transcend
the unequal treatment of registered
Life partners and life partners.
To date, marriage and civil partnership
in the obligations assimilated (z. B. mutual maintenance obligations), in many
Areas, such as tax law, in Adop
of Obligations and in the social security
they continue to be discriminated against. For this purpose,
and the exclusion of non-married
40

and lesbian women from assisted reproduction to count.
For the left, the recognition is the
Diversity of all discriminatory
Family forms and lifestyles guiding principle: single-parent families, singles,
cohabiting friends, relatives,
Blended families, elective affinities or even couples who
against marriage and civil partnership
have decided.
We do not want outdated
and real-discriminatory privileges of
Maintaining marriage or be extended.
Even gays and lesbians have married
be able. But the special protection and
the promotion by the state and society
should in future not married couples, but
those of benefit to that with
Living children or patient
and therefore a compensation thereof
require accruing disadvantages.
Our policy is directed not Deals
only to those who are discriminated against today
are, but also to the beneficiaries of the
still in force, traditional role assignments, the majority of men.
They too have a right to freedom of choice
the lifestyles, on family labor
and volunteering. All are invited to
overcoming outdated role models
participate.
n The state subsidization of
outmoded Alleinernährer- or Zuverdienerinnenmodells must be within the
Tax, social security, pension and family law
be terminated.
n The actual care and
Care services, living together
to tax incentives with children and
be compensated in the pension law. That
Ehegattensplitting will be abolished. In order to
is also the unfavorable tax
ends of lesbians and gays.
n We are committed to an active anti-discrimination policy. Let no man in stress situations alone for his or her
Rights must fight. Therefore needs
the General Equal Treatment Act

with a real right of action for associations
be improved.
n DIE LINKE demands the inclusion of

Protection against discrimination on grounds
the identity, sexual orientation and
Life in Article 3 of the Basic Law. About
to guarantee this fundamental right advanced, we call for the establishment of anti-discrimination bodies, a right of collective action, the burden of proof in procedures
and measures for change
of social consciousness destinations.
n DIE LINKE demands compensation

and repealing the wrong judgments
in the FRG and the GDR persecuted homosexuals, according to the bill of
DIE LINKE in the Bundestag.

n DIE LINKE supports transgender

in their struggle for recognition of their
sexual identities. The abolition of the assessment and of the judicial process is a first step towards
Realization of self-determination of trans people. About that
addition, the transsexual law must
be abolished as a special law, and
be integrated into existing law.
This is the legal protection of
Liability of health insurance
to anchor. Intersexed initiatives
Groups and individuals have been calling for
long the ban on non-medical -
indexed, neonatal surgery
for the sex reassignment purposes.
DIE LINKE joins these demands
at. Operations on intersex may
will only be carried out if these
themselves and their capacity to consent
Have given consent.
n In addition, addressed DIE LINKE
against on January 31, 2013 by the Bundestag at the suggestion of the Ministry of Family Affairs
newly adopted § 22 PtsG, after
An entry of sex in intersex after birth now banned
becomes. DIE LINKE here joins the
Loans and advances to the Intersexgruppen. By
the existing since 2009 § 7 PStV is
anyway possible, the gender entry
release after birth. DIE LINKE is

believes that the parents of intersexual
Children rather stopped by a ban on the entry sex after childbirth
be, an early childhood surgery
perform.
n Accordingly, the change in the
First name and the civil status of
Intersexed and transgendered request
discrimination unconditionally
to regulate.

Colorful and reliable: for a
emancipatory family policy
Family is where people take responsibility for each other, regardless of whether
as cohabitation, one parent family,
as a small or large family, as a couple, as a
Multigenerational household or other
Forms of community. Family is where
People, regardless of their sexual Orien
orientation, are there for each other.
DIE LINKE stands for an emancipatory
and pioneering family policy.
Family policy has an all men
good, allowing plannable life without fear of the future. But have published
infra- structure and social security
be effectively expanded. Private services use only high earners
Families - who can not pay,
has had bad luck. Public services
tions on the other hand are all available
and ensure that people do not continue
marginalized, but problems in precarious
Of life really perceived and
be combated.
The necessary expansion of public
Childcare increased. The public
and social infrastructure for children and
Adolescents has many places massively
deteriorated. Offers have been reduced,
Expensive music schools or libraries
closed. But family life can only
within a powerful social
system function. Families must
are supported by the company
and need social security. The politic
in recent years has the opposite effect.
Increased due to the constant social cuts
the financial burden of families.
41

Always early breaks in kindergartens and
Schools of the race for the "seriousness of the
Life "from, is one-sided performance and
Sponsored competition. At the same time remain
the uneven playing field
untouched, social integration
on the route.
n DIE LINKE demands a tailor

and high-quality full-day
care services for children who their
different and age
Is needs. All children from
at one year, a legal claim
to a place in a daycare.
In the provision of courses in
Daycare applies the actual
Requirement and not an arbitrarily determined
Quota. In addition, the legal and
financial basis for a demand-oriented all-day flächenund
To provide educational opportunity.
n Today, parents who were both going to be for
Part-time work during the parental allowance period
decide financially disadvantaged. Of the
Legal right of parents to parity
Division of parental leave is to be secured.
n We want free and quality
Food supply for all children in the
free public children
ensure care.
n Parents need Betreuungseinrich-

tions with flexible opening times in order
they balance work and family life
be able. Simultaneously must in these
Facilities the standards of good work
be realized. Are the services
tions expanded, it must also
Professionals will be increased.
DIE LINKE supports working time models,
that enable mothers and fathers,
their profession with family and private life
to bring under one roof. Instead of
More flexible working hours, which
oriented only to the operational requirements that need workers
more time autonomy. The working time is
be designed so that all the way
have work, family, leisure and Enga
management to integrate into their daily lives.
42

n Parents need to be employed on more

Rights to employment, despite enough time
to have for their family. The individual
Right to part-time work must apply in full. The tariff structures
between industrial, service and
Care work are not equivalent and
need to be adjusted. A right to return to full-time work should be introduced.
For parents, a special protection against dismissal is provided that to the end
6th birthday of the child applies.
n The re-entry into the profession after
a pregnancy and educational
conditional break must by free
Continuing education courses are facilitated.
n DIE LINKE demands a flexible
Parental allowance claim of twelve months
each parent (or 24 months for Solitary
withdrawing) instead stove premiums as the
Care allowance. The parental allowance is intended to
evolve a socially designed parental allowance account. Parental benefit is also in sections of
at least two months to the end of the seventh birthday of the child
can be taken at the same time by both parents. Thus, a
same possible division of labor between Erwerbsund also education
parents favored. Young fathers
to help more around
to be able to take care of their children.
n parental benefit is for all parents and must
not on other transfers as
Hartz IV shall be counted.
n single parents need more support to return to professional life and, where appropriate training
to complete. The promotion must
be strengthened.

Childhood and Adolescence -
free from poverty and exclusion
Almost one in five children in our country
affected by poverty - a disgrace
such a rich society like ours and
a disaster for every child.
DIE LINKE wants children and adolescents

allow free grow from poverty and exclusion. Children and adolescents
have their own rights and an independent participation right. Children's Rights
include in the constitution.
n Together with numerous welfare

associations, the left is for a
Basic allowance for all children and youth
union use. She is the actual,
constitutional subsistence
to orient the children. This is
currently at 536 euros. As an immediate measure
is the child benefit increase: for the first
two children at 200, for all other children
staggered accordingly. The Hartz IV sets
have calculated constitutional justice and
increased correspondingly, the construct of the
Bedarfsgemeinschaft be abolished.
The allowance must not be deducted from transfers such as Hartz IV.
n Children and Adolescents are far
continuous toll-free access to public
union cultural institutions, museums,
Libraries, theaters and music schools
to allow. Every student and every
Students should have access to an Internet-enabled computer. Children and
Teens need their own spaces
they face and off of costs
Take the pressure to consume and operate,
develop cultural preferences
learn and support. Here are
the participation and co-determination
Minors and adequate educational and cultural
ensure full time monitoring.
n We want the education program to
Racism and strengthen the acceptance of different lifestyles.
n The years lasting cuts

in the child and youth welfare must of
Federal and state governments undone
become. For reconstruction of structures
the Child and Youth Services is an emergency program necessary for the local
Support to fulfill their legal duties and the protection and promotion of
Ensure minors effectively. We want the regional
Networks for Child Protection and the

Promote durable family midwives,
their offers and assistance to all families
make available. Furthermore, should the
Liability insurance for midwives
on health insurance companies in full
be taken. The discourse and the
Enforcing high standards of facilities and quality of services for children
and young people need to be intensified.
Culture for all - creative,
diverse, conversational
The arts, cultural education, memorabilia,
tion culture are indispensable for a
vibrant democracy. We want diversity
of cultural life and all human beings
allow participation in culture.
Culture is popular culture and high art
equally, cultural heritage and
Subculture. Culture is normality and
Irritation, progress through creativity
and astonished contemplation of created. Culture and art allow Kom
communication and understanding, identity
and integration, education, freedom and
Self-assurance. Although Art
may unsettle, but she donates excitation.
Culture and Art impetus and
strengthen the imagination. Culture is not
last enjoyment and pleasure. All this is
not a luxury, which the company
should afford but the meaning of life.
DIE LINKE advocates a democratic
Cultural one, in which all in Germany
Survivors, irrespective of their social,
regional or ethnic origin, their
find and express cultural identity
be able. We want the cultural life
promote in all regions and milieus
as a basis for understanding between
the different groups of
Company.
Left cultural policy aimed it,
favorable conditions and free
rooms for the development of arts and
to create the cultural life. Us
are committed to preservation of the public
Promotion of culture and want a lot
promote multiform cultural scene - from
the public institutions on the
43

free scene, charitable projects and
Initiatives to small businesses
in the cultural and creative industries.

The public want to promote culture
we are strengthening, by the cooperative
Expand cultural federalism.

As a result of the financial and economic crisis
and a failed financial and tax
policy of the Federal Government are always
more municipalities with regard to financial
Out. Cuts often put in the so-called voluntary benefits such as the
Culture. It is imperative to steer high time
and measures to strengthen financial
of states and municipalities and to
Maintenance of cultural infrastructure
take.

n We demand a clear commitment to
State responsibility for the protection
and the promotion of culture. The State target
Culture belongs to the Basic Law.

Underfunding or closures
of facilities, staff reductions and
Privatization did not last episodes
for the cultural sector. Their economic and social risks have increased. The majority of artists
and artists can of their artistic
Work not live. Of the profits, the
are generated with their works,
they are insufficiently involved.

n We demand a federal culture minister
with cabinet rank and a culture Minis
Ministry to the interests of culture in relation to other ministries as well as on euro
European level to effectively represent
be able.

We want good, living wage
and social security in the cultural sphere.
n We want minimum wages and fees
lower limits and a copyright contract law, which the bargaining power
Creative strengthens.
n must Collecting societies
transparently and democratically structured
be. For visual artists and
Artists to an exhibition fee
be introduced.
n The Künstlersozialversicherung must
be maintained and expanded. Creative,
the freelance and self-employed before
especially in the new sectors of the creative industries KulturUnd operate, must
better in the social security systems
be involved.
n The reduced VAT rate for
Cultural heritage is one of the essential
Instruments indirect promotion of culture
and should definitely maintain
become.

44

n We want to receive a joint task culture in the constitution and
the elimination of the so-called. Cooperation ban,
to the interaction of federal and
Countries in the cultural funding finally
to provide a secured basis.

n We want a culture report and
a cultural concept of the covenant, which the
altered kultu conditions
wearing Reller accounting work.
n We want cultural education for all
democratic from the beginning and a
Remembrance culture to address
with our contradictory history.

We want that the UNESCO Convention
is converted for cultural diversity.
n We are committed to the promotion of

Diversity of cultures in the country of immigration
Germany, for intercultural opening
and intercultural dialogue in the inner and foreign policy.
n We want the participation rights
of minorities at federal level
strengthening and an adequate supply of the institutions and projects
Maintenance and development of the recognized
Minority languages ​​and cultures
reach.
n We want the cultural dimension
of European integration through a
intensive exchange and joint
promote cultural projects.

n culture is more than a commodity and must
be considered not only from a commercial point. DIE LINKE occurs
to ensure that the detained in the UNESCO Convention special character
of goods and services in the cultural and
Media Centre also at international
Free trade and investment agreements
is considered.

Cultural and creative industries from left
The cultural and creative industries is
the scope for large industries such as
Chemistry, mechanical engineering or automotive industry
equal. Its importance however is only
gradually recognized.
In 2011 worked 984 166 self-employed persons and compulsory insurance
People in the cultural and creative industries and translated 143 380 000 000 Euro
about. General is of eleven core
assumed: music industry, book market,
Art market, film industry, broadcasting industry, design industry, architectural market,
Press market, advertising market, software and
Games industry.
The terminology, wirtschaftsstatis
Tables surveys and funding instruments
are still inadequate. Strengthening
Cultural and creative industry is an integral
Part of left-wing politics, without ignoring the ambivalent situation in this rapidly growing area. Cultural and
Creative industries requires a left perspective. Many of the designers, the artists and cultural workers
work precarious and are not captured by surveys only. So z. B. are many
Artists forced into
this area to do business
be because of their artistic
Working alone can not live. You have to think in entrepreneurial risks.
Such conditions lead to economic employment and not
for creative output.
The peculiarities of the industries
their smallness, their high number of individual
enterprises and small and medium
Companies on the one hand. On the

other hand, creativity is often something
to do with imagination and enthusiasm.
Listen No musician and not a musician
to make music just because you thereof
can not live.
DIE LINKE wants to step up efforts to
Seek development of this industry
and put his own, left accents. The
Linking cultural policy and KulturUnd creative industries is the rotational and crucial point. The political, administrative and
Actors need to think and work across government. Interfaces must be created expanded and new.
DIE LINKE wants the funding instruments
specialize for this sector
and expand. Interdepartmental
Support programs must be set up
become. Feelings are by
mutual understanding of creatives
replaced and business administration
become.
The smallness and thus verbun
Dene disorganization of creative industries
requires special network promotion,
such as collective structures
to establish contact persons.
The regional centers of excellence for
the cultural and creative industries are
personnel to increase and better trainees
equip, last but not least also advisory services are increasingly offered
be able.
The specific working conditions
the creatives have to be improved.
The fees and salary situation has
are just improved as the
Old-age insurance. Mandatory exhibition
ment fees for the facilities
public sector can be a first
His step in this direction. The opening of the
Künstlersozialkasse for another profession
groups from the cultural and creative industries wore the precarious situation of many
Creative accounting. Training needs
be eligible for artistic areas.
45

II. Overcome the crisis. Democracy and
Welfare state defend - here and throughout Europe
Since 2007, the global economy is in the
biggest crisis in 80 years. For all
visible: Capitalism proves
as incapable of the most burning issues
of humanity to solve. The financial capitalism relies on tightening of social inequality. He sets out wages
and to push salaries and the rich
from financing the community
largely dismissed. The search for
short-term investment and profit possible
liabilities is the driving moment of
become economic development.
Democracy is declared the barrier to profiteering and under pressure.
The main reason for this crisis
Imbalances in foreign trade
in Europe. The excessive export surpluses of a lead to indebtedness
the other, the need to import too much. At the beginning of every crisis solution is:
Reduce the imbalances, rising
Wages and social-ecological Investiti
option plans, boost demand,
Regulate financial markets and net worth
taxing.
The Left has the supposed "rejected the only party in the German Parliament Euro rescue" and the fiscal pact.
The policy of the federal government has
Crisis intensified. Rescued not be
States or people, but banks
and Wealthy. The Federal Government and
the Troika use the crisis at the same time for the
biggest attack on democracy and the welfare state in Europe's postwar history.
The Merkel government policy has
Financial market crisis to the sovereign debt crisis
reinterpreted. The wrong cause and
Effect. Not excessive expenditure and
Claims have caused the crisis in Europe. Rather, the triad is of
Redistribution upward deregulation
and essential for the privatization
Financial and economic crisis is responsible. In Germany, it is the agenda
46

2010 and the liberalization of financial markets among red-green government for
Breakthrough came. Large companies, banks and wealthy paid
fewer and fewer taxes. A crisis policy,
the bank's rescue at the expense of
Workers, unemployed, pensioners
given and pensioners in Europe to prevail
responded to this development has mounted.
Germany has - under the Government
Merkel and Finance Minister Peer Steinbrück -
a central role in exacerbating
played the crisis and the crisis countries
total as Europe destabilized. By
Reduction dictations ("austerity"), the welfare state and social justice
damage, the logic of neolibe is
eral financial capitalism continue to operate.
DIE LINKE wants the other hand,
1) a protective shield for people instead
for banks and profiteers of the crisis to
Checkout ask,
2) a stable, sustainable and socially
equitable economic development
initiate in Europe and
3) a viable long-term perspective
provide for the unification of Europe.
Therefore it is necessary that the downturn
Wages, through the low-wage sector
is cheered in Germany to
exit and the financing of the EU and
its Member States through Europe
To improve the taxation of wealth.
The financial markets and the banks must
democratically controlled and managed
become. A redistribution from top to
below would sufficient funds for a
Policy change for greater social justice to provide: in Germany and in
Whole europe.
n DIE LINKE demands, together with the
European Left, in all EU countries

a one-time charge on assets above
one million euros raised. This should
incurred by bank bailouts and financial crisis higher government debt
recycled and the capacity to act
the public sector can be improved,
without reduction of public and social
Services. For business assets is a
separate allowance into account.
n Very high income are having a
Wealth tax of 75 percent on each
Euro income of over one million euros
be taxed in the year (after deduction of
Social security contributions).
n We are committed to the introduction
a financial transaction tax of
0.1 percent.

DIE LINKE is made together with the
European trade unions and social
Movements for social and fiscal
Minimum standards a. Approximation
the living standards down so must
be prevented. Through international
solidary struggle can the life
conditions can be improved.
For a fair way out
the crisis: no bank bailouts
at the expense of the population
The federal government maintains that the crisis
is the responsibility of the populations of the most indebted countries:
to work harder by their unwillingness
and the "belts to tighten." These
Assertion distracts from the actual
Causes from the crisis. Is concealed,
that saving the banks, the State
debt has driven up -
it does not benefit last German
Banks.
We want to get out of the debt spiral
climb. The real cause and
Profiteers of the high government debt
must be held responsible
become. Bank bailouts are not
Taxpayers' money, but by the self-
Hallows and creditors to finance. The
Deposits of small savers and small savers are hedge publicly.

n To the banking sector targeted at
To participate crisis costs, advocate
we introduce a bank levy.
n At the same time the fight has to
Tax evasion will be tightened: by
automatic reporting requirements for banks,
the possibility of suspicious credit
freeze, withdrawal of bank licenses
non-cooperative banks and improved
Law enforcement against tax evasion
and by capital controls.
n In the short term needs of public credit

Recording from the dictatorship of the financial markets
be freed. There is no reason,
that banks in the European Airline
Central Bank (ECB) may borrow money
It then continues to the expensive States
to rent.
n The European Central Bank is the
States in the euro zone in a Festge
designed frame directly finance. As
first step calls for the Left to establish a European Bank for public
interest bonds, which to their refinancing
Can absorb central bank.
n The programs to welfare cuts and
Reductions in the European Union
be immediately stopped and reversed.

That banks becomes independent
have, the financial crisis has intensified;
the rescue of the banks by the States
and their subsequent interest rate policy has the
Sovereign debt crisis in the European
States accelerated. DIE LINKE stands
that the banks are held accountable.
The banking sector is rebuilding. The
Tasks and functions have to
be taken: You must first and foremost
a reliable and cost effective
Make payments, including a corresponding cash distribution.
Second, banks as to the role
Institutional investors are limited,
safe for savers and savers,
comprehensible and sustainable savings opportunities, rather than with their and further
47

Money to make risky transactions. Thirdly
Banks have their financing function
meet by the investment
Finance companies and the state on acceptable terms through loans. The aim must be to the financial sector
to shrink considerably in volume
and its economic and political
Push back position of power.
To the banking system function again
make capable, first, all
Loss risks that are still in the banks' balance sheets, are disclosed. To
have impaired assets
the individual banks at market prices
Separate units are swapped.
Where currently to determine market prices
are that "have junk bonds" to
Price of zero rated. For the
Event that characterized the equity on
is sapped, we want a method
insolvency and restructuring for
to develop. In this procedure must
First the owner, and then the
Creditors of the bank's losses zoom
to be pulled. Deposits of private
Savers and savers are up to 100,000
Euro to secure, as required by law.
If additional capital on the part of
Federal is made available, is
He thus owners of the bank and uses
for this direct effect on the
Business policy.
n counter the monopoly of private rating

Agencies we want a public,
creating European rating agency.
Ratings of private agencies may
not subject to binding rules
of his EU. DIE LINKE demands the introduction of a financial TÜV, the business practices of the financial industry and all
Check financial products offered and
must approve before the introduction.
Banks need more regulated
be, risky speculation
exclude. Investment Banking -
investing only in farms to high
To generate returns - is a business Field
handle. The financial system needs
no casinos. Model of the new
Finance and financial institutions are
48

Cooperative banks; so to be established banks such as savings banks
the common good is committed.
n shadow banks as off-balance sheet
SPVs, hedge funds and
Private equity firms have
be resolved. This is done directly,
as long as they have their registered office in Germany. If your place of business
have abroad, we need indirect
Forms of regulation that against him
Shadow financial centers and the links with the German banking sector
judge.
n Private banking institutions we want in
convict public ownership under democratic control and administration, we want to reduce Landesbanken
and also check democratically
and manage.
n Dispo interest shall not exceed five
Percent above the central bank interest rate
limit.

To regulate banks, can not get through
the banks themselves happen. You need to
democratic control are subjected. The transfer of
Banking supervision to the European
Central Bank (ECB) should be rejected because it
this to the immediate democratic
Legitimacy is lacking.
n In the bodies not only include

"Experts" or politicians, but also trade unions, social associations, consumer and environmental organizations and other
civil society actors. Such
Check organs and not control
only the business, they also have
a responsibility for development
contribute to the business strategy.
Restart the European Union:
democratic, social, ecological,
peacefully
DIE LINKE stands for a new start of the
European Union. Together with
other left-wing parties is the Left

for a change of policy in Europe: For a
others, a better EU. Starting points
our policy for the further development
the social, economic and Peace Union
are people, not markets, solidarity
instead of brutal competition, democracy and
Participation instead elitist backroom diplomacy. We want a European
Union without exclusion, poverty and war.
We want a European Union, in the well-paid and
socially secure work and live in
Dignity for all is assured. We want a
Europe, which is not mass unemployment,
one lost generation 'of young people and
massive poverty creates, but social ills like these combats decided.
DIE LINKE stands against the plans of all other
parties represented in parliament, the
EU Commission to sanction an instrument of control of budgetary policy
to make the Member States. We fight back
Us against the logic of further disempowerment of parliaments - it contradicts
democratic traditions in Europe.
The Left has the Treaty of Lisbon
rejected and asks a fundamental
Alteration of the contractual basis
the EU in order to qualify for a
democratic, social, environmental and
peaceful European Union to create.
The crisis in Europe is also a result
a misaligned conception
the European Union. At least since
the Maastricht Treaty there is a
comprehensive neoliberal orientation are,
which focuses on the free movement
of capital and competitive advantages
the economically strong countries. In the
Past attempts failed,
common social standards or
To define corridors. At the same time are increasingly at the European level
Made decisions for the maneuver nation-state
Reduce policy. For the left presents
no decision for or against
one or the other - we need both
in Europe and in Germany to good
social standards wrestle.
Although the European Monetary Union
contains large design flaw occurs
DIE LINKE not for one end of a Euro.

Is vital for its survival,
that the price of austerity, the austerity measures, will be terminated. It is the policy of
Troika, Merkel & Co, which destroys the common currency. The monetary union needs
put back on its feet and re
are aligned so that they are not the
Divisions deepened, but also helps to bridge the inequalities and a peaceful
and fruitful cooperation in Europe
promoted. Given the reduction dictations have ended and in the future economic,
Fiscal - fiscal, social and labor market
policies in the euro-area member states closely
be adjusted so that the now
prevalent competitive through tax,
Social and wage dumping is prohibited.
By means of a European Union compensatory
have the euro states to the target
committed more balanced trade flows
are not primarily in the countries with
punished high wage increases, but
Countries with low wage increases
and lowered social standards (keyword Agenda 2010 and pension only from 67)
in particular Germany to higher
Prompted wage and social standards
become. The response of European
Left to the crisis in Europe must therefore
the common resistance across national borders - for higher wages, better
Social standards and workers' rights - be.
In Germany is a structural change
required of the export orientation towards a significant strengthening of the
Domestic economy with well-secured
and remunerated jobs reverses.
Such a change, which the vast majority of employees and unemployed
clearly benefit in Germany
would, at the same time would be the best contribution
for defusing the euro crisis,
because higher wages and benefits
in Germany to reduce the pressure
Social and wage cuts in the other
Euro area countries.
DIE LINKE stands for a new beginning in
Europe and a fundamental change of policy of the European Union. In the
EU is controlled competition - we
want that compliance with social
Checked rules across the EU and
Violations will be prosecuted.
49

n trade unions and collective agreements
need to be strengthened throughout Europe.
n welfarism must to the objectives
and values ​​of the EU and are the highest
Priority in the implementation of EU policies
have. In the contracts must be a 'Social
Progress Clause "to be added,
the front of the fundamental social rights take precedence
the "fundamental freedoms" of capital are.
n We want wage dumping in the EU
is abolished. Wage, fiscal and social policy need each other in this sense
be matched.
n In order to break with the finance-driven capitalism, we need a new beginning in a democratically controlled
economic development.
n It must immediately take effective steps
against mass unemployment, poverty
and prospects of young people in
initiated the crisis countries.
These DIE LINKE demands an investment
program mainly on development
in the field of public and social services and social-ecological Kon
version sets. The DGB has to
Proposed "Marshall Plan for Europe."

The European Union needs to
actually democratic, social,
ecological and peaceful Union to
be designed. The contractual basis
the European Union shall not be held
suitable.
n We want a European Union,

the prosperity and welfare for all
promotes. DIE LINKE demands together
with the trade unions a social
Progress clause in the EU treaties.
Fundamental social rights and collective bargaining
must take precedence over internal market freedoms. Welfarism must in
the EU Treaties and in addition to democracy
The rule of law are protected.
n The recently in the European
Council reinforced advocated creation of a
"Genuine economic and monetary union"
aims at an even steeper cuts in social services

50

and a further de-democratization
by restricting the rights of
national parliaments and the substantial elimination of the European
Parliament. The ever stronger
Replacement of Union law by club
agreements between EU institutions and
Member States shall at the same time a
EU further disintegration instead.
Similar ideas, Chancellor Merkel with its proposed 'Competitiveness Pact' on
the "Economic Summit" represented in Davos.
Both will face DIE LINKE with decisiveness.
n From the recently much-advocated
Free trade area between the EU and the
USA we do not expect positive development. Particularly in the agricultural sector could be the unlimited import
of genetically engineered products fear unmanageable consequences. Also
we expect an increase in competition
between the respective large companies
in the USA and Germany at the expense
a necessary catch-up development of the EU Member States with current
economic difficulties. Particularly in the field of financial services
is also an international legal cementing of low standards - such as the
US state of Delaware - to worry about. On
no case can be accepted that
the general interest fully
Subject unregulated world market
competition is.
n The rights of the European Parliament
We want to strengthen and grassroots
Create and expand the items in the EU.
In the EU, binding referendum and referendums must be possible,
also changed the EU treaties which
can be.
n The new beginning in Europe sets a
cross-border understanding of
"Below" on the common interests
and claims ahead. To Democracy
to realize that employees, trade unions and other social need
Movements coor their struggles in Europe
dine and intensify. We want to

Minimum rules for a European
Pay and social system work towards. This
have the special German restrictions the right to strike to be eliminated:
The right to political strike must in
Europe can be exercised.
n A democratic public in
Europe requires the creation of pan-European
public service media and platforms and equal
Access for political and social forces.

In particular, the German Government urges,
the markets in the EU over the interests of
To provide citizens. Thereby
are the standards for democratic
and fundamental social rights damaged:
Europol has far-reaching powers to
Data collection and storage. Next
Data on convicts and suspects
also to gather information on:
Contacts and associates, including at
Investigations Material gathered material such as videos and photos, as well as "ways of life" and "habits", data tracks
all digital and analog communications, voice profile, blood group, or
Dentition. The memory Categories »racial or ethnic origin, political
Opinions, religious or philosophical
Beliefs, trade union membership "exist.
n The Left is committed to ensuring that the
Fundamental rights in Europe to be strengthened:
against profiling and without suspicion
Data storage, for a democratic
Monitoring of compliance with fundamental rights.
In the European arrest warrant and the EIO has the right
be backed up to a lawyer and Developer. Freedom of travel
must apply within Europe for all.

The EU is the largest arms exporter
the world with a global market share of
34 percent. During the crisis, the total turnover of the international arms trade is a growing in the last five years
Quarter. We want to disarm Europe. That
relates to the production and export
of weapons - and the militarization of
External borders:
n The EU Armaments Agency promotes
Arms production and export. THE LEFT
wants to abolish the EU Armaments Agency
and prohibit arms exports to other countries.
n Frontex, the agency for "assurance"
the external borders is and remains Symbol
the inhuman policy of closing borders
the EU's policy towards those in need.
DIE LINKE wants to dissolve and Frontex
fights for a humane and solidary refugee policy.
n The Dublin II Regulation establishes, in
the Member State where an application for asylum
can be provided, and is de facto
a third country regulation. An asylum application
can usually be found only in the country,
in which the EU's external borders have been exceeded. The Regulation is based
for the inhumane asylum and deportation policies. We want a fair and
solidary system of responsibility for refugees in the European
Provide Union. For the competence principle of "illegal entry" must go through
the principle of "free choice of the Member State" are replaced.
n DIE LINKE advocates the bedin

supply without lifting the "Common
EU Position "on Cuba
and for the termination of the US-Ameri
African blockade policy against
Cuba one.

51

III. Peace and justice in the world.
No to war
Political, economic and social
Injustice and the competition for
scarce resources lead to violence and
War. Large parts of the world population
suffer from poverty and hunger, people
die from treatable diseases,
from a lack of access to clean
Drinking water.
War must not be a means of politics.
Through wars people are killed,
but also their environment and habitats
destroyed. To end war and violence
and all people to live a good life
allow, have global peaceful
and cooperative solutions to be found.
This is only possible if there are conflicts resolved peacefully
be disarmed if consistently
and the world economic order justice
is organized - and with international
Solidarity.
The withdrawal of all German soldiers
and soldiers from the foreign missions
and a ban on arms production
and arms exports - which would be important
first steps in this direction. We want
the defense industry to civilian production
convert, so that the work of employees is not in the service of war and destruction. Instead billion for arms
spending and military, should alternative
Energy, public transport with new
Transport systems and public
General Interest be strengthened.
Peacefully resolve conflicts -
End foreign missions
If the federal government of "German
Interests "speaks are almost always
economic interests as securing raw materials or access to markets
meant. To secure this, have CDU /
CSU, FDP, SPD and Greens open military
Means used, threatened war and
War conducted. DIE LINKE opposes itself
every imperialist policy and represents
a consistent peace policy.
52

Germany and the EU should be
neither breach of international law and wars
participate even those directly or indirectly
support. No soldiers, no
Weapons, no money for the wars this
World! DIE LINKE rejects militarization
foreign policy from.
n We call for the immediate, complete and unconditional withdrawal of the
German troops from Afghanistan and that
seamless a sustainable, civilian approach
is implemented, the Afghan the
State permits, the date of parts
to ensure the Bundeswehr inherited security tasks themselves,
and the termination of all other Bundeswehr missions abroad. We sit
us for the full investigation and, if necessary
prosecution of crimes
and attacks, in particular against civilians
People, by the security forces
and soldiers in the column under German participation missions abroad.
n The Federal Republic to the funds
be total so far used for the Bundeswehr mission in Afghanistan, in
their total for at least ten
Years for civilian projects and reconstruction
provide in Afghanistan.
n We reject that German
Soldiers other armies
form, which in turn directly or
indirectly involved in acts of war
are.
n We are opposed to a civil

military European External Action
Service, participation in any operation carried
CFSP and ESDP and reject
a participation of German soldiers in
Operations under the Common
Foreign and Security Policy (CFSP)
and the European Security and
Defence Policy (ESDP) as well as
EU Battle Groups and EU intervention forces from.

n We call for the termination of participation

tion of federal and state police forces to
international police operations, which for
Support of wars and authoritarian
Regimes serve.
n The reconstruction of the Bundeswehr in a
Operational army has stopped its staff strength in conversion processes for
Affected sites and further lowered
become. We want to the Bundeswehr
a structurally attack and eligible for intervention army disarm. The
Bundeswehr needs in the coming
four years be reduced drastically.
DIE LINKE long-term aim
of Germany, of a Europe without
Armies, a world without wars.
n We advocate an end to all military
advisory missions a because this world
to an escalation of conflicts
lead.
n The Left opposes the construction
expensive training centers, in which the
Bundeswehr intervention operations and
City combat exercises, as in Saxony-Anhalt
is provided.

Military interventions are often with
Reference to "security" justification:
»Security against terrorism 'or' security before regional destabilization," the
to be prepared militarily. Against
put this understanding of security
We approach the security of hunger,
Exploitation, poverty and violence. That
Emergence of violent groups
and political and economic Destabi
tion have their causes almost always
in injustice and oppression.
It bear the corporations and the policy
the federal government with decisive
responsibility. We oppose us
this aggressive policy and our solidarity with all the people around the world who for
Peace, social progress and demo
democracy struggle. This is the alternative
for military intervention. We want
resolving the causes of conflict and the
Violence prevention at the heart of
German policy questions.

DIE LINKE rejects linking
civilian and military measures.
With "civil-military cooperation" and
"Networked security" the militarization of foreign policy is only veiled.
The integration of development cooperation and humanitarian aid in counterinsurgency strategies - such as
in Afghanistan - preventing development,
contrary to the requirements of neutrality and
threatened both the population and
the employees of
Development organizations.
n We want a reorientation of State

Policy on non-violent and socially equitable
Peacebuilding. The participation of local people is particularly important.
Projects of development of civil conflict in countries of the South are
are widely promoted. We want
the appropriations for the Civil Peace Service, the
specially trained professionals in areas of conflict dispatched increase. The number of
currently 300 peace professionals in use
we want by 2017 to at least 600
increase. Can be financed with the
a portion of the funds generated by the stop
the Bundeswehr missions abroad
be saved. We want civil clauses
in stockholder agreements, the implementing organizations of German
Development Cooperation anchor.
n Even within Germany allowed the
Deployment of the Bundeswehr and the military
Violence a means of politics are.
Social and political conflicts must
be resolved peacefully and democratically -
not by threat or even the use
military force, but by expanding democratic participation rights.
DIE LINKE therefore turns decided
against the deployment of the Bundeswehr in
Interior.

We stand up for the development of
European Civil Peace Service.
Social justice worldwide
The gap between rich and poor
not only in Germany continues
apart. Worldwide starving on a
53

Billion people, more than two billion live on less than two dollars
Day. In contrast, the few rich are
getting richer.
Justice in international
Trade and economic relations is
Therefore a direct prevention of poverty,
Violence and war. We want the unjust global trade and economic
changing relationships so that real
Development opportunities for the people
arise. The German and European
"Development aid" is often to blackmailers
knotted serische structural reforms
and thus undermines independent
Development.
Therefore, we are committed to a shift in development cooperation
one based on the interests and needs
of those affected in the South
is aligned.
A more economical use of scarce
Resources and switch to renewable alternatives here in Germany is
also a question of global justice -
and contributes to resource conflicts
avoid. The challenges that the
Climate change has for agriculture, water resources and habitats, must
be solved jointly and globally. The,
the most suffer the consequences,
need particular support. The
Climate finance transfers to Germany
2020 year to seven billion euros
rise and in addition to existing
Development Cooperation provided
become. In addition it needs the commitment of the
Federal Government from 2008 on
500 million euros annually are complied with for the international biodiversity and forest protection.
Economic Partnership Agreements, the
undermine regional economic alliances
or compromise, must be stopped.
The same applies to free trade agreements. It
should no longer be enforced neoliberal structural adjustments. The international financial markets must be regulated and
in particular speculation with food are prohibited.
54

n Agriculture and forestry products
may be imported only if they
demonstrably fair, sustainable and under
Before considering the European
gave consumer protection produces
were. For this purpose, certification and
Control criteria to develop. The import
Agro-fuel must be prohibited,
because he and the diet of the people
Biological Diversity in the Global South
endangered. The appropriation of large land
surfaces is generally to prevent, especially in poorer countries. High
Self-sufficiency of agricultural
Production at national and European
Level through optimal use of natuer
union, economic and human
We see our resources than solo
darischen contribution to solving the world
nutritional problems.
n The German funds for development cooperation must finally on the
internationally agreed 0.7 per cent of
Gross domestic product be raised.

We work together with social
Movements and trade unions for
EU agreement, which is actually a
Enable and promote development; the
equitable, solidary trade, cultural
Exchange and technological and scientific cooperation include. Us
calling for an honest and solidary
Knowledge transfer. The Free Trade Agreement
the EU with developing and emerging countries are however on one side the interests of transnational corporations.
We support the equal and
solidary cooperation of countries,
such as the ALBA alliance in Latin America, and are opposed to the continued
Blockade of Western states against
Cuba.
Raw materials must pay appropriate
are to increase the incomes of resource-rich countries of the South.
At the same time, a rise by
the commodities also a ressourcenspa
Rende production be accelerated. The
Processing of raw materials in the countries of origin must be promoted

be a part of the value
to leave in the countries of origin.
n German corporations have committed
are the social and democratic
Rights to preserve world. By law
Liche regulations, compliance with which is independently verified, through transparency
and accountability can be prevented
be that goods sold in Germany
be harvested in inhumane conditions in poor countries, mined or produced. The import
of products from child labor to be eliminated. We are committed to binding rules for multinational companies. Affected from the countries of the
South are against corporations also
can sue their home bases.
n DIE LINKE demands for doing so. B. a legal obligation to disclose all suppliers for German companies. This applies to the
Raw materials as for the production itself,
the Cotton T-shirts as for the working conditions of seamstresses and sewing.

Strengthening international law
and human rights for all
The Left is the party of international law.
We see in the United Nations, the
central organ for the peaceful understanding between the states and societies. The prohibition of violence, as required by the UNOCharta must be strengthened.
The worldwide respect and enforcement of human rights is the
Prohibition of force in the UN Charter subordinate. We oppose any attempt
Human rights under international law
play off and use them as war justification
to abuse, as did all the federal governments of the last 15 years.
Human rights are universal and indivisible. All human rights - including
social, cultural and environmental -
have unrestricted and worldwide
all people are. Human Rights
should not as a tactical maneuver
be used to the use of military
justified - as all other

Parties do. The federal government refused until today the signing of
Additional Protocol to the International Covenant
on Economic, Social and Cultural
Rights, the individuals with injury
these human rights allows appeals to the United Nations.
We want to achieve the strengthening and democratization of the United Nations.
The civilian UN bodies must become more efficient
designed to put better financially and
be politically strengthened. We reject the
Militarization of the UN from. So should ask
the global economic development
in the United Nations bodies such as
the Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC)
and the Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) to negotiate and not
in itself mandated circles as the G8
or the G20.
If the legitimacy of the Security Council
increase. We are therefore for
a stronger representation of African,
Latin American and South Asian
States and for equality
the Security Council members. A standing
is German seat on the UN Security Council
rejected by us.
The General Assembly, in which all
Represented members of the United Nations
are must be able to decide more.
Peace without Weapons:
Prohibit arms exports,
Promote disarmament
Leopard battle tanks to Saudi Arabia,
German assault rifles at Gaddafi, nuclear-capable submarines in Israel: These are just
three of the German arms export scandals
in recent years. They show how
ruthless and uncontrolled Germany
Military equipment exports. Only the United States and
Russia are in the "business with death"
still more unrestrained than Germany.
Germany is one of the world's largest
Manufacturers of small arms, assault rifles, pistols and revolvers. All around the world
are about 875 million small arms in
Circulation, every day exceeding 1 300
People are killed by small arms.
55

Our international policy is aimed at
Disarmament and demilitarization. Currently
Germany is the world's third largest
Exporter of weapons. Each weapon
is exported from Germany, is the
Upgrade of another country promotes,
Suppression and makes it possible that
violent conflicts elsewhere in the world
discharged and wars are fought.
DIE LINKE demands a ban on all arms production and arms exports - without
Exceptions.
n As a first step, we demand an immediate ban on all exports of small arms
and weapons factories. It is precisely these
so-called small arms - assault rifles
and submachine guns - with which
Most people in the wars of this
World are killed, they are the weapons of mass destruction in the 21st century.
n arms exports may no longer
Support taxpayer money, neither
by the public cover with Hermes guarantees, through training or support in other ways.
n As a further step, we demand that
Arms production and exports of non-
longer be supported by the state and
Therefore, a comprehensive civil clause
for science and support
corresponding movements to high
schools and other scientific
Institutions.
n The Left is in favor of the setting
all armaments production in the
Federal Republic of Germany. We want with social partners and
Partners from trade unions, churches,
Peace movement u. A. Enter into a new process of debate on conversion programs for persons working in the defense industry to new jobs to
create. We are therefore connected the friedensund economic policy debates
Trade unions in the 1980s and
the conversion discourses in the early 1990s
Years as part of the resolution of the NVA.
A comprehensive ban on production is the
best means of curbing and Verhin
alteration of arms exports.

56

n Research on defense conversion,
So the conversion from military to
civilian production, to both public
Liche funds as well as by it
affected private sector and their
Organizations are funded.
n DIE LINKE demands a participation ban
German companies at international
or foreign defense companies.

The vision of a world without mass deportations
nichtungswaffen includes consistent
Disarmament in his own country.
n The last still in Germany
stationed US nuclear weapons must
be immediately withdrawn and destroyed.
n Do not use modernized nuclear bombs are stationed in Germany
and no funds for the modernization of
Carrier aircraft are provided for the dropping of atomic bombs.
n THE LEFT occurs in the next legislature forcefully for a contractual
Outlawing of nuclear weapons worldwide.
n army or the police of

Federal and state governments may acquire no struggle and surveillance drones
or for example the operation of such systems.
participate abroad. The Left continues
committed, all unmanned combat systems
(armed drones and combat robot)
under an international convention internationally (following the example of cluster munitions or biological weapons ban)
to outlaw.
We call for the dissolution of NATO. they
is through a collective security system
be replaced with the participation of Russia,
the Disarmament has as a key objective.
Regardless of a decision on
the whereabouts of Germany in NATO is
DIE LINKE advocate that the Germany of the military structures
Military alliance emerges.
DIE LINKE is not available at a government
participate, the war leads and permits fight Bundeswehr missions abroad.

IV. The society socially, environmentally
and rebuild accessibility
and democratize the economy
Social justice, ecological
Economies, accessibility and good
Life are interconnected: Age
are native production and consumption
only then in the whole society
enforce if they simultaneously to more
social equality lead.
A new Solidarversprechen
for the regions in East and West
Not only between social classes,
but also between entire regions
everywhere in Germany, a growing gap is emerging. And it reinforced
continued. Rise and growth on the one hand may hide the fact that on the other hand
Descent and precarity whole
Regions held. This applies to the entire Federal Republic. So East Germany
now no longer the largest enclosed crisis region of Germany, but
a patchwork of regions with
precarious status on the one hand and territories
with future prospects and relative stability
on the other hand become. Even in the West
form comparable precarious regions
out. That does not make things better,
but it makes it clear that important
social differences today and in the future
are no longer to collect and process alone in front of the east-west background.
DIE LINKE has this knowledge is not exclusive.
What she has but is an experience and
Edge expertise in dealing with
social and regional inequalities.
We have in recent years -
particularly pronounced in eastern Germany -
in different social and
parliamentary to constellations
many initial projects in the socio-ecological and democratic Moder
nization of society participated.
For the Left is the social-ecological reconstruction of society a

Another perspective of Regional and
Structural development based on: regional
Perspective. The participation of citizens
and citizens in decision-making, as we
Produce energy, how we do trade,
as we want to produce and by whomsoever
Owns networks, production or
the Stadtwerke are, creates the
necessary acceptance, also at local
Level, for the question of how we actually
want to live, to answer as left:
DIE LINKE stands for a decentralized, a
anchored in the regions energy turnaround,
which is designed social and democratic.
The regional crafted energy policy as
alternative path to the dominance of the big
Power companies has become a
"Point of no return" achieved. Energy cooperatives are formed, it created
Bioenergy villages and towns and municipalities acquire the licenses for the
Energy networks back. By continuing to expand the municipal value creation from renewable energies is significantly
grown. The participation of citizens
and citizens in these projects is strong
Motivation, value added at a development stimulus for the region and home
to make.
DIE LINKE as socialist-ecological
Party is a partner and driving force behind this social change - in both East and West.
Justice for the people
in East Germany: equivalence
making the living conditions
Target of left politics is the social and
economic division of Germany in
To overcome the East and West. We want
the order of the Basic Law and the
Unification Treaty finally becoming a reality
will leave. 23 years after German reunification, people living in the
East German states with a
57

nearly twice as high acquisition
ployment rate. The achieved level of income
only 80 percent of the western level.
The low-wage sector is twice as large,
so that at the end of working life, the
Retirement Income lower by 18 percent
are in the West. Child poverty is far
common, and the life expectancy of
Men who in the low-wage sector
work decreases.
But at the same time have the East Germans
in the past years experience
to restructure their life and
Collected work environment that gives you a new
Confidence for the design of
Give present and future. THE LEFT
sees itself still as advocacy of East Germans: in the recognition of East German life services
and in the removal of existing
Discrimination Ostdeutscher:
n The harmonization of pension value Ost

to western levels is expected to the end of 2017
be achieved. The high rating
East German wages must
retained, while there is still strong
Wage differences between East and West
are. There must be an end to the 20
Injustice and discrimination,
the various professional and affected groups in the course of pension reconciliation
were created. The lifetime achievement East
must be acknowledged.
n especially the progressive cleavage
ondere the East German labor market
must be stopped, the cutbacks in the
stopped active labor market policies
become. Cuts shall in particular
financially weak municipalities unsolvable tasks. DIE LINKE therefore demands
a reversal in the labor market policy,
in the "good work" the leitmotiv also
is the East German labor market.
The tariff systems have to function,
Excluded low wages and
Increased tariff bindings of Companies
become.
n The Solidarity Pact II is a cornerstone for
the development of the East German states and may not be touched.

58

Already now has about possible mechanisms and instruments for follow-up support after 2019 for structurally weak
Regions are intensively thinking in East and West. For the crisis regions in East
West and we are committed to a solidarity pact III.
n As part of the socio-ecological reconstruction
is the "joint task improvement of regional economic structure"
as an important economic support instrument
to secure the long term. Priority should in
Future industries and technologies of the future will be invested. This also applies
for the innovation programs for the
East German Mittelstand.

Overall, the need to invest in comprehensive science and research,
so the innovation performance in East Germany continued to increase.
n The East German for research

promoting important program "Zwanzig20"
the with a total budget of 500
Out million euros until 2019
should be equipped, must be financially secure
Legs placed and the universities in
East by an additional funding
strengthened in basic research
become.
n urban development, Stadtumbaupro-

programs and the program "Socially Integrative City"
are what you need with appropriate
Equip federal funds and programmatic further develop so that cities
and municipalities are able to meet the challenges of demographic change, urban renewal and
the conversion of social cohesion and integration, as well as climate change and energy conversion
to manage something.
n This means that the East German
Homebuilder of the so-called old debts (about seven to eight
Billion euros) free, in these interest
the tenants on the one hand and
the public companies on the other hand
be deleted and replaced by the date
benefiting banks are to carry. The

released financial resources
are for a real increase in urban development, to speed up energy-saving renovation of the housing stock
as well as for the barrier-free remodeling
use.
Regional Development
and equal living conditions
Even in the West arise precarious
Regions, including the Ruhr,
Bremen and Bremerhaven are of this
Threatening development.
Especially the social situation in the Ruhr
worsens dramatically. The planned
Site closures at Opel Bochum
and ThyssenKrupp connected to another
Mass layoffs threaten this rapid
Increased poverty still accelerate.
DIE LINKE demands therefore especially
for the Ruhr immediate program
Poverty Alleviation. Collective redundancies
are required by law to prohibit.
We want the job, "equivalent
To create living conditions ", with
increased investment in the service sector, in small and medium
Businesses and craft businesses,
with development and promotion of personal Middle
Services and Environmental Impact
Licher and civilian industrial production
Descendants. Our concepts
socio-ecological restructuring and for
Conversion of the defense industry are
also contribute to regional policy.
Small and medium businesses
and craft shops are for employment and value added in the regions
important. And they can pillars of regio
its dimensional social-ecological reconstruction.
But often they lack the money for
Investments, and in low self
capital they qualify difficult for
Funding. We need public
Programs in order to strengthen their resources for investment.
Against the interdependence of the global
set financial driven capitalism
we on a structural policy, the regional

Economic cycles promotes. Only like that
can "equal living conditions"
with an enhanced democratic
Codetermination and participation connected
become.
n We want to democratize regional planning, the role of trade unions,
Associations, clubs and other civil society actors during the conversion
strengthen, develop regional models
and anchor society to model regions of the socio-ecological reconstruction
to accomplish.
n networks between regional universities, trade unions, small and medium enterprises and cooperatives we want to promote. A model could
regional structural and economic councils
be as they have been developed in union discussions.
n We want small and medium
Businesses and regional economic cycles more promoting sustainable.
Equity ratio, creativity, public
Wide infrastructure and services must
also be improved as medical care, the cultural offerings
and the structures of the Child and Youth Services. A fast access to the Internet
needs through development of appropriate
Infrastructure be secured.
n The expansion of broadband Internet connections in the countryside after
the rules of the game not the free market
afford to, because the investment is not
in line with market expectations
can refinance. Community Service
Combinations in counties
and municipalities could network expansion
accordingly afford and terminals
make free nachnutzbar. To make this
facilitate, the left is for a
Deletion of the privatization bid in
Telecommunications sector in the Basic Law
and in a EU directives.
n Regional energy cycles and bioenergy villages we want to strengthen, regional
Markets for food and feed
promote.

59

Have logic of profit in the barriers
In Germany still prevails Mas
senerwerbslosigkeit and lacks about
five million minimum living jobs. We do not see from the fact that
the solidified unemployment million
People from the social
Excludes participation. We need a
Change of direction in the financial and economic policy, the mass unemployment
overcomes, wages and incomes
increased population at large and the public
finances strengthens. We want kleinund medium-sized companies and the
We want kleinund medium-sized companies and the
Crafts and support with a stronger focus on the internal market and regional
Economic cycles a counterweight
create the expansive export policy.
The growing export surpluses
a cause of the economic crisis
in Europe and the growing economic disparities.

rebuild supply and environmentally sound,
accessible to all forms of mobility
to develop. We want alternatives to military production and polluting
Create production branches. It should
converted the jobs and
be secured. This conversion is part
on with the expansion of democracy
different levels together.
We want an economy that is not on
Maximization of profits is oriented or financial market returns, but
to the needs of people. On
medium term must therefore Struk
tures in industry and the whole
Economy to be rebuilt. We want
create good jobs and precarious
Employment overcome.
For that we want social, environmental and
promote public services and
expand the provision of public services.
We want greenhouse gas emissions in
Germany 2020 compared to 1990
Halve, by 2050 at least 90
Reduce percent and this in a
Climate Protection Act stipulate.

The government's economic policy
relies on deregulation and flexibility.
If global demand collapses or
transnational corporations shift locations, acts like a fate that over
workers falls. In fact
stands behind a failed economic policy. If the investment is not after
other criteria to be controlled,
degenerates public infrastructure,
and mass unemployment is cemented. We want the social-ecological
Converted to strengthen the public
General interest and the extension
of personal services
connect.

Public infrastructure - bridges,
Rails, roads, hospitals,
Schools - is getting worse. That
Existing is not repaired and
renovated, in new is not invested.
The Education and Science Union, for example, estimates the annual financing needs for education
to more than 50 billion euros and the current backlog of investment in additional
45 billion euros, in the field of healthcare it is still far above.

For economy needs democratic
be designed: in operation by more
direct participation from below, in the
Total society through a policy
the greater social, financial and
environmental regulation. Only under the
right conditions can
good work, social and ecological ideas
prevail in the factories. We want
Set the course for the future: What we
we produce full color, must be negotiated and democratically viable for nature and
His people. We need the energy

We want a program for public
Investment, with the infrastructure
modernized and powerful on a
Level is lifted. This creates better living conditions for the future,
Work, Income and Social Security.
Overall, our planned amount
Investments in the area of ​​barrier-free
Transport, socio-ecological reconstruction,
the education, jobs and social housing to 100 billion euros
annually. Expenditures are supported by our
enhanced revenue covered.

60

Basically, government subsidies of soft loans to
to promote research on criteria for
the socio-ecological reconstruction and good
Binding work. Has on these criteria
to align the award of public contracts. State aids crisis
Only in exchange for appropriate
Ownership and decision rights
will be awarded for the public sector and the workforce.
In no other industrialized country is the
Service work in relation to the
Industry working as poorly paid as
in Germany. We want to change that!
Especially personal services
must be upgraded.
n this are significantly higher investment
tion medium required for the expansion of public services.
Compared are the Scandinavian
Countries about twice as many employees
in the field of child-rearing, education
and health care. Also with us
must in these areas more collectively
created secure jobs
become.
n We are committed to ensuring that solar cells
and solar thermal systems on roofs authorities
significantly in federal, state and local authorities
more can be used.
n the use of cogeneration plants
(CHP) as a highly efficient bridging technology and spare capacity in the
Energy policy we want on the law
to promote cogeneration
(CHP) promote significantly more than is done at present. Especially schools, government agencies
and other public buildings, as well
Apartment buildings can thus modernize its power generation.
n Environmentally friendly and attractive
Transport modes and concepts will
Priority over the development of roads,
Airports and high-speed rail links
have. This requires a permanent
Increase of investment resources for
the rail and an increase in
Regionalization funds.

Areas within the economy,
of general interest serve - as great
Power generation plants, energy networks,
Water and strategic
Services such as education, health,
Banks, transport or housing industry - belong to public or cooperative hand. We want there
retain or transfer to go. In one
first step to all contracts for the
Privatization to be disclosed to public and municipal enterprises.
Industrial policy for the future:
Changing what we produce as
The focus on short-term profit
interests has prevailed in the corporate strategies of the industry.
Profit-oriented companies hardly ask
for social usefulness and
ecological compatibility and the pressure
the financial markets radicalized while the
Logic of profit. To reduce economic groups own the upswing sustainable
Investments. They grab their Eigenkapi
talbasis to just to the shareholders
distribute high profits.
Products and services that are desperately needed, but in the short term
not profitable, are not ent
wraps. We therefore want an active
State industrial policy that no further
to reduce costs, job losses and
Sets displacement competition, but
is committed to the common good.
It is not enough, on renewable energies
to upgrade: The emissions of pollutants and greenhouse gases must total
decline, the consumption of resources
and energy needs globally by mid-
Century more than halved.
We want an alternative production
bring forward. A new industrial policy
the following objectives are set must: a
provide greater focus on the internal market, good jobs,
Conditions for a good life
create. DIE LINKE fights for a
socio-ecological transformation of our society. Without improving
of public finances, a socio-ecological investment program and the
61

Organisation of equitable transitions
will not succeed in the reconstruction.

to orient to them continuously
to be improved ("Top Runner model").

n For this remodeling industry
We need binding environmental
Targets and multi-annual plans to progress.
A mix of instruments of incentives, commandments, prohibitions and transparency to the
Reward conservation of resources
and punish their waste or
suppress. To minimize waste and
for more consumer protection are Garantieund warranty obligations to extend
and predetermined breaking points to prohibit by law.
So products can last longer or
repaired instead of thrown away.

n We want a system in which discussion
bring, the import and in the promotion of selected raw materials at EU level
a lot of regulation established. In order to
is mainly the consumption of resources can be reduced, which are rare, and
its promotion and use with unacceptably high environmental or social
Stresses associated.

n We are against the constant barrage of
Leaflets, brochures, magazines
u. a. Advertising papers, the consumer the
and the consumer will encourage them to buy, but mostly unread in the
Waste transported. These practices
waste resources and add to
Forests great harm.
n Companies should continue for more

Product groups than before the so-called
Product responsibility for the whole
Take over life cycle of their product
have to. Companies must then products
withdraw their working life
and perform a recovery.
n companies have committed
are to entertain meaningful energy and raw material management systems and
their results publicly available
accounted for.
n We want to require companies to disclose environmental data and social standards,
and they subdue external controls.
Also activities of subsidiaries, suppliers or contract manufacturers need to be involved. To check whether rules and regulations are complied with,
we need more say the
Citizens as well as personnel and
technically well-equipped environmental authorities.
n Companies are obliged
their products within three years on
Standard of most efficient equipment

62

n Also in the industrial sector and in
Construction sector should in future material flows in
Driven circulation and waste materials from
Production and consumption raw materials for production and re-re
use are. Assessments on
Risks and consequences are an integral part of the development of methods, technologies, materials and products.

Economic democratize: by the
Participation to self-determination
Democracy must not at the office door,
at the factory gate or the entrance to the
Hospital ends. We advocate a
new an economic and social order,
is expanded in a democracy on economic rather than the requirements
subordinating of markets and competition. These include - as described -
the financial sector under democratic
Control and regulation of financial markets. Must also at the enterprise level
secured the social obligations of property
become.
The participation of employees
at the enterprise level in supervisory and
Board members must obtain and under
Consideration of economic
Developed structural changes
become.
n The scope of the legislation on
the participation of employees in
the supervisory boards of large corporations must be extended to bill foreign companies. The
Way through relocation of its headquarters within the EU, the

Participation rights of Member States
To work and so the economic and social orders against each other,
must be prevented.
n We support the demands of
Unions for an extension
the scope of co-determination laws by reducing the legally presumed minimum number of
Employees. In addition to in on
supervisory boards of larger corporations
Share owners and workers
be represented not only in equal parts,
but all the same decisions
entitled meet. For large structure-directing companies and systemically important financial institutions headquartered in Germany
We also want the core provisions of the
VW-law take over The Bund and
Countries would get after the blocking minority
in the meeting of unit owners.

The design of a social economy
needs with regional economic cycles
follow clear standards that distribution measures, democratic control,
Participation and co-determination rights for all
includes participating groups.
This play for us cooperatives
an important role in the background before
the financial and economic crisis
represent a clear alternative for a social and sustainable economy. We want
expand the cooperative principle and
strengthen the cooperative law. Economic democracy is also expanding
of expected workforce property that the
Participation of employees strengthens,
through stronger regional ties of companies regional economic cycles
promotes and contributes to the equitable distribution of wealth. Therefore, we want companies that are wholly or partly owned by the workforce, with tax relief and by giving preference
public procurement concrete
promote. Extended participation rights
and inter-company advisory boards provide additional options for democratization
the economy. And it is a question of
Property: public utilities, financial institutions and strukturbestim-

Mende energy companies
already belong to the public sector.
We want to implement structural large enterprises in social ownership. This includes the goal
the disempowerment of a large power companies. You need public ownership
be transferred. Their socialization
is achieved by remunicipalisation and decentralization of energy,
with democratic self-government and
democratic control.
This conversion will be at all levels
with specialist support from industry dialogues
and coordinated by industry councils. At
them sitting business, science,
Environmental and consumer organizations as well as
Unions. The councils have ever
Level special tasks. They have
on their respective political level
a right of initiative.
n The participation of employees,
trade union rights and
Works need to be strengthened.
n The anti-strike clause § 160 SGB III
favors the stronger side in any case, the
Employer, and must be abolished.
n We want to co-determination and
extend the right to strike on disposals, acquisitions and the relocation of companies or parts of companies
and together with the trade unions
enforce the law on political strike.
Cold lockout is not allowed.
n The plans of the Federal Government, managers' salaries by a strengthening of the rights
of shareholders to limit, are a campaigning duck: Shareholders are not the
better rules than the supervisory board, in which
nevertheless still representatives of employees
sit. DIE LINKE demands a legal
Limitation of managers' salaries in the
20 times the lowest wage group of
each company. This would correspond to
still an annual salary of about
half a million euros.

Information, participation and rights of action under Genehmigungsver63

can take a sharp sword to
Protect the environment and the interests
Be the population if it reasonably
configured are: as in the fight against new
Coal power plants, inadequate industrial plants, road construction or superfluous
Infrastructure projects or to obtain
of natural and recreational areas.
n We want to ensure that the Aarhus Convention - transparency, citizen participation and legal procedures for projects approvals - in Germany at last
is implemented.

The power of the monopolies break:
Energy supply in the hands
the population
The energy turnaround in Germany can
in a future without nuclear power, coal and
Oil lead to a complete supply of electricity, heat and mobility
renewable sources. The energy policy
the government is based in the core, however,
continue. to the profit interests of the fossil energy and industrial sectors Therefore
is a socially just development
of environmental policy instruments and
an effective policy to conserve
Energy and resources hindered.
Although the regenerative energy will expand rapidly, simultaneously
but centralized and undemocratic
Group structures enshrined. in the
A result, the expense of the energy turnaround unilaterally on private shoulders
Consumers and
of small and medium-sized businesses offloaded.
You pay for the profits of the corporations.
DIE LINKE fights for the energy
supply as part of the public
To consider interest. Therefore
we demand:
n the long term is a master plan

for Germany for an intrinsic energy
developed and implemented supply.
n Here are the electricity and heat

renewable supply of 100 percent
Energy (in the first step Stromver
64

supply by 2020 50 percent, heat
supply to 20 per cent) take place.
n electricity and heating networks are consistently in public or in the hand
democratic point
owned companies. In this context, public utilities and cooperative utilities to be strengthened.
n electricity prices are the profit motive
revoked and permanently guaranteed as basic supply and socially.
n Germany is as a research country
Number 1 to establish in this area
align and promoting it.

Especially local energy networks are
to self-determination, in the public service ("common based") to produce environmentally sustainable and beyond the logic of profit their energy demand structures.
To promote this, we want the
Renewable Energies Act (EEG) in
its central pillars - primary
Feeding green electricity, guaranteed,
cost-oriented remuneration rates - obtained. At the same time we want the EEG incentives
provide that regenerative generation plants serve more of the functionality of the overall energy system.
Urgently required is the creation
a realistic, and to the goals of cost efficiency, sustainability, efficient use of space
Landscape Planning oriented roadmap
for the energy turnaround. A significantly lower network expansion is required when a
decentralized energy supply, a reasonable expansion of storage systems and
no longer the profit interests of the coal power plant operators are considered.
The network development plan shall reference
these criteria are revised.
We will continue massive for
Insert expansion of renewable energies. However, large projects of over-priced
Energy groups such. As the off-shore wind farms in the North Sea, we reject.
A sustainable energy system
build, is also:

n The phase-out of nuclear industry
must be irreversible and should be enshrined in the Basic Law. Nuclear power stations must be shut down immediately.
The production of nuclear fuel in Gronau needs to close.
n want to import and export of nuclear waste

we prohibit. The accelerated return
must overhaul of nuclear waste from the Asse
enshrined as a binding objective, the
planned Konrad repository and the
Repository Gorleben site be permanently abandoned. We want to develop concepts and adoption
of laws about the future nature of the
Storage of nuclear waste an open
social debate instead Parteiengekungel in backrooms prefix.
n We want to phase out coal

power supply. Emissions trading
has not done, his record of
past eight years is devastating.
Instead, we want to enforce a coal phase-out legislation that a ban on the
Construction of new coal power plants and for the
Neuaufschluss of lignite mines provides. Fixed maturities are
moreover for a gradual shutdown of
existing coal power plants ensure that
last coal power plant is at the latest
2040 off the grid. In order to go the
to limit negative consequences of mining of lignite, we renew our
Demand for change in the Federal Mining Act: It must be reformed so that
enshrined in the current legal precedence to the interests of corporations and the
Extraction of raw materials over the interests of
Environment and population is broken.
In its place are zoning procedure with environmental impact assessments and appropriate investment,
Information and rights of action occur. At the
Resource extraction under populated areas
be submitted to the special evidence of necessity. So we want a
Pretend climate path in the electricity sector
manufacture and planning security.
n The transition to a renewable
Energy system requires flexible
Control of electricity and

consumption and caching
of electricity. For this we need a
Memory-offensive in the area of ​​research
and development.
n We want a sharper Wettbewerbsund Antitrust for electricity, gas and
Provide oil companies.
n Unjustified Industry Discounts at

Eco-tax, net charges, emissions trading
or the Renewable Energy Act
Loads of households, we want quickly
abolish. In order to promote decentralized energy systems, we intend to expand funding for local authorities, the
their power into their own hands
want to take.
Central for us: In order to fuel poverty
avoid the consumption base for needs
all remain affordable. Much consumers
should pay more to this measure
co-finance.
n energy suppliers are obliged to introduce a base tariff for electricity,
by every household a free, oriented to the household size
Basic quota gets to power, the a
Part of the average consumption
covering (a regulation, as z. B.
Belgium already are). The going beyond an average fuel consumption
Electricity consumption would more expensive than today.
In order incentives for fuel-efficient power use on the one hand created and
at the same time low-income home
retaining supported.
n is the reduction of electricity tariff
possible and socially just. The design
the price of electricity has effectively monitored
become. The competent state authority shall ensure an advisory council set aside
are, in the consumer, environmental and
Social organizations and trade unions are represented. Until this is implemented, demand
we a current price moratorium for private households.
n payment difficulties allowed
not mean that people in
Must sit or freeze the dark.

65

Electricity, gas, water, heating may
are not remedied!
Companies need binding law
Liche specifications to enable them to
Minimize energy consumption. Energy suppliers will be obliged to annual
Energy savings of 1.5 percent
to achieve its customers. Intended for power saving by households, companies and public administration
a EnergySavingFund be established.
This is with an annual 2.5 billion euros
be equipped. In particular,
special support programs for low-income households will be launched.
In addition to the improved promotion of
energy performance of buildings and of
Cogeneration plants we want the compulsory share of renewable energies
at the heat supply for new buildings
increase gradually and expand in basic renovations on existing buildings. To the remediation rates
in the energy performance of buildings
to double, reaching to a 2050
mandatory plan be created, the
sophisticated, gradually to reach
Classes for the energetic state of
Building contains. We are committed,
that both the underground pressing
of CO2 (CCS) as well as the natural gas production
by compression of toxic chemicals
underground (fracking) is prohibited.
Fracking is not only great dangers
for groundwater, but also enormous
Damage to nature and landscape. The
democratic co-decision rights
must reach the gas production and in
other areas of resource extraction
be secured.
Mobility for all - with less
Transport: flexible, ecological,
wheelchair accessible, affordable
"Spend a large part of my life
I stuck in traffic: between home, children in
the school drive, then to work, according to
work errands, driving to the
Supermarket. Since we live just outside
need, there's hardly any alternatives to the car,
not flexible enough and too expensive. "
Heike, 51 Kreuzbruch, Brandenburg
66

Mobility is freedom of movement. Mobility
is not the same traffic. Traffic noise burden many people, especially in homes and residential areas, for people with
are low-income affordable.
In the employment and the job center
is formulated as a requirement of mobility:
Individuals should be willing wide
Commuting routes. Mobility is becoming
expensive. Many are therefore excluded from participation in society. The
Mobility allowance in the Hartz IV sets
not even covering the cost of a social ticket. Is a real social Ticket
it also only in a few municipalities.
In order to reduce commuter traffic is
a new model of regional planning and
Structural policy needed that the various
Spheres of life brings together again.
We want an intelligent freight transport
Linking transport and logistics management systems with priority given to rail and
promote environmentally friendly shipping.
n The commuter rate we first
socially just convert it to an allowance
and provide an incentive for using the environmental network.

Investments in public Nahund distance traffic declined,
the quality of public transport services decreases. In the country is one
almost inevitably dependent on a car.
We want a mobility guarantee also in
rural areas.
Public transport is accessible
be strengthened and for the users
and user costs considerably less. Us
Add to traffic avoidance, short
Way and energy-saving transport.
Instead forced, unwanted mobility
we want a reappropriation of
Public and the city as a living space.
n The financing of public transport by the public sector
must be guaranteed and improved.
n In perspective to the rail sector exclusively under public
His influence. The federal government needs to obtain

and secure the necessary expansion of railway infrastructure in its entirety and the
Countries permanently sufficient resources
provide the transport services and infrastructure development in local public transport available.
The public urban and mainline operations should involving
Representing the interests of the passengers,
Employees, environmental organizations and other stakeholders cooperative democratically
be regulated and operated. The intelligent networking of mobility by foot,
Bike, by bus or train as well as car rentals /
Carsharing is a good basis for
new socio-ecological lifestyles in
the cities and in the countryside. The good
Connection to the country takes the pressure
from migration into the cities and stabilized
regional value chains.
n We want the local and regional transport
expand while good, tariff-bound
Create jobs in public ownership,
to the new demand for environmental
Forms of mobility to match.

In perspective we want a ticket-free public transport. Experiences
show that he more and more people
is used, if it is free of charge and financed by taxes.
n Together with social initiatives, we argue for the widespread introduction
social tariffs and social BahnCard
for low-income households.
n In rural areas, we want a
flexible offer as citizens or buses
cost call-taxis to
to make life there more attractive.
n Together with social initiatives such as
»Train for all" we are committed to the
Privatization and further destruction
Deutsche Bahn and for a wide
Democratic Control a. Rails
Transport is a coherent structure
and belongs in public hands. It must
to the needs of the population
and may not be based on returns and
not broken down into profit-oriented items

become. The expansion of a rival
Busfernnetzes we reject.
The share of transport in the harmful
CO2 emissions and promoting is at about 20 percent
higher, and rising. Electric cars
No sustainable alternative: your
Production pollutes the environment on the
Moderation. Biofuels have partially
a negative ecological balance, because it worldwide
Need areas which then for the
Growing food missing. Increasingly surfaces are sealed and
Landscapes destroyed by road construction.
Most CO2 emissions rise, traffic noise and air pollution due to
of truck traffic and aviation. Of the
German domestic air traffic is very largely and the intra-European to a
large part to shift to rail.
Subsidies to airports must
be terminated.
n The vehicle tax for newly acquired
Vehicles we want to ecological
Change criteria and compliance
of particulate matter and nitrogen oxide limits
consistently enforce. The tax
Company car privilege needs to be redesigned according to ecological criteria.
n We are committed at European level
for establishing a CO2 -Grenzwertes
for cars more than 60 grams of CO2
per kilometer for 2025.
n The Left wants to ban the import of biofuel because it food production in countries of the global
South displaced so transported hunger
and valuable forests and other habitats
destroyed. Regional, pure vegetable oil fuels should only in the agricultural sector and the
public transportation be used.
n It must finally a tax on airplane
Gasoline introduced and abolished the VAT exemption of international flights
become. In addition, the air ticket tax should
be raised.
n In the freight should be its high
social and environmental costs in a

67

rising energy tax and a mandatory truck toll reflected. Us
want to impose a longer rest periods for truck drivers will. Good work
also applies to them!
n The introduction of monster trucks,
so-called gigaliners, we want
prohibit.
n An existing transport routes and
Aerodromes must by traffic noise
strict limits and active noise are significantly reduced.
DIE LINKE demands effective requirements
for the reduction of environmental noise,
Road, rail and air traffic noise
in a binding Noise Abatement Act
and a significant increase in appropriations
for noise protection. Future-oriented
Transport policy must primarily
the health of those affected
his care and focused on environmental sustainability.
n We advocate a strict Nachtflugv offered 22-6 clock a particular
for peri-urban areas. This night flight
prohibition has in the Federal Aviation Act
be anchored.
n A majority of the population in the
Germany is for the introduction of a
Speed ​​limit of 120 kilometers per hour
on highways - we realize it!

With citizens' initiatives and movements
also operate in other European countries
We at against large unprofitable projects,
where billions are installed, a few
benefit and the supply in the area
fall by the wayside. The symbol for this
Confrontation is Stuttgart 21st
n We demand the withdrawal from Stuttgart 21
and the upgrading of existing
Terminus station.
n The planning of transport projects
planning authorities have the citizens
and citizens and interest groups
include from the outset and more
Referenda in an early stage
be possible.

68

We want a fundamental reform of the
Federal transport infrastructure planning through to environmentally sound mobility planning. The transport infrastructure planning is in the past
Accelerated years and thus the influence
been restricted by residents and residents. We want citizens councils
at the federal, provincial and municipal
Introduce level to the decisions to
democratize. These Advisory Councils shall be
composed of representative bodies
Passengers, employees, environmental groups, citizens who, together with parliaments on requirements
long-term investments and the Substituted
design of the networked mobility services decide.
Also routes must in a trans
ent, public, democratic
Federal and transnational procedures
be elaborated.
Ecological lifestyles for all
The social-ecological reconstruction will only
succeed if he also culturally Angle
is supported if an ecological,
resources easier lifestyle beyond
small groups interspersed. DIE LINKE wants
no specific lifestyles dictate, there are many ecological lifestyles.

Protection of soil, water,
Air and biodiversity
We want that the Bundestag, the
Federal Council and the federal agencies their

Use skills to the framework for the better protection of soil,
Water, air and biological diversity
improve.
We need a stronger weighting
soil conservation in land use planning
and play an exemplary role in limiting
of land consumption for its own construction projects to contribute to the achievement of the nationwide 30-ha-limit for the daily
Land consumption. Necessary are also
legal and financial arrangements for
Removal and revitalization of hazardous wasteland (legacy funds).
Since the achievement of the objectives of the European Water Framework Directive (good ecological status of waters by 2018)
is at risk, the federal government has a national
Implementation program, for. Example, the restoration of federal waterways, hang up.
The national marine protection strategy must
through concrete financially equipped
Stocky action plans and measures
become. Of particular relevance
the reduction of the entry of nitrate
into the aquatic environment as well as the prohibition on the entry of potassium polluted wastewater
in the Werra and other receiving waters.
The protection of the air in front of the impurity
with particulate matter can not solely the Kom
municipalities (eg., by the expulsion of
Low Emission Zones) are left, but
must u. a. are supported by the moving freight to rail.
Air pollution emissions from
Particulate matter, microorganisms and odors from animal housing is by introducing stricter
mandatory requirements for air filtration
and limiting the magnitude
the systems and stricter distance
reduce regulations.
The implementation of the national strategy
Biodiversity and the obligations for the European Natura 2000Schutzgebiete (FFH and bird sanctuaries) by federal, state, local,
Companies and associations is insufficient, and must increasingly be addressed
become. It should for instance the goal
the strategy, ten percent of the public

Taking forests out of the use, quickly
be implemented. In Natura 2000 sites may usages that the environmental factor
worse, be not allowed,
about bottom trawling in marine protected areas or the introduction
alien species in protected forest areas.
In particular, the administration of federal roads and federal waterways must
the environmental impact of their construction a priority. Landscape fragmentation by motorways
is minimized, by wild bridges. The
Federal waterways are migrating
To make fish consistently. The floodplains must again serve as flood retention areas and biodiversity
Give room.
We want to strengthen the conservation and before
protect the privatization of land. With
Except for environmental and nature conservation organizations as owners are protected
Surfaces remain in public hands. That
National Heritage is to safeguard and to
Extending 30,000 hectares federally owned land. To finance the measures a "Nature Heritage Fund" should be created. The federal states have at
the implementation of management plans in
Natura 2000 sites supported financially
become. The federal program Organic
Diversity must financially to 100 million
Be topped Euro, also the
Co-financing of EU-LIFE projects,
z. B. to secure for the Moor protection. Also
can and must in the cultural landscapes
Protected variety of ways of life
become. The protection of habitats and their
Composite lines intended by federal law
Guidelines to be strengthened.
The consistent protection of wild animals
commands to prohibit their attitude and training in circuses, dolphinaria and households. We are committed to the full
Replace animal experimentation to test
of a drugs and cosmetics.

Landscapes dominated. Rural Areas
provide food and raw materials,
are commercial, residential and recreational areas.
The agricultural production of food has an existential
social significance, the only
close ties with vibrant villages
can be fulfilled and small towns.
With a sustainable lifestyle and economy are our livelihoods air, water, soil and biological
Variety reproduced.
DIE LINKE wants to sustainable rural
Promote development. Many rural
Regions are structurally disadvantaged
and are in a crisis. Weak
economic fundamentals, missing
Activities and Alternatives cause
Unemployment, dramatic population decline and aging. Especially young people wandering in search
after training and employment
perspectives from other regions.
Demographic change exacerbates
the financial position of local authorities.
From the claim equivalent life
relationships will bid farewell
and promoting increasingly
Growth centers focused.
Individual villages and entire regions
are simply suspended.
n The ownership of basic
and soil are the basis for rural development. We want the general
social distribution of land ownership in
Germany obtained the small private property, the cooperative and
public ownership before sellout
. protect DIE LINKE wants it by the
Degradation of legislative gridlock
in soil, cooperatives, agricultural and tax law reached.
n We want a comprehensive after
containing land and forest management.
Also horticulture and fisheries
must be sustainable. Companies should in
be able to complete, the economy
and social challenges
and the requirements of the consumer,
Nature and animal welfare justice
to.

70

n In a high self-sufficiency, we see

our solidary contribution to the solution
the world food problem. That's why
we sit down particularly for a protein strategy to reduce and detachment
of a soya imports. We reject the
Export orientation of EU agriculture
from and they want to socially and ecologically
regional production, processing and
Align marketing.
n Among the priority food and feed production to the agricultural economy
a regional contribution to the energy turnaround
afford. Energy crops must be sustainable, be fitted into the commercial food production and
Biodiversity on and off
Arable contribute. Pure vegetable oil
to replace fossil diesel for agricultural Landund forestry equipment.

n DIE LINKE advocates that sustainable agriculture, organic farming,
Horticulture, forestry and fisheries
and aquaculture, according to socio-ecological
Criteria and be promoted through support to regional processing and marketing structures. Are important
Us the conservation of biodiversity
in nature as well as the species, race and
Varieties in agriculture. Of the
Pesticides and use of mineral fertilizers
to be reduced. At the same time we are
us for a natural forest management in
Federal, state and municipalities a. Therefore we want to ensure the federal level
ensure that the Federal Forestry on the basis of the FSC (Forest Stewardship Council)
be farmed organically.
n agro-biotechnology, bio-patents and biopiracy we want to ban. Must immediately
the Genetic Engineering Act, the EU approval process and the labeling rules to be tightened. We adhere to the
Zero tolerance for seed and food
firm and support the GM-free
Agriculture and food industry.
n We want the right to free reproduction
Saving seeds and oppose the market power of seeds and GM corporations.

n DIE LINKE calls for a ground-based
and animal-friendly livestock. Forms of entertainment must be adapted to the animals
become. Tormenting practices in animal husbandry must be prevented and transport of live animals to four hours
be limited. The use of antibiotics is to reduce to a minimum and
only in real illness and not
prophylactically administer. For new
want or unknown animal diseases
we an emergency fund for affected businesses.
To enforce the animal welfare law
the authorities have financial and human resources
better equip.
n We want a bee-friendly farming

use. Want Bees and other insects
we from pesticides and GM crops
. protect
n citizens and environment,

Animal welfare and conservation organizations should
comprehensive information, investments and obtain rights of action.
n State quality control of the

Production, processing and trade
should be expanded to ensure that only high-quality and harmless raw materials, feed and food caught in the traffic.
n We want to remove barriers that

an even more successful development of
Agricultural cooperatives preclude
especially since this legal form the primacy of
People prefers over capital and
especially the cooperatives in the
New Länder considerable
Part of the area of ​​land, securing added value, jobs and apprenticeships.
n The available public
Means the EU (CAP), the federal and
Country (GAC) and the respective country
are targeted for environmental and
Social benefits are awarded.
n Especially in economically underdeveloped rural regions we want from the means
the Structural Funds under the auspices
EAFRD management in regional budgets
Merge.

n self-management and self-organization

the regions, the producers and all assets
are locally by bundling tools and further supports the Leader principles and programs
become.
n Reforming we want by the Agricultural Social Insurance
Transfer of the health, pension and
Accident Insurance in general
legal systems and by the
Abolition of the "Hofabgabeklausel" in
the agricultural pension.
n The agricultural research, especially in the
the public sector, we want to significantly
strengthen. Important for us are better
Coordination of Agricultural Research and
Teaching as well as fostering links
to the practice.

Consumers and
Strengthen consumer
Transparency is not enough. Self-regulation of the economy are often self-deception.
We want the rights of consumers
strengthen and consumers towards the company. It's not just about
Information rights, but also about
clear legal provisions and regulations in relation to the company and a
enforce public control of markets: from safe food on telecommunications and Internet,
Financial services, affordable housing, the supply of water and
Energy to a customer-friendly
local and regional public transport.
DIE LINKE is particularly committed
Consumers with
a low income. Ecological
and social policy go together.
n Strengthening food controls
under the responsibility of the federal government, thus
up food scandals not again
pick. But the staff and must
Amenities of the state food control to be significantly increased.
The cost of the control tasks to the
Food industry co-finance.

71

n food must be declared:

Origin, contents, ingredients, quantity, prices
in a legible font for the elderly.
n A clear nutrition labeling of
Food (light).
n The results of the hygiene controls on
Restaurants must be made transparent
become.
n A better investor protection by

functioning banking supervision and
Soundness supervisory body in order "not junk bonds"
longer to hit the market.
n overdraft and MRP-interest are
statutory limit.

n We advocate for ending dubious
and plated collection practices a.
n Unfair commercial practices and
aggressive advertising practices must be effective
be prevented.

Consumer protection is only effective,
if it capable of acting public
Institutions and strong, well financed
equipped consumer organizations
there who enforce it. This requires the
Secured consumer centers financially
and, for example, by introducing a
Strengthen collective action rights law
become.
We finally need a strong Ministry of Consumer and Consumer Protection Authority. The collective interest groups of consumers
and consumers must at all levels
be strengthened.
n We want a Consumer Information Act, grants the free information
and not in the food industry
is limited, but all service
Services includes.

72

n Consumers
must have the opportunity,
directly across the enterprise
its products, its social and environmental manufacturing conditions
to inform.

Tourism: ecologically compatible
and socially equitable
The social division of society
excludes many people from tourism
and thus from participation in opportunities for recreation, education, culture and
the nature of experience. We want
because everyone can participate.
The Federal Government should more resources
social, providing accessible tourism, particularly for trips of children
and young people, families and Solitary
withdrawing with children and people
with disabilities. The Rural Tourism
is to be expanded, because he as column
regional economic development
at the same time an environmentally sustainable
social tourism encourages. Good training and good work must also be
Tourism sector be secured. Us
want to prevent the property prices in tourist focal points
further explode. The construction of second homes in these regions must be limited
become. Tourism is an important
Economic factor, which of especially
Small and medium enterprises
is coined and still one of the areas with a lot of precarious working conditions and below average
Wages belongs. By a significant contribution to the Gross Domestic Product
provides a variety of work and
Training courses offers, the cultural
Promotes infrastructure in the regions
and the municipalities important revenue
gives, he is inseparable from the
social and ecological reconstruction of
Work, business and society
connected.

V. Democratic Participation: for a
Democracy in which there is something to decide
All people have in society,
participate in culture and education, free of
state monitoring its opinion
form and the democratic process
can participate. Who experience
has made that there is nothing to decide that any major issues already
are decided in advance, Pulls Out Of
Democracy back. Economic power
draws democratic impotence by itself.
Therefore, democracy must intervene in economic power. We are witnessing the opposite. The European
Parliaments are in the course of crises
Processing deprived of their influence.
Chancellor Merkel calls for 'marktkon
forme democracy. " Social inequality
and the restriction of civil rights
harm democracy. We want
a new path.
Democracy means more than every four
Hold annual elections or Parliament
vote. Democracy is the foundation of the community. This means,
all equally effective at the
Decisions are involved, which for
all of which are binding. The suitable and
want necessary social conditions
we strengthen, protect citizens' rights and
advocate new forms of democratic participation.
Our goal is a sustainable Demo
bureaucratisation of democracy, of government,
To promote social and economic.
Negative developments inside and outside
Parliament must be corrected, new
Pulses are applied. Political,
social and cultural participation and the
necessary to rights are universal
secure. Social and democratic
Rights are indivisible. Fundamental Rights must
for all citizens equally
Way apply, they may for the unemployed,
Hartz IV concerned, migrants and
Migrants or for extra-parliamentary
Initiatives and movements are not restricted.

Participation in elections and decisions must be based on all levels with obstacles
be checked and improved.
n DIE LINKE calls for a comprehensive
Electoral reform. The five-percent electoral threshold should be abolished. Us
want the right to vote from the completion
16 years of age and for all for five
Years here living person. We disclaim
from, that people who are under full supervision, excluded from the selection
become. The choice by voting machines
We reject.
n The accessibility of polling stations

and electoral processes is long overdue and
must be guaranteed. Choosing the self-evident right is - regardless of health status - for men
to maintain with and without disabilities.
n We want finally to
Federal popular initiatives, Volksbe
Mitre and Referenda low
Barriers to access and citizen-friendly
Can take place voting conditions (street collection, absentee ballot u. A.).
In referenda it should not
Give subjects exclusions only
guaranteed in the Basic Law fundamental rights and principles (§§ 1-20) and
the Budget Law are as votes
Subject exempted. Expanding
the co-determination rights also includes
the introduction of a referendum, d. h.
the citizens should have a
Veto possibility to parliamentary
Received decisions.
n Comprehensive information and

Access rights are to be introduced.
Legislation and government action
intended by Open Data for Citizens
and citizens should be made transparent.
We want the development of the
FOIA to a
Transparency Law (according to the model
the eponymous hamburger country
73

Act) so that citizens and
Apply for citizens not only information
need, but all federal agencies of
official outset for publication
Documents are required.
n The opposition rights and plenums
Want committees in all the parliaments
we are strengthening. Committee meetings are
basically be public.

Infrastructure and major projects such as
Stuttgart 21 or the nuclear waste storage in
Gorleben have criticism and protest to be
drawn. Decisions of the ruling
Politics were questionable and showed great
Deficits in democracy. It's not working
Only preliminary information and transparency, but the real impact of the
Citizens on their Angele
genheiten locally, in the countries and on
Federal policy and European levels.
n We want to set binding Bürgerinnenund citizens' forums. Planning approval process must be designed so that
all sufficient time remains to gather information, to verify whether their interests
are safeguarded and to participate.
An acceleration of the planning approval procedure to the detriment of citizen participation process we reject.
n Economic, ecological and technical projects have in the federal government,
Countries and communities with all the information subject to parliamentary
Its deliberations.
n The influence of lobbying on the

Policy must be suppressed.
Corruption and bribery, granting of advantages, acceptance of advantages, lack of transparency
and party sponsorship must not agents
be of influence. May Laws
not one of which is written that
benefit from them. We want to provide MPs bribery punishable. Us
want a binding and transparent
Introduce lobby register and advocate
Employment ban on lobbyists in
Federal ministries and - at full-time parliament - from deputies at companies and lobby organizations.
74

n The increasing blending political and economic interests
we want to halt: DIE LINKE
calls for a waiting period of five years for
Federal ministers and federal ministers,
parliamentary state secretaries and
Secretaries who change after they have left the office in companies, with their economic interests
they were previously involved politically.
n The auxiliary income of MEPs
to be published in euros and cents.
Corporate donations to political parties and
the party sponsoring such companies stands at party conferences, we want
prohibit and donations from private individuals
limited to 25,000 euros.
n We need a democratization
the economy: reign in company
anything but democratic states.
Participation rights at workplace
and company level have expanded, employees
as well as the society in productive capital
be involved. We need new
Structures - for example in the form of
Sectoral councils - that the democratic
Guarantee influence of society on economic activity and as a
real socialization of certain
Areas make possible (see. Chapter IV).
We demand the right to a general strike.
n We are committed to a nationwide
Register for corrupt companies a.

DIE LINKE advocates the idea of ​​a new
Solidarity from below. A democratization of democracy also means the
Strengthening influence of social layers,
which do not by education, income or
Access to the public are already privileged. Resources must publicly
Provided that it wide
Population permit,
democratic participation opportunities
to also avail. This concerns
technical and spatial infrastructure,
Legal advice and financial resources.
DIE LINKE wants the co-determination and
Participatory interests of senior
Strengthen seniors. Under a federal

desseniorenvertretungsgesetzes we are
us for a stronger voice of older people
in political decision-making process on
Federal, state, county and municipal
one plain.
We want the consistent implementation of
Separation of powers: self-government of the judiciary
introduce and independence of the courts
strengthen.
In European terms, Germany is
Taillight and was approved by the Parliamentary Assembly
prompted the model of the vast majority of European countries to
follow and to ensure the structural
Independence of the judiciary self-administration of courts and prosecutors by
Introduce judicial councils.
n DIE LINKE therefore sits on federal

and state levels for a consistent
Enforcing the separation of powers principle
and a democratization of the judiciary.
The councils are to be formed Justice party
politically independent and exclusively
the implementation of the Basic Law
Justice granting entitlement obligation.
n The appointment of judges and

Judges, public prosecutors should be done exclusively by judicial selection committees instead of the current under
significantly influenced by the Ministers of Justice and Attorney General. It should ensure that the selected candidates all social
Layers adequately represent. Just
a representative composition of the
Justice provides does not guarantee that actually
speaking on behalf of the people right
becomes. Strengthening the rule of law
also requires the judges
and judges of the same independence
State prosecutors.
Freedom and Security:
Expand citizens' rights
The Fundamental Rights and Citizenship also advised
in parliamentary democracies always
under pressure again. You are relativized for economic reasons or

the grounds to protect the freedom,
Security sacrificed. The freedom of assembly and the right to public
Expression of citizens and
Citizens are repeatedly severely restricted. The public space is in
The name of security of a permanent
Are subjected to surveillance, as well
Workers in the factories often through
Control and monitoring of their personal rights deprived. To view the computer
of individuals against raids
to protect the state, had the
Federal Constitutional Court a specially
define a new fundamental right.
DIE LINKE fights for the defense
and reinstatement of basic and
Civil rights.
n The right to petition is a civil rights
and possibility of political participation
further expand.
n The political special criminal law (§§ 129a
and 129b of the Criminal Code) must be abolished,
the general criminal laws are sufficient for
Crime of.
n The democratic control of all security authorities of the Federation, as the BKA and
Federal police have u. A. Through the compulsory labeling of uniformed
Policewomen and officials and
strengthen independent ombudsman to investigate police misconduct
become. The parliamentary control powers over the security agencies need to be significantly expanded.
n We want to privatize
Security by Folder services, Black
Sheriffs prevent or undo.
It is difficult enough to state
Security authorities to monitor,
in private services that is impossible.
n We want the right to informational
Secure self-determination: against data retention, inventory data information
and online searches, nichtindividualisierte radio cell query, video, spyware,
Eavesdropping and dragnet. With
Look at the social media have the

75

Be renewed and secured civil rights.
This includes protection against bullying
we also utilize the right to request deletion of all stored data.
n secret services, which has the NSU scandal
proved not protect democracy,
but they endanger. We defend
democracy and therefore want the
Intelligence agencies, including the protection of the constitution to abolish the benefit of a
independent Observatory »Neo
Nazis, racism, anti-Semitism ". That
also serves to protect the Constitution.
n State and non-governmental civilian
Organizations may not milita
be ized. We want the Civil-Military Cooperation (CIMIC) in favor
a strengthening of civil protection
end. The existing structures of ZMZ and the under construction structure of reserve forces (RSUKr)
must be resolved.
n The Left is committed to the protection of
People and structures, the critical
Make public possible: so-called
Whistleblower - informants about maladministration in companies and government agencies -
and platforms on the Internet, where
published critical information
can be (Leakingplattformen).

In public spaces, we want to
Security of citizens
protect by more staff.
Not a foot to the Nazis:
Anti Fascism is democracy
Racism, nationalism, anti-Semitism
and a general ideology of the inequality of men are the hallmark
the extreme right in all its shades. Racism and Antisemitism
deeply rooted in the heart of society.
There are always representatives
the 'center', the racist and failures
Make resentments unpresentable.
While in the 90s the Innenmi
Minister Schäuble and Kanther who with her
»The boot-is-full" rhetoric neofaschis
beneficiary tables violence, are today
76

Federal Interior Minister Friedrich and
some countries ministers against Roma
and refugees rushing. Since the terrorist attacks vom11. September 2001 in
the United States are Muslim people
Faith often under the general suspicion of terrorist activities, leading to
structural Islamophobia leads. Us
seek dialogue with Muslim and
Jewish communities and associations and
face together against antimusli
mix racism and antisemitism.
Racist attitudes are in the
Population by laws, regulations and authorities that as the
"Racial / ethnic profiling" directly and indirectly legitimized by the police authorities;
with society as a whole negative
Follow on coexistence.
Social exclusion and the arming
living conditions are also the
Culture medium in which fascist politics
can grow. An effective policy against it has to start with these basics:
Casualization push back, push forward the democratization of society
create and Social Security.
Try Especially in times of crisis
Rights groups, from this Ent
to propose development capital. A strong
LEFT, showing the view of the situation in other European countries, a
Barrier against the growth of anti-
democratic, nationalist and
his racist tendencies. As part of the
democratic society is also
DIE LINKE against inequality ideologies,
all forms of racism, anti-Semitism,
Islamophobia, opposition to democracy
and a neo-fascism.
The murder and terror series of "National
Socialist underground "has the
mortal danger from right - supports
, graphically illustrated the - by the secret services. They can also be seen at
knapp1 000 right-wing violence in
and right to more than 160 deaths
and racist violence since 1990,
of which only one state statistics
Almost a third recognize at all.
DIE LINKE demands a systematic

Detection of offenses involving racism,
anti-Semitic or anti-Islamic
Background.

n THE LEFT blocked together in broad
Alliances Nazi marches on streets
and squares.

Without a broad social Enga
ment against right - together with all
this will prepare democratic forces -
can the fight against the Nazis for the defense of the democratic rule of law
and against all the ideologies of inequality
not be recovered. Therefore sets
, the left to ensure that this
acknowledged antifascist commitment
and encouraged. DIE LINKE demands the
Recording Islamophobic offenses
Under the Criminal Police Intelligence Service - Politically Motivated Crime
(KPMD-PMK) to the full extent of
anti-Muslim hate crime
to make it clear.

Democracy for all who live here.
Equal rights for migrant women
and Migrants

n The federal programs against right
have promoted permanently and comprehensively
and all obstacles to the programs
(Z. B. the extremism clause) eliminated
become. DIE LINKE is made about
addition and for an anti-fascist culture of memory.
n groups and individuals

against right-wing and racist
Contact endeavors may of pages
State authorities not discriminated against and
legal and police pretexts
be traced. Given the large number
of cases where those police
were persecuted, the neo-fascist
Watch activities critical public
broach and protest
we want a national ombudsman
set up.
n DIE LINKE demands a ban on the NPD
and all other neo-fascist organizations. It is not the problem of right-wing extremism and racism alone
Loosen, but stands for a social
Ostracism and prevents government support for the structures of extreme
Rights.
n The Left is in a antifa

Ski tables clause in the Basic Law
Insert.

DIE LINKE stands for a cosmopolitan society, for a respectful social interaction in recognition
the diversity of all people. That
requires equal rights to social and
political participation for all in Germany
living people.
Racial discrimination and the
Policies against social exclusion and
a socially and ethnically selective education system have led to poverty
increased especially among migrants and solidifies
Has. 15.9 million people in Germany have an immigrant background,
mostly they are German nationals. They are nearly twice as likely of
Affected unemployment, their poverty risk
is three times higher than that of the rest of the population. This discrimination occurs at the
unsocial and exclusionary policy
previous federal governments.
DIE LINKE rejects migration and
Integration policy from the rights thereafter
assigns whether people as "useful" for
Capital are: quotas, quotas and
Points systems are instruments of a
neocolonial, selective immigration policy. We do not need tightening
the right of residence and racist
Debates on alleged Integrations
objectors. DIE LINKE demands: All here
born minors are
a right to German citizenship have - to have rejected without the citizenship of the parents.
On the other hand is needed is targeted funding opportunities and consistent anti-discrimination policy. We want the structural
Disadvantages and barriers to access to
Education and training, to the labor market
and to social services
clear off.
77

n In addition, calls on the LEFT

facilitated naturalization opportunities for
living in Germany and migrants
Migrants. We want multiple State
citizenships allow. The option compulsion must be abolished. Also
an income-independent naturalization and low fees are held
necessary.
n We want suffrage in Germany
immigrants living in
Federal, state and municipal levels,
so that they equal society
can help shape.
n We want to improve and
Extension of a voluntary
based integration and language
course offerings. The employment situation
and pay of teachers must always be designed so that good
Working conditions, secure employment and fair wages
are secured.
n The family reunification of children,
Spouses and (same-sex)
Life partners and partners must
not be hindered. The discriminatory
German-generating tests when spouses
want to investigate and the right of residence
we abolish.
n The right of residence of migrants
and migrants / refugees should not by
Family status or economic
and social conditions, as well as knowledge of German be made dependent.
n DIE LINKE demands comprehensive Visa

liberalization or a possible
Lifting the visa requirement. We demand
open borders for all.
n The European unlawful discrimination of Turkish nationals
must be stopped and their rights
the EU-Turkey Association Agreement
are fully respected.
n qualifications abroad
were acquired, need to be recognized
become.

78

Policy for minorities
align to European standards
For the Danes, Frisians, Sinti and Roma
and the Sorbs / Wends, which are located in Germany for centuries,
must the standards of European
Minority Convention comprehensively
Application be brought. The Federal Republic must finally the necessary
Conclusions from the repeated
Attract criticism of Europe. Required
are structural changes. Institutions and projects to preserve, care for and
the development of the recognized minority languages ​​and cultures are by
the federal and state governments with the means
equip that the increased tasks in the fields of education, science
and basic and advanced culture meet.
Media in minority languages
must continue their contribution to the preservation
and the development of languages
afford to. The unworthy public
Discussion about the level of funding of the policy on minorities
must belong to the past. It
has to stop so that the minorities their legal claims ever
back out of a "supplicant role"
must demand; the rights of their democratically elected bodies against
state and municipal agencies, as well
in the German Bundestag, are expanding.
Expand asylum, European
Refugee Protection solidarity
shape
The right of asylum device repeatedly targeted
right campaigns. Until well into the bourgeois middle allegations, refugees rich
would operate fraud and abuse.
In recent years aimed such
Campaigns especially on Roma from the
Yugoslavia's successor states and from
Romania, the front protection in Germany
massive discrimination investigated. In a
Logic of deterrence are protection seekers in Germany a discriminatory and exclusionary regime
Harassment subjected. Legal protection
in the asylum procedure is in many ways
undermined. At the same time set up the EU at

its external borders is a civil-military
Foreclosure regime, in which also authoritarian
Regimes and countries without functioning
Asylum System be involved on the periphery of the EU.
n The arms-exporting countries, such as
et al Germany, have a responsibility for the war and thereby caused famine and exodus of people
the whole world. We therefore call for a
humane refugee policy on German
and European level, the completion
all wars and a solidary economic, resource and trade policy
to combat poverty and hunger.
n Stop the harassment of
Refugees! The asylum seeker performance
law, the residence obligation and accommodation in collective centers must immediately
be abolished. Asylum seekers stands
the same right to work, the same
Basic security and health care to. Gender-specific reasons for flight have comprehensively as grounds for asylum
be acknowledged. Traumatised Peek
linge have native speakers psycho
receive therapeutic care.
n We want a right to stay for all people with uncertain residence status,
the more than five years in Germany
live. The fundamental right to asylum (Artikel16a
Basic Law) must be restored to its substance (see, Chapter II). So-called chain tolerance status annually to
shall be submitted, we want to benefit by
end secure residence rights.
n The EU agency Frontex foreclosure
must be abolished. We sit down
for a fair and solidarity system
of admitting refugees into the EU.
The borders of Europe have for protection
seekers be open.

"Acquire" also an obstruction:
by poor working conditions, stress
and social pressure. Lack of investment
in local communities, benefit cuts and
the segregation of people due
its impairment limit the
Design options for a self-
a determined life. Instead of full social participation and self-determination do people with disabilities
often the inaccessibility of public
union areas, schools, offices and transportation, Information and Communi
tions systems, the exclusion in
Special schools and homes and discrimination in various walks of life.
All people have their opportunities as full-fledged citizens and
Appreciated and encouraged citizens may
not reduced to people with deficiencies
and be patronized - so there is the
UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in front, and that's
Based left politics. This requires
a new thinking and action at political
Responsible citizens
and victims themselves. This we want
together with stakeholders and associations
help bring forward: of a more effective anti-discrimination law on
barrier-free living and Select, good
Work for people with disabilities,
self-determined forms of living to
a nonviolent Psychiatry.
All laws and regulations are
Therefore, to check on the basis of the UN CRPD.

Self-determination and in the middle:
an inclusive society
without obstacles

n The National Action Plan for
Implementation of the UN Disability Convention is under actual participation
of those affected and their representative bodies updated and concretized
become. Verifiable targets, deadlines for implementation and sufficient
Financing are essential - human rights must not fall below cost
reservation made.

In the Federal Republic live almost ten
Million people with recognized
Disabilities. More and more people

We are committed to supporting
People with disabilities and their
Representing the interests of one. This includes
79

z. B. the promotion of independent advice,
the support of affected organizations and strengthening the rights of
Works and staff councils, representatives for handicapped persons as well as workshop councils
and women's representatives in Facilities for the disabled.
n Existing structural and communicative
Barriers must be eliminated. To this end,
we want a special investment program
of one billion euros per year in an
Hang up period of five years. Public investment and subsidies to
also be linked to the criterion of accessibility in the future.
n Accessible mobility is good for everyone -
these are barrier-free transport,
a sufficient space and a
Escorts essential.
n For the severely disabled or sick people who
not use public transport
can, should to allow participation
in public life, a free
individual quota for kilometers
Disabled rides are available.
n The necessary framework
and financial resources must be allocated to the right to inclusive
Education at all educational paths and
equipment for the entire life
secure.
n To disability handicap
by z. B. special aids, personal assistance or structural measures
compensate, it needs a uniform national participation Security Act. The
Services are without income and
Assets test requires coverage for
Disposal are provided and good, collective
Liche guarantee working conditions for assistants.
n In order to realize the right to a good job for people with disabilities,
we want to raise the minimum employment rate to six per cent and the
Countervailing charge on violation least
triple. The special status of workshop employees must be abolished, their

80

Strengthened workers' rights and the same
Enforced wage for the same work
become.
n Legal discrimination, in particular on psychiatric special laws
and medical care or legal
Powers of constraint, should be repealed.

For a modern drug policy:
Criminalization and exclusion
counteract
In the drug policy a fundamental rethinking is required. The current criminalization of drug users restrict the availability and
Consumption of drugs is not effective a,
but forcing drug users in the
illegal market. This is organized
Crime promoted with devastating
Follow in Germany, but also in the
Cultivation and transit countries.
Target left drug policy is to reduce drug-related problems and
Conditions for a responsible use of intoxicants
produce. DIE LINKE is committed to
A society that is not on punishment and
Sets repression against drug users, but with
Prevention and education prevents the drug abuse and addiction help.
Problem drug use often depends
with the specific circumstances of the
People together. Therefore Effective drug prevention is part of a policy for
healthy and equitable living conditions
makes, strengthens the resources of the people
and enables them to their self-determination
Life to make.
n Demand-oriented offers of
psychosocial support and care
of intoxicant abusers on a voluntary
Basis have coverage for
To be available.
n We want the possibilities for substitu-
improve tution by the
Doctors created legal certainty and the
Facilitates delivery of substitutes
becomes. Treatment with diamorphine,

a synthetic heroin, must
be coverage allows.
n The health hazards
Consumers to
reduce, let's Drug-check Inga bids for testing of pollution
allow drugs and for risk
Groups free clean injecting equipment
provide.
n DIE LINKE stands for the international

agreed ban on advertising for tobacco products
finally implement also in the poster and cinema advertising and apply equally in sponsorship.
n DIE LINKE advocates the cultivation
approve cannabis for their own use and to allow cannabis clubs on non-commercial basis. It must
the protection of minors, as well as a corresponding
Advertising ban be secured. We want to
Facilitate opportunities for Cannabis as
Medical use drugs and
to explore.
n DIE LINKE advocates nationwide, scientifically based
Limits - especially for the cannabis ingredient THC - by road
one which an acute unfit to drive
comprehensible defined.
n We want the dangers of gambling addiction
reduce. DIE LINKE is committed,
that have slot machines less studied inducing properties and in
Spielotheken a consistent round matches will be enforced protection of minors
n In dining options
we call for a ban on vending machines.
n We are committed to a unvoreingenom-

mene scientific assessment of
previous drug policy a. Here are
alongside experts also
Concerned-state representatives
involve and international experi
to be considered approximations.
n We demand that drug help structures
be capable of quickly and flexibly to

Changes, for example in the field of new
Substances and changes in consumption patterns
to respond and- shapes.
n the drug market, we want to regulate,
to him of organized crime
escape and the catastrophic consequences
the drug war in cultivation and Transit
countries to reduce.

To internationally rethinking
to achieve drug policy, we are calling
the federal government, the United Nations Convention on Narcotic Drugs and the
Drug Strategy of the European Union
towards a human and enlightened
To influence drug policy.
Right to Feierabend:
enjoying free time
Free time is unevenly distributed between
genders, classes, professional
groups. For many people, stretches
Gainful employment increasingly made, or
Loads so take that free
Time especially with the recovery
the ability to work is occupied. Women
bring still more time for household, cooking, cleaning and child care
on. For people with low incomes many ways, free time can be
enjoy, blocked by obstacles: admission fees, expensive equipment and accessories,
the need for sports and hobbies
would.
We want all people to enjoy free time equally and the
Access to various leisure and
Open cultural activities - a question of
Democracy.
Have time to relax, to
recover, investigate matters and interests - will depend on the policy-making
on how accessible these options
are how democratic free time. Read,
go to rock concerts, surf the Internet,
Go running or to the gym, watching TV, cinema, swimming, library or
Listen to the radio. DIE LINKE is committed,
that each and every the diversity of Peru
can certainly use.
81

Diversity also needs spaces to try and discover for all out
can not find what they want and can.
Thus talents as cultural traditions
be discovered and promoted, needs
it music lessons, theater subscriptions,
Materials for sculpture, painting or
Sample spaces and sports fields. This is
no matter of taste, but
left politics.

n Funding for fan projects, initiatives
and projects against right-wing,
Discrimination and violence are increasing
and sustainably enshrined.

n With publicly funded employment
We want in particular in the fields
Social, cultural and ecological meaningful and
create additional collectively hedged jobs that are not under the
Must be minimum.

n All people with disabilities must
the full participation in sports possible
be.

n Public youth clubs, Kultureinrich
tions, libraries and much more
for us an elementary constituents
General interest that we want to publicly organize and equip sufficient.
This is the funding of
Improve communities significantly.

A democratic society needs
a lively public and
Polyphony of the discussion. Media
Wear it to provide comprehensive information
as well as opinion-forming
when - when the pluralism and manufactured
is secured. That media commercialized
and are marked by power relations,
weakens democracy. Public service media should be a first counterweight
form, but they often orient themselves on
Quotas or come under pressure from
bipartisan majorities in the Broadcasting Council.
Critical reporting and quality journalism - thus informing
Population - are so difficult. For
Journalists in the
private print media of expression
Corridor closely: hang your jobs
from from profit and advertising revenues.
Without support and control by
the public, there is the danger that
the media themselves to the hazard
Democracy contribute.

We want the conditions of access
improve the sport for all.
To exercise should not depend on income and social status. Us
promote disabled, integrative,
natural and environmentally-friendly sport.
n The support program for sports facilities
the rehabilitation and construction of sports facilities
for grassroots sport we want to republish. Fans and active in the associations should
more on the design of sports venues
be involved.
n We want to publicly funded
Employment in the area of ​​grassroots sport
create.

n We oppose categorical suspicions and monitoring of
Fans of certain clubs or sports.
We want the participation of fans
Improve club decisions.

Democratization of the media:
Information and self-determination

n A thus configured grassroots
we see as the basis for entkommerzialisierten competitive sports. Competitive sport should
regardless of the sponsors advent
be possible in all sports.

We want high-quality radio and
Television broadcasts against the pressure
defend through commercialization.
We advocate the interests of
all in the media and film industry
dependent and often precarious workers
ensure.

n Bureaucratic obstacles for a voluntary commitment at grassroots level are
dismantle.

n We want good working conditions
provide media and filmmakers:
"Fair Work" in media production.

82

n We advocate for ensuring the
Communications and media freedom:
For that we want in traditional and
digital media democratic
Make media order. Public broadcasting, we want to reform and democratize the broadcasting councils
and quotation. The editorial statute should
anchor a high participation of employees.

Expand opportunities for political participation. But there is also much
fältige hazards: Commercial Social
Media are democratic control
deprived of their data collections jeopardize the privacy of personal data.
Business interests threaten the neutrality and equal treatment of all users
and users. The state supervision
increases.

n The antitrust laws have exacerbated
be to the media concentration
curb.

For the left network policy is social policy. We want the Internet as
Space of social innovation remains open.
Knowledge is used productively continue
may be. That must be the right
the creators and creators of intellectual
Works on adequate remuneration in
Line are brought. We want this
Questions in a modern patent and
Copyright rules. The private sector acquisition of knowledge in the form of
Copyright and patent rights must not lead to
economic or cultural development are bound.

n The public orientation of journalism is to reorganize - over
alternative financing models, participation of users and users
in program content and the common good
based compensation approaches.
n We want media literacy and
Comprehensively strengthen media education: in
pre-school education, in school
and teaching, in civil society
Projects and in the working world.
n We are committed to a reform of the
January 1, 2013 introduced a broadcasting fee. Social injustices and
unlawful interference with the right of
Citizens to informational
Self-determination must be eliminated. We do not want residents
and residents of nursing homes and dachas, blind and hearing impaired are charged,
while the hotel lobby has secured concessions.
n Accessibility in the media and the
Representation of disability organizations
in the broadcasting councils are for us
future an important issue.

For an open and free Internet:
combat digital divisions
The Internet has changed how
People produce, communicate
and deal with information. The network
can show solidarity and new
Social economies permit; these
Trends we want to promote and

n We call for a reform of copyright
Contract Law, so that creative people to their
claims to equitable remuneration
to enforce effectively. We sit
us for new licensing and compensation models (Creative Commons Culture value Mark,
Crowdfunding) and for a comprehensive
Reform of collecting societies
on.
n The extension of copyright
Protection periods we want to reverse and
Foundations for fair, non-commercial
Create uses. The
Criminalization of whole groups of users
We reject. The coated and
massive use of warnings against
Citizens want for alleged copyright infringement
we stop by warnings on
commercial abuse and actual
Refine rights violations and
Attorneys' fees covers. Non-commercial use actions in filesharing
should be allowed. We call for a law
on resale of digital cultural goods. We reject an intellectual property right
for from the press publishers.

83

We understand access to the Internet
as part of the socio-cultural subsistence level and the general interest.
In the short term, we want the egalitarian access
technically secure and legally to the network
anchor:

n Software and devices that allow Internet

n is the backup of network neutrality -

We want equal access
of all people to the network. For this is a
nationwide broadband coverage
especially in structurally weak regions
socially and for all as socially
Disadvantaged needed.

as the supply of water and electricity -
an important infrastructural task
are not the control by the market
may be left.
should n Telecommunication networks
are therefore transferred to public and common beneficial ownership.
n censorship and blocking, we want to prevent. We want the privatization of
Stopping enforcement in the network and
the Deep Packet Inspection, d. h. the look
in the data packets by network operators and
Providers or governmental bodies, suppress.

We want the democratic and social potential that the digital revolution
allows release:
n We are committed to a comprehensive
Use of an "Open Data", in the
All rights are safeguarded.
Databases of governments, agencies and public enterprises to
on the internet under free licenses and in
machine-readable form accessible
be made.

We want to strengthen data protection and
the right to anonymity in the network will receive:
n The ability to use

Services and applications may not
a consent to the data collection
or dissemination depend. We sit
us for privacy enhancing technology
("Privacy by design"), for data-thrifty
Basic settings ("privacy by default")
in web services, smart phones, tablet computers and apps, as well as for the right
, which own data "take"
(Data portability) or delete them.
n Digital dragnet investigations and supply
data storage we want to ban.

84

users tracked and users and
Internet censorship can be built,
may not be exported. Between
Police and intelligence services will have a
clear separation be ensured.

n We want broadband internet connections
add them to the statutory universal service, while a minimum bandwidth of
first 10 Mbit / s commit legally
and this minimum bandwidth to adapt the technical standards at regular intervals. Next we want municipalities
and promote free radio initiatives, so that they
free and autonomous wireless networks
set up. The so-called Störerhaftung
should be amended to the effect that it allows
is, Internet connections with other
at any time to share.
n the exclusion of socially disadvantaged
want from the digital communication
we end, Internet-enabled devices as
Part of the socio-cultural subsistence level
recognize, make information and participation rates for disabled guests.

In the long term we want new models of
Financing creative works establish.
Free Software and open technologies
we want to promote and evaluate how the
Use of free software developed in the public administrations and independent bloggers and bloggers, as well as
innovative online platforms supported
can be. If digital media content and new formats SGEI
be promoted, they must permanently
freely available.
Poor working conditions, unfair
Wages, ecological and health
intolerable conditions in the IT Zulieferund production plants, in the mining and processing of essential
Metals and rare earths have a

Have end. Why we are
internationally for Fair Work in the
IT industry is a.
Realizing religious freedom,
Religious communities
equal treatment, and State
Separate church institutionally
The Left defends the right of all
People on a commitment to
Ideology or religion. It advocates
protecting ideological and religious
Minorities and for an institutional separation of church and state and the
Abolition of the military chaplaincy.
n Fundamental Rights and worker / 'rights must have validity even in the churches and religious communities and their institutions, including the right to strike
and the Works Constitution Act.
n exerted by ecclesiastical employer
Discrimination against employees because of their living conditions or their
Religion or religious affiliation
in areas that are not directly to the
Serve religious freedom, must by law
be prevented.
n We do not want preferential treatment of the Church against public bodies in
the awarding of sponsorships, for example, For
Daycare.

n Schools should knowledge of religions
mediate and mutual tolerance
promote the faith communities. Of the
Lessons must be paid by nationally recognized teachers as part of the educational mission of the State, regardless
by ecclesiastical or political religion
Influence. School prayer, school worship and religious symbols such as the
Crucifix in state schools to
remove.
n constitutions must not religious
Covers exhibited. Religious special regulations such as the blasphemy law (§166
Penal Code), the holiday laws are then
to examine to what extent it considers essential
the religious feelings of members of different denominations are required.
n We want the existing since 1919
Constitutional mandate to replace the
State services to the churches finally
implement.
n The church tax should be abolished.
For levying and collecting membership fees and thus also
intended for the members of management per se
Only the religious communities
be self-responsible. A survey of
Religion or religious affiliation
becomes redundant by the registration offices and can be omitted.

85

VI. Together change the country
Our program for the election and politics
the next legislature is
from a wide variety of proposals and
Projects. They are related to
our idea of ​​a solidary alternative, the democratic
Socialism. We fight for a society in which self-evident again
is to apply: that no one living in poverty
must all be able to live well from work,
the standard of living is guaranteed in old age,
that wealth no less in his hands
should remain, but that the benefit of all
will be invested in the company that
in foreign policy applies: Never again war.
Today these simple things have to
be fought. That these demands
belong together, makes the core of the
LEFT policy. Age poverty can not
fight, who is not the level of pensions
increases and cleans up with low wages.
The low wages can not fight each other, if not sanctions for Hartz IV
fall and all have a right to a minimum wage, which actually protects against poverty.
Who does not redistribute wealth and
Wants to preserve the rich who can to politics

86

Exchange does not pay - and prepares
forward before, unfortunately the promise
not cash out of the election campaign
be able.
DIE LINKE puts his finger in the wounds.
We give them a voice in the
big politics find any lobby. Us
make pressure and not give up:
We show how it could go.
Often it looks as if society
and politics only in Parliament and
Television made. But social and
be democratic improvements
only in close cooperation of extra-parliamentary, social movements
and left forces in parliament reached -
and against resistance. Grows out of these struggles self-confidence, strength and
social pressure. The left and
the leftists are. Our policy
Resistance is colorful, radical and imaginative. We make connections. We are
important that we change together. Of the
Horizon is open, we can make it together. Accessible for all.

Index
A

C

Disarmament 4, 55, 56
Afghanistan 7, 10, 52, 53
Agenda 2010 12, 46, 49
Agriculture 70
Altersarmut 4, 18, 19, 86
Antifascism 5, 76
Antisemitism 8, 76
Pharmacists 20
Work, good 4, 6, 7, 9, 11, 12, 15, 58, 60, 61,
68, 72, 79, 80
Unemployment (including unemployment,
Mass unemployment) 8, 9, 11, 12, 16,
17, 19, 39, 60, 70
Working shorten 4, 14
Poverty Reduction 59
Drug prices 20
Doctors 21
Assistance 80
Asylum 5, 78
Phasing out the nuclear industry 65
Training 4, 13, 24, 29, 34-36, 42,
72, 77
Compensatory Union 49
Bundeswehr missions abroad 10,
52, 53
Austerity 46, 49

Commons 29, 30, 64, 83

B
BAföG 36, 37
Track 17, 67
Bank levy 47
Banks 6, 7, 10, 29, 46-48, 58, 61
Accessibility 57, 73, 80, 83
Bedarfsgemeinschaft 43
Time limitations 8, 10, 13
Workforce 16 enterprises
Care allowance 42
Formation of 4, 6, 9, 11, 17, 24, 27, 28, 33,
34, 38, 43, 44, 60, 61, 72-74, 77, 78,
80, 83
Biodiversity 54, 69, 70
Bologna Reform 43
Bundeswehr 7, 10, 34, 52, 53, 56
Bürgerinnen- and
Citizens Insurance, solidary 22, 23
Citizens' initiatives / public petition /
Referendums 9, 28, 68
Citizenship 5-7, 10, 40, 73, 75, 76

D
Interest, public 6, 9, 11,
28, 60
Privacy 10, 22, 84
Democracy 4-7, 9-11, 14, 24, 27, 29, 43,
46, 49, 50, 53, 60, 62, 63, 73-77, 81, 82
Democratization 5, 31, 37, 55, 63,
73-76, 82
Digital divisions 5, 83
Discrimination 4, 38, 39, 41, 58, 77, 78,
80, 82, 85
Dispo-interest 48 72
Drug Policy 5, 80, 81
DRG ("diagnosis-related
Case groups ") 21
Drones 56
E
Before 23, 40
Ehegattensplitting 26, 40
Volunteering 40
Property 6, 10, 24, 27-29, 48, 62, 63,
70, 84
Property, public 10, 24, 27, 29,
48, 63
One Euro Job 8, 17
Income equality
(see executive pay,
Minimum) 8-10, 13, 14, 17, 24, 34, 44,
62, 63, 82
Income tax 26
Electronic Health 22
Parental allowance 42
Energy poverty 65
Energy Transition 7, 9, 11, 26, 57, 61, 64, 65, 70
Development aid 54
Inheritance 9, 25
Energy 7, 10, 28, 52, 57, 61, 64, 66, 71
Renewables 64, 65
Unemployment insurance 17
Disability pension 19
Euro 49
Europe 6, 8-11, 46, 49-51, 53, 68,
76, 79
European Social Charter 15
87

European Union 49, 50
Equal Pay (Equal pay
for work of equal value) 14
European Central Bank 47, 48

Infrastructure, social 36, 41
Inclusion 7
Internet 5, 29, 59, 71, 76, 81, 83, 84
Islamophobia 76

F

J

DRGs 21
Family 11, 12, 38, 41, 42, 72
Feierabend, right to 5, 15, 81
FTT 10, 26, 47
Refugee Protection 5, 78
Fracking 66
Freedom 8, 11
Leisure 4, 7, 8, 10, 43, 68, 75, 81
Peace 4, 6, 10, 53, 55
Frontex 51, 79

Youth Services 29, 43, 59

G
Community School 34
Commons 29
Commonwealth 6, 9, 24, 28, 46, 73
General Strike 74
Cooperatives 9, 10, 16, 29, 31, 59, 63
GM 70
Justice 4, 6, 7, 9, 11, 12, 16, 24, 33,
46, 53, 54, 57
Gender equality 4, 38, 39
Health promotion and prevention 22
Health care 4, 7, 17, 20, 60,
61, 79
Trade tax 26
Violence 4, 38-40, 52-54, 76, 82
Unions 11, 13-16, 35, 37, 47, 48,
50, 54, 56, 59, 63, 65
Equality 57
Equal living conditions 59
Gorleben 65, 74
Basic income, unconditional 18
Good life 4, 6, 9, 19, 38, 52, 57, 61
H
Hartz IV 4, 6, 8-12, 14, 16, 17, 19, 30, 32,
42, 43, 66, 73, 85
Colleges 4, 33, 36, 37, 56, 58, 59
I
Industrial policy 5, 61
Infrastructure, digital 36
Infrastructure, public 4, 9, 11, 26, 41,
59, 60
88

K
Capitalism 8, 46, 50, 59
Child poverty 58
Child Services 6, 39, 41, 42
Child support 43
Children basic security 9, 43
Church 5, 14, 16, 56, 85
Kita 12, 17, 26, 38
Climate change 26, 60, 65
Coal power plants 64, 65
Local 4, 18, 26, 27, 28, 30-32, 37,
44, 57-59, 61, 65, 66, 69, 70, 74, 79, 82, 84
Conversion 50, 58
Corruption 21, 74
Hospitals 9, 21, 27, 29, 60
Insurance 20-22, 41, 43
Creative 44, 45, 83
War 4, 49, 52-54, 56, 79, 85
Crisis 4, 8, 9, 16-18, 24-26, 46, 47, 51, 57,
60, 70, 76
Culture 4, 9, 11, 17, 28, 43-45, 72, 73, 82
Künstlersozialversicherung 44
EPL 17, 31, 42
L
Rural Areas 70
Lifestyles 4, 40, 42
Food controls 71
Life partners and
Life partner, registered 40
Lifestyles 40, 51, 67, 68
Gays and lesbians 40
Temporary 6, 8, 12-14, 27
Lobbying 74
Wage 4, 6, 8, 9, 12-16, 19, 22, 38, 39, 46,
49, 50, 58, 60, 72, 78, 80, 84
Wage developments 13
M
Executive pay 14, 62, 63
Media 5, 8, 38, 40, 51, 75, 78, 82, 83
Human Rights 4, 6, 7, 40, 55, 79

People with disabilities 19, 23, 72,
79, 80, 82
Rent 4, 8, 9, 17, 26, 30, 31, 33
Migrants 5, 73, 77, 78
Millionaire control 24, 25
Minorities 4, 44, 78, 85
Minimum 8, 9, 10, 13, 14, 17, 24, 34, 44,
82
Minimum pension 9, 19
Subsistence payments, penalty-free 6, 17, 18
Minijobs 10, 12, 13
Codetermination 4, 10, 14, 15, 27, 29, 37,
49, 49, 59, 60, 62, 63, 73, 83
SME 58, 64
Mobility 5, 60, 64, 66, 67, 80
N
Sustainability 37, 64
Nighttime ban 68
Transport 10, 17, 18, 67, 68
NATO 7, 56
Conservation 69
Net neutrality 84
Low-wage 6-8, 19, 58
NPD, prohibition of 77
NSU scandal 76
O
ÖBS (Public
subsidized employment sector) 17
Public, the 4, 27, 28
Public Services 13, 18, 28, 29, 39
Public Services 9, 11, 12,
28, 60
Open Data 37, 73, 84
East 5, 10, 30, 57, 58
P
Political Contributions 23
Commuter tax 66
Personal tax 15, 21
Emergency contraception 39
Care 4, 6, 19, 21, 22, 23, 39, 44
Police 39, 56, 84
Precarious employment 36, 60
Internships 8, 13
Privatization 9, 18, 19, 21, 23, 24, 27-29,
33, 46, 61, 67, 69, 75, 84
Legal aid 18
Public-private partnership 18
Psychiatry 21, 79

Q
Rate 39, 42, 77, 82
R
Racism 8, 38, 43, 76, 77
Regional Development 5, 59
Wealth tax 26, 47
Wealth 4, 6, 7, 9, 11, 14, 16, 24, 26, 27,
38, 46, 86
Remunicipalisation 30, 63
Religion 40, 85
Pension Justice 10
Pensions 4, 6-8, 10, 18, 19, 20, 22, 40, 49
Pension levels 9, 86
Pension Reconciliation 58
Respect 6
Riester contracts 18 19
Arms Exports 4, 8, 51, 52, 55, 56
S
Sanctions 6, 9, 10, 11, 17, 86
School for all 4, 34
Debt brake 10, 28
Self-determination 5, 11, 14, 39, 62, 75,
79, 82, 83
Self-employed 8, 17, 19, 26, 45
Seniors 74
Sexism 8, 38
Safety 5, 16, 19, 32, 41, 53, 60, 68,
75, 76
Immediately receivables 10
Solidarity 4, 10, 11, 19, 20, 38, 49, 52, 74
Solidarpakt III 58
Social Justice 4, 6, 9, 11, 24, 33,
46, 53, 57
Social justice 4 world, 53
Fundamental social rights 4, 6, 16, 50, 51
Socialism, democratic 86
Socialism, lustful 11
Social-ecological restructuring 4, 7, 8, 24,
58-61, 68
Welfare state 4, 7, 9, 10, 46
Social ticket 17, 18, 66
Top rate 8, 9, 26
Sport 81, 82
Tax evasion 47
Tax Justice 4, 26
Strikes, political 51, 63
Right to strike 16, 51, 63, 85
Electricity prices 8, 64, 65
Electricity and gas locks 10

Structural policies 27, 59, 66
Tuition 36
Stuttgart 21 68 74
T
Collective agreements 6, 12-14, 16, 39, 50
Participation, democratic 5, 73, 74
Speed ​​Limit 68
Animal welfare 70, 71
Tourism 5, 72
Transgender 38, 41
Troika 46, 49
U
VAT 25, 44
Redistribution 7-9, 24, 46
UN CRPD 79
UN Charter 55
Universities 34
Corporate taxes 12 25
Copyright 83

V
Right of collective action 16, 31, 41, 72
Consumers
and load 5, 64, 71, 72
Protection of the Constitution 76
Transport 5, 6, 11, 27, 52, 60, 61, 66, 67, 71
Property Tax 10, 25, 27
Referendum 28, 50, 68, 73
Data retention 75, 84
W
Suffrage 73, 78
Continuing 4, 17, 33-35
Service contracts 6, 12, 13, 27
Economic Democracy 29, 63
Science 4, 14, 36-38, 54, 56, 58, 60,
63, 78
Whistleblower 76
Housing 4, 10, 30, 31, 60
Would 4, 6, 11, 16, 19, 20, 22, 49
Z
Civil clause 34, 37, 53, 56
Co-payments and additional contributions 10, 20
Time 4, 11, 12, 15, 38, 42, 74, 81
Forced removals 18, 33

90

Even when money is true:
DIE LINKE is the hands-on party
DIE LINKE is for everyone, the socially on a
are just policy dependent. So that we
Also in this election campaign may be a strong voice for justice, need
we and your donation.

were involved Dinside the Left, like,
we ask you not only to your voice,
but also sincerely to make a donation.
No amount is too small, and every euro helps
makes us strong for a just, caring society.

While the other parties
Cash from companies and lobbyists
can fill, DIE LINKE waived
such donations. This also makes our
Politics incorruptible, because we need to
Donation checks from the business world no
Have respect.

Donation account:
Party Executive of the Left Party
Account: 5000600000
BLZ: 100 900 00
Berliner Volksbank eG
Password: donation


Instead of five large donations over 150,000
Euro we advertise therefore by 150 000 small donations over five euros. If this
Election program on its development
thousands of members, friends and Freun-

Please note for all donations each
Your name, age and address
at. Your data will be treated confidentially.
On request, we gladly donation receipts.

Donations:
www.die-linke.de/spenden

Poster donation:
www.die-linke.de/
Poster donation

die-linke.de/
Poster donation

!
m
A
f
At

Debit authorization for campaign contribution
This collection authorization of the party executive of DIE LINKE is entitled
  once from
monthly campaign contribution
debit the below mentioned amount from my account below.

Name first Name

Donation amount in Euro

ZIP / City

Street, No.

Bank code

account number

Name and address of the financial institution

Name and signature of the account holder / of the account holder (if different from the first line)
Tax-deductible desirable:  Yes  No

Place and date

Signature

Please send to:
DIE LINKE Party Executive, Federal Treasurer, Small Alexander Straße 28, 10178 Berlin

fi

I'm actively in the election campaign!
Yes, I would like the election campaign to be active, and my ideas, my commitment and
bring my knowledge. Please keep me informed of further plans up to date and
informed me of concrete campaign activities!

Name first Name

E-mail address

ZIP / City

Street, No.

Phone

Mobile phone

Date of birth

Socialweb (Facebook, etc.)

I am a member of DIE LINKE  Yes   No I would like to become a member

If necessary, County / district association;
City / local association

If necessary, Function / mandate

I am a member of the following / following association, trade union, association, initiative
and would like to advertise for the left there. (Several entries possible)

fi

Please turn over!

During the election campaign I want to ... (multiple choice possible)
 join information booths.
Distributed in letterboxes  material.
 help hang the posters.
 distribute pamphlets / newspapers.
 me participate in creative activities.
Preparing  events.
 join home visits.
 the online election campaign enabled.
 help by donating.

 following actions.
For Newspapers / material spread around me of my neighborhood, I order
  100 pieces 200 pieces 500 pieces   more
 I would the newspaper / the material also in the nearest branch of the Left
pick.
I have ... (multiple choice possible)
 always time.
 a driver's license.
 morning time.
 evening time.
 (more) weekday time.

 (more) weekend time.
 a car.

The materials are provided by the Left Party in the German office of DIE LINKE
and their subdivisions in accordance with the provisions of the Federal Data Protection Act (Act)
stored, processed, transmitted, and stored only for the purpose of campaigning for this
and further elections until revocation of consent used.

place, date, signature

Please complete the form and signed by post to the left, and election district,
Small Alexanderstraße 28.10178 Berlin, password "Links Active 2013" or by fax to
030/24 00 94 80 Send. Questions by e-mail on or linksaktiv2013@die-linke.de
by phone at 030/24 00 91 11 www.linksaktiv2013.de

Admission Policy
Admission Policy
Hereby I declare,
Name,
first given name
I hereby
explain

I,

Name first Name

My entry into the Left Party, member of the Party of the European Left (EL).
).
Me
confess
me
to the
Principles
Program
of the
Party
The Left, Left
recognize (EL
the
believe
Admission
in the
Party
DIE LINKE, the
Member
the party
European
Federal statutes and am not a member of another party in the sense of the Law on Political Parties.
I am committed to the principles of the program of the Left Party, recognize the
Federal statutes and am not a member of another party in the sense of the Law on Political Parties.
More details about me
More details about me
Date of birth
Date of birth
Profession
Profession
Residential address (street, house number, postcode, place)
Residential address (street, house number, postcode, place)

Telephone number

E-mail address

Telephone number

E-mail address

Have you previously been a member of a party within the meaning of the Law on Political Parties? If so, how?
Have you previously been a member of a party within the meaning of the Law on Political Parties? If so, how?

fi

The details are for verification and statistical analysis of membership development and the improvement of communication. You are in the party leadership,
The details are for verification and statistical analysis of the member national associations and the earth in the divisions of the Left Party in accordance with the
developing and improving communication. You are in the party leadership,
Provisions of the Federal Data Protection Act (Act) is stored, processed, transmitted
the national associations and the layouts of the Left Party in accordance with the
and stored.
Provisions of the Federal Data Protection Act (Act) is stored, processed, transmitted
and stored.
place and date

Signature

place and date

Signature

Debit authorization
Admission Policy
This direct debit authorization, the Party Executive of the Left Party /
of the
Landesverband
I hereby
I declare the party DIE LINKE
Name,
to
aufVorname
Authorized withdrawal,

my ex
due monthly membership fee for the left
My entry into the Left Party, member of the Party of the European Left (EL).
Euro and
in the amount of
I am committed to the principles of the program of the Left Party, recognize the
(EL) respectively in the month of May
believe
Annual membership fee
the party
European
Federal Statute
and am nichtfür
Member
one of
other
Party imLinken
Meaning of
Law on Political Parties.
Euro (minimum 6 euros) to deduct from the bottom standing account.
in the amount of
More details about me
Name, first name of the member
Date of birth

Date of birth

Residential address (street, house number, postcode, place)
Profession

Residential address (street, house number, postcode, place)
Landesverband

Area Association

Bank code
Telephone number

account number
E-mail address

Name and address of the financial institution
Have you previously been a member of a party within the meaning of the Law on Political Parties? If so, how?

Name and signature of the account owner / account holder (if different from the Member)

The details are for verification and statistical analysis of membership development and the improvement of communication. You are in the party leadership,
the national associations and the layouts of the Left Party in accordance with the
Place
and Date
Signature
the member
) Saved,
Provisions
the Federal Data Protection Act (BDSG
processed, transmitted
and stored.

fi

Location and
Signature
Please
beiDatum
Make the appropriate division or submit
at:
Party Executive of the Left Party, Kleine Alexanderstrasse 28, 10178 Berlin

The speed dial program easier
Language and as an audio version as well
in various foreign languages
Versions can be found at
www.die-linke.de/wahlprogramm

A version in Braille may be
Standing next to a specified postal address
be ordered.
Information on absentee voting, the insurance and
Second vote, notes for foreign German and other electoral assistance can be found at
www.die-linke.de/wahlhilfe

Imprint
THE LEFT
Kleine Alexanderstrasse 28
10178 Berlin
Phone: 030/24 00 99 99
wahlanfragen@die-linke.de
www.die-linke.de
V.i.S.d.P. Matthias Höhn,
Federal Manager
DIE LINKE is on Facebook, Google+,
Youtube, Flickr and Twitter.
Printed on recycled Offset
100 percent recycled paper.

www.100-Prozent-sozial.de

