The government program
2013 - 2017

2

Citizens / interior projects
in the government program
The SPD-wide dialogue is the largest project on the participation of citizens
and citizens in the history of the SPD!
On nationwide more than 350 events, we asked people:
"What needs to be better in Germany?"
Tens of thousands filled dialogue cards have the SPD achieved since September 2012:
Overall, more than 40,000 suggestions, ideas, criticism on a variety of
Policy areas - from protection against poverty in old age on health care,
better schools and universities, fair wages, protection against precarious employment to more stringent regulation of the banking and financial markets.
The most interesting suggestions were selected, the sender's internal and
Sender invited to the large SPD Bürgerkonvent. Have several hundred
discussed. Together they have made the ideas of concrete projects and proposals
he is working. And so immediately co-written the government program of the SPD.
A government program new type, transparent and in-depth dialogue is
emerged - with "classic" elaborated program points and the projects of
Citizens. The projects of the citizens are correspondingly
highlighted.

The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

3

Contents
Foreword
4
I.
Germany better and fairer governance:

For a new social balance in our country
6
II.
Financial capitalism restrain - strengthening economic and SME -

Create good working
13
II.1
Markets need rules - for sustainable growth
13
II.2
Good work in a modern society
17
II.3
Together for more social market economy in Europe
24
II.4
Secure the economic success of our country
26
II.5
Secure and affordable energy - The energy transition can lead to success 35
III.
Education, Equality and cohabitation

in a modern society
42
III.1
Equal opportunities and advancement through education
42
III.2
Achieve equality and equity
49
III.3
Families go ahead
52
III.4
Youth Policy
55
III.5
Equal participation: For a modern integration policy
58
III.6
Culture, media and power policy
60
IV.
For an equitable tax policy
66
V.
Social security and pensions
72
V.1
Health and Care
72
V.2
Good work, good pension
79
V.3
Living together - people with and without disabilities
82
VI.
Good neighbors
84
VI.1
Social City and cohesion of the regions
84
VI.2
The city as an engine of economic and social development 85
VI.3
Action Programme for a solidary city and affordable housing 86
VI.4
Rural Areas
88
VII.
Environment and Consumer Protection
91
VII.1
Quality of life and innovation through good environmental policy
91
VII.2
Protect and strengthen consumers
93
VIII.
Living democracy
96
VIII.1
Democracy as a company principle
96
VIII.2
Strengthen citizenship and volunteering
97
VIII.3
For freedom in safety
99
IX.
For a better Europe
103
X.
Our idea of ​​globalization:

Justice for all instead of wealth for the few
108
XI.
Germany govern better!
118
The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

4

Foreword
This SPD government program in 2013 stands in a row and at the same time great tradition of programs of our party. With our government programs we have
repeatedly delivered proof of Regierungswilligkeit and governability. Above all, we have always shown that we - programmatically and equipped
closed - the economic, social and social conditions for the
Want to change people sustainably in our country.
Especially in the run-up to elections, it is essential that the SPD is about concretely clear about what needs to be done politically, if the conditions in the country to us
require around in Europe and throughout the world. To be on the amount of time, means
first, that we remember: The power of renewal in the SPD has a tradition, the founding idea and present task is at the same time. We have our
Changed the country for the better and will continue to do so.
This year the federal election coincides with our historic anniversary: ​​The SPD is celebrating its 150th anniversary. We are the oldest democratic
Party of Germany and the most traditional social-democratic party in the world.
Since its inception 1.863 billion fighting our members for freedom, democracy and justice. You enter for a solidary and progressive society that protects the individual and enables him to self-determination.
We know that the question of social justice and equal rights and is now in
Future just as true again and again in the past 150 years. Without
SPD saw our country and different from poorer, there is no eight-hour day, no
Workers' rights, no labor legislation and not the welfare state
in our Constitution. Therefore, the struggle for social justice remains an ongoing task.
The SPD is and remains the major political force for democracy and emancipation in
Germany. The rejection of the Enabling Act by the Nazis 80 years ago
the SPD is still an unprecedented document for our democratic attitude
and conviction.
For social democrats were repeatedly persecuted in German history, suppressed, interned, humiliated and killed. To it
to remember always, makes us humble, proud, but also confidently.
At this great social democratic history also includes the founding of the SDP
or Eastern SPD in October 1989, with the Social Democrats
have contributed to the peaceful revolution in Germany. We live
Democracy and will continue to do so.

The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

5

Social Democrats are in the 19th century for the
Equality between women and men, in this tradition include the introduction of
universal and equal suffrage in 1919, the anchoring of equality
in the Basic Law in 1949 and the implementation of self-determination of women in
the 1970s. They have been fighting for years for equal pay for women and men,
more women in leadership positions of state, politics, economy, science and
Company. This application is for us but not a matter of calculation and election campaigns,
but by attitude and beliefs. Draw courage and determination
Social Democratic Chancellor from. This includes the visionary Ostpolitik Willy
Brandts just as the global economic crisis management Helmut Schmidt,
overcoming the reform backlog by the SPD-Green Party government, the No
Gerhard Schröder to the Iraq war and the successful crisis management in the economic and financial crisis.
In our 150th anniversary, we look confident and confident
forward. We want and will continue to fight as the strong political force for economic, social and societal progress in Germany and in Europe. We know about the enormous global challenges in the coming
Decades. But we know as much about the interests, needs, concerns and passions of millions of people in Germany who hope and trust in a
strong Social Democracy set. To these people we feel first and foremost committed. For them, we want to make policy - with the "view from below" and with passion
and perseverance. Together with the traditional, but also with new allies, we want to write a new chapter in the history of our country.
This force of renewal remains the core of our policies:
We want a better future for all people and for our country,
in Europe and in the world.

The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

6

I. Germany better and fairer
rule: For a new social
Balance in our country
We want to and will govern better and more just. Election promises are considered more skeptical than ever. Too often was in front of parties and governments
Elections promised too much and held after the election too little. In a world that
constantly changing, it also becomes increasingly difficult to proclaim and certainties
Guarantees dispense.
In the case of our government takeover in the general election of 2013, we want to
therefore present in this government program unrealistic election promises, but especially our idea of ​​a new form of cooperation in our country
and from the co-existence in Europe and in the world.
Germany is a strong country. We can and we need economic success.
But Germany should also be a country in which all participate in the success. The politic
must be committed to the common good and not economic special interests.
The strongest lobby in Germany must finally again citizens
be.
We promise that we are facing this new cooperation and the common good in all
our challenges we will make our country back to the guideline of our actions. And where we want to bring about changes that have financial consequences, we also ensure their sound and sustainable financing. Us
Social Democrats not promise everything to everyone, but what we
promise we will keep.
Our idea of ​​a new form of cooperation.
We want more cohesion in our society: young and old, women and
Men, German and non-German, healthy and sick, people with and without
Disability. We all belong together. We are all Germany. And we all belong to Europe, the only continent that the individual freedom of every individual
with the responsibility and solidarity of all the people together for each other.
The SPD stands for justice also on generations to come: We base our
Policy because both today's and future generations an adequate
To enable livelihood. Our understanding of progress in the 21st century
therefore includes qualitative growth and improving quality of life,
Expansion of possibilities of life and individual freedom and a responsible use of the limited natural resources of our
Planet.

The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

7
Germany is doing well despite the crisis. The people in our country have in the
Enormous done recent years. It is thanks to that it Germany
today goes relatively well.
The living conditions in eastern Germany have improved. More than two decades after the unification of East and West German can
be proud of our achievements to date. But still there are painful economic and
social inequalities between East and West, which we by a policy of solidarity
want to overcome.
The prerequisites for the economic success of our country have been established by the Federal Government with SPDgeführten Gerhard Schröder: Instead of other
put European countries only on the financial markets and new services the so-called "new economy", the SPD chancellor Gerhard Schröder also strengthened the
manufacturing industry, industry and trade.
While other states today are facing enormous economic and social challenges due to their de-industrialization, grew up with this from
the SPD-driven active industrial policy Germany into a modern and
also one of the most successful economies in Europe and the world. This was
the reform policies begun ten years ago the SPD-led Federal Government
at. This reform policy of "Agenda 2010" increased investment in research and
Innovation, accelerating the development of renewable energies and took hundreds of thousands of people from the siding of social assistance and moved it the first time into the
active labor market policies.
The in this process also created abuse of temporary work, mini-jobs and
Low-wage employment, however, will be corrected. This is a requirement of justice and is necessary to ensure the confidence in the labor market policy. Because to make people independent of transfers and access to good,
to create safer and more socially insured employment, the aim of our policy remains.
Associated with investments in the early promotion of children in day care centers
and the launch of the first nationwide all-day school program, we have ten
Years with this policy of reform initiated the paradigm shift to a preventive welfare state. Have welfare state, social partnership and active economic policy
proved in the crisis of the financial markets as a guarantor of stability and success.
As the economy slumped in 2008 and 2009, we have re-targeted investment programs in the municipalities and for the automotive industry is driving growth in
Gear set. Short-time working has prevented mass layoffs and an employment bridge built to the upswing, which began from the summer of 2009. The result is
clear: The social democratic policy in the years 1998 to 2009, Germany
made a strong country with great potentials.
This raises responsibility. In Europe, but also for the weaker members of our
Company. Straight out of the economic strength of our country out, it is possible,
The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

8th
to create the conditions for a better and more cohesive society: For
a new relationship, more opportunities and a new social balance.
The federal government of CDU / CSU and FDP did not take that opportunity. On the contrary, no longer take the risk of becoming poor, alive in society
can has widened in the past four years for many people,
who are less qualified, longer unemployed or in insecure and low-paid
Work are employed, for single parents, for people who are restricted or impeded in their performance or are already growing up in poor families.
Inequalities in health, on the labor market and in the formation are
not overcome.
We will make the problems and concerns of the citizens back at the center of politics - and not the interests of anonymous financial markets. That is why we were the first party in Germany in a broad-based civil dialogue
people in Germany asked what needs to be better in our country. The
Answers and projects of this civil dialogue in this government program
incorporated. From our citizens' dialogue, we know that the citizens of our country above all questions of social security, the good work, the situation of
Families, a just financial system and social justice interest.
We want to put the common good at the center of our policy.
A modern society is a society in which each and every individual freedom
can live. A society that offers everyone the same opportunities for personal development and for a self-determined life. This applies more than 20 years after the
German reunification for citizens in the East and the West of our country.
This is 95 years after the introduction of women's suffrage and 64 years after the date laid down in Article 3 of the Basic Law for both women and men. And that applies 150
Years after the founding of the Social Democrats in Germany for people of all
Layers, occupations and irrespective of the origin story. The conditions
it can only create a strong and supportive community. A society
who knows that the chances of every individual whatever the advancement
all other dependent. And from a policy of the common good, not a selfishness and lobbying and special interests.
In the past 20 years a lot of space was the "markets" given, they should
shape the rules of our coexistence. The principle of competition of the economy
was just transferred to countries and regions such as the relationship between human beings. Competition was supposed to be the only driving force of social
Development. Those who could not keep up, was marginalized. Democratic engagement, social, ecological and economic rules were seen as an obstacle in this competition have been declared useless cost drivers that need to be
minimize or abolish best was. The success story of social
Rulemaking for the market economy became an anachronistic obstacle in
global competition explains.
The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

9
The end is known. Ever since the financial and euro crisis, we know that this
Irregularity made from the successful social market economy is a money-driven market society. In one her what brings money quickly. And in her has a chance,
Who has enough money. Economies that could not keep up,
tried to buy prosperity through debt. Sustainability, long-term
Investments, responsibility and provision for the future included fewer and fewer.
Education, health, culture, private and public security and general interest
were no longer guaranteed for all, but they were to market a product that can
buy and can afford needs.
Today we realize that this development has split our society. Socially
and culturally. Not only property and income are distributed always unequal, but
also access to education, health, mobility and culture. Poverty is growing well
how wealth - the middle class is under pressure. The same we see in
Europe.
By contrast, the German Social Democratic Party seeks a society
at which places the human being at the center. 150 years after the founding of the
Social Democracy in Germany are their goals not reached yet survived. The quest for freedom, justice and solidarity will be an ongoing task, which
always presents new. Today, this means again for a new social balance
to provide in our country and in Europe. We want the social market economy new
establish and create a social Europe.
A new social balance in Germany.
Work, effort and hard work pay off for many people in Germany not
more. Success at school and educational careers depend more than anywhere else in Europe
Income from the parents. Despite good training or study found less and less secure and adequately paid jobs in the industry. Too many families
and especially single parents are at risk of poverty. A good health care and nursing, there is no longer for all. The expense for the financing of our community are distributed unfairly: bear people with normal incomes
increasingly, capital and asset income and very large incomes less and less. And last but not least: History is lost as cities and municipalities financially
are bled, that cultural and social offers closed neighborhoods and
Infrastructure are neglected. The social and cultural division of Germany
has grown in recent years.
All this has to change again. Germany is not economically strong and
become successful because inequality grew, but because the idea of ​​social
Wanted to let the market economy all people share in the growing prosperity
our country. We therefore want the social partnership and its institutions
stronger. We want to achieve more equitable distribution of income and wealth. These first contribute just wages, but also a policy which public
Tasks funded justice. We want to ensure that good education and good
Work have a good reward and safe working result again. And that finally women
The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

10
and men in Germany for equal work and work also the same
Get salary and the reconciliation of work, parenting and support
is in care in our country to normalcy. We want to achieve equivalent living conditions in East and West Germany. We want our
Remain Localities socially and culturally alive and young and old good
and find affordable housing. We want to seize the opportunity of the ages and the
Mastering challenges with a modern and equitable policies. We want
People in Germany no longer afraid to have aged out of poverty. And
we will ensure that health care and again our core task
Welfare state are not the privatization of these tasks increasingly to
Two- or three-class society leads.
We want to rule over four years, because it will take time to bring any action for a refoundation of the social market economy and social justice on the way and ensure their sustainable funding.
Therefore we describe in this program projects which we over the next four
Want to implement years, as well as those that can only be reached in the medium term and
make this clear by the respective formulations. Because the individual demands can be implemented only if adequate financial resources available
to stand. To increase the capacity of the state, we want to control means
use responsibly, cyclical revenues for debt reduction
use and fundamentally improve the public revenue.
Secure the economic success of our country.
We know that in front of us stormy times. The European crisis does not stop at national borders. The policy has the conservative German government
all European countries at the same time in a pure cuts and austerity without any
Growth momentum forced. As a result, breaks Europe's economic growth
on. Instead of declining debt, the sovereign debt of Europe to explode just as the
Unemployment in almost all European countries. As an export country whose jobs
depend German that, especially in other European countries Products
buy, our country feels the consequences of this ever-expanding European economic crisis. Declining growth forecasts for the German economy
and a decline in innovation activities, primarily the German middle class in
the fields of research and development, are increasingly threatening the jobs and
thus the prosperity of our country.
The impending shortage of skilled workers and the consequences of the completely failed by the CDU / CSU and FDP energy policy compromise also the foundations of economic
Success in Germany.
We Social Democrats want the path to sound fiscal positions accompany by impulses for growth and jobs. Especially the fight against dramatic rise in youth unemployment has to be at the center of European politics. We therefore support the European project of
Youth Guarantee. The funds for the return to a growth-oriented
The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

11
However, economic policies should not in this case applied by new debt
be, but by the fair taxation of the financial markets. The consequences of irresponsible speculations on these financial markets have been there, leading to a
dramatic rise in public debt in Europe have led. Not least
Therefore, the financial sector must now also help remove these debts again.
So important and significant the service sector has become in our country also: Germany has also a successful and powerful location a diverse industry and the manufacturing sector remain. Germany is now so
successful there because especially the social democratic government
the industrial site Germany defended and expanded under Gerhard Schröder
Has. As before, the prosperity of our country depends on our ability to innovate and the industrial production. That is why we want social democrats
Socialists and by the renewal of infrastructure, investment in education,
Training and skills, and above all by a real energy policy to secure and strengthen the production and industrial location Germany.
Our special focus will make the promotion of SMEs. The
Connection between many highly innovative and flexible medium-sized enterprises with large and successful industries and an excellent educational and scientific structure makes the economic success of our country
out. We want to better depreciation conditions, receive tax incentives for investment in research and development and a good supply of credit this structure in the coming years and strengthen.
We now live in a radically changed world. Therefore, we want democracy
strengthen and regain the confidence from the fact that democratic engagement
and democratic politics can make our living together better and more just. Therefore, above all, we Social Democrats are challenged in new ways that are socially and environmentally oriented, our historic
To justify the project of emancipation new and to realize. This is today
Guiding principle of sustainability, the actions today with the social and environmental
Renewal of our economy and society connects.
We live in an age, breaking the old conflicts and to face new major challenges: We have it with enormous environmental challenges
do; the increasingly integrated world may not be a world of social exclusion
become; the enormous technical and economic opportunities need for a
"Green Economy" are used; the digitization of the world we want to work for greater international understanding and solidarity.
It is a time of great opportunities. We apply again to the great idea of ​​social emancipation. More democracy, participation and shared responsibility can
be realized. That's over 150 years, the program of the German Social Democracy. And it is even today. It is represented by us more freedom,
To make justice and prosperity possible - sustainable and thus for all.
The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

12
The financing of our community.
Between 2009 and 2013, the CDU / CSU and FDP, despite the highest tax revenues
and lowest interest rates again 100 billion euros made new debt. The
Payment obligations for the euro rescue are not even included in this figure. This policy of increasing borrowing, even in times of economic boom, was irresponsible and will not be continued by us. We are to comply with the debt brake.
Reduce debt and our country - the double duty in Germany
while investing primarily in education and infrastructure - can not be with
the election promises to connect, while reducing taxes. But on the contrary: We will have to raise taxes even. Not all taxes for all, but
some taxes for a few.
Because in our country there is a new social question: How do we get back to a
fair distribution of burdens for our common good? Never a few people were in
Germany wealthy, and they have never lower contributions to the common good
must wear. Never has the gap between rich and poor as great as in this
Times. Never before had the wealthy society that give them the wealth
has made it possible, as little return as today.
That needs to change. We need a redistribution of the public service burdens, as well as an equitable redistribution of opportunities in our society: power and
Effort must again lead to prosperity rather than origin, relationships and
large fortune.
We know that no one is happy about tax increases, also not that they can easily cope financially.
But we are also sure: Many of those affected by these tax increases citizens with high income or large capital and asset ownership
will accept this if they can be sure that the revenue thus actually and only and exclusively for the reduction of debt
be used for investment in education and infrastructure.
Therefore, we will demonstrate how high are the additional revenue generated by the mentioned tax increases and that we for the reduction of debt
and used for investment in education and infrastructure.
This is our way to renew Germany. Economically strong, socially just
and environmentally responsible.

The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

13

II. Financial capitalism tame -
Economic Affairs strengthen -
Create good working
II.1 markets need rules - for sustainable
Growth
The era of market radicalism has ended. The ideology of conservatives and
Neoliberals, the markets already ensured themselves for the common good and the increase
prosperity, has been buried under the rubble of the latest global financial disaster.
Instead of going to the market economic principle to allow risk and liability in one hand,
has the market radicalism profits are privatized and losses imposed on the general public. He has destroyed its own foundations and world trillions of debt
leave. They threaten today still the world economy and must laboriously
and are broken down with heavy burdens on many people. Nothing acts devastating to public morality as the fact that the perpetrators of
gigantic mountains of debt until today hardly ever have to contribute to their elimination.
Conservative and liberal governments like Germany prefer to protect banks and
Financial jugglers, as the people in front of their reckless speculation.
We know that markets - especially financial markets - need rules that ensure the common good and prevent the world's democracies of banks and exchanges
be blackmailed. A newly established social market economy can return to a globally successful example of economic success, social security
and environmental sustainability. However, we will need more than for purely national public funds. International co-operation, above all the
European cooperation for this is the mandatory requirement.
Our motto: No financial market participant, no financial product, no market must in future
be unregulated. Our principle is this: priority for real sector investment in relation to the speculation and returning the financial sector to its actual task: to be the real economy service.
Europe must pioneer a new market regulation with which we tame the financial markets. In addition to comprehensive financial market regulation we need
greater democratization of Europe: Europe belongs to the citizens.
This also applies to the euro zone. We need political mechanisms and institutions, the social equality, a sustainable budgetary policy and a well-balanced
ensure economic growth in the EU.

The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

14
Our measures for the re-establishment of the social market economy.
We want a change of course in economic policy. The existing Stability and Growth Law of 1967 must be developed into a modern Stability and Prosperity Act 2020th Four dimensions of sustainability determine our understanding of a sustainable and equitable economy:
n State Sustainability: A reduction of public debt burden is unausweich Lich. But he may not be at the expense of the public tasks of the future.
n Economic sustainability: prosperity and the success of our economy sized for us not only the gross national product, but also on a
high level of employment and a balanced current account as possible.
n Social sustainability: It shows itself especially in the fight against poverty, in
an equitable distribution of income, evaluation and remuneration of labor and
in better educational opportunities.
n Environmental sustainability: It is true, growth and resource consumption absolutely
decouple to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and resource to more productive
use.
This includes a reform of the German Advisory Council on the Assessment of overall economic development, one year Prosperity report and the increased harmonization of European employment, economic, financial, tax and investment policies.
We want to re-establish a culture of sustainability in the economy.
For this purpose, we call
n an effective long-term orientation of the remuneration and bonuses schemes,
n an Uncommitted maximum ratio between base salary and bonuses, as well
such as limiting the tax deductibility of the Management Board and other
Manager salaries, including bonuses and severance payments to a maximum of 50 percent of the amount in excess of EUR 500,000.
We also want a new corporate constitution.
In Stock Corporation Act must be committed, that companies not only to shareholders, but also the workers
and are committed to the public good.
In the area of ​​corporate participation is a legal minimum catalog must
requiring consent agreements are specified.
The employee share ownership is a key to the success of the employee
Company to participate. We intend to further expand.
We are committed to the promotion of cooperatives. Cooperatives
have just proven in times of major structural economic changes as an innovative and stable forms of enterprise. Not without reason, as in
the financial crisis, the co-operative banks Volksbank and Raiffeisenbank compared
most come to institutions of other legal forms through the crisis.
The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

15
The new social challenges, for example, from demographic change and the housing can be made easier with the help of co-operatives. Also in the regulation of company succession, the cooperative model offers an alternative. We therefore want the cooperative law
evolve to increase the attractiveness of the cooperative system and the
To facilitate creation of new cooperatives, including through facilitation of
Micro cooperatives.
The state has set as principal of economic new standards. That is why we are committed to ensuring that social and environmental criteria in the application of
Find procurement law into account. We want that the public sector retains sufficient human and substantive expertise, so no compulsion to privatization and outsourcing to private providers arises.
We need a more effective competition and antitrust policy prudently.
The competition and antitrust law serves the interests of consumers
and to safeguard consumers. We are in company mergers
safeguard the interests of consumers. The competition and antitrust law but
no value in itself and must be coordinated with other interests, such as in the health sector.
The consumers are to be patient, at
Banking, stock exchange and insurance transactions or in safe ordering and shopping
and can move at eye level of companies. Our Consumer Policy is
sustainable economic policy. It strengthens fair market conditions, responsible business, sustainable consumption and a functioning
Quality competition. In this respect, we need more market transparency for consumers. Additions to information must be made easier.
We want clear information about the origin, characteristics and content of products
and services, quickly comparable information, such as the traffic light labeling for nutritional values ​​of food. Businesses should uphold the social and environmental conditions in the production disclose. This allows consumers
and select informed consumers and responsible business
Action rewarding. In return, it is clear where low wages and repressive
Market practices prevail. We will expand the consumer research in order
the diversity of consumers and their needs to account
carry.
Our measures for comprehensive regulation of financial markets.
We want the financial transaction tax. To the financial market players finally to the
Costs of the crisis and to contribute to the financing of the common good, we will
introduce a European tax on financial transactions -. As a first step within the framework of enhanced European cooperation in the EU With the financial transaction tax, we want to contribute to increase the cost of short-term speculation and
to achieve important revenue for the state, the European for future projects,
Growth momentum and a fair global economy could be used.
The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

16
Our goal: No bank may move into the vortex entire states. Tougher
Capital adequacy rules must be the resilience of banks, insurance and
other financial institutions to be strengthened. Banks that are considered systemically important, should make provisions with significantly more equity for losses. The internationally agreed Basel framework on capital adequacy must therefore implemented and,
where necessary, be supplemented, z. B.. by flexible limits on lending against real estate We note the specific conditions of the cooperative and
public banking sector, for example, at savings banks and cooperative banks.
Citizens / interior project from citizens Convention on March 2, 2013:
"No socialization of losses and privatization costs
of profits. "
Our goal: The state may not be held liable for longer speculation. Instead of continuing to socialize losses and privatize profits, risks and liability should
are recombined. Taxpayers and taxpayers must
never be taken again hostage to the banks and speculators. The bigger a bank is, the better must be risk management and the higher the
Equity requirements they must meet. We want a clear restriction
proprietary trading and a clear separation of investment and commercial banks.
Then, the liability for risk is where the gains from the risks achieved
become. And falling into a risky business to high losses, remains
the damage is limited on this business. We want the substance of the banking business more stable, high-risk speculation is curbed and
the potential damage can no longer be transferred to the Company.
We want a transparent financial sector. Actors of the so-called shadow banking sector, which are mainly the highly speculative hedge funds, must finally be regulated. Due to the increasing risks in the shadow banking sector for the
Stability of the financial system have the same standards and obligations
as for traditional banking sector. To stable and transparent financial markets
to create, to offshore financial centers, through low taxes, transparency
be minimal and financial market regulation are in combat.
We want to ban harmful financial products and strengthen consumer protection.
Purely speculative financial products that have no economic benefit, we want
ban. Derivatives must in future principle on transparent and controlled
Trading platforms are traded. Needed are rules that allow the plan to prohibit the sale of certain complex and risky financial products to private consumers. Also consumer organizations play an important role as a market guards when in the market
Watch the interests of consumers, detect unfair practices, capture notes systematically and to pass on grievances to the supervisory.
We want to limit the high-frequency trading to prevent uncontrolled stock market slumps in the future. More and more, the trading of HochleistungsDas Government Programme 2013 - 2017

17
computers dominated, by a split second an uncontrollable amount
Conduct transactions. We want to slow down these automated mechanism by speculation minimum holding periods and also directly closely monitor high-frequency traders with the algorithms.
The speculation in food, we want to prevent. The same applies to commodity speculation, which have no real economic terms.

II.2 Good work in a modern society
Our goal is law and order in the labor market. The value of the work must
be restored. Effort and hard work must be worthwhile again for people. Getting into a secured professional must also be possible for all
as minimum living and socially secure work and for as many as possible also to the
Rise in the profession.
The integration into the labor market is for the people prerequisite for participation,
Self-determination and recognition. The enforced absence of gainful employment
therefore means exclusion from participation opportunities in our society. Responsible policy in the interests of the people must therefore never with widespread
Unemployment or even long-term unemployment resign. Economic, financial and
Labor market policies must be geared towards the objective of full employment in good working. The companies have to meet their employment responsibilities.
Work is and remains the source of social prosperity. The people who are the
Develop wealth of this society, earn recognition and reward. Us
oppose the increasing devaluation of work. We need strong unions and are committed to free collective bargaining. We will strengthen the standard employment relationship and the development of precarious work halt.
Citizens / interior project from citizens Convention on March 2, 2013:
"More appreciation through better wages for workers
in the social sector (personal services) "
Qualified employees, good products and production processes are essential in order to survive in international competition.
That can not be low-wage strategies. If we can better compete globally
want to be, we need good professionals and highly skilled workforce. The
social development also requires a much stronger social recognition and promotion of the services on people, for example in the fields of education, retirement and nursing. This includes the
existing discrimination in training to overcome.

The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

18
Economic and technical progress must for progress in the quality of
Working conditions are used. We want the employees work and
May agree better life together.
The world of work is changing fundamentally by digitization. Digital technologies can create new spaces of freedom in everyday work of employees, for example, with a view of location and time flexible working. Whether this also gainfully employed
can actually implement for their own benefit and not new forms of
(Self-) exploitation occur depends on many factors, not least of
labor conditions. We therefore want the Labour Law and the
Customize OSH the new challenges so that flexibility allows
and at the same time protection for new forms of work is created. Our education system
need to put everyone in the situation, the opportunities for advancement of digitization in itself
use.
The changes in the age structure of the population pose special challenges to age and aging-appropriate work in the future. We need
the creativity of older workers, which represent a valuable potential with a combination of their experience and current knowledge.
Demographic change does not solve the labor market problems of its own. Excluding
significantly increased investment in the training and qualifications of the people there is a danger of a shortage of skilled workers coupled with high unemployment
low-skilled people.
Precarious work we want to overcome, to introduce a nationwide legal minimum wage and allow a strengthening of the tariff system fair wages.
For equal work and work of equal pay must be paid.
The labor market in Germany is deeply divided. The low-wage sector is significantly
grown precarious forms of employment, in particular property gratuitous time limits
and temporary employment have increased. The superficially
good labor market development can not hide the fact that long-term unemployed and older people continue to significantly lower chances on the labor market also
have. The duality of the labor market in particular runs also between men and women. While most men work full time to pursue, more than half of working women are employed part-time - often
the actual hours worked by women is lower or higher than that of men
desired. With rising female employment rate, the volume of working time goes and
so that full-time employment of women back. At the same time 67 percent of the
the low-wage sector employees are women. The wage gap between women and
Men is 22 percent, and career advancement is still considered a man's business, while the reconciliation of work and family is considered women's work. This structure of female employment is in many cases not enough to live on and it leads
straight into the old-age poverty.
The workers have suffered losses of real wages over the years. For many years in our country has a wage reduction race stattDas Government Programme 2013 - 2017

19
found. This is the result of the delusion that the competitiveness
increases when the working conditions of the people worsen. Around one
Quarters of workers work in low-wage jobs. Us
do not want to work at any price, but good working conditions and work
is fairly rewarded. After years of wage restraint, the workers are entitled to the equitable participation in the economic success. Significant wage increases and strengthen domestic demand in the overall economic interest.
The number of persons employed in temporary work and bogus work contracts, in temporary
and minor employment increases at the expense of permanent and socially secured regular employment relationships. This trend we want to reverse. Socially secure and good work must be the norm again.

Citizens / interior project from citizens Convention on March 2, 2013:
"Introduction of a statutory minimum wage."
We seek to establish a statutory, nationwide minimum wage of at least 8.50 euros - uniformly in both East and West, of a proposal on
is adjusted by the BMAS set minimum commission annually. Which
Minimum wage, we will combine with clear rules on control and sanctions in case of circumvention. We will extend the scope of the employee assignment legislation to all sectors and thus strengthen the ability to extend a collectively agreed minimum wage to all workers in an industry.
But we also need to strengthen the re-established collective bargaining system
and the collective bargaining coverage. Both are prerequisites to the principle,
that power must be worthwhile, in reality the German labor market
again to enforce. The equitable participation of workers and
Workers in the economic success is economically necessary to strengthen
Domestic demand and an indispensable contribution to greater equity in
our country. We want to facilitate the possibility of universal application of collective agreements. The condition that at least 50 percent of employees
work with employers bound by collective agreement, we want to replace it with a public interest test. The objective is to avoid unfair competition, which does not count the quality of service and products, but the
Competition for the worst working conditions.
We stand for the principle of collective unity.
The faster harmonization of living and working conditions in East and West Germany on the basis of good work is our goal. With a unified,
come nationwide minimum wage of at least € 8.50 in east and west
we get closer to this goal. We support the trade unions, which still partly
The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

20
eliminate serious wage differentials between the tariff areas in East and West quickly. The strengthening of collective bargaining coverage is to indispensable because in East Germany to work only 49 percent of employees in establishments at a
Industry or company agreement are attached.
Federal, state and local authorities as public employers have a special responsibility for the tariff protection of all employees and a role model for good
Working conditions. Collective agreements we will therefore just as social criteria (equal pay and advancement of women) a binding criterion for the award
public contracts make.
It must be ensured that no job-seeker is referred to a job below the usual local wages. The minimum wage of 8.50 euros
must be ensured in any case.
Women are even with the best training at the beginning of the 21st century on the
Labor market disadvantage. They are structurally less well paid, even if it
comes to the same activities as in men. With an equal pay law, we will end the structural wage discrimination against women.
Temporary work is increasingly in recent years in order to circumvent collective agreements
been used and for wage dumping. We are the principle of equal pay for
same job and the same working conditions for temporary workers and
Permanent staff to enforce the law. The use of temporary agency workers
and temporary workers as scabs should be banned. The increasingly widespread intragroup ceremony by temporary employment companies of Company
we will prohibit. It should again apply the principle that temporary workers at
changing companies are used, but be employed on a permanent at the temporary work agency. Therefore, should the fixed-term temporary employment relationship and the coupling of the limitation to a labor input (synchronization)
be inadmissible. Temporary agency workers and temporary workers are in determining the number of employees for the works constitution thresholds
are counted.
The SPD has prevailed, that there is now a minimum wage for the
Is the field of temporary work. More companies are using questionable since work contract structures to circumvent this first regulation of temporary work. Us
want to clear up what a real and what is a sham contract for work, and the application of sanctions in case of misuse. Also sham Selbstständigkeiten should be more clearly defined.
For many young people the career is precarious: Many are not adopted, others only get an internship or a temporary contract offered. All this creates uncertainty. Understandably, many young people feel
therefore, to start a family and build a life. Also
and especially for young people are the regulation of temporary work, the abolition
the proper groundless limitation as well as the introduction of a minimum importance.
The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

21

We will also tackle the abuse of internships effectively by
introducing minimum standards. Internships and work samples are learning and apprenticeships. Where regular work is done, it must also be paid regularly
become. The minimum standards for internships include a contract, a minimum compensation, a qualified certificate, as well as internships that are not part of the vocational training, the limitation to a maximum of three months.
The possibility of proper baseless temporary work contracts, we want to abolish, check the list of possible limitation reasons.
We are the abuse of minor employment to
Wage dumping and stop the displacement of regular employment. We want it
ensure that any circumvention of labor law even in mini-jobs excluded in future and their social security is improved. Basic claims as
Vacation, sick pay in case of illness or job protection are often in the
Practice not granted. We will legislate that in commercial mini jobs
the basic labor law and collective bargaining claims in a written
Employment shall be laid down and the possibility of monitoring compliance
is improved. We want to improve smooth transitions into regular employment
and barriers that stand in the way, degrade. Even minor employment
must be paid according to tariff. The target of our legal minimum wage
of at least 8.50 euros must be respected in any case. We will further
Steps for an independent social security of all employment in
Initiate the branches of social security.
Workers need a better workplace
Protection against surveillance and the uncontrolled storage of sensitive personal data. Is a personality for the better protection of workers at the workplace
own employee data protection law necessary. Shop stewards and so-called whistleblowers need reliable protection against discrimination in the workplace.
Pressure and compressed workflows are increasingly leading to psychological stress
at work. The highly developed OSH legislation, we are therefore the new
Customize challenges. We want the implementation of risk assessments in the workplace is monitored more closely, particularly as regards psychological stress. We want a de-stress regulation in Arbeitsschutzrecht
create more debt and the actors and stakeholders in the companies
Offer legal.
We want more democracy in operation. Codetermined companies are also economically successful. Participation is an essential element of our vision of economic democracy and has proved itself. Economic democracy by
Participation meets the requirement of the Basic Law: "Property entails obligations".
We want the participation - including at European level - and strengthen a
Preventing escape from the participation effectively.

The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

22
We want that important decisions on production sites without
Participation be like. For this we are a statutory minimum Catalog
create transactions requiring the approval of the supervisory board of a company. Us
want the threshold for the application of the codetermination on 1000
Reduce workers. The German co-determination law must also be extended to companies in foreign legal form and registered office in Germany.
The councils need more participation rights to precarious employment
push back. This applies particularly to the scope and duration of temporary employment, temporary employment and work contracts in operation for which the application takes place. At the
Use of external employment, we want to extend the early consultation and negotiation rights of works councils and improve the right to refuse consent. We want to expand the co-determination rights also for the design of in-house training or health at work.
The SPD is a powerful and citizen-oriented public service. Public safety and public services are the basis for a good and safe life of citizens. In order to secure his services, we want to
public service evolve. The civil service should continue democratized
be modernized. In this sense, we want to strengthen the co-determination and participation rights of staff councils in the Federation and in the countries.
As far as the churches and their institutions in Caritas and Diakonie are employers,
must the border of their Selbstordnungs- and municipal law as an employer
of the fundamental rights of their workers are determined ago and not vice versa. Same labor rights for workers in churches
are compatible with the Church's self-government. The right to strike is a fundamental right of all elemental workers and must in
ecclesiastical sphere valid. To negotiate collective agreements and free in the choice of means
to enforce them to be, so are the so-called and Selbstordnungs-
Self-government compatible.
We want an active labor market policies that appeal to modern careers
oriented. You should prevent unemployment, improve the employment and
solidified long-term unemployment break. We will continue to judge a high attention to the situation of older unemployed and long-term unemployed.
Full employment is our goal.
The labor market does not regulate itself. Labor market policy must contribute
that unemployment is prevented in the bud. A high level of appropriations for
active employment promotion is essential to break down solidified long-term unemployment. To promote labor, rather than to finance unemployment, remains a key objective.
We want to strengthen the unemployment again and the financial resources
stabilize for active employment promotion at a high level in order to make any long-term unemployed a tailor and reasonable offer can. Priority will
to employment on the primary labor market. A significant proportion of long-term unemployed with multiple placement obstacles but currently low
The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

23
Chances of placement in the primary labor market. We must not leave them. This also applies to long-term unemployed that were previously not entitled to benefits under the SGB II activating due to the recognition of partner income.
Therefore, we will in the medium term a publicly funded employment sector
create with offers social insurance contributions, which also
the transfer is financed from passive to active services. We want
an adequate socio-educational support and skills training components of this offer are.
The protective function of the unemployment insurance is no longer for many unemployed
given. Many people reach due to erratic and briefly fixed-term employment no entitlement to unemployment benefits, although they pay contributions. We want to improve this by changing the eligibility rules again. We are the reference period in which acquired an entitlement to unemployment benefits
can be extended from two to three years. We are committed to support key in the job centers, which have a real care possible, not only a
Management of files.
We want to develop unemployment insurance to employment insurance and for use of the labor market dividend. By falling unemployment funds released will be used for the construction work insurance.
Because unemployment is not only completed quickly, but possible from the outset
be avoided. Qualification and training throughout the course of the
Working life are central to the preservation of individual employability.
The labor insurance shall also workers in the
Support achieving their career goals.
The labor insurance we provide based on three pillars: the existing social security
Entitled to qualification by the Labour Market Promotion of the Federal Agency for
Work in the event of unemployment, a strengthened labor law claim against the employer for safekeeping and preservation of qualification and a new
individual legal entitlement to training and qualification, decide on the workers themselves.
Only when we realize the potential of all people living in Germany, we can counteract a shortage of skilled workers and our economy fit for the future
do. For this purpose, a close alliance between business and politics is needed.
With a wise policy can from the growing demand for skilled workers new
Career opportunities for many employees are. This requires a two-pronged strategy: Firstly, we want to give everyone the chance as qualified as possible
to work. Secondly, we want all who involuntarily excluded from work
are, open up new avenues.
Therefore, it is also necessary that no young people and no young person after
College student with no connection remains. Prerequisite for this is systematic
The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

24
and realistic vocational guidance and career education already in the last three years of schooling.
A good vocational training and continuous training and education of workers are the basis for economic success and
Securing the skilled labor base in the future.
Every young person has a right to education. Around 1.5 million young adults between 25 and 35 years with no school or vocational qualifications need special
Promotion. For them, we want an immediate program "2. Chance of vocational training "
hang up, which reacts with tailor-made instruments to the specific circumstances of young people and lead them to the Level of Education. We want that the
Catching up of a university degree is funded. Also a total want
we know that the qualifications and training of all employees with mandatory
Claims to be promoted.
We want that many people no longer work with foreign vocational and academic qualifications below their skill levels and must be regarded as unskilled. The 2012 adopted Recognition Act for foreign
Statements could meet the expectations of a turnaround in the restrictive practice of recognition in any way.
Therefore, it is necessary to speed up the recognition process, to ensure the personal consultation of stakeholders and resulting fees or costs
to keep for adaptation measures at a socially acceptable level. This is
an essential condition for social integration in our country.
Not only the people themselves benefit from a more consistent recognition
their educational qualifications, also for our economy it is in times of a shortage of skilled workers are of great importance.

II.3 together for more social market economy
in Europe
Europe has not yet overcome the crisis. The financial and banking crisis
the debt crisis in the southern European countries followed and due to the immense rescue measures.
The economy is in some European countries on the ground. Unemployment
rises partly threatening especially among young people. The social divide continues to increase confidence in the democracy decreases. Let's stay on the
current exchange rate, we are heading into Europe on a democratic crisis, the political,
economic and social achievements of European societies and
the European integration process seriously threatened. We need, therefore, in
Europe a new foundation of the social market economy with clear rules for the
Markets.
The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

25
The policy of the Federal Government of the CDU / CSU and FDP has created no more stability, but growing instability in Europe. As important as sound finances, saving alone does not lead to the goal. Stability and prosperity put growth and social
Justice requires. That's what makes the social market economy in the core.
We do not want a Europe that is plaything of the markets, but one that, in the interests
the people are. Only united and solid union of the European
Europe Union has a chance in global competition of ideas and values, of
Politics and the economy. For this reason, we want to deepen political union of Europe continue.
For this we need a clear rulemaking for banks and financial markets. In the EU
we need a powerful common banking supervision for the large cross-border institutions. This can currently only the European Central Bank
(ECB) can make. It must be a strict separation between monetary policy and supervisory role
to be guaranteed. In perspective, we aim to carve the supervision unit
from the ECB in an independent European supervisory authority. Overseeing
small and medium banks should remain at national level and only in cases of crisis
be transferred to the ECB. When the differences between supervision must
are taken into account the business models of banks. Complexity and risk orientation must also be disclosed in the intensity of supervision and inspections
reflect.
We are also set for European settlement rules for banks, in crises bonuses have recovered, retained dividends and the owners by
Debt waiver or novation to share in the losses. We call for the establishment of a European resolution authority and a European
Restructuring fund for large banks. This Bank-Fund will be financed by a bank levy, the amount of which according to the systemic importance, the risk profile
and the level of indebtedness of the banks directed. He has at least the interest benefits
skim, the systemically important banks currently enjoy from imputed state guarantees. We will ensure that the referees are not even teammates.
In addition to the tightening of the existing rules for credit rating agencies, we urge the
Creation of a European rating agency.
We sit down for a closer coordination of fiscal policies of the Member States
on. Mandatory control Minimum Standards for corporate earnings and investment income are not only an imperative of fiscal stability, but also indispensable in order to allow fair competition in the internal market. In the fight against
Want to tax evasion and unfair tax competition at the European level
we the scope of the EU Savings Directive to all capital gains and all
expand natural and legal persons and making the automatic exchange of information in Europe standard, also in relation to third countries such as the
Switzerland.
Better rules on the financial markets are not yet sufficient to the European
Bring economy out of its difficulties. For this we need long-term and excessive
The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

26
tackle economic imbalances. A monetary union also needs a
common economic policy with long-term balanced current accounts.
All EU member states must make their contribution, so that the economic imbalances within the euro zone are degraded. We need concerted and common in the Member States and in Europe measures for sustainable
Growth, employment and competitiveness take.
Europe's economies need a new impetus to sustainable growth.
Growth and economic dynamism are necessary to the dramatic part
to combat high youth unemployment in Europe. The shared commitment
to sound finances must therefore by a common understanding and concrete
common objectives for a European growth strategy to be supplemented,
economic innovation with social justice and ecological renewal
matches. We also want the industrial renewal in Europe to
Take shape. We strive for a European investment and construction funds, the
the financing and implementation of programs to promote Europe-wide
a sustainable and viable growth, to the strengthening of domestic demand
and makes binding on the promotion of justice paid employment. About
to finance these measures, we are committed to fair taxation of
A fortune in Europe. We need project bonds, the redeployment of existing structural funds, the appreciation of the European Investment Bank and funds
from the FTT. The funds will be used for investment in education, research and development, the development of trans-European networks and an emergency program to the high youth unemployment in many EU countries. For this purpose, there must be a structural change in the EU budget with the orientation
growth, employment, innovation and education and modernizing
Give administrations.
With a European Redemption Fund, we want to act
all members make in the monetary union. With a binding Schuldenabbau- and reform plan he takes the states of their duty to ensure that the European
Central Bank is not obliged to intervene in the bond markets. Solidarity is important to ensure the stability of our currency. But you must not
Be one-way street, but must be connected to efforts of states in crisis for viable
Budgets be linked.

II.4 The economic success of our country
to back up
Germany is economically strong and competitive in world markets.
In the financial and economic crisis of recent years has become our economic and
Social system proven successful, flexible and robust.
A strong industrial base, a powerful middle class with a successful
Crafts and responsible social partners are the success factors of
The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

27
Social Market Economy. Entrepreneurial freedom, social responsibility and participation are inextricably linked.
Prosperity and high quality of life for all remain the central objectives of social democratic economic and industrial policy. We want sustainable progress, the
economic dynamism, social justice and environmental responsibility together. It is for us to successful economic development to secure jobs, to equitable participation and a high quality of life.
Our goals:
n Germany is an industrial country and needs in the future a strong industry
as a basis for knowledge-intensive and competitive economy. Us
stand for an integrated industrial policy as cross-cutting policies to create
industry-friendly environment.
n services have already accounted for 70 percent of value added and will continue to grow in the future. Our goal is an integrated services policy, of the integration of economic and structural policies as well as research and innovation policy services high
Promotes quality.
n Germany's potential are highly skilled professionals. Sustainable economic growth requires qualified men and women, with good wages
receive their share of the success of their businesses and contribute to a strong domestic economy.
n An efficient infrastructure is a prerequisite for the continued success of our business location. As a basis for new growth Germany needs
modernize its energy, transport and communication infrastructure
with appropriate investments. The mobility of the future must be affordable and
be environmentally friendly and secure the business location Germany.
n Creativity is the raw material of the 21st century with immense growth and
Employment potential. We will create the framework together with creative people to develop this potential and at the same time socially better
hedge.
An integrated industrial policy is the basis for the assurance of a successful
Economy. In Germany we need the entire value chain - from the
industrial raw material production to highly specialized Hightechmittelständler, it is an important prerequisite for innovation.
In order to survive in international competition, Germany must invest more in modern products and sustainable processes. That is why we want to step up efforts on research and innovation and increase investment in research about the brand of three percent of the GDP and beyond. Stand for Germany
The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

28
The development of "high-end products" and the transformation in production
in the foreground. Particularly desirable investments, for example, in the field of energy and
Resource efficiency, we want to promote through improved depreciation allowances (special depreciation, declining balance depreciation) or with an investment. In addition to the
Project funding, we want a new form of tax benefits
establish, the small and medium enterprises will benefit.
We want a renewal of traditional industries and the development of new
Lead markets advance. Where the German industry has its strengths, it is important to
To keep ahead of the international competition. Where potential
exist, the industry needs to be renewed and be competitive. To
the leading markets include mobility, health, energy and infrastructure.
We need the development of IT infrastructure for Germany. Because digitization and networking play today in corporate structures
and production processes a significant role. The software industry has this country not only with regard to jobs and new business models great potential.
At the same time they are an interdisciplinary technology important impulses to other
Sectors.
Germany's economic strength can only be secured and expanded when
industrial policy is complemented by a modern and integrated services policy. Services and production are not mutually exclusive, but rather depend on
always more, for example, in the field of industry-related services.
The predominantly medium-sized service-intensive tourism industry is an example of a services sector, which we import from by improving
Want to strengthen frameworks. Good work is in the field of all services
our mission statement.
The postal universal service, which provides for the full coverage of the country with postal services at affordable prices, must in the future in the same
Quality are provided. The competition in the postal services must not continue to be managed primarily through wage dumping on the one hand; on the other hand
the legal framework for the German Post shall be designed so that the guarantee of universal service and the economic success of the
Company are equally secured.
The creative sector is becoming increasingly important for the success of our economy. We want to promote and expand the creative economy even stronger. Our measures for
a creative pact: The concept of innovation in the development programs of economic and infrastructure development needs to be adapted and opened for creative industries
be that existing federal programs with regard to business start-ups
Equity share receivables, recognition of intellectual property, consultancy and
Qualification must be adapted to the needs of the creative industries, while
considers not only the start-up and growth stages of business
become.

The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

29
SMEs and crafts are the center of our economy. They guarantee economic stability and sustainability. As small and medium enterprises, they are
flexible, innovative and their region strongly linked. Especially in East Germany they characterize the regional economic structures prevail. We want the conditions for development of SME, self-employment and business start-ups
improve.
Germany's economic prosperity depends to a large extent on the
Use of its self-employed. The self-employment rate in Germany is with
about ten percent in an international comparison continues to be below average. Just jump into the information and knowledge era, Germany must become more stand as Independent Company. Especially in the small and medium
Companies and also in the liberal professions created apprenticeships and jobs of tomorrow. Therefore, we want to promote this range in our
Economic policies pay special attention and already in the school and
vocational training more young people enthusiastic about the self-employed.
We want to preserve and strengthen the occupational self-government of the liberal professions by the professional bodies.
The craft.
Crafts and trade provide the main performance of VET.
This strength we want to maintain and, where necessary, support. At the same time are also
she in a fierce competition for skilled workers, have limited financial leeway and are relatively more affected by red tape.
In the SME financing we want barriers, in particular for start-ups, do not leave the first place. We want a property tax,
the specific situation of the German middle class, bears of partnerships and family businesses account and safeguard the future capital formation secures and their scope for investment not charged.
In addition, we will strive for a middle class-friendly design of Basel III. This might involve an adequate assessment of the systemic risks
contribute in the context of lending. At the same time we are diversifying
facilitate the financial resources, by funding for lease financing
Factoring and allow and facilitate access of larger medium-sized enterprises to the capital market refinancing. In this case, the establishment of a
For the middle class afford CRA a significant contribution to the high
Transaction costs shall be damped by the creation of corporate ratings.
At the same time we will make in the field of start-ups that funding opportunities not restricted to technological innovation
remain. Even socially-innovative start-ups are amplified as Social Entrepreneurs
Get access to funding and advice and so mid Posts
The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

30
support to solving social problems, as well as the charities.
In order to improve conditions for the middle class, we rely on the
Reduction of bureaucracy. The national and European legislation to better meet the
Oriented medium-sized businesses and, where possible, administrative channels shall be shortened.
Together with business and trade unions, states and municipalities we are
launch a political initiative to ensure the demand for skilled workers in Germany.
We aim to improve training and mobility opportunities for advancement. With the professional
Upgrading training (master / master, engineer / technician, business administrator / Fachwirt)
is already a proven career form. These "senior" of the dual system, we intend to further expand. It also offers an alternative to a university degree. Further advancement paths for skilled workers are the universities and their
Study Programs. In the interests of greater transparency, we want the universities
Open more for vocational qualifications and facilitate access, for example, by
Recognition and skills assessment process.
The professions in the services sector have designed contemporary and
be newly regulated by the Vocational Training Act. Gender-specific allocations must be overcome. For this purpose, we will work with the social partners new
Qualifications, professions and training open up areas. Only then can the employment potential in the service sector can be opened up.
Our goal is to increase labor market participation. We will, the prospects for employment for older people, women returners and women returners,
Migrants and enhance long-term unemployed through the continuation of the integration allowance for older workers, the development of care structures
for children and other dependents, as well as the language course offer and redemption
the reductions in training costs for job seekers. Also catch-up training, we want to facilitate. In the last two decades were
often not enough training places for young people available.
Encourage investment in the real economy.
The German economic policy is focused too little on the future. In the fields of education, infrastructure and investments in future markets - thus the foundations for future economic growth - Germany gets more and more into the background. With a net investment rate of only three per cent in the year
2011 was Germany by OECD standards far behind. Public investment
not even cover the replacement demand in the average of recent years.
At the same time the opportunities for mobilizing private capital for investment in the real economy are enormous and far from being exhausted. In Germany
there is so much wealth as never before. But the financial investment reached recently the
new record level of 8.5 trillion euros. In Germany, more is saved than in the
most other countries. The Treasury, however decreased since
The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

31
Years. Between 1992 and 2012 it fell by more than 800 billion euros. In the same period, the total net assets of households of nearly
4.6 to around 10 billion euros more than doubled.
We need more public and private investment. For this purpose, we want incentives
create. And we will consider a new incentive system in the capital markets, the
real long-term investments and promotes the entire life cycle of an investment
has in view.

The unity of Germany complete.
The eastern countries have gone through a huge development process in the past two decades. East and West German can be proud
on what has been achieved. Despite all efforts, there are still significant differences
in economic development and wage levels.
Many challenges have to cope with the eastern countries for years: tackling the effects of demographic change, the doctors care in rural areas or threat of poverty in old age. These problems have now reached Germany. To cope with it, we will jointly us
must make their way. But you can already now from the East German
learn lessons learned. However, there remains much to do.
A growing disparity in regional development patterns and unabated
large differences in wages and incomes make it difficult to catch up.
The development status of the infrastructure is well advanced. A number of East German
Company has risen in their sectors to world leaders, international
demand products are produced with the quality seal "Made in East Germany".
Nevertheless, all economic indicators show that the economic catching-up process has stalled. In addition, 20 percent of East Germans hour work for wages below 8.50 euros /. Gross wages, depending on the sector 15
to 45 percent below western levels. Another reason why we need an in East and West
uniform minimum wage, which is particularly the eastern German workers to the best and the income growth in total new
Push adds.
More than 20 years after German reunification is the abolition of the split pension legislation also one of the crucial questions of justice for the completion of
inner unity of our country. In our pension concept of multi-stage plan to achieve this goal is an important point. We are the first party to be in a
intends to implement coherent concept.
The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

32
We are the pressing questions not dodge in the eastern countries,
stake but a clear, own goals on the common path with clarity
and determination trace. A vibrant democracy is an always important goal for us. Especially in the eastern countries, we must continue to fight for it,
that as many people to shape democracy and our communities.
Overlooking the eastern countries of Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder, forms together with the countries, launched the Solidarity Pact II main financial basis for the further "Aufbau Ost". He must not be touched. In addition, we will follow up arrangements eg as part of the realignment of
Check fiscal equalization. It is conceivable, for example a pan-German "solidarity pact
structurally weak regions "(Solidarity Pact III) from 2020, which takes into account the particular circumstances of structurally weak regions in eastern and western Germany.
Encourage investment. Participation permit.
We want that investments are particularly favored where they on the
central areas of public life in infrastructures and future markets
and are directed towards the coverage of social and social needs. To this end,
It requires incentives and support mechanisms in favor of a change of course towards
Real economy.
We want to promote citizens' participation forms, since they are the public acceptance
strengthening of infrastructure facilities. A fundamental participation of people from
Location is unchanged, the municipal ownership. This is why we support infrastructure in the hands of cities, municipalities and districts and will improve the framework conditions for the municipalization of appropriate institutions further.
We also want to examine and develop models with which the citizens
and citizens directly in the financing of socially desirable investments
participate.
Regional "Citizen Fund" to enable the acquisition of shares in infrastructure. Already existing investments as "civil wind farms" and energy cooperatives should substantially expanded and also to wired infrastructures - for example in the field of electricity and broadband networks - apply. Networks
Bürgerhand strengthen public acceptance of infrastructure facilities.
Also through municipal bonds investment funds for municipal projects can
are generated. You can make an important financial contribution. The signatories of such bonds also recognize the specific purpose of certain projects. On
Application could be the expansion of broadband networks for faster internet connections. What is required is that the municipalities themselves decide on such projects and that the budgetary and decision-making authority of the democratically elected
Bodies is maintained in cities, towns and counties. In addition, we intend to strengthen co-operative forms of organization in all fields and therefore the legal requirements for start-ups easier, better funding conditions
the Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau (KfW) and the promotion of cooperative Anda Government Programme 2013-2017

33

share, particularly in construction and housing cooperatives create. By For small cooperative forms of enterprise, such as the establishment of day care centers
Parents' initiatives, we want to create a simple "micro-cooperative".
A new social consensus for progress and infrastructure.
An efficient infrastructure is the backbone of a strong economy. We want to achieve a new social consensus for progress and infrastructure,
by earlier and more intensively involve citizens in the planning and implementation of infrastructure projects and accelerate planning procedures.
Citizen participation is for us not opposed, but part of a modern
Infrastructure Policy. We rely on the sense of responsibility
and the expertise of citizens and want to include it earlier and more in the planning processes. More participation is not limited to more
Transparency and co-decision, but also extends to substantive participation.
Investive opportunities for participation of citizens in future markets
and infrastructure with modest return opportunities (eg in the field of energy systems) can reinforce acceptance and identification. They should be developed and tested a promotion.
Our country needs a new beginning in transport policy with clear priorities. Good
Mobility policy ensures economic competitiveness, sustains and creates jobs and contributes to prosperity and quality of life. The process of uniting Europe and globalization has become possible only through mobility.
Increasing mobility, the increase in freight and transit traffic and over longer
But travel distances with ever faster transport also lead to more
heavier loads of people and the environment.
Future Mobility must therefore also economically sound, socially equitable and
be ecologically sensible. It is based on long-term goals and long-lasting
Effects. Long-term mobility assurance is therefore a key task for the future.
Therefore, we will rebuild the federal transport infrastructure planning in a transport intermodal network planning in line with the European transport needs, when the reliable functioning of the transport network as a whole is in the foreground. For that we need a reliable funding base: Our
Transport systems are now chronically underfunded - it always succeeds less,
Obtain substance. We want to provide sufficient funds for the Federal Transport Infrastructure reliably available. Also for bridge structures in road and rail transport.
We want to bring more traffic to rail and inland waterways and the number of traffic jams
reduce drastically on Germany's roads. We will therefore launch a national roads program, flow into the 80 percent of the new construction and extension agents.
The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

34
We are the bottlenecks on heavily loaded transport axes as soon as possible
clear off.
Punctuality and reliability must be the hallmark of the railway. We therefore want a Germany-clock from nationwide functioning
and concerted terminals. We also strive for a significant increase in the capacity for rail freight by the year 2030th For this purpose,
we improve the rail links of our sea and inland ports.
This relieves the environment and road safety. This railway stations and tracks
as soon as possible to come back in a good condition, we will our influence
make the effect claim that the infrastructure will be strengthened and adequate
Funds flow in the rail network and train station renovations. A smashing and
Privatization, even partial privatization of Deutsche Bahn, we reject.
We want to help protect against rail and other traffic noise. We will
ensure that the noise abatement means a year for the rail to 200 million euros
be doubled. We support the abolition of the railway bonus and be
establish an effective noise-related track access charge system. Moreover want
we improve noise protection at airports and roads. We need between
Federal and state coordinated air transport concept.
To keep mobility affordable, we want to improve the energy efficiency of transport and reduce its CO2 emissions significantly. For this we are the technical
Increasing the efficiency of existing drive systems promote the development
promote and market introduction of new propulsion systems and fuels, as well as ecologically and economically efficient organization of transport and logistics.
We want our roads are safer. That's why we measure the traffic safety and the work in this area - professional and volunteer -
high priority.
We want municipal and rural roads are in good condition and without potholes, and that the public transport system works smoothly. Of particular importance is a full participation by people who in their mobility
are restricted. We want that all people are able to travel without barriers.
Countries should be when they receive investment funds for municipal transport infrastructure, in return undertake to use the funds earmarked for local and regional transport infrastructure. We are committed to the continued expansion of bicycle paths.
Germany needs a fast Internet - for everyone and everywhere. We therefore want
rapidly a full coverage with fast internet connections. In addition, we are further expanding the high-speed data network
ahead.
The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

35
II.5 secure and affordable energy -
Lead the energy revolution to success
After the abandonment of nuclear energy, the world looks to Germany. Succeed the
Energy transition, which can for emerging markets like China and India are the growth model and therefore help protect the climate for a breakthrough worldwide.
Because it is clear: The energy revolution is the fundamental transformation of energy supply and a quantum leap in the modernization of our economy.
The energy transition combines energy saving, energy efficiency and renewable energies. This applies to all areas: electricity, heat and mobility. The ultimate goal is the
Avoid unnecessary energy consumption and so remains affordable by a declining consumption of energy for all income groups.
Opportunities and Prospects of the energy transition, however, are at risk. The cornerstone of our energy supply - security of supply, affordability and environmental sustainability - falter. Here they form the foundation for the
Economic and social model in our country. They are the prerequisite for
broad industrial base in Germany - was their great importance for stable economic development, prosperity and jobs in the recent financial and economic crisis again demonstrated impressively - up to high-tech services from the raw material production. They are important for the people in our country.
Worldwide growing interest in and demand for future energy and energy efficiency. A successful energy policy is also a great opportunity for the industry in Germany. Can use the expertise of its engineers and professionals
Business as a supplier to benefit. Such a transformation project needs
appropriate policy frameworks and decisions. The federal government of CDU / CSU and FDP, with its "management" on the way that
Energy policy to drive against the wall. With its zigzag course it is a
become an incalculable risk for economic strength and jobs.
The strength of eastern Germany in renewable energies must be used, the
necessary transformation of the energy system can and will "the" question of location for the
Are the future. Given the expansion of offshore wind power even before the Baltic Sea is essential. As offshore wind farms can on a regenerative basis large
Amounts of electricity produced. But we also plan (yet) on conventional
Energy producers such as coal and gas power stations, as a bridging technology, while we
they need.
The glaring inability of the federal government to control and co-ordination
has meant that there is in Germany no concerted energy policy between
Federal, state, local governments and other stakeholders of the energy transition are. Added
comes the constant messing about on conveyor regime for renewable energies,
the sustained confidence of market participants in the energy policy framework
has shaken. The results are investment risks, planning uncertainty and rising electricity prices. The lack of coordination with the European partners
The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

36
cost as a reliable energy partner Germany political reputation. One of the
largest industrial policy opportunities in Germany - the construction of a wettbewerbsund sustainable energy infrastructure - is gambled so recklessly.
In this situation, a policy change is required, the broad social
Responsibility for implementing the energy turnaround is fair and thus the energy turnaround leads to success. Planning and investment security, a stable power supply, a high level of security of supply and affordability need to
Indicator of ecological restructuring of Germany's energy policy.
Our goals:
The energy transition is the technological and economic challenge which Germany catapulted into the 21st century. Our objectives are clear:
We want
n better policy coordination in the management of energy policy;
n ensure the affordability of energy transition and more burdens on
avoid producing economy and households, for example by
Reduction of the current control;
n the international competitiveness of the economy, particularly the energy-intensive industry, receive;
n the development of renewable energy and the implementation of measures for greater energy efficiency, forge ahead by 40 to 45 percent electricity share by
Renewable energy and 25 percent through cogeneration, in particular through the development of district heating by 2020, and strive to 2030
Want to win 75 percent of its electricity from renewable sources;
n cover 20 percent of the heat demand from renewable energy sources;
n promote affordable for tenants energy-efficient renovation of buildings;
n energy productivity increased markedly and by 2020 compared to the level of
Doubling 1990
n strengthening decentralized structures with a substantial design job
for local authorities and their enterprises.
Building a management for the energy turnaround.
The energy revolution will only succeed if the federal government perceives a central coordinating role and effective management. The coexistence
seventeen energy concepts in federal and state harms the energy turnaround. Just
a coordinated approach in the development of renewable energies as well as the
Network expansion is replaced by security of supply, creates investment security and brings the
System integration of renewable energies forward. Required are therefore new
Governance structures that pool their expertise in energy policy and a
regular coordination and cooperation between federal, state and neighboring European countries institutionalize.
We want the skills, particularly in the areas of renewable energy,
The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

37
, Pooling network expansion and store in a Department of Energy. Furthermore, it must
the federal government in its role as a closer coordination at European level to date with the
European partners perceive.
In addition, the federal government must ensure a vote of the countries-energy concepts with the energy policy of the Federal Government. In newly created Department of Energy is a
"German Energy Council" set up that, the coordination processes between the federal government
Institutionalized states and municipalities with the involvement of industry, academia, trade unions and civil society and a continuous cooperation and coordination ensures. Due to the technological properties of the
Renewable energy and the liberalization of energy markets, combines
Energy policy with a significant decentralization of energy supply structures. The municipalities with their diverse functions - as a planning support
for the establishment of the RES plants, as the owner of approximately 176,000 buildings, as the largest contracting authorities of environmentally friendly goods and investment and
as a provider of electricity and heat by municipal energy companies - especially major players for a successful implementation of decentralized energy systems.
We provide legal certainty for local authorities in the adoption of the distribution networks.
Cities, municipalities and counties operate with in close cooperation for many years
municipal utilities, local banking industry and the municipal housing companies, but also together with charitable associations,
Consumer Organizations and energy consulting agencies a high-quality
Energy consulting for private households. We will expand the energy consulting for private households, homeowners and business, successful cooperations
promote and widen significantly with new incentives.
To implement the energy revolution we want a parliamentary committee "energy"
set up.
There is a "master plan energy revolution" to establish and develop annually. Of the
Master plan is drawn up following an extensive consultation with stakeholders in the energy transition, and will bring together all the important aspects of the production and use of renewable energy, network expansion and storage technology, the provision of conventional generating capacity and energy efficiency potential.
Pave the way for a new electricity market regulation.
The adopted in 2000 by the SPD-Green coalition Renewable Energy Sources Act (EEG) has become an internationally unprecedented expansion of renewable energies
out - is now their share of the power consumption more than 25 percent. However, the over-promotion has in some areas led to a drastic increase
the EEG apportionment and thus led to a rise in electricity prices. Conversely
were the decline in electricity prices on the procurement side, due to the high power generation from renewable sources, from energy suppliers
not or hardly passed on to the electricity consumers. In addition, the expansion of electricity networks not keeping pace with the expansion of renewable energies step.
The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

38
Another side effect of the success of renewable energy are the consequences for conventional power plants. Due to the expansion of renewable energies, the operating hours fall from conventional power plants and thus their
Economy. Therefore, no new power plants are built and existing
Plants shut down. This entails risks for the security of supply. As long as renewables are not able to provide electricity as required, need
continue highly efficient controllable power plants are available.
We want to promote the expansion of renewable energies and environmentally friendly way social
and the system of electricity pricing under the premises of security of supply
and affordability redesign fundamentally. This is along with the increase
energy efficiency and energy savings decisive for the success of the energy turnaround.
We want a fundamental reform of the EEG, the long-term and predictable secures the expansion that consistently limits the cost and electricity prices has in view.
Therefore, the EEG must be aligned so that a dysregulation is excluded in the future. The feed-in of renewable energies is still required. Technical progress and innovation in the field of renewable energies
will mean that the cost of medium to long term decline. This
possible to reduce the feed-in tariff gradually.
With their ever-increasing share of electricity generation, renewable energies have to take more responsibility for a stable supply. We want renewable energy to each other (for example, wind with water and / or biomass)
Renewable energy and fossil power generation and renewable energy, and
Link Consumption Management together so that current demand for
Available. Renewable energy can and must also ancillary services such as reactive power and storage, provide. Incentives for increased
Full load hours per installation may be in the system approach to reduce costs
contribute.
In a future electricity market secured capacity must be available to the
Electricity produced from renewable energy sources to complete at any time. We want
the regional problems in the short term pragmatic solve once and experiences
collect before full capacity markets for the financing of power plants
be created. In the future, power plants must accordingly be used flexibly
be to have a complementary effect. Here, European power plant capacities to
consider.
Modernization and expansion of the network infrastructure ahead.
The network expansion is not keeping pace with the expansion of renewable energy. To date,
carried out the expansion of renewable uncontrolled and without regard to the availability and performance of the network infrastructure. The consequence is regional network bottlenecks and closures of production plants, the economically inefficient
are and increase the risk of supply shortages. What is needed is a SynDas government program 2013 - 2017

39
chronization of the expansion of renewable with the expansion of the network infrastructure.
A high degree of network stability and security of supply is permanently secured only
when the grid integration of renewable energies in an efficient and successful system optimally.
Expansion and modernization is required on all network levels, both in transmission and in distribution networks. The regional distribution networks need to be expanded to "smart" cable systems, because more and more consumers
become producers and feed their electricity irregularly. The inter-regional transmission grids need to demand innovative technology, such as
Are high-voltage DC transmission upgraded, or extended to the
Production centers in the north with the load centers in southern Germany to join.
We strive for the reunification of the transmission grid in a German power company. The public sector takes part in the Network AG (and their income)
by investing in the connection of offshore wind farms and other important large-scale projects and thus assumes a control function true.
The incentive must be innovation and investment in the distribution networks represent better than before. The network operation must be able to respond intelligently to increasing feed on lower voltage levels in order to ensure system stability. The incentive must be designed so that they build the
promoting of intelligent networks, electricity storage and complementary capacities.
For network stability and cost reduction also contributes to a more flexible energy demand ("demand side management"). In addition to the remuneration interruptible loads
by large consumers is to the potential of SMEs as the private
To exploit consumers.
For acceptance and enforceability of energy infrastructure projects is the early
Consultation and participation of affected populations in cooperation with the
Municipalities indispensable. Also helpful are direct investments of the population, such as. For example in the form of "citizen wind farms", energy cooperatives, net investments etc .. We will set up a clearing house "Conservation and energy policy". As
Focal point for municipalities, citizens' initiatives, planning bodies, energy and
Environmental Associations should the interests of the energy transition and of nature conservation in
Bring harmony.
We need our neighbors more cross-border interconnections,
to create a powerful European electricity grid.
Complementary to expand the grid storage technologies must be encouraged.
New storage technologies are developed with high-pressure and industrial
Scale to be tested, so that they in the medium and long term are available. Also
European storage facilities, such as water storage in Scandinavia and the
Alpine, should be promoted.
The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

40
The Atomic Law does the operators of nuclear power plants after their decommissioning choose between the application for approval of a "safe enclosure" and
on decommissioning a nuclear power plant. The "safe enclosure" is for the population
unacceptable methods in dealing with disused nuclear power plants. We want
Delete this option in the Atomic Energy Act. We will continue not only to the nuclear phase-out decisions in Germany, but we also internationally for more safety
engage in nuclear power plants or for their shutdown. The export of must
Nuclear technology will not be supported as the construction of new reactors abroad.
We make searching for a national nuclear waste dump with broad social participation on the basis of transparent scientific criteria
new to achieve a social and political consensus.
It still lacks many and basic information to assess the impact and risks of fracking technology. We sit for a waiver of
Use of fracking, until all of the risks for health and the environment assessed and
were excluded. This moratorium is to apply until fracking methods without the use of toxic chemicals that are harmful to the change
Groundwater and drinking water lead available.
The energy efficiency a priority to make.
The consequent increase in energy efficiency is the right response to rising
Energy prices. It is also the most cost-effective measure for effective climate protection. Not only in the transport sector and in the housing sector, but also
in the so-called cross-sectional technologies (z. B. lighting, refrigeration, pumps,
Motors, compressed air) will be on innovative technologies are available which reduce the power requirements dramatically.
The energy taxes, there must be only tax breaks for the industry in the future, if it is demonstrated, through an appropriate energy management, that the energy consumption has actually been reduced as far as
is good business sense.
The significant expansion of decentralized, efficient and climate-friendly combined heat and power (CHP) is one of the major contributions to the achievement of the Energy and climate change targets. We want to encourage the development of cogeneration by companies
create and individuals and provide the necessary infrastructure for district heating.
The building renovation still offers great potential for energy savings.
We want the KfW program for the energy performance of buildings again significantly
increase. Especially benefit local craft businesses from the construction contracts
the middle class. The funds will be provided earmarked with low administrative expenses available. To the highest possible efficiency gains to
achieve, should oriented to promote to the actual saving of energy and not predicated on the efficiency standard for CO2 Building Rehabilitation Programme
become. Previously it comes to improving the energy efficiency of individual buildings.
The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

41
In future, the views more strongly on increasing the energetic efficiency
must focus on residential real estate companies, neighborhoods and residential areas.
We will thereby ensure that tenants not rehabilitated from their
Apartments are displaced.
The prostrate European emissions trading is to reactivate. He must again
the central market-based instrument are to incite investment in energy efficiency.
European consumption standards for cars, household appliances, lighting, previously
fall far short of the technical options available, should be based on the advanced state of technological development, regardless of specific technologies
define (top runner approach).
The energy transition must be socially acceptable.
The energy turnaround does not come for free. There, they efficiently implement and distribute the loads justice is all the more important. Germany already enjoys with the
highest electricity prices in Europe. Almost half of the electricity price are taxes,
Duties and levies. The aim must be, the burden both for the simple
So low current customers as well as for the manufacturing industry in Germany as
to keep possible. Price reduction potential at the production and the consumption side must be exhausted.
Citizens / interior project from citizens Convention on March 2, 2013:
"As the mines were also the energy companies for
Adhere consequential damages by forming provisions. "
We ensure that the costs of nuclear waste and the demolition of nuclear power plants shall be borne by the polluter definitely. The rehabilitation of disabled nuclear repositories as Asse II is through a higher tax on nuclear fuel
be co-financed.
The share of taxes in the total electricity price in recent years
increased significantly and should be reduced. The current tax is noticeably reduced
become. We want a largely exempt primary care
introduce. This can be financed by increased revenue from VAT on the re surcharge.
To ensure that all income groups to afford energy-efficient appliances and equipment
can we be next to energy deliberations hang up programs with micro loans and grants for households and small businesses.
For benefit recipients is to ensure that subsidies are not on benefits
Basic security be credited.

The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

42

III. Education, Equality and
Living together in a modern
Company
Socialist politics will help all people lead independent lives. All people should have equal opportunities and perspectives, regardless of
Origin, gender, ideology, or an existing disability. Freedom, by this we mean not only a freedom from something, but also a freedom
to something: the freedom to unfold, participate and decide. It works
therefore, take his life into his own hands, to make his life a little too
be able. That freedom is not an empty promise but a reality that for all
applies, is our claim to a modern and just society.
Education is the key to a self-determined and free life. Therefore, for
us social democrats education a fundamental right, namely for
all people, regardless of the wallet, of origin, color, religion or
Gender. A powerful and socially just education system is crucial
for the individual life chances of our children and also a key prerequisite for economic success and social cohesion in our
Country. Together in solidarity, mutual assistance and the strengths of each individual abilities characterize our education policy.
Progress and success of a company measured by the fact of how people live and work together. Only an equal society is a modern
Company. And only an equivalent economy is a future-proof business.
Equality and self-determination make it possible, from the retracted rollers
break and to share the challenges of everyday life, in work and family life in partnership, without one partner gets the short end. For this we need
clear rules for the economy and a policy of cooperation.
The gender equality policy in Germany needs a new impetus and a modern
Mission Statement. We want the entire life of women and men in the
Taking views and offer tailor-made conditions that each and every open the same choices and opportunities for participation in every phase of life. Us
want to be consistent in equality policies across all policy areas. "Gender mainstreaming" should be a guiding principle throughout the government action again.

III.1 equality and advancement through education
International comparisons show the high educational attainment of the
social origin. In particular, financial barriers reinforce social disadvantages and keep people away from education. Our goal is to free education
from kindergarten to university.

The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

43
Where we have a responsibility, there are no tuition fees and day-care fees are as far as possible phased out. And we support people in schools, vocational training and study, if they need help. But the goals and desires,
the zeal and the potential of people to decide on educational pathways.
Our goal is to create a powerful and socially just education system,
is lived in the individual promotion. We want to enable advancement through education and Putting equality in the education system.
We want all people to have equal opportunities from the start, their potential
to develop.
Early childhood education is crucial for equal starting opportunities. Therefore, we must
both to expand the supply of child care centers as required, as well as the
Increase quality of educational content. The legal entitlement to a Kita place must
be fully redeemed, thus no longer the chance of residence or the height
the daycare fees will decide on educational opportunities of the children. In order to achieve equal opportunities, fee waivers must apply. Therefore, we need those who
Provide daycare places, in particular the local authorities, to equip adequately funded. Even so we will abolish the formation enemy care allowance. The up
to EUR 2 billion, which would apply for a year in the medium term, we are fully in
invest the expansion of day-care centers and day care.
Kitas are early childhood education institutions with a variety of offerings for
Children and their families. This includes the individual promotion of all children, including the targeted language training to better integrate children
due to their social situation or the low German language skills
their parents are at a disadvantage. The increased requirements must be reflected also in a good, inclusion and practical training of specialist personnel. We will do this for the federal side by professionals Offensive
Educators support.
In education we want to provide more and better all-day and longer
collaborative learning to achieve more equality. The all-day school is a
Successful model that provides more time to learn. Here there are opportunities for targeted support for each and every individual and for dealing with heterogeneous
Learning groups. Together with the countries we want progressively to anyone who wants to offer a full-day course - no matter where and in what type of school. We want in
Part of a second full-day school program but also the quality of the tenders
improve and promote the required training and specialist personnel. Only with them we can really highlight the huge potential of all-day school and fill them with life.
We are convinced that a good and powerful Schulsozialarbeit a
can make important contributions, good all-day schools and inclusive education to
create and improve transitions in the education system. We hold, therefore,
it determined to expand the school social work together with those countries. We will
therefore first ensure that those of us in education and participation package 2011
The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

44
enforced federal funding also will be available in the future, so that the school social workers employed to continue their successful work.
From nursery to adult education inclusion is a fundamental principle and an integral part in all educational institutions for us. Sport and Exercise
play an important role. Our goal is to equal educational opportunities and a
Right to participation for all children and youth to create. The creation of an inclusive education system we want to prepare carefully and by an intense
Accompany dialogue with all stakeholders.
Better, individual promotion of pupils with an immigrant background is also a key prerequisite for equal educational opportunities. The
Foundations must already be laid at the daycare center, but also the schools must
contribute to compensate existing deficits especially in language training and, together with the parents, the conditions for a successful
To provide educational career. We see in the natural bi- or multilingualism an important potential realized through a targeted language support
can be.
The quality of schools is an important concern because applies here our
Core belief that efficiency and social justice in the education system are two sides of the same coin. A good education is not possible without professional, dedicated teachers. We want to strengthen the role of teacher education at the universities. In addition, we want for all those who already in
Professional lives are, expand offers teacher training in order to assist them in preparing for new tasks.
It is a legitimate expectation on our school system that moves from one
State to another create unnecessary problems. The course already taken
Move towards more comparability and mobility by introducing national
Educational standards is right and should be pursued consistently.
Citizens / interior project from citizens Convention on March 2, 2013:
"Covenant shall obtain legislative competence of Education through
Constitution-amending "
The big challenges we are facing in education and science,
require new forms of cooperation between federal, state and local authorities.
With the ban on cooperation in education policy has been a mistake.
We want to replace it with a cooperative education federalism, by
the ban on cooperation in the formation of the Basic Law repeal, and speak
us for a new Basic Law Article 104c from where permanent funding
the federal government for education and science will allow.

The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

45
(Continued)

The SPD will ensure that the already agreed between the countries
national education standards are also implemented compulsory. The comparability of qualifications is thereby significantly improved. Especially
National standards should be developed in other subjects for high school seniors. So we make a high school nationwide comparable.
The further expansion of public education infrastructure and tackling
require the greatest challenges in education and science massive
Investments that are not least from an economic perspective rewarding:
Through investments in education of future demand for skilled workers can be met more
become. At the same time can social costs that result from inadequate or failure to educational investments can be avoided.
We want to increase the government expenditure on education massively. From 2014 we want
gradually building 20 billion euros annually invest more on education. From that
should provide 10 billion euros of the federal government. Countries should be strengthened in their own financial capacity to act so that they in a further 10 billion euros more
Can invest Education. We remain committed to the goal of raising the government expenditure on education in Germany at least to the average level of OECD countries. The goal of seven percent of gross domestic product on education
we come up with 20 billion euro more per year a big step closer and thus create the basis for a new formation set off in Germany.
Strengthening dual training as the mainstay of professionals training and avert skill shortages.
A good vocational training and continuous training and education of workers are the basis for economic success and
the securing the skilled labor base in the future. Many young people have after
still problems in entering the labor market. Still receive annually
more than 80,000 young people a training place and nearly 270,000 young people
put into action without a qualifying education to achieve. And it is
unacceptable that young people are discriminated against solely on the basis of the name or origin in the training or job search.
We want to enable young people a smooth start in their life. From trade unions and employers' organizations supported sectoral training funds that offer training places to increase.
With the training we guarantee every young person to be a clear
and give full qualification perspectives and rely on first place
a strengthening of the company training places. We will provide you with the bundling and intensification of numerous counseling services and, together with the
Facilitate vocational schools to enter into a training and the transition to the
promote dual vocational training.

The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

46
We also want to ensure that girls and boys equally well
advise start in the profession. Especially in the light of the shortage of skilled workers
in the field of mathematics, natural sciences and technical professions and the
Social, education and health professionals, we want to guarantee a consultation before
Training for young people, the authentic and professional information on all
Earning opportunities for girls and boys ensured. Although there are around 350
Are recognized occupations, almost 80 percent of young people put on only about 40
Career opportunities fixed.
For the Social Democrats, the dual training forms a powerful and bearing, equivalent to academic learning paths pillar of professionals training
in Germany. This strength of the dual training system we want to build. Too
but a good education is not only a training place. The quality of education has to be right. We want the quality of school education
and improve conditions in the training companies and are therefore
start together with the social partners a quality initiative for vocational training. This includes a minimum training allowance for us. The dreiund three and a half years of training courses we will strengthen again. The professional
Upgrading training, we will strengthen them by improving the promotion and
Graduates on their way in corporate responsibility
better support.
We want the transitions of early childhood education in the primary schools, from Primarin secondary education and the general education into vocational training
improve. The transitions between different school types are easier
become. We welcome the diversity of school boards, where it is compatible with those objectives.
We are committed to strengthen spaces of non-formal education, as well here
important results in educational processes can be achieved.
Good universities are engines for the successful and sustainable development
our society.
As educational institutions and as central places of science colleges
Engines of a successful and sustainable development of our society. On
to allow good study for all students - that needs at universities
as well as in the higher education policy in the coming years, a prominent role
play. Higher education must meet in their claim to introduce the students to independent and responsible, based on the principles of scientific work.
The theme of good teaching and quality improvement initiatives of teaching and
Studies include the center of our higher education policy efforts, for good
Teaching is a, if not the essential quality feature of a good university.
For better teaching at universities, we will expand the pact "Good teaching".
There are more and more students with different educational biographies,
The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

47
social and cultural backgrounds and lifestyles to the universities -
the need to universities through targeted offers, but also through better
Permeability between colleges and universities to meet. The
Opening up universities for vocational qualifications, we want to continue to forge ahead,
by the universities in the creation and expansion of offers of
Support studies without school.
The increase in student numbers are a success. We want to address through an extension of the Higher Education Pact, the increasing demand for study and help higher education institutions to significantly expand its academic offerings. We are committed to the
Recognition of the Bachelor as a first professional degree. For us
applies: a successfully completed Bachelor's degree is a general Master admission.
Together with the provinces, we want to strengthen based on new constitutional ways the basic funding of universities to carry
reliable financial structures especially to improve the quality of teaching.
A good study is part of a good social infrastructure at universities. Us
want demand to expand the offer of cheap student accommodation, counseling facilities and cafeterias. In the future also have the problems
considered by students with children and better childcare facilities
be extended to universities.
A toll-free studies and a strong BAföG are important conditions to ensure that no one financial reasons prevent you from studying. We want the BAföG
demand evolve. The student BAföG we want to revitalize.
The system introduced by the black-yellow Federal Government Germany Scholarship
we want to run out and the freed-up funds to improve the BAföG
use.
Research and development to progress.
The strengthening of science and research for the future of our
Country of outstanding importance. Innovations in science and research
contribute significantly to the modernization of our society and economy. With the
Research funding from public funds, we ensure that research and
Take place in developing social responsibility.
Research and development are crucial to the major challenges
to master our time. Energy policy and resource-efficient economies,
Health and demography, social cohesion and digital security - to
we need new thrusts from all scientific disciplines.
Good universities are inconceivable without research. You make a key contribution to science and research in Germany. An appropriate AusDas Government Programme 2013 - 2017

48
direction of research funding, we want to ensure that research on
Universities is encouraged, as their central role in the scientific system
corresponds. The key lies in a better basic funding of universities,
for the federal and state governments jointly bear responsibility.
The extramural research institutions are doing a great job. To you
to enable reliable planning over a long period, the federal government have
and countries committed in the Pact for Research and Innovation, to enhance the promotion of major research organizations annually. This reliable funding, we want to continue in the future. The science in Germany through
Excellence Initiative significantly greater international visibility gained. Many universities strategic developments have been set in motion, interdisciplinary clusters were established and the expansion of graduate schools has experienced a swing. It is important that this positive development will also continue in the future.
The principle of "good work" should also apply in science and research. Us
want to create more permanent employment opportunities and reliable career prospects for activities in science and research, and also just beyond
the professorship for life in order to improve the work-life balance.
But it is also that time limitations and Contracting with qualification bodies not
are avoided. We are in the Temporary Science Employment Law Minimum Standards for
Establish time limits and provide more room for maneuver of collective bargaining.
To the numerous young scientists and young researchers,
who came into the German research system, in particular within the framework of the Excellence Initiative to provide reliable career prospects, we need additional posts in all categories of staff: professors, assistant professors and academic Mittelbau.
Women are significantly underrepresented in science and research remains.
We want the proportion of women in the science system by the cascade model
oriented target quotas sustainably increase. In scientific management bodies
we aim to achieve a share of at least 40 percent.
Transparency and participation in the definition of research objectives and their financial backing is called for by civil society rightly. We set
Therefore, the Federal Ministry of Education and Research, a Science Forum
one in which civil society a significant participation, particularly in the
Processing central future issues (eg climate change, energy policy, food security, urbanization, poverty reduction), in publicly funded projects
is ensured. The Science Forum also maintains its own Science Fund, through the participatory and transdisciplinary projects with special
overall social orientation can be additionally supported.
No one shall be left behind.
No one shall be left behind. Our education sector needs new opportunities again
The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

49
open and be permeable. This is not achieved so far in Germany. On the contrary:
7.5 million people in Germany do not now have the necessary read and write capabilities. Around 2.2 million young adults under 35 have no vocational qualification and remain mainly in low-paid ancillary activities.
We want to open these groups through targeted measures new perspectives.
With a literacy decade, we want to direct basic education opportunities
expand.
Young adults leaving school without qualifications, we want to catch-up, full
Offer training.
We want a legal right to education for all, the citizens and the
Citizens good advice and secured exemption phases guaranteed. In this
Meaning we want to develop unemployment insurance to employment insurance. The social partners want to, we support to take collective training agreements and secure with training funds. For those professionals who their professional advancement through education by training or studying
take in hand, we want to help, regardless of their age or previous
Level of education. The rise of scholarship for vocational qualifications we want to
develop a funding entitlement for a study without school.
We want that many people no longer work with foreign vocational and academic qualifications below their skill levels and must be regarded as unskilled. The 2012 adopted Recognition Act for foreign
Statements could meet on a turnaround in the restrictive practice of recognition in no way affect the expectations.
Therefore, it is necessary to speed up the recognition process, to ensure the personal consultation of stakeholders and resulting fees or costs
to keep for adaptation measures at a socially acceptable level. This is
an essential condition for social integration in our country.
Not only the people themselves benefit from a more consistent recognition
their educational qualifications, also for our economy, it is in times of a shortage of skilled workers are of great importance.

III.2 equality and equity
realize
We live in a diverse society in which people quite different
Lead life. We strive for a society in which every person unfold freely
may, without violating the dignity and freedom of others. We oppose any
Form of discrimination. Each form of sexism and all forms of frauenverachtendem behavior and violence against women, we say to the fight. Policy needs
the tools provide for different lifestyles. Our mission statement is a
open and socially just society in which different each and every one without fear
can be.
The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

50
The comprehensive and equal opportunity possibility of participation is a prerequisite
that people see themselves as part of society and be involved in it. We want a society whose social cohesion through mutual
Strengthen appreciation and recognition in dealing with each other in any situation
becomes. We want a society in which all forms of discrimination opposes
and a culture of contradiction promotes, if consciously or unconsciously rights and
Of human dignity are being violated, and a state that this dignity and rights
effectively protects. We fight all forms of discrimination, whether due to origin,
Gender, sexual identity, religion and belief, disability or age.
That is why we want to 3 supplement the sexual identity of equality rights in the Basic Law Art.. We decided to go in front against homophobia and contribute to the acceptance of lesbian, gay, bisexual, trans and intersex people
at. The General Equal Treatment Act (AGG), we will continue to develop and
ensure better funding for the Anti-Discrimination Agency.
We respect and appreciate the freedom of religion and the religious and ideological
Diversity in Germany. Germany's great strength is its diverse society. Integration will take place from the middle of society.
To be free in their choices and realize their own life plan -
the also want same-sex couples. Equality between registered
Partnerships solely by means of court decisions is for us not a political
Option. We want to open marriage to same-sex civil partnerships
and this order is equal also in adoption law and tax law.
Not every person is the sex feels belonging, which was determined at birth. And not every person is uniquely born female or male.
Aware of this reality, we are committed to the respect for human dignity,
of sexual self-determination and the right to physical integrity
trans- and intergeschlechtlicher people a.
The roles of women and men have changed, as well as the notions of
Partnership and family. People live in different models alone
or each other. You are married or unmarried, they are singles or divorced, single parent or blended families. They live in one or two or
three generations under one roof. This requires a coherent policy is that
no longer just unconnected repaired, but oriented in the life course.
This also applies to the personal income tax law. The Ehegattensplitting favors
Einverdienerehe and the tax class combination III / V leads to inappropriate
high monthly load of lower income. This prevents women to work and keeps them stubbornly in the role of secondary earners. It should also
it socially unjust: The splitting advantage is greatest on the one hand for top earners and on the other hand for couples with the highest income difference between
the partners. We want to renew the tax system so that the inclusion of a
Employment for married women's worth and diversity of family forms
is considered. We want to single parent tax relief more than ever.
The family splitting we reject because it favors only the tip income.
The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

51
In marriages and registered life partnerships, partners are a fit.
Therefore we want for future marriages from a date to introduce instead of Ehegattensplitting a partnership deal for the spouses, in which both partners are taxed individually, but the mutual maintenance obligations
be taken into account. For spouse, their life plan previous to the
Have aligned control system, we want to change anything. Instead of the tax class combination III / V, we want to make the factor method called the norm.
Here both incomes are taxed at the same high average rate.
We want that women and men are equal in their professional lives: at startup
the labor market, the wage, in reconciling work and family life as well as
in career advancement and participation in economic decisions.
More and more women are working. Financially on their own two feet and therefore not many are still long. Women are still discriminated against despite the best training.
This gender discrimination in the labor market needs to close. That
Women earn significantly less than men has structural, but by no means self-
Indebted reasons.
Women must have equal pay for equal work and work as men.
We will oblige enterprises with a pay equity law to reveal wage discrimination against women and end. Clout has such
Act only when enterprises are sanctioned inaction.
Also to the glass ceiling for women tear, it needs a legal framework. We are therefore a 40 per cent gender quota for supervisory boards and
Specify directors of listed companies and co-determined binding,
also because a more balanced management structure, the corporate culture at all
Can improve levels. Must in the participation of women in leadership positions
the public sector set an example.
The federal bodies are cast Act and the Federal Equal Opportunities Act
we revise. The public sector must lead by example. In order to
we are in filling supervisory bodies and management positions in companies with a majority stake in anticipation of federal legislation
begin.
We want the analog Federal Equal Opportunities Act binding regulations for the
Promotion of women in all operating hierarchies, where they underrepresented
are introduced for the private sector.
We want to create the space that people have better manage their time
be able. We want to support them strongly while, work, family and commitment to
agree.
Duration and location of the work affect the participation in social life,
cultural, social and voluntary activities of the people. We see
The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

52
the general trend towards longer working hours again critical. We support
Trade unions in their efforts to find employees more time autonomy and reducing the burden caused by excessive working hours.
It requires both family-friendly working hours in operation, as well as a better
Infrastructure and reliable legal claims in the education and care of
Children and dependent persons. Even fathers want to play a greater part in the family and spend more time. They need our support.
A family working time is intended to allow parents, their working time-limited partnership to reduce (eg, 30-hour week), without sacrificing their professional development.
We are in part-time and temporary employment law for parents and carers
the legal right to reduce the working time by a right of return to the old
Supplement working. We will enforce the existing prohibition of discrimination in Teilzeitund Befristungsgesetz. Work must be compatible with life and family.
It's about the needs of employees through various phases of
To become working life more effectively.
Jobs at different hierarchical levels need to be flexible with different
Hours per week can be made. The possibilities are job-sharing
be strengthened. The working hours will follow the life course. But be
we concretise and strengthen the legal right to work time reduction.
We want to support businesses in this revolution of the working model: They need incentive systems for introducing life work time accounts and working time accounts, short-term work interruptions eg for nursing care or longer interruptions for training allow.. We will also more
Participation for workers on when working hours
be reduced for operational reasons.
We need a new work culture. It must go to results of the work, rather than
to the presence of coercion and overtime. The possibilities of mobile and Internet-based forms of work can help more time sovereignty for employees
to accomplish. But: Leisure must be leisure. We support the social partners in the fact
To allow for flexibility in terms of the workers. Us
want family-friendly and healthy working conditions rather than endurance.

III.3 families proceed
For the SPD Family is wherever people assume permanent responsibility for each other. This includes couples - with or without children and marriage certificate -
as well as single parents, patchwork or rainbow families and grandparents and people who care for their elderly parents. The family includes
The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

53
Young and old. What we want is a solidarity between the generations. One
modern family policy must support with good conditions the families to realize their different lifestyles and best
to live a modern partnership.
For that we need above all a family-friendly work environment, good Ganztagsbildungs- and -betreuungsangebote and a good material security of all children.
Our modern family policy geared to this triad of infrastructure,
Time and money.
Citizens / interior project from citizens Convention on March 2, 2013:
"Funding of all-day kindergartens and schools by the federal government"
We want to gradually expand a comprehensive, demand-oriented supply of all-day kindergartens and all-day schools in the whole of Germany. The legal entitlement to a Kita place must be fully redeemed, thus no longer
the coincidence of the place of residence of educational opportunities of the children decide. In order to achieve equal opportunities, fee waivers must apply.

The SPD has already enforced a legal right to a kindergarten place from one year. We are this and a legal right to full-time education
-betreuung evolve. With a phased plan to a nationwide
Supply of all-day kindergartens and all-day schools arise.
We want good early childhood education.
Kitas are early childhood education institutions with a variety of offerings for
Children and their families. Family centers provide important offers parental education and counseling. We want to continue to promote. We want the quality of the
Institutions evolve. The increased demands on teachers
and educators need to be reflected also in a good education. Us
This will support the federal government made by professionals offensive for educators.
The Child Day Care has consistently into the overall concept of quality
be integrated quality early childhood education and care to parents
an alternative to crib or nursery to offer if necessary and the right to claim for
to realize under three year old children in rural areas. So far, however, their expansion remains significantly below target. We are therefore working with the countries better conditions for a high quality
The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

54
Provide day care for children. This includes, inter alia, a more active control role
the youth services in child day care, a stronger networking of children's day care and day-care centers, as well as better and nationally comparable
regulated qualification, training and payment of childminders.
We want that all children can grow up in material security.
In addition to good infrastructure families need but also a good material
Hedging. We want to promote equity and accuracy in the family support. Today a top earners get more relief for his
Children as an average income, this is unfair. At the same time it is possible in the current
System not material child poverty effectively combat. That is why we are the
Provide family benefits from his head to his feet. With our "socially staggered child benefit" we are a dependent child allowance for low-income and
introduce lower median income, in which we integrate the existing children's allowance. There will in future foster families than average with smaller incomes
and no longer the highest with the income. For example, are working
Families monthly with two children and an income of less than 3,000 Euro
future a up to 140 euros per child per month will receive increased child benefit. All
other families receive uniform per child as before a child allowance of 184 euros
in the month. The going beyond existing tax benefit for families with high
Incomes eliminated. For third and subsequent children, it remains at the elevated child benefit records. To finance the social staggered child benefit we will also
the family benefits of a review undergo.
The new child benefit is an important complement to the comprehensive legal
Minimum wage of 8.50 euros. New minimum wage and child benefits work together to ensure that parents who work full-time from slipping, falling into abject want.
The nationwide expansion of all-day kindergartens and schools in coupled,
with the new child benefit, is our social democratic children basic security. they
combines good educational opportunities for all children with a just material security for families.
All children have a right to participate. This law is about ensuring. The educational package for children in need, which was introduced in 2011, meets this requirement
not satisfactorily form. We will reform it.
To strengthen the children of single parents, we are the advance on maintenance payments
expand and support single parents better going maintenance claims
enforce.
We want to create more time for family, by helping parents better here,
Work, family and commitment to agree.
We need more time for family. In addition to a better infrastructure, a family-friendly work environment is necessary. A family work time to allow parents,
The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

55

limited in time to reduce their working partnership (eg 30-hour week), without sacrificing their professional development.
We want to ensure that part-time does not become a dead end. Who family reasons in
Part-time has gone, to be given a legal right to return to full-time.
The successful parents money, we will continue to develop so that partnership
will be strengthened. Mothers and fathers can only work for seven months simultaneously part-time and receive parental cash. We will change that: They should in future
14 months may reflect parental allowance.
We are also single parents with joint custody to subscribe to a maximum
14 months parental benefits allow, if the other parent a parental allowance is claimed. We want / interior are the basic parental benefit for SGB II receiver crediting free again.
Due to demographic change, more and more people are in need of care.
Most of them are managed by families. The major challenge for
the relatives in need of care has long since reached the families. The Doppelmanchmal triple burden of those affected often leads to failures that neither the
Individual still can sustain the society. It is important that women and men
must stay in spite of the care of relatives in the working process and get not permanent. Therefore, it is imperative that we support relatives in need of care it better to combine work, care and concern work.
The ten-day break for members who a short time for the organization
need new care situation, we will build on the current legal regime with a wage replacement power coupling analogous to children sick pay.
For prolonged care situations we want to develop a flexible care time with wage compensation. Workers that their working hours
for care have reduced national who must return to the old working
can return. Both measures are financed from the long-term care
become.

III. 4 Youth Policy
Higher education needs, globalization of the economy and labor markets, performance and time pressure - the demands on young people have grown. Because of these increased demands is for a good growth of all
asked young people more than ever, public and social responsibility. We want to empower young people to discover and develop their personality their talents. Visible and invisible obstacles that, through social
there are cultural, ethnic or health differences, we want from the
Clear way -As also obstacles due to gender or sexual identity. We want all young people growing up and good
Enable advancement through equal opportunities and real participation. Precise conditions must to the different needs and circumstances of
The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

56
young people be aligned. This is only possible with a consistent and coherent youth policy, which draws attention to the needs of young people tailored offers for different situations. Is necessary to youth policy as a key
Policy field, to be seen as future policy and shape.
Therefore good youth policy can be time and space for development. Youth policy needs
the Persönlichkeitsentfaltung be required. That is why we want to support all young people to go their own way and develop itself through a
self-determined life. These young people need local, temporal, participatory and
economic freedom.
Particularly at the transitions from school to vocational training or study and then in
the profession must overcome obstacles and difficulties young people repeatedly. We want a policy that forgives mistakes and second, third and each additional
Granted a chance that a young person needs to find its way. Good youth policy is "integrated social policy life cycle", which in the particular situation in life
grants optimum support.
So that young people can develop their personalities, so that they can use their freedom, they must be free from existential concerns. You need a
reliable social protection. Therefore we rely on good work, minimum living
Wages, social security - for the parents and for the young people themselves For older.
Adolescents and young adults is the risk of poverty is particularly high when the
Transition difficult to earn a livelihood and socially secure employment
is or is not successful. That is why we want to give all young people an education and vocational qualification. A fair entry into professional life and good work must
connect. Here no young person may be lost to us. The BAföG must ensure that participation in training does not fail from a lack of money.
Good youth policy provides good infrastructure. For good growth
young people need reliable structures and good deals. This includes
Offers to education and leisure activities, mobility, access to the Internet and
much more. It is the responsibility of local, state and federal government, as part of the public services such offers coverage, as needed and in good
To provide quality. Municipalities plays a special meaning. You need a solid funding in order to maintain good conditions for growing up and re-create can. So they afford
an important contribution to a strong democracy. Because where social infrastructure breaks away, anti-democratic structures are strengthened.
For us it is clear: Places of youth work are just like Kita and school for
Basic services. Youth work must be strengthened and be equipped as required. The children and youth plans of federal and state governments for this purpose are the key
Funding instruments. This includes sufficient funding nationwide central
Infrastructure of youth associations.
We want an overall strategy for a good growth of young people under
The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

57
Develop involvement of all relevant policies and federal levels. These
Overall strategy includes the four dimensions, the Federal Youth Board 2009
has developed in its "repositioning of youth policy". These are protective and
Support policy, formal policy, participatory politics and policy generation.
A good youth policy must remain flexible. Because the conditions under which
grow young people who are in the river, the youth phase is constantly changing.
What makes a good youth policy, must therefore be constantly renegotiated.
We must seek this dialogue and lead and that appropriate structures for
Provide. It is important to recognize young people as equal partners and partners. We want to lower the voting age to 16 years.
A key instrument are the structures of the Youth League work. Youth associations are composed broad and heterogeneous and democratically legitimate advocacy of young people. We want to promote and strengthen clubs, youth organizations, youth initiatives and youth centers in their structures. You can key
Contributions within the framework of the development of an independent youth policy making.
Just voluntary work for young people is important for the development
our civil society. See In the newly introduced Federal Voluntary Service
We considerable need for improvement. We rely on the consistent expansion of
proven youth volunteer services. We want transparency and legal certainty
provide for youth voluntary services by a volunteer status law and
achieve greater recognition for volunteer service providers.
We want to specifically improve the conditions for the engagement of young people. That is why we are socio-political commitment in associations and organizations in the assessment of the funding periods under the BAföG which
university policy commitment equate. In addition, we will examine how we
Give students more time autonomy for social commitment
be able.
Good youth policy has the full implementation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child
and thus the realization of the rights of children and adolescents to the destination. Us
want any policy, check every law to see whether they are compatible with the children's rights internationally agreed. We also want the
Children's rights in the constitution anchor.
The growth of children and adolescents should be free from all forms of violence,
take place sexual violence. To sexualized violence decisively oppose and to protect minors early as possible their
prevent, we encourage intensified prevention policies and measures. Concerned, we want to enable enhanced aids. We want the criminal traceability of child abuse by extending the suspension or criminal
Extend limitation periods. Moreover, for us, the independent processing of the
Abuse happening in the past, society as a whole challenge that we will support.
The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

58
III.5 Equal participation: For a modern
Integration policy
Germany is an open country. We are committed to an equitable social coexistence in diversity. Integration policy rethinking is ultimately
also to overcome the concept of integration and by the self-evident
replace sociopolitical claim to participation and participation. This
Principle must commit all departments of the Federal Government.
Together with the countries that is why we want to develop the immigration authorities to welcome authorities to start and control centers for integration and naturalization.
We need both a welcoming culture and a participatory structure. Only like that
can be created freedom, equal opportunities, education and work for all. Us
but also to know: The successful cooperation depends primarily on social factors. Differences in race, religion or culture should not displaced but
not in principle be declared a problem. We advocate for all people in our country, discrimination and prejudice we step decided
contrary. An open society offers as part of the fundamental rights of all religions
the freedom to develop their faith.
Diversity We see this as a future resource of our open society. Legal equality and equality of opportunity are the foundations of such a society. Our goal is that the cultural, ideological and religious diversity
within our constitutional and social state constitutional order in politics and
Administration, economy, art and culture is thought along naturally. But whether
Successful integration and coexistence, decides in the municipality in the
Districts, in the neighborhoods. Therefore, the local authorities should not be left alone with the challenges of immigration and integration. Districts that provide special reception and integration services, require targeted support. The massive cuts at the "Social City" program by the
black-yellow government of CDU / CSU and FDP have devastating consequences for
local integration. This concerns in particular the complete deletion socio-integrative measures, such as language learning or to take care of young people. At the municipal level, we want to strengthen the involvement of migrant organizations, local alliances for inclusion and social cohesion again.
To those who have immigrated to Germany, we want to enable more participation. Germany is an immigration country and thrives on its diversity, the
Commitment and ideas of people from diverse backgrounds. Now
we must take the next step and become a naturalization country. This includes
a modernization of the nationality and the right to vote. Therefore, we want
accept dual citizenship from citizens. What we
need is a citizenship law that meets our diverse expectant society opens up fair opportunities for participation and membership for all and
the self-image of Germany as a cosmopolitan country underlines.
The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

59
In particular, we want Germany's children are also German nationals
and stay. Girls and boys who are born here are the German
Obtain and retain nationality. The option obligation, the young people
forcing the majority to opt for a nationality, be
we abolish and total dual citizenship from citizens and
Accept citizens. The option obligation is an integration policy blunder and an
bureaucratic monster which the municipalities imposes huge administrative costs.
Foreign students who have a university degree or in Germany
acquire equivalent qualification (eg master craftsman), we want to enable,
to operate without restrictions in Germany.
The cohesion in the cities is at risk if people who come from non-EU states, remain as previously excluded from municipal suffrage.
We will strive to getting a constitutional amendment majority in the Bundestag
to achieve, so that every woman and every man local voting rights after a
can take the five-year legal residence in claim. We will verify the integration support to improve opportunities and improve the quality of integration courses, including the working conditions of teachers on.
Family reunification, we will facilitate.
The civil service derives its democratic legitimation from the fact that it reflects the diversity of the population within its structures. Therefore want
we continue to open the civil service for people with a migration background
and their share of the total employment increase significantly. With further
Model experiments, we will examine whether the anonymous application useful
is to reach this goal. We also want to strengthen the intercultural competence of employees.
For a decent refugee policy.
The SPD is a decent refugee policy. Causes of flight - persecution, war and civil war, discrimination and poverty in the countries of origin -
must be fought to the people in their home countries to prospects
Open. People who have to flee yet, we want in Germany and the
Grant European Union protection. Protection need in particular girls and
Women who have become victims of trafficking or violence.
According to the Convention on the Rights of the Child, we will quickly ensure
that all children in the German refugee law finally treated like children
become. We want the so-called residence obligation for asylum seekers and tolerated
cancel and, equitable distribution of costs between the countries as well as the
Limit municipalities to a residence edition, which must be well enforced.
The so-called airport procedure has now given a very small number of cases only
still of little significance. Therefore, we want the procedure with significant
Restrictions connected, expose.
The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

60
Within the framework of available course places we want asylum seekers and tolerated in future
allow participation in integration courses. The benefits for asylum seekers we will reform according to the specifications of the Federal Constitutional Court and
facilitate access to the labor market. To long been tolerated in Germany living people to give a perspective, we want to create a more extensive provisions on residence rights: We will change the law so stay so far
required to leave young people and adolescents after a successful school attendance and other persons required to leave in cases sustainable integration
a date independent right to stay will be given.
We will promote conformity with human rights refugee policy in the EU,
including a solidary compensation. Together with UNHCR, we are
expand a nationwide program for resettlement of quota refugees
and stabilize.
The EU Member States currently with poverty immigration from Southeast Europe
faced. Asylum seekers from Serbia and Macedonia, as well as EU citizens
Nationals of Romania and Bulgaria to leave their countries of origin to escape the precarious conditions in which they live. Few of the outside
EU to come have this chance of being recognized as refugees.
The poverty-related EU-internal migration is especially the municipalities with enormous challenges. The local authorities concerned need the support of the federal quickly.
The SPD is for the particularly affected by poverty immigration cities a
Provide immediate federal program available. The program is intended both to be
the immigrants and their children set up as well as to the local population to a joint development of the districts and quarters to
allow to ensure the peaceful coexistence and the education and
To finance integration programs of the cities.
But is also crucial here a rapid improvement of living conditions in
the countries of origin. The EU Member States must ensure the protection of their minorities in law and in fact.

III.6 culture, media and power policy
Art and culture enrich us are diverse, critical, active and stimulating. they are
essential in its intrinsic value for an open and democratic society. Your support is not a subsidy, but investment in the future. And this investment must
first of all, arrive even with the artists - to secure their livelihoods.
For social democrats are the artists
in the Centre. The SPD is the party of labor - also the artistic and creative work. The working and living conditions of artists
The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

61
change, mainly through the digitization. We want to shape the conditions so that cultural and creative professionals can live from their work.
This requires, firstly, a reform of copyright that the right of copyright
acknowledges on its intellectual property in the digital world and the interests of
Creators, users and recyclers brings to compensate. This requires, secondly,
better social protection of creators. We have a good thirty years ago
Brought Künstlersozialversicherung on the way. Today the KSK is a success story and increases its attractiveness. Therefore, we must strengthen them so that they also
in future the solidary financing of hedge artistic and creative
Can afford self-employed. At the same time people who work in the creative sector must have a place in the traditional social systems. Solo self-employed temporary, employees and other forms of precarious employment, we want to better protect, for example through an extension of the qualifying period for the acquisition of pension rights
in the unemployment insurance for three years, by the inclusion of own-account workers in the statutory pension scheme as well as the enforcement of minimum social standards and fees in publicly funded projects and facilities.
For social democrats participation is a crucial
Principle also in the cultural policy. Art and culture should be accessible to all people. We want to use public cultural funding to a wide cultural offer
socially acceptable prices allow. At the same time publicly funded cultural institutions with their offers have to reach as many people. In a country of immigration that is Germany today, the variety of life forms, cultures
seize and worldviews. And finally, we need cultural education,
to participation to enable ever and desire for culture to awaken. We do not call
only "culture for all", but also create conditions for this.
We want to promote art for its own sake and not only when it benefits economic, social or political purposes. Artistic freedom and cultural and political responsibility of the state are incompatible. Our goal is to strengthen
Places of social encounter and conversation both independent of
Art market and cultural industries as well as in cooperation with them. The existing
cultural infrastructure we want to preserve and strengthen.
n Given increasingly scarce public resources are structural changes
the public funding of culture is inevitable. We will ensure that
Federal, state and local authorities their funding activities more closely than before with each other
Vote and put together in terms of a conceptual cultural policy priorities (such as stronger commitment to independent scene, cultural education). This requires the repeal of prohibition in favor of joint co-operation
structured conception of cultural promotion.
n conservation and historic preservation are among the most important cultural policy
Responsibilities of federal, state and local authorities. For preservation of cultural heritage,
but also in view of the associated jobs, we advocate a
Steadying a monument of special program. The SPD advocates
that the federal government involved in the Bauhaus anniversary of 2019.
The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

62
n The commemoration of the two German dictatorships may not give rise to a relativization of the Nazi reign of terror, nor the injustice of the SED dictatorship may be trivialized. The SPD is committed to working up of the SED injustice and wants
these continue to develop. We will establish a commission of experts to evaluate the previous work of the Stasi documentation authorities and proposals for their
To make future. We want to strengthen the "European Network Remembrance and Solidarity". It is intended to form the nucleus of an evolving European history, in the spirit of European reconciliation and democracy. Exchange
and joint projects with European neighbors, we want to deepen.
n We want the successful model of the German Federal Film Fund (DFFF) continuously
continue and strengthen financially to the film location Germany international
competitive and to get the economy and employment in the German
To strengthen the film industry. The aim of the funding is for us to secure a wide variety of filmmaking in Germany. This also includes the independent children's film.
to convey n The positive image of a cosmopolitan Germany in the world to cultivate friendships and to make friends, are important tasks of foreign cultural and educational policy. The industry is subject of an inward and outward
open exchange for freedom, emancipation and development of poorer countries, for crisis prevention and management. The SPD is in favor of developing a common European foreign cultural policy, and to the outside
acts inside and so - together with the European culture funding policy - a
common idea of ​​Europe conveys, promoting cultural diversity in Europe and
can strengthen the cohesion in Europe - beyond economic interests.
Power politics is for us and future corporate policy and an instrument of the design for the digital world. It belongs in the center of the political debate. Us
is first of all access to the Internet as a democratic civil rights important. Us
need for the strengthening of civil rights through effective data protection and the
Protection of personal rights. We want that digital opportunities for the design
of everyday life, for participation and for social services to be used so that
Citizens also can determine command of their personal data in the future. On the Internet and in social networks, we are for a legal
Regulatory framework that protects consumers, ensures the diversity of opinion and
ensures fair competition. This is what we at the national level and in
Europe.
An area-wide broadband coverage in rural areas, we want to
secure by a universal service obligation by law. In addition, we need the dynamic expansion of high speed networks. In this set
we. on additional private investment, for which we will create the appropriate framework We will anchor the net neutrality law. Us
want to ensure that in public spaces enables access to Wi-Fi
becomes. The SPD will promote a change in the wireless operator liability to
to create more legal certainty for providers. We want also more transparency of government knowledge through open data projects, social security in the digital
The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

63
World of work and the benefits of emancipatory freedom through digital work well
for better work-life balance and finally the benefits of
Opportunities of the digital society for a revitalization of democracy.
The change in our society through the Internet must not, however, to
lead to relativize the protection of individual rights. Even in the digital world
must pull a commercial return on the use of their works Author
be able. We are therefore once and for a modernization of the copyright, the
Creative, authors and their partners strengthens and brings the right with new digital use practices into line. The link between author and work is inviolable and must not be called into question.
The intellectual property is the raw material of cultural and creative industries. The unbreakable link between author and work must not be put into perspective. Of the
Protection of intellectual property is therefore essential for the SPD. Nevertheless, the modernization of copyright is necessary to creative and copyright in the digital
To strengthen the economy and the environment of new digital use practices
copyright binding to clarify. Our goal is a fair and equitable
Ensure balance between the interests of authors, exploiters and users, the
cultural and economic conditions of the cultural and creative industries ensured.
n We want to promote business models that a legal use of protected content
pretty sure allow. For this we need to test new business models
also allow law, for example, through a simplified licensing.
n The resolved by black and yellow ancillary copyright law, we reject. We will
bring the government takeover, a new law on the way. We want
develop involving all stakeholders a proposal which the options
the press publisher to enforce the law with regard to their existing
Copyright strengthens, while the interests of authors (especially journalists here) fully respects the principle of freedom of information
guarantees and ensures the findability of information.
n We want to strengthen the position of the author. Given the foreseen in Urhebervertragsrecht negotiation or conflict resolution mechanisms must become more efficient
adapted and supplemented as necessary to ensure effective control and enforcement instruments
become.
n We want to especially commercially operated copyright infringement
consistently suppress. This does not require comprehensive content filtering
the data stream, no Internet censorship and no threat of an individual blocking of Internet access. Such far-reaching constitutional changes we reject. We will proceed rather against the illegal platforms
on which there are 90 percent of all violations. We will prevent
that this offer future continue to general liability privileges
may rely. We will stop their funding, by their KoopeDas Government Programme 2013 - 2017

64

ration sanction with advertisers and payment service providers. A total of
applies to the user a real orientation with respect to the freedoms and limits
to give, which is important for social interaction in we believe
Network. Media literacy in the Internet is to maximize the possibilities of users and providers, and participation and educational opportunities, as well as criticism
and accountability form. Responsible, solidarity and sustainable
Action impresses itself does not necessarily by itself.
n We want an educational and scientific-friendly copyright law. Scientific authors have their contributions in addition to the publisher publication eg can be made available on the website of the university. We advocate
also a for a review of the educational and scientific barriers to
to allow the permanent intranet use in schools and colleges. About
to preserve the cultural heritage in the future, the digitization of orphan must
and out of print works are made possible.
It is anticipated that we medium and long term international and European
Find solutions and to bring the application. This is a complex and
long-term challenge, which we must, however, ask us to provide them with our
to characterize West German values. Because in the end is the vision of a
just and social space that can become a reality only if a
essential part of the society agree on uniform rules and thus reflects a social consensus.
The SPD is the party of labor - also the creative work. We've brought the Künstlersozialversicherung set off thirty years ago. We are at this
Special system of statutory social security, because artists
and publicists and journalists are particularly vulnerable as before. The
solidary financing Künstlersozialversicherung by artists and companies is non-negotiable for the SPD. The SPD also provides for the need for better protection of precarious self-employment, particularly by the
many are affected in the cultural industry professionals.
Independent and diverse media are a cornerstone of a vibrant democracy and therefore indispensable part of our everyday lives. They provide information,
Communications, secure political participation and access to knowledge. The Media
is undergoing a fundamental transformation, triggered by digitization and
economic changes. To cope with this change, we want to closely
Coordination with those responsible primarily Länder measures for the development of the media system of the digital society, the constitutionally guaranteed portfolio and further development guarantee the public service media offer and to maintain the diversity of our media landscape
take.

The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

65
The public broadcasting is a guarantee for high-quality content in the media competition with other providers - both online and offline. Public sector
Media have their special position, however, also justify itself again and again: by the special quality of its program as well as by the quality
their employment and working conditions. At the same time we are committed to further development of the framework of private television and radio stations.
Because the responsibility for high quality deals is not only the public broadcasting, but also in the private providers.
A free press and an independent journalism belong to the indispensable
Core of democracy. However threatening the economic upheavals, such Auflagenund indicator declines, increasing funding opportunities journalistischredaktioneller products and thus indirectly also press freedom, media pluralism and
general working conditions of journalists. We must
make the conditions so that manufacturing and distribution journalistischredaktioneller products can be profitable in the future. We also want to help to develop new models of financing journalistic achievements.
The constitutionally enshrined freedom of the press must be guaranteed.
Media literacy - not only for children and young people, but all generations -
makes it possible to navigate in a world permeated by media. Which must be facilitated and encouraged "digital self" that everyone in the situation
offset, use all the options of the "digital society" as independently as possible and to be able to protect yourself well against the associated risks. Are necessary
this equipping the students with a mobile computer
and the creation of a digital learning environment and digital classroom. This is
only makes sense if an appropriate training of teachers and appropriate
Training concepts are available. This also requires the digitization of
Textbooks and teaching and learning contents and their access on the network.

The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

66

IV. For an equitable tax policy
We want a just and modern society. For that we need an action-enabled state, which is able to perform his duties for a solidary community. People need to be confident that public services, security, social security, education, infrastructure and culture for all
are available. Stable government finances are the basis that the state this
Can perform tasks. They are also a prerequisite for sustainable and qualitative
Growth to create prosperity for all and secure. The new foundation of
Social market economy is based on a fair tax system. Our Policy
has the duty of a solid financing. It may on no load shift
give future generations. Enshrined in the Basic Law debt brake must
be respected.
With our financial policy, we are creating the basis for sustainable growth and
Justice. There are clear priorities, the identified economic policy
Follow goals and financial room for maneuver in the context of our tax and financial concept: First of debt reduction and investments are in
Education. It follows the strengthening of social and cultural capacity of our
Localities. Important are the strengthening of domestic demand through a more equitable wage and income development and investment in research and
Development, infrastructure and energy transition.
The impetuous privatization policy in recent years has more often than not more expensive
Proved wrong track. We oppose privatization in particular where they have access to
hamper the public goods and questioned the monopoly of power of the state
put. Privatisation must not against the will of the citizens
be performed. The SPD is a powerful and citizen-oriented public service with a modern civil service.
The consolidation of public budgets taking more with the debt brake
as previously at the center. Federal and state governments have to make their contribution. We rely on the Federalism and the principle to stand up for each other.
Maintaining uniform living standards throughout the country remains an
central political concern. Securing stable surface collective agreements and
limiting the drifting apart of income, even in the civil service,
are an expression of federal solidarity.
Given the debt ban on the country from 2020 onwards are future common bonds of federal and state reasonable. Against this background we are
create the conditions for that federal and state governments for a common borrowing ("piggybacking") is possible.
Tax policy is company policy for us. However, the control system follows a
Company image that often the current life reality is no longer sufficient
maps. It is no longer the emerging challenges of the future
The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

67
justice. In marriages and registered life partnerships, partners are a fit. Therefore we want for future marriages from a date to introduce a partnership deal for spouses instead of Ehegattensplitting, in which both partners
are taxed individually, but the mutual maintenance obligations are taken into account. For spouse, their life plan previous to the
Have aligned control system, we want to change anything. Instead of the tax class combination III / V, we want to make the so-called factor method for standard.
Here both incomes are taxed at the same high average rate.
With this redesign, we adapt the tax law in a very central area
the income taxation to the realities of today's society and to achieve a fairer tax system. In addition, we want to treat single parents fiscally equitable.
Tax policy we understand as an important way, the solidary coexistence in
to enable our country and to promote and to counteract the social division. They must be just, and economically rational. And they need to
Lifestyles in a modern society meet.
Claim our tax policy is to combine the promotion of economic dynamism with social justice. Justice is the central anchor of our fiscal policy, because it is a basic condition for social stability in society. Tax policy based on stable public finances is then socially and economically
reasonable when strong shoulders bear more than weak. Germany is from here
whack. The gap of income and wealth distribution
diverges: Wages in the upper area have increased in the past decade. The bottom 40 percent of full-time workers who, after deduction of inflation
Real wage losses suffered. The wealth of private households is growing and is almost
10 trillion euros. In particular, the top ten percent of households have the
Increases profits. While they had in 1970, 44 percent of the total net assets, there are more than 60 percent today.
Citizens / interior project from citizens Convention on March 2, 2013:
"The revenue increase volume. For example, Wealth tax, top tax
increase social security contributions for all income ranges. "
Our tax policy is not an end in itself, but is a fair burden sharing and the balance in society. We want the future high-income earners and the wealthy to finance more of our community
enlist. For this purpose we want the top tax rate of 42 or 45 per cent to
49 percent of taxable income from EUR 100,000 or EUR 200,000 at
Increase spouses.
Assets are taxed far below average in Germany in an international comparison. We will raise the property tax to a reasonable level,
to the countries to enable the necessary increased investment in education.
The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

68
We want a property tax, which takes into account the particular situation of the German middle class, of partnerships and family and
their securing the future capital formation secures and their scope for investment
not charged. The wealth tax ensure high allowances for individuals that the normal family house not be affected by the wealth tax
becomes.
Even with the taxation of inheritances is the tax fairness in the foreground for us. We do not want longer tolerate the abuse of tax policy choices in favor of a small number of wealthy heirs.
We will therefore take back the tactics deployed by the black-yellow coalition favors and privileges in inheritance taxation in the future much
stronger link to the permanent preservation of jobs and thus embellish Mittelstand friendly. Especially for family it is of paramount importance that the generation transition through the taxation of non-
is made more difficult, and of course it is also in the interests of the commonwealth,
if companies continue and workers will continue to be employed permanently.
Work must not be taxed more heavily than income from capital assets. Therefore, we want in a first step, the flat tax, while maintaining the
Increase Option suffrage from 25 percent to 32 percent. If we find,
that the emergence of this withholding tax less pronounced than the expected income in the taxation with the personal income tax rate,
We want to abolish the withholding tax within three years and the capital gains again subdue the synthetic taxation.
We want a tax on financial transactions with the broadest possible tax base and low tax rates. For us this means that all transactions of
Must be subject to stocks, bonds, derivatives and foreign exchange in taxation.
We are the FTT be configured such that it is not deductible as a business expense, neither the income nor the Körperschaftund business tax.
After all, we are the tax deductibility of the Management Board and other
Manager salaries, including bonuses and severance, to a maximum of 50 percent
limit the amounts that exceed 500,000 euros.
Special tax privileges for individual stakeholders, such as hoteliers and
rich heirs, the CDU / CSU and FDP have newly created in recent years,
we will withdraw.
We want tax subsidies - especially those with environmentally harmful
Effect - underscore under our control and financing concept. These include the abolition of tax relief on agricultural diesel, the limitation of the deductibility of fuel costs for large firms and in Cart
The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

69
Part of a European solution, the withdrawal of concessions for aviation fuel.
Moreover, it is for the SPD of central importance, subsidizing
To end low pay finally. This is not only an imperative of social justice
and economic reason; would the introduction of a minimum wage of 8.50 euros
also lead to tax revenue, under-spending in ALG II and "second-round effects" of more than 7 billion euros.
Citizens / interior project from citizens Convention on March 2, 2013:
"New load balancing because communities disproportionately affected
are. "
Our country needs strong cities, municipalities and counties. They are the immediate habitat of the people in our country and its financial resources
decides on equal opportunities and social participation. The caring society has its place, especially in the municipalities. They are the ones responsible for the
Interest are responsible and shape the daily lives of people. In the
Municipalities will decide whether all children get early childhood education, whether
People of different cultures together or side by side living,
whether adolescents organize their leisure time meaningful if the elderly remain integrated, whether people feel safe in public spaces. The financial framework for sustainable municipal action have in the past
Years deteriorated, so that the performance and integration capabilities as well as
the investment capacity of the local authorities is at stake. Many municipalities
it goes now to the substance. The living conditions in the cities go
further apart. We want to strengthen cities and towns again. Therefore,
We want to establish a task-specific funding of local authorities.
We therefore strive for an investment and debt pact for municipalities
in on Germany. We want to make a lasting contribution to the stabilization
the municipal finance and investment capacity of cities, municipalities and
Make circles.
The municipalities will benefit proportionately from the redemption of the black-yellow clientele laws, the elimination of subsidies and the introduction of a more equitable tax system. Part of the pact is the next evolution of business tax.
Also important is a relief from rising social spending. A first important step was to pressure the SPD-led countries with the assumption of costs
of basic security in old age and incapacity done by the federal government. Us
will examine the acquisition of additional benefits by the federal government.
Going forward is the municipalities in default increases and new entitlements to generate reasonable financing. Connexity is in relation to the
Countries mandatory, but must be applied in the case at the federal decisions.
The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

70
In the next term of the German Bundestag of 2019 temporary financial equalization has to be renegotiated. We stand for a solidary
State. The SPD has led by Gerhard Schröder 2001 Solidarity Pact
II enforced who gave the eastern countries the chance to own development. Make the actions of the CDU and the CSU against the financial equalization
clear that this solidarity is at risk. Only the SPD as a pan-German party
represents a balance of interests between economically weak and strong
Regions. The balance of interests must not be more oriented to the East or West,
but must take into account the structural problems of all communities and regions.
As part of the reorganization of the federal financial equalization we are a solution for the debts of states and municipalities, among other things Find by setting up a national debt fund.
Tax fraud is a serious offense, but an offense, the confidence in the
Rule of law undermines and threatens the cohesion of our society. Us
will not accept that the community escape billions of euros of taxpayers' money, because some financial institutions not sufficiently cooperate with the tax authorities,
Tolerate fraud or even support within their business models by offering appropriate banking products approvingly. We therefore want all in
Germany oblige border financial institutions not to offer banking products and services, with which their customers can evade taxes, and with the
To cooperate tax offices. Does a financial institution established in Germany or
a branch of a foreign institution demonstrably aid for tax fraud or refuses cooperation with the tax authorities, this should be at
future cases may be held accountable more: we want a
is increasing criminalization that begins with penalties and may lead to a restriction of the banking license and as a last resort to withdrawal of banking license on the possibilities of dismissal of the management and prohibitions.
We want to optimize the cooperation between federal and provincial governments continue to go from in investigating cases of cross-border tax crime
substantial or fundamental importance to act quickly and coordinated to
be able. So should a uniform handling of information services private
THIRD be ensured on suspected tax evaders. Furthermore
We want to strengthen the powers of the existing gravity prosecutors in matters of tax evasion.
We strive for a uniform tax enforcement and wishing to create uniform standards in tax collection and tax audit, together with the provinces nationwide standards.
The statute of limitations for tax fraud, we will adjust. Violations
Tax law will in future no longer automatically expire after ten years,
but at least the duration of suspicious financial constructs cover. Our reform of the statute of limitations should be based on the practice in the United States: There, the statute of limitations begins with the delivery of a correct tax return.
The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

71
We want to dry up tax havens at least in Europe. The intergovernmental
Exchange of information needs to be more effective. For this purpose, we want to extend the scope of the EU Savings Directive to cover all investment income and all natural and legal persons and the automatic exchange of information to
Make default in Europe, also in relation to third countries such as Switzerland. Us
undertake to work intensively for the fight against fraud in the VAT both at national and European level. The fight against tax fraud can
only european succeed in a common European market. We will
in the European institutions for a closer and coordinated cooperation of
Insert Member States of the European Union and support the initiatives of the European Commission also towards third countries. We will consistently
the fight against tax dumping and tax fraud as a condition for grants
making within the framework of the Euro-bailouts. We want especially in countries with high public debt, which are dependent on aid, financial crime
uncovered and tax compliance is enforced. Governments that rely on the solidarity of others may no longer make tax evasion a national "business model".
At European level, we are committed to the earliest possible introduction of
FTT a. It is a powerful tool to the cause of
Financial and economic crisis to contribute to the cost of the cleanup. she is
and economically necessary.
Within the European Union we want to ensure in future that between
Member States uniform minimum tax rates and minimum design values ​​for
Income and corporate taxes to be developed.

The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

72

V. Social Security and pension
Freedom and self-determination Prerequisites: Social Security and the
Chance to participate in social life. For this we need a
solidary social system and a good social infrastructure, the citizens and
Citizens supported locally.
And we find out that people in our country are living longer. Our aim is that
they have the security of being able to healthy and without material want to grow old in dignity. This is only possible with social systems that assure all citizens and
offer them in any situation protection and support. And we want to support the citizens in special situations with better coordinated social services. For this purpose we want the cooperation between the
Improve social service providers. The services must be the needs of the people
follow, not the institutions.
For us, this means that all citizens are the citizens' insurance
regardless of their life situation or their employment status a good health and
Have long-term care. We want to develop unemployment insurance to employment insurance for all. This helps people to maintain their employability and to remain in employment. With the expansion of the circle insured in the public pension system, we make one step at a
Employment insurance, in which all on equal terms for the age and
are insured with disability. We will use the basic security in SGB II and
SGB ​​XII designed so that it meets the requirements of the Federal Constitutional Court. That
ie: a transparent and proper due process, accurate and comprehensible. This applies in particular for an independent determination of the requirements of children.
We are the poverty and wealth reporting continue as they as
Basis for policies and measures to effectively combat poverty and
fit for a socially just distribution policy.

V.1 Health and Care
Socialist health policy is geared to the patient, not to stakeholders in the health sector. We want to secure and finance good medical care for all citizens reliably.
Our goal is to create more and equal health opportunities for all citizens. A healthy living environment, work that does not get sick, and a
equal access to good medical care and improve quality of life and contribute
overall in prosperity and good economic development. They promote the
social interaction. Therefore, the preservation and improvement of health for
us an object of public interest.
The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

73
Citizens / interior project from citizens Convention on March 2, 2013:
"Inclusion of all people in the health insurance."
Same Location and timely access to medical care and maintenance and
equal participation on medical advances are particularly important to us.
Because social divide in health care threatens the future of our
Society as a whole. That is why the financing through reliable contributions must
be - and just. With the citizens' insurance to all citizens and
Citizens get regardless of their income, their living conditions or their employment status, good health and nursing care. And we want the
enable best care and a fair competition between insurance companies. Same solidary playing field for all health insurance companies
are a prerequisite for this.
Civil insurance for health and care.
Citizens Insurance is introduced as full health and long-term care for all citizens. For this we are for all funds that participate in the citizens' insurance in health and care, creating a unified and cohesive competition framework. With the citizens' insurance we maintain a structured,
public and self-managed POS system established as a fundamental pillar of the legal health insurance. We want to strengthen it. For all new and hitherto publicly insured citizens insurance is compulsory. people who
are previously privately insured, can choose a limited period for a year if they want to switch.
We want to strengthen solidarity between the high and low-income citizens in the insurance. And employers should again make the same contribution
as employees, their effective parity must be restored. We will
achieve greater sustainability by introducing a steadily increasing tax funding. We will abolish the additional contribution and the health insurance
Contribution rate autonomy back. Our goal is for all equally good access
to provide medical care and privileges in the healthcare system
degrade, so end the two-tier care.
With the citizens' insurance, we are a unified insurance system
introduce a uniform fee structure for legal as private health insurance. The total fee income is not diminished, but more fairly distributed. The remuneration of outpatient services in private practice
and stationary applications will be equalized.
We will provide for all funds that participate in the citizens' insurance in health and care, a unified solidarity competition framework. That
We achieve this by not "cherry-picking", the selection of "good risks", will be rewarded, but offering the best quality.
The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

74
Prevention and health promotion.
Healthy growth, a healthy living and working environment and possible
to grow old healthy, should no longer depend on the social situation. That's why
We are prevention and health promotion to focus our policy
do.
Comprehensive prevention is more as a preventive - it includes all sectors of society. Prevention and the strengthening of health literacy have
in the design of the living environment, the workplace and in the education and training are important. The sport and active clubs are very helpful.
The health literacy of individuals and organizations must be strengthened.
Likewise, should medical and health professionals get a higher priority in the prevention training.
We want a comprehensive prevention and health promotion law
the next legislature to implement an effective prevention strategy. In particular, prevention in living environments such as day care, school and work needs to be developed to compensate for social health inequalities. This includes an increase in spending on prevention and control of joint action
States, municipalities and all social security institutions at the level of countries.
We need finally the real equality of medical rehabilitation with
medical acute care. Access barriers need to be reduced, rehab lid
and rehabilitation budget constraints must be eliminated. To avoid long-term care, we need an offensive in geriatric rehabilitation. That's why
must be reimbursed the cost of these benefits of the nursing care insurance funds.
As before, tobacco is the largest avoidable health risk in Germany. In terms of preventive health policy, we want to intensify efforts in the tobacco prevention and the protection of all companies of the dangers of passive smoking.
Comprehensive ensure good supply.
The juxtaposition of medical companies, miscarriages but oversupply is a
serious problem. The situation in rural and structurally weak regions and
in deprived areas will worsen without countermeasures in the coming years. We want to develop the supply structures so,
that shortfalls in supply and associated social injustice and access barriers are overcome. Similarly, the supply must total at
Aging society are aligned. We want all citizens and
Citizens providing access to good medical care, regardless of the
Location, the social situation or the insured status. The success of our health policy depends on whether improvements in medical care for
all people in everyday life can be felt.
The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

75

We want the appropriate care in structurally weak regions particularly
promote, at risk of undersupply. For this we are the widespread
GP-centered care as well as networking between providers of
strengthen various health professions. Primary care is the backbone of a strong, community-based care. At the same time we will initiate and perpetuate the integrated care with a separate earmarked funding new. We want a quality-assured cooperation between domestic,
technical and specialist doctor's area, the non-medical health professionals, outpatient
and stationary sectors and ensure between pflegerischem, rehabilitative and medical area. To get all the patients a
good access also to specialized medical services. We will link the integrated care with innovative mobility and telemedicine concepts.
To ensure the regional supply, we want to create a cross-sectoral planning in future demand that consistently to the needs of patients
and patient oriented. Cities and towns comes in shaping the
local health care to an increasingly greater role. Because every situation on the ground requires the matching, integrated healthcare solutions. Lots
Municipalities have already gained experience. We are using a program
Healthy City Healthy Region or promote this development.
In Germany, the number is growing mentally related diseases. Mental illness should be treated like any other disease well and quickly.
We want according to the idea "outpatient before inpatient" to share day-care
and ambulatory aids both in acute treatment and in rehabilitation
expand. Outpatient and inpatient aid must be linked more closely. Patients should get help from a single source. The psychiatric outpatient institutions, models of integrated care and community psychiatric associations we want to strengthen.
Quality assurance and consumer protection.
We want to increase the quality of medical care by improving the integrated care. We intend to expand patients' rights and the
Strengthen consumer protection.
Our goal is, the rights of patients and the protection of consumers
in the health system to strengthen overall. A modern health care system is mainly characterized by the fact that it offers a good supply for the chronically ill, Multimorbid or for people who have a specific need. We will
therefore rebuild supply structures so and make care processes so,
that they meet this objective. Health care is a highly innovative
Area. The growing possibilities of modern medicine. In pharmacological
and medical innovations are considerable potential for improving health and quality of life of patients and for
the economic prosperity of our country. In social responsibility, the
The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

76
But insured community just wearing what health care
is necessary, expedient and economical. Can be found in a social healthcare only the application from the ethical responsibilities out what the
Benefit of humans. We want to strengthen the benefits thoughts in the care of patients with drug therapies, diagnostic and therapeutic procedures and medical devices.
Again and again show scandals of medical devices that the independent review, inspection, and health services research must be strengthened. Likewise,
we effectively against misuse protect the patients with unnecessary "Hedgehog" services. For effective consumer protection in the health system
we want real medical progress instead sham innovations.
We will support you with a patient's rights law, people, especially in treatment errors. Also, the corruption in health care
we fight effectively.
Quality in the supply increases significantly through better organization.
Especially in the health care structures is great potential for innovation. Our goal
is that seriously ill people come faster to the specialists who can offer them the best treatment. And that only the facilities
Apply innovation and highly specialized therapies that have the relevant experience. Therefore, we will ensure the principle that the money the
Demand for services follows and not institutions.
We will make the integrated care for multimorbid and chronically ill to rule. We want a reliable supply organization. Fallund care management are the key to sustainable health assurance for us. In the nationwide house and specialist care, we want to
Improving quality through better training and standards.
Transparency on the quality of treatment services, independent advice and
the promotion of self-help are insured and the patients
important to self-determination to make decisions with. We want independent information and advice, such as strengthening the Independent Patient Consulting (UPD), and the self-help in the health system and provide reliable funding for it. That is why we are concerned with the social
Actors enter into a dialogue with the aim of establishing an independent German patient organization.
Accessible and reliable hospital financing.
The SPD is committed to high-quality patient care. These mainly include good working conditions and satisfied employees. We will reform the hospital funding so that universal coverage and support diversity secured and quality will be better rewarded.
In an equitable financing system, personnel costs sufficiently Bede Government 2013 program must - 2017

77
are taken into account, so that hospitals do not resort to unjustified higher volumes. Therefore, we will for personnel minimum standards in
Running hospitals. Male and female patients must rely on
can that their treatment alone is medically justified. We will introduce a right to a second opinion before certain treatments binding
and thus all concerned facilitate access to the best specialists.
The quality reports of hospitals, we will continue to develop. The health insurance companies are able to complete to improve care quality selective contracts with hospitals. Quality and Patient Safety should play a stronger role in the hospital planning and financing.
Ten years after the introduction of DRGs, we will eliminate under- and over-coverage, so hospitals are not financially attractive services
limit. This serves to fair competition and the demand-supply.
Good and decent care.
We want to avoid care, improve care and for the future
to ensure. For the whole of society has to prepare for the aging
become. We want to enable self-determination and participation into old age:
For this, the conditions must be improved in order also with foster further into the
to be able to live your own four walls. For this, we intend to expand the various services on site and network better care insurance benefits
precisely fitting embellish and support members better. Good care needs for
all be affordable and work in nursing must be well paid.
The reform of the care is more than just reforming long-term care. We will
expeditiously a comprehensive care reform. A genuine care reform begins
us first and foremost with a reorientation of the mission statement of care: It's about the
To further enable participation in social life. The prevention of long-term care has priority - we are entitled to the prevention and
Rehabilitation before and during care in the services and the interaction of
Strengthen social security institutions.
People want to grow old in dignity and if possible in their usual environment.
That is why we want to improve the care and ensure for future generations. Whether in Germany in future a structural two-tier care or
a dignified aging developed regardless of the social situation depends
on whether we total care - not only the long-term care - further develop socially just.
We need the living environment aging and age in justice make and build the necessary support infrastructure. The focus is on self and co-determination
the people in the foreground. The reorientation of the care system requires changes in all the care related fields. Good care is
The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

78
for us more than the care insurance benefits. Thus more people for longer
able to live at home, we need better social and physical infrastructure
locally, allows the aid in everyday life and social participation. We want local
Help promote networks that offer a new mix of supportive Alltagshilfen:
household services, meeting facilities or aid in an emergency.
For this purpose, we want to create conditions to support networks of
Relatives, professional services and civic engagement
build on site. In particular, the municipalities should play a stronger role,
an on demand-oriented locally integrated care and assistance to landscape
make, in which the carrier and provider of care can work better together.
And we need to interlink the medical and nursing care close to
improve geriatric care. We want to strengthen this further nursing research and networking with the participation and health services research. Investments
in a better geriatric training of physicians are a prerequisite for this.
We want to safeguard the care risks solidary and the various aspects of daily life just - especially in dementia. Therefore, a new care concept must be a core element care reform. The services we will differentiate so that they, unlike the minute care better meet the concerned
become. We want to improve the reconciliation of work and care. We want
Professionalizing care and to offer more services to care
To support relatives. Equally important is the promotion of civic
Engagements.
We want to help family caregivers: With a flexible care time
has legal entitlement to job-return and wage compensation, we want to help families to make the care situation. This includes the
Expansion of managed care consulting and better care services and affordable domestic services that advance the reconciliation of work and care more.
Our goal is to build the demand comprehensive care of aged households.
Professionals offensive in the health and care sectors.
We want a good job in health care. Good training, development prospects, good pay, the work-life balance and better working conditions are prerequisites to the appeal of health and
To increase the nursing profession. We seek to establish a common retirement and nursing education with the job description "care". The resulting demographic trends
to an even greater demand for skilled workers in the nursing profession. To this possible
to cover quickly, the training offer of state vocational schools should be strengthened, because the nursing education must be free of charge to the graduates and a training allowance is to be introduced.
The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

79
The income of carers make their performance and high social significance from in any way. Who in the future enough professionals
will have in care, they have to pay more. Social work has been upgraded
become. We therefore support the efforts for a sectoral collective social work, we want to declare generally binding. Thus, the wage dumping
effectively met and the work of the employees in the social and care sectors are acknowledged.
The SPD is committed to high-quality patient care. These mainly include good working conditions and satisfied employees. Therefore, we will for personnel minimum standards in hospitals and
Use care facilities. A better staffing levels and a higher quality of care may be adjustments in hospital and health care financing
lead.

V.2 Good work, good pensions
Who is talking about poverty in old age, can not remain silent about work poverty, because without the
Combat in-work poverty, the poverty in old age can not be effectively countered. The pension system can not correct permanently expenditure during the working life social injustices at the end. We are therefore in front
especially on the concrete measures to combat in-work poverty and precarious
Be measured by employment.
We need better transitions. In an increasingly differentiated work environment
it has become more difficult, the same for all workers / groups inside forms of
Entry to provide post-retirement. Not every pension access fits for everyone, but for
all there must be a matching pension access.
Especially for those occupational groups and employees who already because of
Not working workload or because of disability until age 65
can, we want to make the transition into retirement without major loss of income.
For this, we propose differentiated offers for the transition from working life to the
Pension before:
n the tee free access to the pension from 63 years after 45 years,
n an attractive partial pension from the age of 60 or comparable flexible transition models where on the basis of legal regulations of collective agreements
can be completed,
n the tee free access to the disability pension and an extension
the supplementary period,
n facilitated opportunities for additional contributions to the pension scheme.

The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

80
We do not want that raising the retirement age as a cut
pensions impact. It is only possible if at least half of the 60- to
64-year-old workers is employed to social insurance and may purchase additional pension rights. In this sense we are
applying the review clause in the law.
We want to strengthen the pension system. The public pension system remains
first pillar pensions and basis for protection against poverty in old age. they
also forms the personal achievements of the insured person in their working lives.
You must take into account the changes in society and the world of work.
We will maintain the current level of the mandatory pensions by the end of the decade.
2020 applies to reevaluate how about the effects of reforms on the labor market in terms of employment, income and productivity, the coupling
of pensions is carried out on the earned income. In this review are
the proposed changes in the public pension system to include. So be realistic requirements for the necessary balance between a maximum tolerable contribution rate and a standard of living assurance
Pension level possible.
Especially Occupational Pensions Authority has allowed in many industries additional security in old age. We want to strengthen and broader dissemination of
occupational pension schemes to complement the public pension system.
The company and collective agreements secured pensions is from our
View the best form of private and collective at the same time pensions. We want to strengthen it, and by facilitating the general applicability in the
Regions and sectors prevail, where she is currently due to low bargaining coverage
little is used. The expansion of occupational pension schemes may not present
be worn solely by the employees.
In the Riester pension, we will provide a significant improvement in cost transparency and efficiency.
We want to introduce a Solidarrente: Who belongs to many years of the statutory pension insurance and has paid contributions for a pension must be clearly above the
Receive basic security. Parallel to a statutory minimum wage will be introduced about a "Solidarrente". It ensures that for long-term insured (30
Contribution years / 40 years of insurance) is not the pension less than 850 euros.
Who these Solidarrente totaling at least 850 euros by the Higher rating
Periods of unemployment and periods of employment in low-wage sector is not reached within the statutory pension insurance, this amount will receive within
a second column of basic security, in which a means test is carried out.

The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

81
To Solidarrente also includes family-related career profiles in the old-age insurance
better reflect. We want a reasonable extent taking into account times
extended to parents whose children were born before 1992, and so targeted
Improve pension rights for parents who due to lack of care infrastructure
could not work full-time.
The cost of Solidarrente we fund from tax revenues. Funding for the unreduced pension after 45 years of access, improved disability pension and the stabilization of the pension level will be through a
ensure higher pension contributions and the establishment of a higher sustainability Reserve.
The inclusion of self-employed without compulsory pensions in
statutory pension reduced their risk of poverty in old age. This is the first
Step on the way to our goal of expanding the statutory pension scheme for employment insurance.
More than 20 years after reunification, are differences in pension rights in
Germany no longer accepted. We will therefore begin the path to a unified pension system for East and West to 2020th
Prerequisite for the alignment of pensions are progress in aligning
of wages. An East and West the same, statutory minimum wage, a better collective bargaining coverage and higher wage levels are particularly in eastern Germany
to take effect and the current gap in wages and thus pensions
Next Close.
The full harmonization of the pension value at East West we want to step up
2020 reach. So take the current pensioners in eastern part in the approximation.
We will as a first step, all lump sum rated insurance periods (child-raising periods, periods of insurance for caregivers, periods of military and
Civilian service and periods of employment in sheltered workshops) uniformly charge West with the current pension value.
With the approximation of the bonds the revaluation factor for wages in eastern Germany will be abolished.
For people who do not releasable in pension rights injustices in reconciliation
have experienced in the German federal law of old-age security of the GDR, have the
Problems in a pension Reconciliation Statements Act be conclusively clarified and eliminated. For hardship cases, a tax-financed fund to be set up.

The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

82
V.3 Living together - people with and without
Disabilities
The co-existence of people with and without disabilities and impairments is our goal. We need places and opportunity for encounters, for
working together, learning and much more - so-called "inclusive social spaces". Social cohesion means that no different and separate,
but integration, people orientation, breaking down barriers and targeted
Help.
The UN CRPD is for this groundbreaking. The development
an action plan within the meaning of the UN CRPD done inclusive and
together with people with disabilities and their organizations after
Motto "Nothing about us without us!".
Including social spaces are created where people share with and without impairments have the opportunity to make their spatial and social environment in terms of an equitable coexistence sustainable. Inclusion is
therefore not a state but a total social process, in which all
can contribute to it, that gradually the equal participation of all people to the guiding principle of thought and action, in the planning and design of our inclusive polity is.
Self-determined participation is only possible if barriers are avoided and degraded and equal access to buildings and facilities, to transport, to goods and services, and various means of communication is possible.
Any progress in removing barriers means more self-determination, more
Freedom of choice, less need for assistance. This comes in handy in an aging society
all to good.
Part of an inclusive social space in all walks of life are especially included
Childcare and educational institutions, schools, universities, institutions of
Adult education and sports clubs, which make a major contribution to inclusion and integration, and not least the self-determined choice of residence and the
Wohnform.
In addition, these include an inclusive labor market, of all people according to their
Skills and their performance occupation permits. The employment situation of people with disabilities must be significantly improved, and the
Rights of SHE representatives must be strengthened. We will the
Take social partners, job centers and employment agencies more accountable and
Continue way to improve the permeability between workshops for people with disabilities and the general labor market. All people should at
the general labor market have fair prospects.
Inclusive social space is created at all levels of political and social
Initiatives. For this we need a common coordination and new rechtlichDas Government Programme 2013 - 2017

83
organizational requirements for co-operation of the covenant with the previous carriers for the disabled in municipalities, institutions and organizations.
We have already under the government of Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder a
Paradigm shift from welfare introduced for participation. We want this path
go to full inclusion and equal participation and self-determined. But that may not help for people with disabilities
longer remain in subordinated welfare system of social security, the date
is supported solely by the municipalities. The aim of the reform is a flexible and perfect fit for support system: for participation, equality and self-determination of people with disabilities. We want the participation benefits follow the people and not vice versa. The unification began with the SGB IX justice
for people with disabilities We want to continue. Inclusion is a goal of all uneinschränkbares Social Codes and welfare institutions - whatever their nature or
Severity of disability and the level of support needs.
We want to create a uniform for all security systems and service provider needs assessment system. In order to individual impairments of people seen and actual aid requirements are determined. Problematic
Interfaces between institutions of social benefits must favor uniform
Procedures are degraded.
Entitlement to the aid for inclusion is no more than welfare claim, but as
Claim to compensate for handicaps configured. Financial services must
be independent of income and wealth. The personal budget is an appropriate form of power for self-determined participation.
We will therefore create a Federal Benefits Act, including the federal-state financial relations, the implementation of the UN CRPD
used and the integration allowance replaces in its previous form. We have to
reach a much-needed relief for the local part of the cost of integration assistance.
Concrete help for inclusion and participation remains a challenge, the place of residence in the
Commune is met. Care planning and the realization of the wishes and suffrage help claimants are part of inclusive social space. Authorized and
Achievers have together on an individual and need-based
Participation plan work. The measures provided for in SGB IX service centers are for the coordinating counseling centers.

The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

84

VI. Good neighbors
VI.1 Social City and cohesion of the regions
The local authorities are at the heart of our policy. Because in the cities and municipalities decides how people grow up and live. In them decides
whether children can find good schools and kindergartens. Whether integration and the coexistence of people from different backgrounds succeed. In them decide whether
People live in safety and be able to participate in social life. And
that is why we want it in all residential areas and social participation
Advancement opportunities are.
We are the cut-price by the federal government of CDU / CSU and FDP
Urban Development equip reliably again. We are the co-operation
continue the federal levels in the urban development and develop the programs in dialogue with states and municipalities. A check is made to find out the share of funding may be increased in order to reduce co-financing problems.
We want to facilitate the implementation and bundling with other subsidy.
We tackle the major challenges: social cohesion, integration,
demographic change, age-appropriate renovation and climate protection.
Home is on the doorstep.
Our society is changing - economically, technically and socially. With this
Insight grows a need for roots, for guidance, according to liability and for a permanent place.
People have a growing need for intimacy and social security. Longing is the "home" that we as an extension of the "four walls"
understand the district or the municipality in which the one or for example
wants to become big and old.
Here demographic change as a lived everyday becomes concrete. The social divide between rich and poor is also reflected in tendencies towards ghettoization
resist. At the edge of crowded slum on the one hand and luxury ghettos on the other.
The "Doorman" is to protect the privileged man. The sociopolitical
Failure of the "private before state" ideology reveals itself even while living and in the
Urban Development. Social cohesion needs and Community Partnership of each socially relevant actors. So is urban development
More than ever, the district and neighborhood development.
Thus, the municipalities are able to act again, federal and state governments have the
strengthen municipal financial strength. Only financially adequately equipped municipalities
are able to resist the privatization of central public duties
and assume their responsibility for the provision of public services. Just
financially adequately equipped local authorities have creative power.
The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

85
In the short term we are aiming for an investment pact of federal and state governments, benefit from particularly financially weak municipalities with household emergencies or with household fuse concepts and high cash advances. We are a
"Co-payment funds" ensure that cities and towns can use the federal funding in budget emergency. They must not be excluded from the promotion, because they lack the capital. It is precisely there is a need
the biggest.
But we want to allow the full financing of projects deal with the example the challenges of growing cities.
Citizens / interior project from citizens Convention on March 2, 2013:
"Water supply should remain in state hands."
We support an active role of the local authorities as part of their responsibility
for the general interest - be it through their own business or a more active control: for example, in water supply, but also in local public transport. We will work to ensure that the national and EU legal framework the municipalities makes this leeway. In contrast to
Merkel government is an SPD-led government in Brussels and in
Insert other EU partners that especially water supply
is excluded from the concessions directive. This ensures the high German
Supply level.

VI.2 The city economical than motor and
social development
Many citizens want to live in the city because here life perspective and quality of life and hope found. Cities represent the future for many people. Especially the big cities are growing.
The large number of very different workplaces, universities, research institutions, schools, sports facilities and leisure activities, cultural institutions and alternative culture, both large and small companies, start-ups, which
reliant on the urban environment services, local and short
Ways to connect with the world through airports, train stations and ports make
Cities engines of growth and progress.
Cities have a labor market that is wide enough that in the course of a working life
the change of employer even without change of residence is possible. And always
important: cities have a labor market, education and childcare facilities that enable modern professionals couples and single parents, the
own professional wishes to realize.
The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

86
Cities make it possible to leave known lifestyles and try new. Especially in the cities for those opportunities may open repeatedly
be who were previously disadvantaged socially. Cities are "melting pot" of integration and can in a special way a sense of community and community
create.
In addition to the strong economic centers, there are also a large number of municipalities,
their populations decline and which are particularly affected by the aging of the population. Here the infrastructure needs changed in a special way,
by, for example, the demand for schools and kindergartens off and the demand for senior-friendly facilities and services increases at the same time.
To meet the challenges and seize the opportunities, we must
geared to the people and their needs. Therefore, we must increasingly
think and act in neighborhoods. Because here you find the real encounters between
People rather than man. Cities are more than stone and concrete. You are home. they
give support and hope. In our cities decides how people grow up and grow old, whether people from different backgrounds come together,
whether they live safe and healthy and get good opportunities.
Social urban development is the basis and prerequisite for innovation, progress and social justice. The social society begins in the immediate
Living environment, the Quartier. There it is necessary to ensure sufficiently good and affordable housing and cohesion, social equality, participation, responsibility
and to facilitate solidarity. This will also strengthen democratic awareness and action - and make values ​​tangible. To manage the inter- and intra-cultural integration.
The "Action Programme for a solidary city and affordable housing" should for
be important impetus.

VI.3 action program for a solidary city
and affordable housing
The apartment and the living environment is an important prerequisite for a fulfilling
and self-determined life. That's why it needs to alert us if housing
in more and more cities will be scarce and unaffordable for lower and middle income groups. If families, students, pensioners in the
Find inner cities no affordable housing and more from their homes
are displaced, then threatens the social division of the city.
Citizens / interior project from citizens Convention on March 2, 2013:
"Social housing must be removed, even for
age-appropriate housing. "

The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

87
(Continued)

A social democratic government will in the next parliamentary term an "action program for a solidary city and affordable
Living "initiate - in an alliance with the states, municipalities, the rent round social organizations, the construction and housing industry and the trade unions.
Our goal is achieving more sustainable and at the same time affordable housing in intact
and vibrant neighborhoods.
We will work with the "Action Programme for a solidary city and affordable housing"
n the coexistence of people of different ages, different backgrounds
and improve from different social classes, by structural, economic, environmental and social improvements in neighborhoods, cities
enable and regions through democratic processes and create better conditions for integration and the strengthening of responsibility, tolerance and mutual respect.
n the rental price spiral slow and limit the increase in rents for existing leases stronger. In the re-letting of dwellings have
Owner applicable law largely free hand to arrange the rental.
The consequences are often significant rent increases. Therefore, should an upper limit for
Rent increases in lease renewals of more than ten per cent are introduced via the local comparative rent. First-time rentals of newly
Apartments are to be excluded from principle.
n affordable and urban-friendly new ways of energy-saving renovation ensure efficient, for tenants. The cost of renovations
may not be unilaterally imposed on the tenants and renters. We will immediately make the restriction of tenants rights reversed.
n promote the construction, because without a significant increase in new housing all measures for Rent damping lead nowhere. Our goal is future- and age-appropriate, yet affordable housing.
n municipal and cooperative housing companies as guarantors of
Strengthen Rent Securities and socially balanced neighborhoods. We want a
Further development of the cooperative idea, which stands for self-help, self-responsibility and solidarity.
n the compensation payments to the country for the social housing promotion to
2019 stabilize. Countries should use the funds earmarked for residential construction and home improvements.

The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

88
n with a good example for land awards and good concepts for
affordable housing and support a vibrant city. Even the land
Municipalities and state governments may not always just go to the highest bidder.
n reintroduce the fuel allowance in housing benefit and housing benefit as
strengthen accurately targeted instrument of social protection.
n govern the new brokerage fees. In future, the principle must apply that applies everywhere else in the market economy: Who ordered who pays. It can not be that
Apartment owners and realtors make a deal at the expense of third parties, namely the home seekers tenants.

VI.4 Rural Areas
We want to increase the quality of life and attractiveness of rural areas. Of the
Rural areas are home to its residents. We hold on
The aim of equal living conditions in all parts of Germany fixed, regardless of the size of the community, regardless of whether. In the east or west For a
good power and mobility infrastructure, and thus also the access to social
Infrastructure, are essential conditions to ensure that all regions have social and economic development opportunities.
Rural areas do not assume a variety of functions. They are to live and work,
as well as destination of relaxation and leisure. The natural and cultural landscapes shape our image of home. We will therefore through a rural development policy the preservation of cultural landscapes with their villages and small
Cities support.
We see cooperation on a regional level and between town and country
a key to sustainable development, in particular rural and
shrinking spaces. At the regional level, it is possible to fuse concepts
of general interest and to develop and implement a sustainable economic development.
We are attracting more inter-municipal cooperation and Region Education
set, by regional and integrated development concepts in the economic
Make structural funding for the Federal funding requirement and better
Funding conditions reward. Our aim is to create regional budgets - for
a focused and targeted funding commitment in the context of integrated regionally adapted development strategies.
When selling land the federal government we are committed to strengthening the country.
Fast Internet connections are for the competitiveness and innovativeness of
Regions of enormous importance. With increasing digital networking can DADAŞ Government Programme 2013 - 2017

89
offered with quality services off the boom regions and new,
skilled jobs are created. To rural and structurally weak
Regions to open up this chance, we ensure universal access to
powerful Internet connections.
The Food and Agriculture has a huge economic, environmental and
social importance, especially in the field of climate protection. She has a significant
Affect the use of natural resources. We want a sustainable,
scale agriculture, which contributes to the preservation and development of rural areas more livable and our cultural landscape. Regional marketing strategies
and local content are thereby strengthened us.
A multifunctional oriented agriculture forms the basis for a viable and powerful cultural landscape. The various services that provide farmers and other land users for nature and wildlife conservation, can be paid out only partially on the commodity markets in the future. Therefore, farmers must
and other land users receive an incentive, the desired public goods
provide.
The existing system of EU agricultural funding must be consistent so converted,
that these objectives as well as consistently serves all policies that have impact on: agri-food research, education, nature and animal welfare legislation
or the Board in public canteens. It is right to promote wider on the
align rural and stronger binding to benefits for society.
Are important new impetus for development for our rural areas. The funds need to be more effective by offering a wider range of economic impulses
promote rural: regional processing industry, crafts, tourism, health care and services. Regional marketing strategies are thereby strengthened us. The funds must contribute to the still
to reduce excessive environmental damage caused by parts of agriculture, water and air pollution, loss of biodiversity and soil damage. In the medium term we will contact
to ensure that the so-called "first pillar" of the flat agricultural subsidies up to
melted a small base amount and and in the "second pillar" to strengthen
Revitalization of rural areas is reallocated.
We understand also agricultural policy over the classical production area
as a policy for rural areas. We want to dovetail the structural policies more closely with the agricultural subsidies so that small and medium sized companies to utilize their potential for innovation better. The funding for rural development must
more consciously than before to be aligned: to the promotion of micro-enterprises,
small and medium enterprises as well as for municipal basic services and
for the conservation of cultural and natural heritage. We want to increase the value in rural areas. For this, we intend to expand the potential of the agricultural and food economy. For the necessary investment in people
and development of the company, we want reliable and socially
provide accepted frameworks. We demand fair wages for good work.
The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

90
A legal minimum wage needs to be enforced in all areas of the food industry. We see a particular need for promoting employment-intensive forms of agriculture. States as in some slaughterhouses
my work contract operate modern slavery, we will not accept.
Animal protection is an essential part of responsible food, agriculture, consumer and environmental policy. We are proud that we have succeeded with our government responsibility to anchor the animal protection in the Basic Law, and this principle also be applied to the individual legislation, eg in the
Prevention of torture breeding.
With a right of collective action, we animal welfare organizations, the legal
Give handle, more effective action against animal welfare violations. Agricultural animal husbandry must be a stronger focus on the needs of the animals.
For the research for a modern agriculture must be strengthened, relevant
Given entertainment systems and the use of antibiotics in animal husbandry dramatically
be reduced. The intensive livestock farming we are through appropriate legislative
Measures push back and especially the municipalities more options
enter the building code control. It takes a labeling of foodstuffs from such animals: transparent, simple and user-friendly. On
Another goal is the systematic quality control for animal health in the
Agriculture.
Trade in and the keeping of animals, especially wild animals and
exotic animals, we want to regulate federally. The import of wild-caught
should generally be prohibited and commercial animal markets we are close. The
Number of animal experiments, we want to reduce us and for the dissemination of 3Rs methods (in German: avoidance, reduction, improving) use in research.
We want to promote alternative research methods that without or with fewer animals
commented or less painful procedures involve.
The promotion of agricultural holdings must be consistently geared towards a climate-friendly agriculture. This includes sustainable biomass production, with the problematic changes in the agrarian structure
is counteracted. The increasing biomass, especially maize competes with the species and nature conservation objectives of the National Biodiversity Strategy and
leads to increased nitrogen inputs into the aquatic environment as well as usually a
Soil degradation. Within the framework of an integrated biomass strategy
we want to defuse the competing uses. Through a more efficient knowledge transfer, the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises in rural areas can be improved. Cooperation between economic operators
committed to promoting along value chains, between urban and rural areas and between regions.
The decline of grassland across Europe must also be slowed down as
Use of fertilizers and pesticides. We need a more diverse crop rotation,
roll back to monocultures.
The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

91

VII. Environmental and Consumer Protection
VII.1 quality of life and innovation through good
Environmental policy
For us, environmental protection is always a future-oriented investment in health care and quality of life. Air Pollution Control (inter alia protection against fine dust)
Noise protection, healthy soil, clean water, healthy food and intact
Ecosystems are prerequisites for quality of life, to all men a
To have a demand. Environmental protection is thus not a luxury issue but a question of social justice.
Especially financially weak households in simple neighborhoods suffer, for example, often under the noise and pollution impacts. Environmental protection is therefore
also the social balance. Objectives of our environmental policy are therefore in particular the
Reduction of (traffic) noise and the reduction of pollutants in air and
Floors. We will Ministry across an action program with noise protection
implement the objective of the number of noise affected people health
halving in Germany until 2020th
The world's rapidly rising consumption of natural resources in the near future lead to problems that are burdening especially future generations.
We want justice between generations. By reducing material intensity, minimizing waste and water recycling systems, we want a
Achieve decoupling of prosperity and quantitative growth. A basis
form the results of the Study Commission "growth, prosperity, quality of life". Our goal is sustainable development. An important contribution
an ecological industrial policy with innovative products and services. Of the
reduced use of resources in material and energy costs at the same time strengthens
the competitiveness of German industry. In the area of ​​waste management
we see municipalities as key actors, perform the tasks of general interest.
Environmental and conservation organizations have an important role as advocates of nature. We will provide the conditions that will allow them to fulfill their role as a moderator and framing when converting to ecological industrial society.
We will tackle climate change and by 2050 at least 95 percent
our CO2 emissions lower compared to the base year 1990 levels. Set in the EU
we opted for a reactivation of emissions trading and an unconditional commitment
to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 2020 by 30 percent. To the
To achieve climate protection goals, we will have a binding national climate protection law with intermediate steps (40 percent reduction by 2020, 60 percent by 2030 and
at least 80 percent by 2040) Develop. This law is targets for all climate-related sectors, such as industry, transport, agriculture and forestry include.

The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

92
Under the Climate Change Act also be fixed on the intermediate steps
Path specifies a halving of final energy consumption to 2050th
Germany still has a very high land, valuable floor space is lost. The threat to biodiversity, leading to floods
and contributes to climate change. In order to achieve the reduction target of the national sustainability strategy of 30ha additional land per day, has considerably
more can be done. In the long term supply and unsealing need to keep the balance.
A clever spatial planning policy can bring a positive economic development in rural areas with additional housing in harmony.
In order to obtain natural and managed forests for present and future generations, we use
connects us to each other for a natural forest management, which forest use and forest protection. This is what we want in the form of "good farming practice" also legally
anchor and replace the unilateral use-oriented forest strategy of the Federal Government. We will work to ensure that ten percent of the forest areas of the public sector and five percent of the total forest area of ​​natural development
be left. The forests owned by the Federation are based on the principles
manages the natural silviculture and gradually Forest Stewardship Council
(FSC) -certified are. We consider it useful to revise the Federal Hunting Act and align more closely to the forest and ecological requirements on animal welfare.
Biodiversity is the basis of our actions and business practices, we understand
their conservation and sustainable use as an immediate interest for our citizens.
Only through consistent implementation of the national biodiversity strategy
we also can ensure that the dramatic extinction of species and the permanent
Loss can be reduced in the short term to the long term biodiversity and stopped.
For this purpose, the federal program Biodiversity of particular importance, therefore,
We will eliminate administrative barriers. We want also to achieve the
2 percent Wilderness objective of the National Biodiversity Strategy, the National Heritage
expand by at least 30,000 hectares and provide for its preservation for adequate funding.
We will promote the restoration of rivers to them for reasons
to give more space for flood protection with the aim to implement the
cooperate nationwide biotope network more with the countries. Is For
a networking of German nature conservation areas, even in coastal areas, necessary. We will not only in Germany, but also for the world
Use and preservation of our environment internationally for marine conservation on the high seas
and work against the threat of overfishing outside state territories.
How important is the prudent use of nature for our future needs for all
be understandable way. The necessary knowledge must be firmly rooted in education and training. Environmental education can raise awareness in all areas
provide for sustainability: energy efficiency, food consumption, ecological agriculture.
The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

93
VII.2 protect consumers
and strengthen
Rip off banks, exploding energy costs, Internet trading and long side
Terms that nobody understands: the world has become more complex and for many for the insurmountable challenge for consumers in recent years. Today is more than for individuals
earlier in the game. Those who complete example the wrong private pensions,
this decision can hardly correct and has later a significantly poorer standard of living.
For us, consumer policy is an essential building block of a just and solidary society policy. The market must serve the people, not vice versa.
This applies even more so when people in existential questions - such as the provision for
Age, health and care - increasingly depend on services that
no longer provided by the state but are offered on the open market.
Simple, noticeable and comprehensible rules should ensure that not
only experts come into their own, but that of "healthy
Sense "sufficient.
Therefore represents our consumer policy to people at the center. Regardless of their origin, level of education and financial opportunities to consumers to actively shape markets and able to act responsibly with regard to working conditions and environmental standards. Social and ecological
Aspects of production and corporate behavior must not be used merely as a non-binding advertising in sustainability reports, but must
to be taken seriously. We support an extension and clarification of
Reporting obligations of companies, if it social and ecological production conditions are clear and the future binding expelled.
The digital world is rapidly changing technologies and markets. This must be so designed
be that the consumers can take advantage of the opportunities it presents safe. They must be safe from unfair commercial practices,
against the abuse of their data. They must also be protected against hazardous
Products and against the threatening wrong decisions, for example in the pension, but also the real estate purchase. Abmahnmissbrauch must be effectively curbed by the amount in dispute for copyright infringement on the Internet at
the private sector is limited. You must seriously with their needs and interests
be taken. For this purpose, it is important to strengthen the market power of consumers against providers. This goal we want to through the establishment of an independent Advisory Council on Consumer Affairs Statement
carry. To remove existing conflicts of interest, we will be the responsibility
in the field of consumer policy change in the federal ministries.
We want more market transparency: Access to information must be facilitated and
Providers should be obliged to give a clear and easily understandable presentation of information. We want the people of their rights, knowledge and
The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

94
strengthen their capacity so that they can influence the market. They are quick and easy to compare products and to make an informed purchasing decision. Consumer information but no effective market controls, among other things, unsafe products keeps from the outset by the market, and no
Replace law enforcement. We want clear information about the origin, characteristics
and content of products, easily understandable and comparable information quickly as the traffic light labeling for nutritional values ​​of food and meaningful and clear information on financial and insurance products. We want to expand the independent fee-based advice as a real alternative to commission mediation.
For this purpose, all providers are obliged to offer net tariffs.
Policyholders have a duty to comply with their contracts. Claims
should therefore not be reduced by financial situation of insurance companies from life insurance policies.
Consulting, research and strong "market watchman".
We intend to further expand the counseling and information in federal and state governments. Particular importance is attached to the Stiftung Warentest, the Consumer Council of DIN and
the consumer centers to. Consumers should have more rights
get good information. For this we are the weak by black and yellow
improve configured Consumer Information Act: The application
must be extended to all products and services that clearly defined the obligation to inform the authorities and even a limited right to information in relation to the
Companies are created.
We will expand the consumer research and use their results to develop instruments and measures and the diversity of consumers
Take account of consumers and their needs.
Also important is the consumer education. We advocate appropriate offers
the educational institutions - from kindergarten through school and extracurricular
Facilities up to the adults. Even children and adolescents have
learn how to handle money, advertising and other vendors strategies. Children are as consumers of tomorrow, especially in the focus of economic and advertising. they
need special protection: safe toys, an unpolluted environment, healthy
Eating and advertising-free spaces. Advertising and sponsorship by food companies in
Kindergartens and schools will be banned.
We are a cap on ATMs fees to a maximum of two euros, the banks
undertake to secure online banking at no extra cost, adequate Dispo interest
ensure law amounting to a maximum of eight per cent above base rate and the
Facilitate access to an inexpensive garnishment protection account. And we want that
each and every one has a right to a current account at the Bank of her / his choice.
Is not least due to the tense situation on the regional real estate market
the low quality and / or defective objects ExistenzbedroDas a government program 2013 - 2017

95
. Here must be set hung for an increasing number of those affected is not last intermediaries and financial institutions significant barriers.
We want to create structures that balance out the relationship between consumers and suppliers and consumers, new and guarantee a high level of protection for banking and insurance customers - regardless of where products are purchased. To
it needs a uniform and reliable supervisory system for all areas of the
Insurance and financial market.
For this purpose, we will strengthen the state institutions and, for example, the Federal Financial Supervisory Authority, the Federal Network Agency and the Federal Institute
delegate of Agriculture and Food with new tasks in consumer policy. We also consider the creation of a state "Consumer Ombudsman", following the example of Denmark, which is to supervise the enforcement of laws and regulations. We want the establishment of "market Guardians" in
all major fields - finance, health, food, energy and digital world
- Strengthen consumer protection. "Market guardians" are - government-mandated - civic consumer protection organizations such as consumers' associations. The
"Market Guardian" to observe the market, unfair practices track, capture notes systematically and to pass on grievances to the supervisory.
The results of the official control of foodstuffs must in principle
are published below exceedances. We also want to
Consumers by means of an easy to understand form as the
Inform Hygiene traffic light in all restaurants and food establishments locally on monitoring results. With a whistleblower protection law we want
ensure that workers information on illegal
Processes in their operations to the authorities can pass without notice from
or other disadvantages to be threatened. The establishment of priority public prosecutors in Germany and Europe to combat organized crime in the food and food industry is long overdue. In order to effectively enforce consumer rights, we want to move wrongly gains.
We reject - like 80 percent of the German population - the cultivation of genetically modified plants from, for green genetic engineering must not humans
be imposed. So you really have a choice, we call for a EU mandatory labeling of products from animals fed with genetically modified plants
were. At the zero tolerance of unapproved genetically modified
Ingredients in foods we maintain - as well as on the seed purity. That
corresponds to the precautionary principle and is also a prerequisite that in the future
Foods can be produced, and the needs of the consumers
Consumers match: Gmo.

The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

96

Life VIII. Democracy
VIII.1 democracy as a principle of society
For Social Democracy Democracy is more than elections and referendums.
Precondition for a democratic and open society are democratic
Culture and public as well as transparency and participation.
It also includes access for all to quality information. Access
to all sources of information is a democratic civil rights. In the backup, upgrade and extension of these conditions, we see the Social Democracy as a driver of a comprehensive democratization of society.
We want to strengthen our democracy, so that the confidence of citizens towards politics and government institutions is growing again, so again more
People go to the polls and thus obtain political decisions more legitimacy. We want to lower the voting age to 16 years.
For this purpose, we rely on more openness and transparency of political decisions and
the political decision-makers: We are the legal regulations reform so that all members of parliament from their income
Sideline must disclose in euro and cent complete. For donations to political parties should provide a limit of 100,000 euros per donor per year. In addition,
We support the demand to perform sponsoring in the annual reports of the parties.
This decision-making processes are understandable, we want to set up a mandatory lobby register on a statutory basis at the German Bundestag.
Germany is the only parliamentary democracy, the UN Convention against Corruption not yet ratified, as CDU / CSU and FDP block the criminalization of bribery deputies. We will re-introduce a bill in parliament immediately after the election. The use of external
Consultants in ministries must be comprehensible. We therefore want a
Introduce "legislative footprint", can be seen from the, what significant contribution
External consultants have done in drafting a bill. About the extent and nature of the activities of external employees in the federal administration is to a
annual report create transparency.
To no doubts as to the integrity and independence Retiring members of
To let government pay, the one inside a waiting period again
want to add professional activity, we need a code of conduct, which the
Approval of the activity by an ethics committee or the Federal / the
Chancellor provides. The Code of Conduct for Members of the European Commission is ideally suited as a model here.
We want more participation rights of people in the political process.
The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

97
For this purpose, we will introduce also federal popular initiatives, petitions and referendums. For the necessary majority a constitutional amendment, we will advertise in the other groups. We want to let more people participate in the political process and are committed to ensuring that people who
are under comprehensive care, the right to vote is not automatically revoked.
The digital and technological innovation opens up additional opportunities for participation
(eg through internet platforms, Liquid Democracy and social media). These options we want to take up, develop and use meaningful. The Management
Transparency is seen as an opportunity for more diversity and innovation. Simultaneously
allows greater transparency and control.
Some see the increased need of people to participate in political decision-making and want to actively implement processes, pose a threat to public
Act. As Social Democrats, we welcome this need and with
he associated willingness to active participation. However, what is lacking in many cases, are appropriate participatory tools to socially weaker or
To give minorities a fair chance to participate.
We want therefore our classic representative democracy to new and more extensive forms of democratic participation at all political levels
add to. One possibility is the use of new digital technologies, for example,
in the form of online petitions and -Befragungen or ideas competitions ("crowdsourcing"), when they play an enabling role. Of course, for us as
SPD but also, besides take those people who are not familiar with these new opportunities.
This can be achieved more participation in political processes, policy and administration must become more transparent. Transparency does not mean this glass
Politicians, but consistent openness to all those data, contracts and procedures,
where a public interest.
We therefore employ at the federal level for the after Hamburger model
Informationsfreiheits- to expand a transparency law. The aim should be, if possible, all relevant to the public databases, statistics, documents and
to bring any other publicly funded work freely available on the Internet. In addition,
we want to open the ministries for more citizen participation in draft legislation and other major projects.

VIII.2 Civic Engagement and Volunteering
strengthen
The quality of social interaction depends not only on economic data. It must be lived, so that volunteering requires our unrestricted
Recognition and promotion.
The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

98
An aging society have created new opportunities - also for more solidarity between the generations. Friendships, networks, services
for people and volunteer activities are gaining in importance. These include
In addition to traditional volunteer services for example, educational, social Familienund sponsorships and leisure assistants for people with disabilities.
We want to encourage "generational alliances" between young and old. Help
from person to person, which is simply more than just a service bought. Us
rely on the variety of activities in clubs, welfare organizations, environmental organizations, churches, religious and philosophical communities, self-help groups, immigrant organizations, foundations, voluntary services, networks and
other organizations with honorary positions.
In the churches, religious and philosophical communities, many work for a
mutually supportive cooperation. They are important partners for us on the way to a better society and in the discourse of ethical issues.
We commend the dedication of charities. In them to get involved
many citizens in the direct help and social interaction.
We want to initiate and support local voluntary agencies, dedication centers or clearing-houses, senior citizens' offices and self-help contact points. We want the
Confederation may support the local authorities in promoting volunteering directly. That's why
we are committed to the elimination of the corresponding cooperation ban a Basic Law. The all-important for the cooperation between the generations multigenerational homes, we will be better funding of municipalities continue
promote. For projects and activities with cultural and social purposes
we want to allow cooperative operation forms. For this to
the laws to be adapted.
Sport is the biggest civil rights movement in Germany. Sport teaches values ​​such as tolerance and fairness. Sport brings people together. Sport is part of a healthy lifestyle and supports integration and education. We promote the latitude and competitive sports and consider both as a suitable instrument for the inclusion of a
equal participation of people with and without disabilities to advance.
We are committed to ensuring that sport promotion for all transparent and comprehensible
to design and create it with the integration of sport in the Basic Law, a
clear basis.
Volunteering needs the right conditions: formation times, working times, transitional times, dedication and leisure have brought in a new balance and the
Conditions for lifelong learning are created. This is an important
Pillar of our initiative for more time sovereignty. In this context, there is
special factors for Civic Engagement as expense reimbursement, insurance coverage, volunteer management, training opportunities. Commitment
must provide opportunities for participation and involvement, and allow volunteers to act and creativity leeway. We want therefore good framework and reliable support structures provide for hospice and visiting services,
for Committed in Alzheimer societies for care attendants for SeniorenorganisaDas Government Programme 2013 - 2017

99
tions and for seniors cooperatives. Even for successful integration is volunteerism indispensable: in the neighborhood, in sports clubs, in social
Facilities in charities or in the migrant organizations.

VIII.3 for freedom in safety
We do not play against each other in security and freedom, but seen in a
comprehensive understanding of security and social foundation for democratic freedom and openness. In a democracy include freedom and security together. Things are just people who do not, and in constant fear of violence, crime
Terror live.
Security and civil rights may not be mutually exclusive. We want a security policy with a sense of proportion. The police provide essential work for our common good.
A peaceful coexistence needs professional and well-trained permanent
Police officers who have a local presence and are where it makes sense, involved in security partnerships. Police work must be recognized and appropriately configured. A privatization of security tasks, we reject.
Criminal Policy with sound judgment also means that the causes of crime and violence
fight. With targeted educational and youth work, with training and job prospects we want to especially prevent young people become perpetrators.
Will they still delinquent, so young people have directly experienced the connection between their crime and the sentence: This objective can
to ensure that investigations effectively and efficiently, ie in closer
Cooperation and networking between all the authorities involved, and led to the conclusion
are brought to trial opened and concluded promptly after indictment. Educational measures and penalties should promptly after legal force
enforced the judgment.
We want an offensive against economic and tax crime: We have not
to that one runs the Great. For this we need more tax inspectors and
some places new sanctions. We want better ways of
Asset recovery, as well as the introduction of a corporate criminal law.
In addition, we are a nation-wide corruption register and the law
introduce enshrined protection of Note funders and whistleblowers. Corruption
and corruption must be severely punished.
The so-called cybercrime, ie the crime and from the Internet,
rises worrying. The IT function of businesses, government and citizens is increasing - and with it the potential for damage.
We want our law enforcement agencies on a par with high-tech
Criminals stay. The existing security architecture for the digital world must
constantly checked for their effectiveness and efficiency, as well as proportionality,
optionally adapted to the needs of a growing crime field
The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

100
become. Businesses also need to contribute to cyber attacks. Us
want them to report attacks, so police and prosecutors can conduct investigations quickly and so harm to the company, the customers and ultimately
the economy are minimized. But each and every individual can a
Make contribution to its own security in the network. To this end, we want the education and
Training of users and users for the effective ownership in the
new networks primarily effectively promote. For this, the teaching of media literacy should be encouraged at an early stage and life.
For all that we stand by it: Confidential communication must remain confidential.
Exceptions can only exist to prosecute serious crimes, and even
only in the tightest conditions and according to the rule of law. Which
Dealing with data connection, we are in pursuit serious crimes
limit, the data types and storage time in terms of their intensity of intervention
differentiate and take regulations clear, simple and sustainable. The storage
movement profiles will not happen with us.
We also occur in the EU for effective data protection. Objectives are high
Level of protection and effective legal protection as well as strong and independent data protection officials. Data protection must also follow the conditions of the digital world
correspond. The proven cooperation with experts from the network community and
Civil rights organizations we want to continue.
Combat violence against women.
We decided to fight against violence against women and to develop an action plan to combat III of violence against women. Together with the
Countries, we will develop a concept with which through institutional funding
asked the woman home financing on new, secure feet and better funding of counseling services is ensured. We will protect and
Help for women affected by violence and their children ensuring legally. Us
will improve the meshing of Gewaltschutzgesetz and visitation rights.
The Euro Europe Convention on preventing and combating violence against women
and domestic violence must be transposed into German law.
Trafficking in women, "honor killings" and forced marriages, we will fight and sharp
legal regime for the right of residence and for Zeuginnen- and witness protection
improving and protecting victims. Genital mutilation is a serious crime at
Girls and women. As such, we want to expressly provide in the future in the Penal Code is punishable and this also examine the possibility of a separate offense. In addition, we will include genital mutilation in the catalog of offenses committed abroad in the Criminal Code.

The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

101
Combat right-wing extremism.
The right-wing extremist terrorist group from the "NSU" committed ten murders
Turkish- and Greek-born citizens and to a police officer and committed bombings were a cowardly attack on righteous citizens and
at the same time an attack on our democracy.
The work of committees of inquiry in the covenant and in several countries
a number of errors and omissions at all levels (police, State Protection and Justice) discloses that have contributed to the fact that the terrorist cell is not
was halted early.
The confidence in our security agencies, we need to recover strongly.
We intend to achieve by fully investigate the transactions, through institutional reforms and the fact that we all forms of right-wing extremism and early
comprehensively combat. We will therefore work to ensure that the large
Commitment by the NSU-committee of the Bundestag developed conclusions and recommendations are effectively implemented in the next legislature.
We want a constitutional protection that protects our Constitution. With institutional reform, we will place the Protection of the Constitution better protection for the
our democracy and to, inter alia, a transparent Constitution Protection Act, which sets out clear rules for dealing with undercover agents, introduce. We are the co-operation between federal and state governments with the Constitutional protection, the police and the
Improve prosecution services - and where necessary create new skills,
without interfering with existing provincial competences. And we will continue our security authorities even stronger and steadily more aware of the dangers that threaten our democracy by law.
We also combat the organized right. Therefore, we want the
NPD ban. It is racist, anti-Semitic and xenophobic in aggressive form and abused the privilege of our Constitution Party. We no longer want
allow their consequently violent misanthropy is also financed by tax funds.
It is also clear: No NPD ban, no safety authority is so effective in
Fight against right as a vigilant and active civil society. Therefore, we must all strengthen the civil society. With an integrated approach against right-wing, racism and antisemitism, we want the forces
civil society, the investigating authorities and the policy in municipalities, and
Bundle covenant. With a democracy offensive we want the backbone of our society through education, training, anti-discrimination policies, education and
Strengthen training.
For us, the fight against right-wing extremism, racism and anti-Semitism is a
Total enduring social task - the federal, state, local authorities as
civil society and the economy.
The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

102
In addition, we will secure the fight against right-wing extremism, racism and antisemitism necessary connection promotions and together with civil society as part of a concerted action plan, a new support framework
develop and implement. The aim is to end the shortness of the aids
and instead, projects, initiatives and structures on a separate legal
Based non-bureaucratic, to promote long-term and adequate. The current
Nannying that weird suspicions and bureaucratic bugbears of the federal government of CDU / CSU and FDP we will finish. The grotesque "extremism" clause will be abolished. At the federal level, we want an independent monitoring agency
Setting up that brings together civil society education and prevention projects and the fight against right-wing extremism, racism and antisemitism and
the victim support actively supported.
Strengthen civil protection and disaster relief.
Climate change and the growing dependence of our modern industrial and communication society of critical infrastructures such as power supply or
Internet also provide civil protection and disaster relief before new
Challenges. In Germany we have a globally recognized assistance system with by the great commitment of the voluntary and full
the fire brigades, supported the THW and private aid agencies. Us
want to make our contribution to ensuring that this emergency response system for the future challenges is well equipped and receive the broad volunteer work as the basis remains and is supported.

The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

103

IX. For a better Europe
The European idea has fascinated people around the world - but the shape and the
State in which the EU is currently, many scares. This is no contradiction. For in the course of ever new reforms in recent decades,
which repaired to ever new places and has been adjusted, the institutions are
the EU has become so confusing that they may not understand. It is up to us,
to give the EU the mold so that the fascination of the European idea becomes visible again: the idea namely, after centuries of war with Europe a place to
create, prevail at the peace and social justice, stability in the world
is exported and organized as a transnational democracy, in which the regional,
national or European level which regulates each what it does best. Such a European project is unique in history, and therefore the EU's 2012
Law was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize. The SPD than the European Party
in Germany is proud of this award, the European peoples and people
belongs.
Especially in times in which it is apparent how necessary is the European union so that Europe owes its prosperity and stability in competition with
can preserve the emerging regions of the world, the federal government seems out
CDU / CSU and FDP have no enthusiasm or inspiration for our Europe.
She has failed in recent years, where Europe had to deal with different crises: She has all the anti-crisis measures too late and
only half-heartedly completed and thus the cost of anti-crisis unnecessarily
increases. Were willing Despite the great solidarity to the citizens in recent years, the federal government has responded initially cold-hearted to the crisis and pretended were the problems of our neighbors and friends are nothing
at. A crisis that devastating in some EU member states, social dislocation
has triggered and the leaves grow in Southern Europe among young people a "lost generation". On several occasions, members of the Federal Government
CDU / CSU and FDP even publicly about the end of our common currency
thinking and fueled the speculation against the euro so irresponsibly and the austerity of some crisis countries thwarted. This has the
Federal government contributed to that Europe temporarily stood at the abyss, and
it has thus harmed the interests of our country.
We know that Europe fails, fails then also the European social model, which is applied on solidarity and a fair balance of interests. Europe
must be the place and even more, of the neo-liberalism and market radicalism his model of social and sustainable democracy and market economy
opposes. Cold competitive Europe must be opposed at last a socially responsible EU. Only in the common European
Staatenverbund we will succeed, our interests globally in the 21st century
enforce and thereby obtain our prosperity. This applies to economic,
Currency and trade issues as well as in the field of environmental and consumer protection, conflict prevention and disarmament and in the migration policy.

The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

104
Transnational democracy will only work if we have the separation of powers model that we know from the national states, including European
Transfer level: why the European Commission to a government must
be expanded, which is selected and controlled by the European Parliament and, if necessary
may be discontinued. In a second chamber in which the governments of the Member States sitting in a joint council, then the national interests
represented. This Council shall act laws equal footing with the European Parliament.
Government, European Parliament and the Council of the Member States each have the right to
to start their own legislative initiatives. The European Court is still the
top European judiciary, and she is also vigilant that the fundamental rights of citizens not by the EU are violated. In order that the institutions will be clearly visible than in the past accountable for their decisions in the future. Such reforms will help to make decisions transparent and comprehensible
to make, and it is therefore a contribution to the strengthening of European democracy.
The SPD is to be found not so from that since the first European elections in 1979, voter turnout is sinking ever further. Help appeals
here is not to stop this trend, but it must be clear in the future, which
political content and which persons are available. We therefore welcome,
that the European political parties for the 2014 European elections in each case a common
Set top candidates or who competes as a candidate for that party family in all EU countries. These top candidates are competing for the office
the EU Commission President. The SPD is committed to that they only future
will endorse a Commission president, who previously served as the top candidate for the
European elections has put his political program for election and a majority
gets in the European Parliament. A so elected President, with
a high parliamentary legitimacy as a result of a previous
Election campaign, the EU makes a total of more democratic. At the same time then
facing the European Parliament political groups, who voted for or against this president. Even so, a piece of parliamentary tradition, which is of course in Member States, even brought to the EU level. We also want to
the functioning of the European Parliament strengthen the fact that we in us
Germany and used in the EU for blocking clauses in the European elections.
The principle of separation of powers and the EU's full parliamentarization must in
all areas shall, where the EU is responsible. In the course of such a reform
has to be examined whether the distribution of powers between national and
European level has proved or whether this is necessary corrections. In this process, it can also lead to repossession in the Member States when
a European competence has not proved useful. The SPD stands behind
the principle of subsidiarity.
A deepening EU that finally must understand the economic union by the Monetary Union needs according to Euro, the single market and a common
Central Bank (ECB) also a common economic government. Because it has not been
proved that seventeen and more governments in a common currency area
enforce their different economic ideas to today Verdas Government Programme 2013 - 2017

105
looking, but this common currency area must speak with one voice.
After rigorous by the Fiscal Pact and other European control mechanisms
been set up and effective requirements for national budgetary discipline
are, must now remain the subject of joint liability no longer taboo. Nice
now liable by the Euro-bailouts and the ECB's policy of German taxpayers with hundreds of billions. The SPD has supported this policy because it
is in Germany's interest that we defend our currency and that the currency area does not break apart. An instrument to ward off speculation against countries of the monetary union can a European redemption fund
be all the members of the monetary union.
The SPD is pleased that it managed by social democratic pressure in Europe
is to prepare the financial transaction tax in eleven EU Member States. In the government, we will encourage the other European and EU countries, these tax
introduce, make a fair share of the public financing by the speculators.
More co-ordination in Europe also needs more democratic control and participation. We want to set up a parliamentary government controlled economy. The measures taken under this integrated economic policy framework
Measures have to a parliament controlled economy government
to be hit. Within the euro zone, we are ensuring that
the measures under the common economic and budgetary policies
be democratically legitimized. We do not want a "Next-so" - Europe must not
further a Europe of governments. It must be a Europe of citizens. To this end, European Parliament and national parliaments should be further strengthened. The European Social Market Economy needs
a strong European social union. The social union has its foundation in a
have social value system with strong fundamental social rights, as they are already in
are applied to the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights. These fundamental social rights are not the
Market freedoms are subordinate to the European single market, but must
you proceed. With a social progress clause, this principle must contractually
are enshrined in the European primary law. In Europe, must apply: same
Wages and working conditions for equal work in the same place. Wage and social dumping should not be given space. Given also the scope for participation in the European companies have expanded the rights of European
Strengthen works councils and social dialogue between unions and employers be strengthened at European level. Workers from different
EU countries must not be pitted against each other, but have a chance
have to defend their interests together. We want to set up the social stability pact. In order to prevent social dumping, objectives and targets for social and educational issues must be laid down - as measured by the GDP of the respective
States. The same is true for living wage in all EU Member States,
as measured by the respective national median income. But we do not want,
that European standards replace national standards. We want national
Standards are protected. We need minimum social standards against the harmful competition for the lowest social rights and standards.
The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

106
We need to develop the monetary union to an economic and social union. This is not about us at unifying the best national
Social systems in Europe. However, we need common standards to protect our social systems and develop so that they benefit people.
The public interest must not be called into question by the EU.
It can not be that the interpretation of the market freedoms threaten the national characteristics in the public interest. Here clear stop signs must apply to the EU, which must be enshrined in primary law of the Union.
Our goal is to strengthen the public services. We provide access
all citizens for their services securely. This is often of
municipal enterprises and facilities provided in very good quality.

Our goal is to strengthen the public services. We provide access
all citizens for their services securely. This is often of
municipal enterprises and facilities provided in very good quality.
Therefore, we sat down for fair competition rules for public companies in
national and European law a. We want to - also at European level -
ensure that municipalities can decide for themselves how they make their public
Perform tasks. Water supply, sewage and waste disposal, transport, airports and air navigation, important health and social services
and the public broadcasting serve the common good. We will projects which include a clause requiring the privatization oppose. We want to
Position of many service providers improve regardless of legal and organizational form through good working conditions and safeguard their rights.
We want to change Europe in order to improve it. A strong and just Europe
within the meaning of the people has to focus primarily on the major tasks for the future: the taming of the financial markets, sustainable growth through a modern, innovative industry and investments in the future, a peacemaking
Policy towards the neighbors and the world.
In these areas, Europe needs to work more closely together by Community institutions capable of action and especially a strong European Parliament.
But we also take the concerns of many people with regard to a European Union seriously, which meddles in too many areas. Where tasks better national,
can be solved regionally or locally, the principle of subsidiarity must apply.
Subsidiarity means that policy is made where it is best placed.
To the reform measures that are necessary for this new Europe, on the way
bring, must first exhaust all margins of the existing Treaties
become. Any additional contractual reform steps must a
Convention be developed to work on an equal footing in the parliaments and governments and civil society has effective empowerment. The next
European election campaign, in its new form is already the beginning of a comprehensive
Debate on the direction of the EU be. A newly elected European Parliament and
a new Commission can then pave the way for concrete reforms.
The European Union is threatening to further lose trust if we do not succeed, more democratic and socially just to design their policies. To open the door for
to open such a political change, it is important, the majority of
The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

107

To break conservatives and liberals in the EU institutions and its unilateral
Correct policy of saving and liberalization. Both the general election
this year as well as the 2014 European elections are therefore important milestones in order
To bring Europe to another, better stance. The EU must again
Confidence recovered and is reliant on the governments of member countries to help it. The SPD-led government is this
do, by initiating a reform process of the EU more democratic, more transparent,
fair and efficient power.

The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

108

X. Our idea of ​​globalization:
Justice for all instead of wealth
for a few
Our world is in upheaval. There is a break, the output of which is open. Still
appears much contradictory. Opportunities and risks are closely linked. Us
want to seize the opportunities of this change and do everything to ensure that this upheaval
a departure to more peace, democracy and justice.
We see how in many countries people against dictatorship and oppression rebel, go for freedom and democracy on the road, running their lives. But it remains uncertain whether viable democratic structures will be created in these countries. We experience how to network more and more people globally,
be committed to a socially just and ecologically responsible economic and financial order and as a critical world opinion arises. But it is precisely
the voices of the people in the poorest countries of the world that the consequences
climate change and an unfair world trade particularly suffering, not be
sufficiently heard. We see how understanding and cooperation across old
national borders in many places succeed better. But we also see the dangers of new conflicts along ethnic or religious lines, through lack of resources, failing rule, poverty and hopelessness. We see that inequality is increasing in all societies. Seek with China, India and Brazil
new on powers whose economic rise drives the world economy. But it
it remains unclear whether and in which structures with these countries together in a socially
will succeed and ecologically responsible globalization.
Humanity is in a global 21st century existential challenges of our time can only solve together: limit climate change, which unleashed financial markets again subdue reasonable rules of the grown
Counteract inequality in societies. Peace and Human Rights
global public goods secure, prevent the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, finally overcoming hunger and poverty. These are all challenges,
not against each other, but only with one another to cope. At the same time are
it challenges to a new order in the world that has yet to occur.
We want to build a cooperative world order that makes joint problem solving and future design as part of a global domestic policy possible.
Together with civil society groups, social movements, trade unions, churches and their development organizations we want this future
designed to advance European and global peace, justice and sustainability. The democratic foundations of a new global governance must
not exhaust itself in governmental cooperation. You need civil society
Include participation.

The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

109
Our foreign and security policy - the peace obligation on cooperation
directed.
The SPD has always seen itself as a peace party. As originator of détente during the East-West conflict, it has a long tradition for confidence-building policy, balance of interests, transparency of government action and
the Treaty-based disarmament and arms control. These forward-looking
Peace and détente policy we want to renew contemporary and evolve. In foreign policy, we are aware of the responsibility of Germany, not
to act alone, but together with its European partners, in
the transatlantic alliance, and with the civil society actors.
Urgent improvements are needed again a clear orientation and the setting of priorities in the field of peacebuilding and conflict transformation. We advocate strongly believes that civilian crisis prevention and conflict resolution priority again
have in the German and European foreign policy. This includes an overarching, coordinated and comprehensive strategy to make structures and decision-making processes more effective. We want by Social Democrats
developed concept "Civilian Crisis Prevention, Conflict Resolution and Peacebuilding" evolve. The Civil Peace Service has civil society as a
Proven element of crisis prevention and should be strengthened again.
We want Germany to again be a reliable partner in the international
Policy. We want a smart, coordinated with partners with foreign policy
Judgment for the sake of Germany and Europe. Germany's responsibility within the EU has been growing with the economic and financial crisis in the euro zone.
The federal government of CDU / CSU and FDP, however, has international confidence
weakened in Germany's European policy. Also of many international crises and
Conflicts from the Middle East through Iran to Afghanistan, Germany has in the
last four years passed as a positive force. We need to restore confidence and our responsibilities at international level meet.
The EU's foreign and security policy must urgently gain in substance and contour. Europe has common interests and we can only be represented if we collectively act as the EU. We therefore need new political
Impulses for a sustainable, more communitarised, common foreign and security policy of the EU. Our goal is the development of the European
Union to a functioning peace power. Independent European peace policy is mainly due to political means and diplomacy to trade, equitable
Development and civilian crisis prevention. Especially must in development policy
Europe more clearly than ever adopt an integrated common approach.
A key challenge for the common European foreign and security policy in the future also lies in the specific foreign and security policy experience, expertise and partnerships of the individual EU member states
crosslink so and bring into the common EU foreign policy, incurring a concrete added value is created. Only by working together can Europe and its values
Interests in a changing world argue effectively. German foreign policy
The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

110
must therefore much more so than previously incorporated in a common European foreign policy.
Europe must also continue to keep its doors open to new members. The
EU's enlargement policy has proven to be a forward-looking peace policy. Compared to the countries that are negotiating their accession to the EU, as well as the
Countries which have received an accession perspective, Europe must be true to his word. We advocate that the EU negotiations with Turkey, with the clear
Continues goal of EU accession of Turkey and gives them new momentum. An EU accession of Turkey is in the mutual political and economic interests and
may propose important cultural bridges. Also on the accession perspective of the Western Balkan countries, we maintain. As important as a Peace and Prosperity
EU-looking enlargement policy remains clear, however, is the possibility that a
Accession to the EU is only possible if the candidate countries the necessary
Meet criteria fully. At the same time the act of an enlarged European Union must be ensured by further reforms of the EU.
Socialist foreign policy is peace policy. Peace and security, we best be achieved through the promotion of democracy and human rights and of fair production and trading conditions.
We trust in our forward-looking peace policy on a tight integration of political, economic, development and humanitarian funds. Civilian
Crisis prevention and conflict resolution have always clear priority for us. Military means ever come only as a last resort: a
clear UN mandate, a decision of the German Bundestag
and embedded in a comprehensive political strategy. The influence of private mercenary armies and security services, we want to drive back and submit to strict national and international regulations.
Disarmament, non-proliferation and arms control are key survival issues of tomorrow for us. Our goal remains a world without nuclear and weapons of mass destruction. We support regional approaches to zones free of weapons of mass destruction. We want as part of a pan-European disarmament treaty which
remaining tactical nuclear weapons from Germany are deducted. We want
both of conventional disarmament and arms control give new impetus.
We want to go back to the restrictive export policies of the SPD-Green government time.
Arms exports to conflict areas and in countries where human rights massively
be disregarded and violated, we reject. An expansion of arms exports for economic reasons and as a substitute for a creative foreign policy
we totally reject. This also means a parliamentary body in
To provide the German Bundestag, which in central arms export decisions
controls the federal government and the timely transparency towards Parliament
and public can make. A possible transfer from Germany exported weapons to third parties is to effectively control and violations Endverbleibsklauseln are strictly sanctioning.
The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

111
We have early on demanded an exit strategy for Afghanistan. Meanwhile,
it is clear that the combat mission should be completed 2014th We want the process
the transition from ISAF to a new mission in Afghanistan with a focus on
Education actively support. Afghanistan and the international community can
rest assured that we stand by our commitments - particularly with a view to
civilian aid.
We are pushing against the United States on a new approach in the Middle East peace process. The main aim is our policy in the Middle East and remains
a two-state solution: With Israel, living in peace, security and within recognized borders of its neighbors - and a viable Palestinian state, where people have a future worth living. Germany has
once enjoyed high reputation among all parties to the conflict. That's where we want to go back
and our contribution to the realization of a two-state solution afford.
The conflict in Syria poses a serious risk to drag the whole region into a spiral politically and religiously motivated violence. We want that in Germany
the resolution of this conflict no longer stands apart, but its diplomatic
Facility uses more than before to prevent further escalation.
At the same time efforts to help Syrian refugees have reinforced for
become.
The Arab states in transition, we want to support them in their efforts,
to use the freedom gained to develop new economic opportunities and the rule of law and democratic structures. The spreading militant Islamism in the countries of the Sahel region is a serious threat to
Germany and Europe. This threat will be by military means alone
in the long run can not be met. We need a strategy for political and
economic stabilization of the whole region to address the issue at the root
to pack.
To the identity of Germany and Europe as a force for peace of Human Rights
and to promote international law, we want the protection of human rights of the United
Strengthen Nations, the EU and the Council of Europe. Human rights are our actions
determine in all policy areas. The rights of women and children and human rights defenders are particularly important to us.
The Bundeswehr is a parliamentary army, which is integrated into the European and transatlantic security structures. Parliament has proved that it with
its constitutive decision right responsible approach. A softening of parliamentary approval, we reject. We want the reform begun in the Bundeswehr to a further Europeanisation of the armed forces within the framework
a common European defense planning leads. This includes,
that European cooperation in the security and defense policy
is revived.

The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

112
Here we want to provide new impetus. If we our forces better European
merge, thereby also arise leeway for further disarmament steps. In the long term we want to build a common European army, whose
Use must be legitimized parliament. The anchoring of the Bundeswehr in
our democratic and pluralistic society must be maintained and strengthened. We advocate that the questions to be answered about the relationship between army and society, posing the transition to a volunteer army, in a broad social discourse. Can the success of this conversion only when all
Employees of the Bundeswehr will be taken on this difficult path.
Therefore, we are committed to a comprehensive approach to recruitment and
an attractive program with a better work-life balance
brings. A rash decision for the procurement of combat drones sit
we from. We demand that before any security policy, international legal and ethical questions will be answered comprehensively.
Germany's reputation in the world has under the Federal Government of the CDU / CSU
and FDP suffered. We want to strengthen this reputation again and so broaden the scope of German foreign policy. We want therefore to the successful
Start promoting external cultural policies of our reign and the
Promote overseas activities of the Goethe Institute, the German schools abroad and the political foundations on.
The German UN city Bonn is being expanded as a place of international cooperation. In this context, the role of the federal city of Bonn is the second
Federal political center of Germany on the basis of the Berlin / Bonn Act
strengthened and prepared in dialogue with the region and the state governments in North Rhine-Westphalia and Rhineland-Palatinate a long-term contractual arrangements.
We want to revitalize and strengthen the transatlantic relationship. The
USA are Germany and Europe's most important strategic partner. The stronger focus of US foreign and security policy on the Pacific is no devaluation of the transatlantic relationship. It provides Europe with new challenges, but also opens up new opportunities for cooperation. These must be used.
We want to fill the relations with the United States with new life, further develop and deepen. We strive for a close coordination and joint
Initiatives on the Middle East and the Arab world. Our relations in the
We want to use the Asian region to common transatlantic strategies
to develop the Asian continent and the Pacific. We offer, as
Mediator of the necessary ongoing US-Russian dialogue to act.
Efforts to transatlantic trade and investment partnership, see our staunch support. Here, each of which advanced rules with regard to economic, social and environmental standards, the regulation of financial markets and their transparency should be applied.
Furthermore, we want strategic partnerships to other emerging
States such as Brazil, India, South Africa or China build bezieDas Government Programme 2013 - 2017

113
Hung example evolve. Existing strategic partnerships as
with Russia should be revitalized. In addition to Asia, with its political and economic dynamics of the African continent in our immediate European neighborhood will become more important. This also applies to the
emerging powers in Latin America.
We rely on Russia to a policy that combines economic cooperation, political and social dialogue in a comprehensive modernization partnership. We strive in mutual interest progress towards
Visa liberalization on.
Germany and Europe have their political influence in Asia and the Pacific region as a key political and economic scene of the future
Removing decided. We want the Asia policy of the EU on a
provide broader basis than in the past and neglected in recent years approaches
as the EU-Central Asia Strategy revitalize.
However, the partnership with these emerging countries and regions must be
not be limited to economic cooperation. We want Germany and Europe bring their own values ​​in this cooperation and democratic, social and human rights issues do not omit.
Our goal is a cooperative, equitable world order.
We want to market globalization is followed by political globalization.
Multilateral organizations we consider as a bridge in a just global order. The UN remains primarily responsible as the most important world organization for peace and security. We therefore advocate a necessary political
Reforming and strengthening the UN one, a reform and strengthening of the Security Council
includes. The OSCE, NATO and the EU have as regional organizations with different priorities, a common responsibility for peace in and
for Europe. We want Germany in these organizations again an active
and plays a constructive role. In the WTO and within the G20 to Germany
stick out for a just and sustainable economic model. Fair competition requires regulation. Open markets need common rules.
We stand for the strengthening of the United Nations system. We want the
Ask the United Nations, with its universal membership and legitimacy in the center of political globalization. We support the reform of the United Nations towards a powerful and efficient organization. We want
us in the sense of social democratic peace policy in favor of strengthening the crisis and
Running conflict prevention and the protection of human rights. The principle of
Responsibility to protect must focus primarily on the civil action.
Inclusion of the International Labour Organisation (ILO) has just also in
the current economic crisis proved to be important. Your voice needs to be heard in the design of social and sustainable financial and economic order.
The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

114
We reject unjust and inhumane methods of production that are clearly against the
elementary core labor standards of the International Labour Organisation (ILO), as
the "prohibition of child and forced labor, non-discrimination and freedom of association", the right to collective bargaining and free trade unions, as well as against the
international environmental standards violated. Therefore, we will work for
the enforcement of minimum social standards throughout the world, for the creation of decent employment opportunities with sufficient income and the
Strengthening social security and dialogue between the social partners. The
EU trade agreements must be linked to the respect and monitoring of ILO core labor standards. Free trade is not a gateway for wage and
Social dumping.
International policy must urgently address the challenges of resource security and climate protection. In this sense, we are in favor of an environmentally and economically responsible energy and climate change foreign policy.
Instead of getting "the slowest ship in the convoy" waiting for as in the previous
Climate policy, we want to create alliances of those who precede - and thereby the
Draw benefits of the pioneers.
Protect human rights comprehensively and enforce internationally.
Human rights are the obligatory basis of our society -
both in Germany and in Europe. They are indivisible and universally applicable -
therefore we are committed domestically and in the European Union, but
and globally for the protection and promotion of human rights. Only that makes
our policies, both internally and outside peaceful future, social justice, and thus
sustainable.
Here our policy is effective for the development and implementation of human rights standards as well as for an effective means of protecting human rights.
Of particular importance are especially the better protection of human rights defenders, but also the global ban of the death penalty and torture as well as a more effective
Persecution of human rights abuses in an international context.
Are all over the world, albeit in varying degrees, the human rights of women
still hurt manifold: Systematic discrimination, domestic violence,
terrible violations of women through female genital mutilation, forced marriage,
Be human trafficking or falsely so-called "crimes of honor on behalf of the"
We therefore combat with special emphasis.
Even children, people with disabilities, as well as the sick and elderly do not have a right to live in dignity and self-determination, which is often enough
is respected. That requires our attention and stronger our political
Intervention. The protection of minorities is one of the major areas of
Human rights work. We therefore advocate actively for the human rights of religious and ethnic minorities, are often enough to victims of political conflicts
and social and economic tensions in the crisis areas of the world.
The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

115
Also in Europe, have come into their own through effective intervention by the authorities in the Member States and at EU level, the discriminated minority.
We actively support the vital work of the United Nations Commissioner for Refugees and put us in the European Union for more solidarity with
Refugees and for a more equitable burden sharing with their integration a.
Development policy is global peace and structural policy for us.
Mission of our development policy remains a global structural policy that will determine the international framework development-friendly and sustainable
and the major tasks for the future sees as a common challenge. Freedom, justice and solidarity are also doing our basic values.
Objectives of our development policy are the eradication of poverty and hunger in
the world, the protection of global public goods and the realization of human rights. We stand by our international commitments. With our help
We support the own efforts of people living in poverty. Thus it acts, it needs responsible governments, active citizens
and environment, social justice, sustainable development and
Promote peace.
We are an independent BMZ Federal Ministry for global cooperation and sustainable development with responsibility for global challenges of the future. Only such a ministry can credibly and efficiently to
Meet challenges.
We want to concentrate future cooperation in the poorest developing countries and fragile states and regions, but without the cooperation
abandon with already more advanced countries.
Necessary for overcoming poverty is a broad-based, sustainable
Growth. This requires overcoming inequalities in societies and the creation of good work on the Decent Work Agenda of the ILO
oriented investment in agricultural development which helps the Aufund expansion of social security systems in terms of basic protection under the concept of Social Protection Floors of the UN and the ILO, as well as equality between men and women. Necessary conditions for this are the access to quality education,
Health care and nutrition.
We want to combat hunger and achieve food security. That's why
we exploit all possibilities to prevent speculation on food prices.
We act in the partner countries to a realization of human rights and
promoting democratic participation and the rule of law back. We want to
The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

116
contribute, economic, social and cultural human rights and the political
To realize human rights.
Women are key actors for development processes. A precondition for this
to strengthen their personal, social, economic and political self-determination rights. Your access to family planning must be guaranteed. Violence against women in all its forms must be combated.
The Millennium Development Goals, we want to pursue with determination and our
Make contributions in order to be implemented by 2015. This is especially true for the fight against maternal and infant mortality and HIV / AIDS, tuberculosis and
Malaria. We want to participate in the advancement of the Millennium Development Goals to "sustainable development goals" (Sustainable Development Goals)
the part of the new framework for global development policy 2015-2030
should be. In all of the civil society is a key partner. We recognize
their important contribution to justice, the protection of natural resources, political participation and democratic development on - especially in fragile
States. Your important educational and advocacy work, we will support strengthened. We want to expand the volunteer program "weltwärts" as a valuable contribution to development education.
Private investments make a significant contribution to economic development and overcoming poverty. We want the establishment and expansion of private
Support sector in the partner countries, so far as it sustainable principles
follows social and ecological development. Wear company also globally active
Responsibility for the observance of human rights. We advocate for enhanced transparency requirements for transnational corporations, especially in
Resource sector, by country and project-related reporting obligations.
On target to spend 0.7 per cent of GDP for development cooperation, hold
We firmly. The federal government of CDU / CSU and FDP has this goal so neglected that agreed timetables are for no longer tenable. To achieve the goal yet
basically to achieve, we want to provide an additional EUR 1 billion a year for development cooperation and make greater use of new and innovative financing instruments in Germany and throughout Europe, in particular funds from the
Use FTT. We support developing countries in building
powerful control systems to more of their own resources for their tasks
mobilize.

Development policy must include the strategies of partner countries. Budget Support
contributes significantly to greater self-responsibility of the partner countries.
Emerging economies have gained in importance and influence and to boost take responsibility in combating poverty and peace policy initiatives, particularly in regional conflicts.

The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

117
It is important to strengthen multilateral cooperation. For German development policy has to be embedded into a coherent European policy framework and consistent
work towards a coordinated and mutual cooperation. The separation
technical and financial development cooperation, which is so only in Germany and leads to duplication, is to be overcome.
In the international financial and economic institutions, the developmental and emerging economies should have greater weight. Overall, it is the voices of
Developing and emerging countries in global governance to strengthen. Simultaneously
We remain for a Global Council of the United Nations Economic,
Social and environmental policies a. It is economic interests, social needs
Vote and ecological needs together.
Sustainable development policy must be closely linked to global environmental policy.
Poorer countries need special support to the climate change
counteract and to a more rapid expansion of renewable energies and more
To achieve energy efficiency. Also the protection of the rain forest and other ecosystems, we must advance. The German financial commitments for the protection of forests and biodiversity, we will implement.
We know that comprehensive peace is social justice and fair development
ahead. Without one the other can not succeed. This conviction is and
remains the core of our forward-looking social democratic peace policy.

The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

118

XI. Germany govern better!
Our election program follows a simple principle: we want to govern
Benefit of all citizens in Germany. We want to make a difference in our country. We want to establish a social market economy and new together
creating a new social balance. We want to put an end to four years
political standstill and coalition chaos. We want a different, better and
make equitable policy for the citizens of Germany.
The government of Angela Merkel has promised a lot and just as many promises
Broken. We know exactly what we want. We do not turn as flags
in the wind. We stay the course. The Man Who Cried policy must be able to act. politics
must meet their responsibilities. You must have a clear compass.
Our manifesto is this compass. It stands on solid ground - our basic values ​​of freedom, justice and solidarity. Our program is the guide for
our actions. Our program is the call to action. Our program
to use concrete in their different life all citizens. Our program is the order that policy finally concrete
Delivers results.
Our manifesto is the plan for a better policy in Germany and Europe.
A policy that social and economic, sustainability and competitiveness,
Citizens and Governance, Europe and Germany, globalization and communities, values ​​and
Reality reconciles again.
Our program is the basis for a decision on the direction of our society, without losing sight of the Mean from view. Our manifesto is
the alternative to Angela Merkel's "lack of alternatives".
For this Germany needs a clear majority: Only with red-green, we are creating the renewal of our country! Only a red-green government represents the change in direction in
Germany!
The SPD is the party in the middle of society and for the cooperation in Germany. For 150 years, we are making policy for a better society. Build on
we on.

Therefore SPD.
Therefore Peer Steinbrück.

The Government Programme 2013 - 2017

Editor:
SPD party executive
Willy-Brandt-Haus
Wilhelmstr. 141, 10963 Berlin
Phone: 030 25991-500
Fax: 030 25991-375
Mail: parteivorstand@spd.de
Pressure:
Braunschweig pressure
Ernst-Böhme-Str. 20, 38112 Braunschweig
Article number: 3000525

www.spd.de
