EAJ-PNV program
General Elections 2011

1

TABLE OF CONTENTS

WORKING FOR THE BASQUE COUNTRY IN MADRID

A legislature WITH GREAT CHALLENGES
1. An economic policy for sustainable growth and
job creation.
2. Defending the interests of Euskadi to temptation
recentralizadora.
3. Commitment to welfare economics and policies
public.
4. Peace and normalization. Bakea orain.

PRIORITIES FOR LEAVING
BUILDING THE BASQUE COUNTRY

THE CRISIS AND FOLLOW

1. Industrial policy for a competitive economy.
2. A system of labor relations to encourage the creation
job.
3. Advanced and sustainable social policies.
4. Infrastructure managed from the criterion of proximity and
sustainability.
5. A financial system sanitized the service of society.
6. economic and budgetary stability.
7. A development compatible with the environment.
8. Maximum respect and progress in rights and freedoms.
9. Strengthening European governance.
10.

European foreign policy and international solidarity

NEW POLITICAL STATUS FOR THE BASQUE COUNTRY

2

WORKING FOR THE BASQUE COUNTRY IN MADRID

The Basque Nationalist Party has been for voice and 1977
defending the interests of Euskadi in Madrid.
During these 34 years we have achieved much progress and
many resources for our country. Negotiating transfers
attracting investments and defending our uniqueness and
our rights. We have defended and continue to defend
Euskadi in Madrid. Both raising our right as Basque
Basque and decide the future of Euskadi, as making proposals
constructive to exit the crisis and create jobs, which is our
another high priority.
This last term have totaled 1,265 million
euros for Euskadi. This is the economic valuation of
transfers, subsidies and investments achieved. Nearly one
Euskadi million euros for each day of term.
In addition to the "egg", we have also dealt with the "jurisdiction" of the
defending the rights of our people. First, we have
expanded the Basque self-government, which stands for wellness
Euskadi, making new transfers and legal protection
Economic Agreement, thereby closing the cornerstone of
Basque self-government. In addition, we have achieved participation
Basque in the Council for Economic and Financial Affairs
European Union (ECOFIN), where we can defend
Basque interests in this matter.

We managed strategic investments for Euskadi, as the
ensuring the realization of the investment term of the Basque Y;
the development and regeneration of the Bay of Pasaia; the
recovery springs Ria de Bilbao; the E.S.S. or Source
Spallation Neutron; creating strategic centers
development of emerging sectors, such Nanogune tip
lance of our strategic commitment to nanoscience and
nanotechnology, and the Basque Culinary Center.

3

In these four years we have also made the transfer to Euskadi
18 new skills, including some qualified as
"Historical" as they can be:
 The Active Employment Policies, with an economic assessment
472 million euros, well above the required assessment
by the current Basque Government, willing to accept for only 300
millions.
 The transfer of R + D + i.
 The management of our motorways.
 The remaining 18 transfers until you are successful
Labour Inspectorate, Teachers and Health Personnel
Institutions
prison,
Teachers
from
religion,
Validation and recognition of studies in centers
foreigners living in the Basque Country and foreign securities not
university, employment regulation, maritime transport and
River, Cargo transport, state-owned files,
Implementation of state legislation on property
intellectual, expansion of services transferred on
professional nautical-fishing lessons, Highways,
Pharmaceuticals and tourism agencies.

Other important achievements were the subsidies and grants
received for R + D + i promoted by Centers
Technological,
Centers
from
Investigation
Cooperative
Y
Basque universities; the protection and defense of our
tuna; recovery rate of investments in the TGV high
Speed; maintenance of strategic enterprises in Euskadi
as Petronor, extending its activity; the award for
Basque frequency of the new broadband telephony
mobile; the recognition of the official name of our
provinces; the equalization of the age of retirement
Ertzaintza; or recovery of the Basque representation bodies
key regulators such as the National Commission Market
Telecommunications, the National Energy Commission or the
Postal advice.
Returning to the "jurisdiction", our group has defended twice
the right to self-determination this term. The first to
through a proposal for a resolution in July 2010 and
4

second through an amendment to the Constitutional Reform
August 2011.
In short, a legislature in which the commitment and work
Basque newspaper group EAJ-PNV in Madrid has led
results in obtaining important results for Euskadi and the
Basque citizens.

5

A legislature WITH GREAT CHALLENGES

The legislature that has just ended will be identified for long
time as the legislature of the great economic crisis. The economy
he has conditioned the economy and will also, unfortunately,
which set the tone of the next.
In this difficult context in the 2011-2015 legislature, in EAJ-PNV
we consider that we are facing four major challenges, all
Euskadi key:
1. Economic recovery and the exit from the crisis.
2. The defense of the interests of Euskadi to temptation
recentralizadora.
3. Commitment to welfare economics and public policy
as an instrument of development and social cohesion.
4. Peace and normalization. Bakea orain.

An economic policy for sustainable growth and
job creation
The current economic situation of the Spanish State is untenable.
As for unemployment, with the highest unemployment figures in Europe:
5 million unemployed with an unemployment rate in the
around 21%. On the other hand, with a very high budget deficit
which, by the irresponsible management of Zapatero Government, reached
in 2009 to reach 11% of GDP. The pressure to reduce this
deficit has moved not only the state but also and more
intensity to the autonomous communities and local entities,
with the consequent need to cut services. In spite of
Hard adjustments have had to make, without adequate
planning, from May 2010, the Spanish economy has
been and remains close to the intervention.
In Euskadi, nevertheless, the impact of the crisis
They presented separately from the rest of Spain, as manifested
in the main indicators. Our unemployment rate is at the
half the national average, and our public debt is

6

substantially lower than in other regions.
Much of our ability to buffer the consequences
the crisis is due to the smooth conduct of the Concert and Convention
Economic, vehicle and fundamental instrument which has
become one of the cornerstones of our self-government, and
the model of economic policy and management developed by EAJPNV in the last 30 years. A model that works, which favors
economic growth and job creation. From a
administration managed rigorously, seriously, in advance.
Since the beginning of the budget balance, using the
such as debt and to invest in return.
However, even from this situation of self-government, should
It is clear that the economic policy of the Spanish State affects us
and a lot. It affects our businesses, which suffer contraction
state market, they have to be financed at a market
where no financial credit flows and operate in a market
working with legislation that favors anything recruitment. Y
affects our institutions that are affected by the brand riesgopaís Spain.
The Spanish State should be addressed during the legislature 2011-2015
a number of economic reforms aimed on
However, to encourage job-creating business.
EAJ-PNV, as I have done during the last legislature, will
you acting with rigor, responsibility and proposals to
overcome the economic crisis. Offering our experience and the
model of socio-economic policy that has led to his Euskadi
level of development.

Defending the interests of Euskadi to temptation
recentralizadora
The crisis and bankruptcy of the growth model
Economic Spanish, is joined by a deep political crisis in their
State model that has generated and contributed to enlarge the
serious economic and financial problems of the Spanish State
terms of deficit, inefficiency and waste.
The Autonomous State has covered a cycle, this is evident. In its
Breast changes are outlined, nobody knows exactly to
they point, although it could be noted the proliferation of voices
7

who are committed to evolve its structure and operation
toward a more centralized model.
We run a major risk of using the economic crisis as
recentralise alibi for power and make a clean sweep of the state
autonomic. Some autonomous communities governed by the
PP have openly raised the possibility of returning
competencies to the State. The debate is in the media
communication. And their positions have the endorsement and theoretical
forums doctrinal thinking that nurture ideas that
political environment. Since the suppression of the PSOE postulated
County councils and openly advocates
recovery to central institutions, a part of the
competencies in the Autonomous Communities hold
urban planning. If it was until recently one
positive assessment of the regional model, which is referred as one
of the main achievements of the political regime inaugurated after
democratic restoration, today it has become one of the
major system problems.
EAJ-PNV is resolutely opposed to this temptation
recentralizadora affecting Euskadi. In the same way that once
We do not accept the perverse formula of "one size fits all" whose
avowed aim was to dilute our personality and uniqueness
As a people, we will not accept a Scrolling
reverse that is intended for the same purpose. If some
some regions have developed efficient models,
They should undertake the necessary reforms to continue providing
basic public services (especially education and health)
for citizenship without the quality of them and resent
the equity criterion. But is not the case of the Basque Country, which has
conjugated advanced public services with excellence
management and sustainability as applied basic criteria
planning and management of the public sector.
On the other hand, EAJ-PNV considers essential the participation
direct of the autonomous communities in the areas of decision
European and therefore promote and raise, as it already has
I been doing, initiatives aimed at ensuring the presence of
Euskadi decisions within the European Union. In addition,
shall ensure to avoid the violation of our exercise of jurisdiction
in the process of transposition of Council Directives
European, a fact which has unfortunately had to be
8

EAJ-PNV denounced on several occasions in the past
legislature.
Commitment to welfare economics and public policy
The crisis is affecting Europe, and with singular hardness
Spanish State, is serving as an alibi to positions
neoliberals to question the welfare state.
EAJ-PNV wants to make clear their absolute commitment to
public policy, and especially with education,
health and social services, as a fundamental tool
development and social cohesion. Because no development without cohesion
it is sustainable. Public policies can and should be improved in
Key efficiency, but without losing its objectives, especially those of
equal opportunities and protection of people's
weak.
The Basque self-government and the governance of EAJ-PNV us
They have allowed building a model of public services
It works and where we need to deepen. With eigenvalues
we must continue preserving and enhancing. Shared values
as work, effort, solidarity, innovation and
commitment to quality and innovation. They are values ​​of a
winning company that always looks to the future to consolidate
living standards with a basic threshold of dignity. We are open
to share this successful model with the state and other communities
Autonomous, but always demanding the utmost respect for our
skills and our own values.
Peace and Standardization. Bakea Orain
Since ETA emerged as an organization that uses violence
with political intentions, EAJ-PNV has tried every
means to put an end to terror and its activity continuously
violation of human rights.
So we have stated unambiguously in countless
doctrinal documents. But above all, beyond the conviction or
social and political delegitimation of violent practice, both
under Franco and democratic journey, EAJ-PNV
his work focused on finding ways that lead to
lasting peace for our country.
9

We have spared no effort and sacrifice to overcome
a conflict that has filled our society of pain and suffering
Useless. So we've explored ways of dialogue and we
sought political and social arrangements that will bring us to the good
supreme peace. Covenants as Ajuria Enea; Contacts
direct, such as those conducted in Lizarra-Garazi and Loiola or,
ultimately, the conference of Aiete.
No regrets for non-successes and frustrations
failures. We have learned from them to continue clearing
alternatives do we see light at end of tunnel
violence. Because peace is the supreme good. No counterparts
policies that endorse a price. Peace for peace. That is the key
the solution.
Now, when we are closer than ever to the end of ETA and
This announced the long-awaited definitive cessation of activity
armed, EAJ-PNV is committed to continue working for peace
final and standardization for Euskadi. This will undoubtedly be
the legislature of peace. But also of standardization,
reconiciliación and harmony.
Orain eta bakea betirako. Peace Now and forever.

10

PRIORITIES FOR LEAVING THE CRISIS AND CONTINUE BUILDING
BASQUE COUNTRY

EAJ-PNV for this X legislature raises political action
centered response to these four challenges. With a shed
vindicating our rights as a people and the need
to maintain the welfare state that has promoted EAJ-PNV
in the institutions in which we have had responsibility for
government. But also from the collaboration responsible for
that may take measures to ensure the recovery
economic and job creation so as to safeguard
the interests of Euskadi.
In this regard we propose 10 priorities which should allow
achieve this dual goal of getting out of the crisis and continue
Euskadi building:

1)
POLICY
COMPETITIVE

INDUSTRIAL

FOR

A

ECONOMY

We do not share this idea that "the best industrial policy is
which does not exist ". Even when the state has been some
industrial policy, progress in this area has been very shy,
no long-term strategies and with a great deal of improvisation.
After the collapse of the previous economic engine -the building trade
Central government now considers "sustainable economy"
as the icon that will solve all problems. But without
concrete and without giving any serious and coherent step towards a new
sector model for the future.
Meanwhile, the data remain stubborn. The trade balance
Spanish remains highly deficient. In 2010 the value of the
Exports accounted for 17.7% of GDP, well below the
half of the countries in the euro zone, where it stands at 33%. In
2010 just went to R & D 1.4% of GDP, with an investment
lower than in 2009. This means that for every euro invested in
R & D the state spends about four to pay interest
the stock of government debt issued.

eleven

For employment to grow a competitive economy needed
supported by institutions. It is not enough to establish a
shortsighted policy collecting higher taxes
enter more, without establishing a policy of generation
of sustainable long-term wealth. Euskadi has already shown that
with a solid model of industrial policy that works with a
long-term vision is possible to increase employment levels,
wealth and welfare. Following the strategic lines of this
successful model, we propose the following measures:
 sectoral policies. Sanitation industries
in crisis and a determined policy of reindustrialization that is
balanced in terms of sectors and in regional terms.
Development of new emerging sectors, from a support
decided to research and development.
 Internationalization. Industrial policy should be directed to
clarity towards the internationalization of the productive sectors
and companies with enough support, both financial
and in the form of services.
 Firm commitment to R & D + i. Increase spending on R + D + i
to approach the 25 most important European regions,
exceeding the 3% of GDP in investments and simultaneously
said redirect R & D toward greater applicability for
our production. Apply further evaluation
rigorous results obtained in order to redirect
analyze policies applied and continuity of funding
previous.
 Support to agriculture and fisheries sector. EAJ-PNV will continue to defend
modernizing our agriculture, fisheries and
livestock and processing sectors linked to
primary. The reform of the Common Agricultural Policy is a
threat to our farmers and the future
Sustainable Fisheries European regulation, we will continue
working to get the best conditions for the
sector. We will also continue to defend our
products, as we have done in the case of Txakoli.
 Support for small and medium enterprises and self-employed
urban trade. Providing support to strengthening
SMEs, self-employed and urban trade from the
12

financial perspectives, joint guarantee schemes,
improvement of management systems of technological adaptation
and penetrate new markets, sharing risks and
benefits.
 Support for the Social Economy, which internationally has
established a great capacity to resist the onslaught of
the economic crisis. The example of cooperatives in Euskadi
Success is a practice that is an example to
consider.
 Competition. Significant sectors of the economy
Spanish are still very far from any
competition, particularly in the area of ​​services, and very
particularly those constituting the environment
public presence. As these sectors should be incorporated
before the competition of the global market, in order to
forcing them to be more effective and able to stand
meet the demands of quality, price and customer
consumer-client demands internationalization.
 Attracting and retaining talent. Our bet is that of a
based on the generation and use of knowledge society and
innovation. It is essential to become a
destination for highly skilled young Europeans
seeking work and at the same time offering opportunities
interesting to our young people, excellently
trained and large capacities.

2) a system of relations
ENABLING JOB CREATION

BUSINESS

THAN

The disastrous economic and employment policy of the Government
Zapatero is responsible, along with the economic and financial crisis
global, that the Spanish State has the dubious honor of leading
global rankings of unemployment among countries
developed.
Recent labor reforms designed without consensus
social partners have proven to be ineffective to boost
the state labor market. Labor law in respect
13

wide (Statute of Workers, collective bargaining,
vocational training, etc.) should constitute the proper legal framework
for ending the crisis. Given that no recipes
They are general in nature, and that the legal framework must be
accommodated to the reality and the characteristics of each area
geographical or sectoral.
In any case, from EAJ-PNV we demand a consistent framework
co-accountable enterprises and workers and to bet on
continuous training, job stability and escape the
precariousness. Obviously, companies must have the
instruments and allowing sufficient flexibility to accommodate
the demand for their products and services but at the same time,
They must commit to the creation and job security.
All this, along with policies to support enterprises,
contribute, but we must be aware that it will
necessarily a slow phenomenon, to reduce levels of
unemployment.
We propose the following measures in this area:
 Pact for Employment and Economic Development. The
economic recovery and job creation require a
Covenant great cooperation between all sectors of society. A
covenant shall be cornerstone creation
employment from a more competitive economy that favors
further growth. This pact, which should cover the whole
institutions with relevant powers and agents
economic and social, is also advancing stability
in employment, promoting competitiveness and linking in
As wages increased productivity to allow
businesses more competitive.
 own labor relations framework. In that sense, from
EAJ-PNV agree that Euskadi has a will and
right to self-government and characteristics
economic in terms of structure and growth model
productive, differentiated from the rest of the state, so
own autonomous demand a labor relations framework
that allows us to manage our labor market
effective and service companies and economic way
Basque.

14

 Modernization of the Active Employment Policies, looking
most versatile formula that consistent in linking
petrified bonuses to quotas, vocational training
or grants.
 priority to youth employment. We are opposed to measures
They aim to turn the young people in persons
lifelong learning and labor and low salaries up to
30 years. Together with specific measures to support youth
school failure and low skills, we propose a policy
of "training grants" to provide training for and
young people in most developed countries and technologically
the more sophisticated research institutes, continuing
assimilation as far as possible between the status of
Fellow with professional status. Establishment of fees
youth participation in research projects and
most relevant technological innovation funded
European Community.
 New model of vocational training. Modify
Training deeply through
incorporating dual contract, combining in a non-
fraudulent work and training.
 greater protection to those in situation
unemployment. We propose to maintain the current level of
unemployment protection, but doubling its duration, as
It is a contingency Social Security faces a
financially solvent today public system.
We must approach coming to a protection ratios
universal character, at least for those
chronic unemployed whose return to market
work identified as particularly complex.
 Empowerment of self-employment, enabling further
greater convergence system protection
self-employed workers with employed persons
in relation to protected contingencies System
Pensions.
 Streamlining contractual arrangements and empowerment
part-time work, the high number of types of
existing contracts currently in the Spanish State does not
fifteen

provide any clarity and efficiency to boost the
Work market. Enhancing the part-time contract,
contractual formula is proving as effective
create employment for people who can not or will not
work full time.

3) advanced and sustainable social policies
Social policies are a priority for EAJ-PNV. Policies
social to meet the real needs of our
citizenship and that focus on the principles of sustainability and
efficiency. Our proposals in this area are the
following:
 Transfer Euskadi pensions. Within the
Public Pension System, EAJ-PNV still claiming their
transfer to the Basque Country under
as contemplated by the Statute of Gernika on the management of
economic system of the Social Security system
agreement, the statutory regime legislator considered identical
the regime of the Economic Agreement.
 Maintaining the purchasing power of pensions.
They must be respected and strengthened mechanisms to ensure
the purchasing power of pensions even in circumstances
difficult as the current, so that they can not be affected
by cuts resulting from cyclical situation.
 widows and widowers pensions and early retirement people. EAJPNV pledges to continue fighting for the status of these
two groups to which the legislation regulating System
Public Pension been denied a significant percentage of
pensions which had its contributory
law.
 Respect our expertise and our model
education, with emphasis on the defense of the value of
Basque as a vehicular language in education.
 A stable educational model. It is unacceptable change
Constant education legislation with each color change
the central government. We committed to maintaining the LOE, although
16

we understand that development has to date made
her Government was not in all cases with respectful
regional powers, which committed to an
shift in the implementing legislation.
 defense of a Basque curriculum, as has been agreed
unanimously by the Basque education community.
 Education 0-2 years. Progress towards universal and
integration in the education system of 0-2 years.
 university, a firm commitment to internationalization
universities and proper immersion in the field of
Bologna guidelines. This requires deepening
autonomy of universities when planning their
own strategic decisions and increased funding for, among
others face the pupil / teacher ratio that the challenge of Bologna
and demands for excellence, in order to convert campuses
Basques in genuine international campuses that your offer
appeal to students from other European latitudes in a world
in universities, more than ever, compete with each other.
 Transfer of outstanding competence in the area
Health specialized medical training, health control
low and work disabilities and foreign health. In addition,
active participation of the Basque Government organs
responsible for approval, registration and pricing
the drugs.
 Payment of amounts due for services to people
residents
in
other
communities
autonomous.
Establishment of a system of guarantees between communities
ensuring autonomous anyone coverage
health care regardless of where they are
find while guaranteeing compensation
economic the health system providing the service. In this
sense still pending compensation to the Basque Country
for health care has been provided by Osakidetza
since 2007 to persons residing in other communities
autonomous.
 Compliance with State commitments Euskadi
in relation to the Law Unit. No doubt the
17

famous Law of Personal Autonomy for People Experiencing
Unit (Dependency Act) must be reviewed and
restructured. Today, after five years since its adoption,
this law has obvious financial difficulties. The
Autonomous, and in the case of CAV communities, Councils
Councils are responsible for managing the aid to be
They derive from this law, but the funding is shared 50%
with the Central Government. At present they are not
respecting these percentages, and the Councils have to
deal with over 70% of spending, with the imbalance
It entails.
 Further research and performance in the case of
"Rare disease".
 integration of people with disabilities. It's about
to comply with the International Convention on the Rights of
Disability and the law regarding
integration percentages of workers with
disabilities in public administration. In addition, our
Group will continue to insist as we have done in the legislature
above through a motion of the need Law-
raise the quota of reservation of public employment for people with
disabilities and provide guarantees for compliance
this obligation.
 equality policies. Euskadi, with the help of EAJ-PNV, has
It has been a pioneer in promoting equality policies. In this
sense, we remain committed to avoid any
setback in this strategic material for our development
social and continue working in the professional visibility of the
women, eliminating wage gaps and progress in
responsibility.

4) infrastructure managed FROM THE CRITERIA
PROXIMITY AND SUSTAINABILITY

No development, no order, nor, therefore, integration
social or territorial or quality of life of citizens, regardless of
a person endowed with and built on a firm foundation and wider society
infrastructure of all kinds and also scheduled
18

sustainable from an environmental point of view. The
infrastructure in all its forms, including
called digital infrastructure 2.0 or form a part
essential that set.
EAJ-PNV has been developing its activity with that policy
conception, both in the Basque own sphere, from the moment
that the institutions had powers to act in
this field, as so determined equally, in all
the areas on which they depended our infrastructure.
However, it has not achieved everything EAJPNV the Basque group has been persecuted in infrastructure. Are
things to accomplish and improve, both in terms of creation
infrastructure and the management thereof. The history
It is full of alleged plans, grandly
and ostentatiously presented touted, but little, if
some, guidance and weight at the time of the executions, dragged
these by arbitrariness and, in many cases, the interests
partisan and certain pressure groups. The
transport infrastructure can not, and least in the context
economic crisis like the present, used as currency
change or compensation of any kind to a particular
autonomy.
We will require detailed planning and adjusted to the
needs, optimizing and improving existing resources,
with a global vision to ensure proper communication
Basque Europe and therefore the world.
A development as the one carried out, run a
serious risk of being relegated to the "wrong" side of the periphery
Of Europe. The last two legislatures, especially IX have
shown, with unquestionable evidence, such inefficiency and
inefficiency. The arrival of the economic crisis and its aftermath
have revealed administrative budget, definitively,
the system of planning and management of transportation, with
as hard as arbitrariness and stupidity came hogging
jealously the Central Government, not just
It is sustainable and needs, as has been trumpeting with
EAJ-PNV insistence, a review from their approaches
basic. We propose the following measures:

19

 General Redefining the infrastructure system. He
Spanish state should, in the view of EAJ-PNV, address, so
urgency and resolution, its a real redefinition
all of its planning and management
infrastructures. Based on the planning system
terms of objectives to be achieved. The infrastructure needed
be planned and managed taking as a central point
reference to individuals and companies that should serve. TO
From this, services should be established leading to
and finally achieving new infrastructure design
and / or modifications of existing ones to achieve the objectives
default. Always meeting the criterion of actual demand
quantifiable, existing and / or expected and the principle of
environmental, economic and social sustainability.
 Lace in TENs. The lace system
State transport TENs should
established as a guiding principle and central planning
decision on new infrastructure and improving existing ones.
In this regard, EAJ-PNV understood that said boot lace
the establishment, within the European framework, two runners
transpirenaicos basic passenger and freight: Corridor
Atlantic and the Mediterranean Corridor. We support your
final recognition by the European authorities
competent and demand a temporal development of these
forecasts and adjusted to EU requirements.

 Special attention to freight. While it will be the
own joint planning system which will be defined in
each time, the priorities to be established and
pursued for each mode of transport, historical
inattention with which he has been managing the system
Railway goods requires underline the need
indisputable priority this mode of transport, which is
absolutely essential for the competitiveness of the
economy.
 Management from the vicinity. Management must be balanced
sustainable integrated system with autonomous management
various modes of transport and their applications
territorial. From this perspective, the EAJ-PNV claim

20

participation in regional transportation systems as
framework for greater effectiveness and efficiency of them:
 A Basque airport system forming part of the
airports of Bilbao, San Sebastian and VitoriaGasteiz plus Iruña-Pamplona. We demand
airport transfer competition,
key infrastructure for economic development and
defense of environmental interests. While not
transfer materialize, keep to the
state institutions to defend the rights of
Txorierri inhabitants in relation to the problem
generating noise and environmental airport
Loiu.
 A Basque port system that brings together, under a single
authority, the ports of Bilbao and Pasaia.
 A Basque rail system in whose power they are both
Basque management of railway infrastructure as
ordination of all commuter trains
discurran or may think for such infrastructure as well
as the high speed train on their services between
capitals and between Hegoalde and Iparralde.
 water infrastructure. Requirement for implementing the
different infrastructures contemplated as interest
General under the pending National Hydrological Plan
Euskadi execution. Similarly, the requirement
implementation of various infrastructure referred to as
necessary for Euskadi (mainly in the Territory
History Araba and Nafarroa) under the National Plan
Irrigation.
 Special attention to infrastructure 2.0. In the
comprehensive planning system should be considered and integrated
all the material modes of transport -viario,
rail, port and aeroportuario-, but need to fix
progressive attention to intangible, digital infrastructure or
calls, also, 2.0. Relegating to oblivion, or even a
less attention, is a serious mistake
for economic and social development within the framework of the
economy and increasingly globalized society in which
we live.

21

5) SERVICE a healthy financial system
SOCIETY

The financial system was the cause and the trigger for the crisis
which we are immersed. And it is commonly accepted that no
you can get out of it if the financial system is not reformed.
The housing bubble in the Spanish case, and excessive risk
I Financial taken by financial institutions along
many years, and a regulatory agency like the Bank of Spain,
whose performance inspection and control has been far from
wish, they have made them in a difficult situation. But this
situation should not prevent credit flowing to the economic system,
particularly to small businesses and individuals.
Financial institutions, as our basic instruments
economic system, it is requiring commitment and involvement
directly in supporting people and companies with projects
viable to facilitate job creation and, therefore, the
overcoming the economic crisis. Consequently, EAJ-PNV
proposes the following measures to achieve this goal:
 Increased competitiveness of the financial system. Regaining
solvency lost by the economic crisis (especially
those loans and loans linked to the property sector)
It requires many entities, primarily savings banks,
deepen the restructuring process started,
acquiring dimension recapitalizándose to gain strength,
meet the stress tests, etc., so that the sooner
credit flow to households and companies, a necessary condition for
the economy starts to run. Here, EAJ-PNV
supports the initiative to merge the Basque savings banks and
any other which, while not pressing for reasons of
sanitation, assume greater competitiveness of the sector
financial and fulfilling its social function.
 Increased supervision from the European authorities. Is
Clearly, the control functions of the Bank of Spain not
They have served to limit the risks of many entities
financial. In this regard, in addition to improve the function
Basic control advocate greater oversight of
22

banks from the European Central Bank and the
Commission.
 Euskadi transfer of responsibilities for credit
banking and insurance. This transfer would facilitate the creation of a
own financial system that provides the necessary support for the
structuring development of Euskadi. This financial system
it will rely heavily on the Basque system of boxes
savings in the case of the Basque Country, have shown great
strength in the context of crisis in the financial system.
6) economic and budgetary stability
Control the public deficit and public debt has become
strategic variable in economic policy par excellence. The
Markets are vigilant to deviations of accounts
public and willing to penalize those who breach the
commitments in Europe and regulated in
Plans stability and economic growth. Until
there is a stronger economic governance, to give higher
fiscal policy flexibility, compliance or
breach of the public deficit will mark the line between
strength or weakness of an economy, or between credibility or not
that economy.
It is therefore necessary to bet on macroeconomic stability and
budget that, first, avoid a deepening
crisis, and, secondly, making progress in overcoming the
same. No budgetary stability will be no stability
economic.
In the short and medium term no choice but to comply with the
deficit commitments are positioned to all the
State government at 4.4% of GDP
2012 and 3% for 2013.
Given the forecasts of economic growth and
including those of tax collection (waiting to address a
comprehensive reform of the tax system), the Budget
State, like those of other public institutions,
They will have to include cuts, cuts and sacrifices
important in many spending policies.

2. 3

But these cuts can not be made in any form and
any price. Since May 2010, when the Government launched a
sudden change in spending policy, canceling
deductions, cutting investments, reducing salaries
officials and freeze pensions, sacrifices from
public expenditure side have not stopped. And they are doing,
given the demands to control the deficit, so
disorganized and poorly planned. Thus, what
cuts were initially more or less unproductive expenditure,
They are now reaching the hearts of many social policies
basic and assuming paralyze public works contracts
essential for development. Today, reform is urgent and
essential. We must avoid cuts in public spending
affect the neediest people and the recovery
economic.
In this general context, from EAJ-PNV we consider it
need to rationalize and prioritize public spending, pursuing effectiveness
and efficiency. Also, set the levels of public deficit
and the priorities of government spending, taxation should
ensure sufficient funding to reach compliance
spending priorities. A tax system that has as its criteria
the basic progressive, equity and social justice.
EAJ-PNV proposes the following guidelines to achieve this
objective of macroeconomic and fiscal stability:
 commitment of all administrations. The policy
It raises fiscal consolidation needs commitment and
collaboration of all public administrations.
All of them must make the effort to contain spending
who need to meet its goals and commitments.
 Institutional coordination while respecting the framework
competence. Interagency coordination, avoid
waste and duplication of public expenditure, the pursuit of
efficiency, do more with fewer resources, they should be part
the necessary reform of public expenditure to be addressed to
level group of government. Each level
Institutional must exercise the powers of him
taking into account the legal framework, starting from the Administration
Central, which has even created ministries on
materials in which it has no competence. Collaboration
24

from the responsibility of each is the way, and in any
If the imposition and the preeminence of the Administration
Central State to the autonomous communities,
Provincial Councils and Local Authorities.
 prioritization of social spending and investment. Prevent
cuts affect basic social policies (pensions,
unemployment, dependency, health, education ...) and those
measures needed to increase productivity (innovation,
research, industry support, etc.).
 urgent Sanitation loss-making public enterprises,
to avoid unfair competition with private companies
located in the same economic sector. Improving its
control mechanisms.
 Cooperation in tax matters with respect for
our expertise and uniqueness of the concert. EAJPNV favors those who collaborate in debates and decisions
reform of the tax system occur, but always
since the basic principle of strict respect for our
Tax self-government, because there are five in the State Farms
(The three Provincial Treasuries in the Territories of the Community
Autonomous Basque Country, the Foral Community of Navarra and the
known as Common Territory), each with its
regulatory capacity.
 determined fight against tax fraud. Modification and
hardening treatment of the figures for fiscal engineering
and financial it aimed at tax avoidance. Reform
Criminal Code to toughen penalties for crimes
Treasury and restrict the application of the concept of "fraud
eventual "which is a common exhaust port to the
courts for those who defraud. Acting on havens
tax, especially on those who are located in the
State borders, as Gibraltar and Andorra are. Modification
of the Bankruptcy Act so that those not benefiting from it
they may, after giving by settled their tax liabilities, resume
economic activity.
 Reform the tax system. The tax
Heritage or the tax on large fortunes can
contribute to greater social justice and rebalance a system
25

where the differences between those who have more and those who
have less have increased during the crisis. However, no
we fall into demagoguery. This will not be enough. Yes
ethical and aesthetic, but insufficient. The reform must be deep
and constitute the closure element model of stability
budget. EAJ-PNV proposes the following analysis
measures:
 Changing the treatment of income from capital
bring its taxation least the tax
Societies.
 Changes in the State of the SICAV regime.
 Changing the tax treatment of income
athletes and non-residents.
 Creation of a European transaction tax
financial, provided it primarily affects
to capital movements and speculative
its cost is not passed to the basic operations
everyday citizenship and small businesses.
 New tax policies related instruments
concrete social. Rate the creation of a Fund
ensure coverage related to aging and
dependence. This fund would be nurtured by new contributions,
finalist character, so that in the future all citizens
have guaranteed to be served from the public realm in
If required. The management would be entrusted to each
tax administration and its realization could be exercised
through a specific surcharge on income tax.

7) A DEVELOPMENT COMPATIBLE WITH THE ENVIRONMENT

EAJ-PNV is firmly committed to the future society. By
a society in which development, progress, innovation,
competitiveness and growth should occur in coherent and
responsible balance with the preservation, recovery and
environmental renewal. Addressing the challenge of change
climate goes through a resolute and responsible commitment model
of society and the welfare state should be boosted, and
that the balance between environmental protection and
socio-economic development must occur constantly.
26

One of the areas most related to the environment is the
energy. The world energy scenario is knowing
profound transformations. Europe is witnessing and clear sufferer
the same. The times of cheap energy are over.
The energy supply problems begin to be every day
more present. The reliance on imported energy and
higher prices every day begins to worry and in cases up
to overwhelm. The awareness that we are facing the consequences of
climate change, largely a result of the models
energy with which we have been operating, it has taken over
much of society. A new policy is needed
energy. Even a new energy culture that addresses and do
against a number of changes, not easy sometimes, in
life systems with which it has been operating up
our days.
In the energy sector, the Spanish State is no exception.
On the contrary, it is given its enormous energy dependence and
lack of energy policy with stable and clear at medium to
long term. The three main objectives of the Energy Policy
Europe must, also, the main objectives of the
State energy policy:
 Increase security of supply.
 ensure the competitiveness of the economy and the availability of
affordable energy.
 Promoting environmental sustainability and combating change
climate.
In this context, EAJ-PNV is committed to working in
in the environmental field following lines:
 Strict compliance with the Kyoto Protocol. EAJ-PNV
commitment to its implementation and also considers it necessary to
review and monitoring. In this sense, promote
initiatives that impact on reducing CO2 emissions and
greenhouse gases in areas such as transport,
industrial and residential.
 renewable energies. Commitment to renewable energy
torque setting to go and participate in the European framework
in a less dependent on foreign energy mix.
27

 Energy saving and efficiency. Reclamation plans
energy saving and efficiency with more ambitious objectives, and
where should play a clear role and leading the
autonomous communities. Commitment to the promotion of
cogeneration, especially in the tertiary sector.
 Garona. Include the thirteen Alava municipalities of Valle de Ayala
in the Plan of economic regeneration and employment designed
by the central government for post-Garona it was.
 effective incorporation of environmental fourth R, the
recovery of degraded areas by waste. Establish
as a priority the recovery of degraded soils and
decontamination thereof.
European energy policy . Defense is committed to a
common European energy market and monitoring
diligence compliance with the energy objectives
established or to be established in Europe. Compliance
objective of enhancing cross-border interconnections.
 Transparency, competition and market stability
energy. Requirement of a state energy regulatory framework
stable and predictable, not subject to arbitrary or
improvisations or current interests more or less
individuals. Continuous monitoring to ensure compliance the
principle of effective competition in the sectors of gas and
electricity. Requirement of maximum transparency in the
energy market operations.
 clear support for R & D in the environmental sectors
energy. Support for the so-called "green businesses".
 Green Taxation. Use taxation as an instrument for
promote clean technologies and sectors and penalizing
technologies and polluting sectors.
 Promoting sustainability of developing countries.
Support for the signing of agreements and bilateral agreements
cooperation with developing countries for these
countries can also join in the task of addressing the challenge of
get modern societies, competitive people,
28

effective and solidarity from the perspective of sustainability
environmental, that may lead to the fight deal with security
Global climate change.
8) maximum respect
FREEDOMS

Y

ADVANCE

IN

RIGHTS

Y

EAJ-PNV has a long tradition of defending rights
humans. We have always given proof of this and have been
numerous international forums and parliamentarians where
we have expressed our commitment to advance this
matter, raising initiatives in situations of violation of
human rights in cases like the Sahara, Syria or Guine
Equatorial. In the field of Euskadi, we have promoted in the
Basque Parliament the Commission on Human Rights and
room for progress in this area.
This respect for human rights must also reach people
who they have committed crimes. The degree of democratic maturity of a
Society is a good barometer at the level of
humanization of the penal system; therefore they are so important
the constitutional principles of rehabilitation and reintegration, which
should inspire future legislation and "de facto" excluded
with the current system. Also, remain undeveloped the
reforms to the justice system works
and adequately fits the structure of a state
decentralized.
In this highly sensitive matter for EAJ-PNV, we are committed to
work in:
 Respect the progress made in equality and rights
citizens. Frontal opposition to change laws passed
in the last two legislatures and have brought undoubted
progress made regarding equality and rights
citizens. In that sense we are positioned with maximum
clearly against repeal the Homosexual Marriage.
 Elimination of exceptional laws. Repeal of
Applicability of terrorist offenses, being the
only crimes which, although not characterized as offenses
against humanity and constitutes unfair criminal very
29

serious but ordinary type, have been the subject of a declaration
of applicability, deviating from the doctrine of the Assembly
General of the United Nations and the Statute of the International Criminal Court
International.
 Total elimination and prosecution of abuse and
torture. Repeal of anti-terrorism legislation and
immediate prosecution of cases of ill-treatment and torture
that could occur in detention centers, as
They have denounced both the regional ombudsman and the Ombudsman, as
Amnesty International and the United Nations Rapporteurs
Against Torture.
 Transfers in prison matters. Transfer
urgent, as reflected in the Statute of Autonomy
Gernika and has repeatedly called for EAJ-PNV, the
competence in penitentiaries and
implementing powers in regard to prison policy.
 No to life imprisonment. EAJ-PNV rejects frontally
any attempt to establish the penalty of life imprisonment,
even if it has the character of revisable.
 Maintenance of the rights of foreigners
residents, given the current state of immigration policy in the
that most of the measures are aimed at reducing the
quotas, especially as regards the regrouping
family and roots.
 own Jurisdiction over immigration. By way of
we want to emphasize specifically the need for a
new policy of protection of unaccompanied minors,
respecting all their rights, balance minor quotas
welcomed by some and other regions.
 Anti death penalty. Rights Advocacy
Humans in countries where the death penalty and
ensuring adequate legal defense of citizens and
Spanish nationality citizens sentenced to death
other States.
 Adaptation of the administration of justice to reality
autonomic. EAJ-PNV claims that the judicial organization
30

culminates in each Autonomous Community, in the Courts
Superiors of Justice of the Community. Before they run out
successive proceedings, including resources
Ultimately appeal or appropriate at all levels
jurisdiction. with the exception, in the whole
State, the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court. Also, the
government of the judiciary in the area of ​​each community
It corresponds to the respective autonomous Council of Justice.
Regional police forces, as the Ertzaintza, having the
character be comprehensive in all respects the judicial police
in the area of ​​the Autonomous Community.
 Transparency and participation rights as citizens.
The growing demand for transparency and participation supposed to
EAJ-PNV judgment, the need to consider as a
civil right and therefore an obligation for
government and social organizations,
including political parties. Here, transparency and
ethics have been and will continue to be not only a basic principle in the
government action led institutions EAJ-PNV,
but also one of the main requirements in those
institutions where we developed our work from the
opposition.

9) STRENGTHENING EUROPEAN GOVERNANCE
EAJ-PNV believes that without a strengthened European institutions
in the economic sphere it is not possible to address markets
speculative attacks the euro and ultimately to the crisis
economic. We need and want more Europe, in respect of
the legitimate aspirations of the Basque people and skills.
We propose to strengthen European economic governance,
even if it means transfers of sovereignty of States in favor
EU. From EAJ-PNV will support and expedite
many initiatives arising in the sense of strengthening
economic instruments within the European Union. In
Specifically, we propose the following measures:
 Creating a Ministry of Economy at European level,
has the resources and appropriate policy instruments
economic. A ministry that manages the Fund
31

European Financial Stability, resources that have
be sufficient to ensure payment of the debt
today rescued countries (Greece, Ireland and Portugal) and to do
if Italy and Spain were in a similar position
in need of help.
 Creation of Eurobonds. Likewise, this
Ministry should have the ability to issue Eurobonds
that with a rating of European debt, finance the deficit
different countries, thus easing significantly the cost
debt of countries like Greece, Ireland
and Portugal, have to pay huge differential in relation
Germany's debt, but would also reduce
significantly the cost of countries like Italy and Spain, among
others.
 A new role for the European Central Bank. The bank
European Central must take a more aggressive role against
the economic crisis. Instead direct its action
exclusively to control inflation obsession
German, should provide financial institutions the liquidity
required to enable them to make loans to families
and businesses, and to avoid worsening the situation.
In this way, the European institutions will gain credibility,
They can cope with the markets and speculation, and
will increase the degrees of freedom to implement a policy
less restrictive economic, so that it does not lead
inevitably into recession with consequences
unpredictable.
Similarly, collaboration will be essential, support and,
hence coordination with those institutions worldwide
they have to play an active role in this crisis, as the Fund
International Monetary Fund, the OECD, the G7 and the G20. Not to mention the
bilateral or multilateral relations between countries.
EAJ-PNV understands that this concept of European governance should
move to other basic policies for our development, as
foreign policy, energy policy and social policy. For
EAJ-PNV European identity and governance are not contrary to the
Basque identity and governance. Quite the opposite. Deepening
in European integration can only lead to a
32

recognition of the true reality of the existence of a
Basque nation into the European fold.

10) FOREIGN POLICY
INTERNATIONAL

EUROPEAN

Y

SOLIDARITY

EAJ-PNV understands that the political evolution of the stage
international in recent decades to be abandoned the
view that foreign policy has to be based on
exclusive and excluding the State action. The dynamics of the
international events, which are increasing day
interconnection, hence the need for a common foreign policy
the European Union, one of whose most significant elements must
be that of international cooperation.
In this context, EAJ-PNV will work on the following lines:
 A foreign policy and a European diplomatic service.
We hope that Europe is through a diplomatic service
himself, who handle with univocal voice foreign policy
EU countries. The embryo which has recently been created,
It is a step in the right direction, but entirely insufficient. The
advantages in the stronger and more credible political level of Europe
at the international level they are obvious.
 A foreign policy committed to the rights
human, do not leave by the wayside human rights
the interests of other alleged superior interests. The interests of the
Geopolitics can not make the humanist discourse,
democratic and social in Western Europe is based remain
when challenged act on the ground. It imposes
courage. Courage to collaborate in the development of
democracy in the countries of the so-called Arab spring. Neither
our fears and comfort in the field of security
They may be above the legitimate aspirations
democratic people. Courage to defend
firmness right of the Saharawi people to self-determination
denounce violent attempts to silence his voice. The position
State must not waver, as it did with the government
Zapatero, not looking for a compromise solution, which only
You can favor those who want to maintain the status quo.
33

 A friendly foreign policy with the right
self-determination. The Spanish state must abandon its
inner fears and act in coordination with the other
European countries recognizing the new nations like
Kosovo, are appearing in the European geographical map. Of the
Likewise, should enforce scrupulously and
honest the right to self-determination of the Saharawi people and
activate the planned referendum, including the option of
independence.
 Compliance cooperation commitments. EAJPNV is aware of the times in which we live, but
precisely because this is the time to show our
vocation of solidarity is as strong as ever. Therefore, without
lose sight of current local needs,
Public budgets must keep the weight of the items
dedicated to international cooperation and the maintenance of
commitments to the Millennium Development Goals,
driving a global development model that guarantees
justice, equal opportunities, protection of children,
gender equity, environmental sustainability and
defense of human rights around the world.
Firm commitment  cooperation mechanisms
multilateral. Also in the field of cooperation
international, commitment to cooperation mechanisms
Multilateral be decided. However, it misses the
existence of adequate control instruments for
these contributions can be controlled and, consequently,
optimized. We must be vigilant in applying the
New laws and FIEM FOMPRODE so that it does not become
de facto the outline of the ancient creators FAD debt.
 a cooperative effort from the participation of their
recipients. In EAJ-PNV we believe that cooperation should
be carried through with the participation and acceptance
inexcusable populations to which it is addressed. In this
sense, we believe that the projects supported must guarantee
the existence of mechanisms for participation
and empowerment.

3. 4

 A coherent cooperation with other policies. Is
focus key decisions to be taken from a
wide prism. So, you must ensure that policies in other
areas of government action, such as economic, or
environmental, join forces and do not contribute to destroy it
advanced from the field of cooperation.

35

NEW POLITICAL STATUS FOR THE BASQUE COUNTRY

It channeled compliance with the Statute of Gernika, it will open a
new political time for Euskadi. This legislature should serve
to advance self-government and achieving a new status
political relationship with the state. No longer worth more excuses. With
recovery of political plurality and the foreseeable disappearance
final of violence with political overtones, the next
legislature must give way to the articulation of a consensus
wide basis to "update" the political will of the Basque people.
An agreement supported by dialogue as a basic tool
definition and give rise to a new legal and political formulation
where the rights of the majority and the minority are respected. A
that leads us to the unilateral agreement and "subordination"
by way of fact, and the bilateral relationship "on an
equality "by way of law. An agreement that preserves
the coexistence of different national identities and realities
as was done for centuries.
Our aim is to update the "lege zaharra" in "berria lege".
A new status that is based on partnership of equals and
consultation in the political arena, and the bilateral and guarantees
in the legal field.
Achieving this new deal for a new era of coexistence
Euskadi is a policy priority and involves taking the following
Commitments:
 Share the most basic democratic principle requires equipping
the majority will of the citizens of a normative value
relevant, leading political actors and
concerned should negotiate institutional settings
required that respond to the clear expression of that
volition.
 Share that Basque society is a village with
right and ability to decide their future, to be
consulted and their democratically expressed will
is respected.

36

 Share that Basque society is made up
plural identities that must coexist with mutual respect
in a democratic setting.
 Share that the method of resolution of conflicts
rests on dialogue, negotiation, in the broadest
agreements between political forces or, failing that, in the
positioning respect to the majority of society.
 Share democratic process requires that all inclusion
against exclusion; It requires equal, what
means no threats and that all traditions
policies may have a legal expression.

This approach requires the acceptance of a reality
plurinational, entailing political and legal recognition
Basque nation in a multinational state structure, stating the
right and ability of the Basque people to decide freely and
democratically their own future, with a clear presence in
Europe and the world.
This new status should be accompanied by a policy of peace and
Concordia. We want and seek a just peace, as well the
Basque society needs inexorably after so many years of
violence. But we must not forget that the ultimate goal should be the
Concord, reconciliation. The suffering, the pain suffered by the
victims should be recognized by all without exception,
generosity and high-mindedness. So we have to design and
lead that difficult path of peace to the Concordia. Other peoples
They have gotten. So must we.

37
