ELECTION PROPOSALS
UNITED LEFT
ELECTIONS 2011

Dear friends:
The with which we are introduced to this general election is not an electoral program
program to use. It is part of a process, the Social Call, which aims to
convergence of all of those who want to change things and they know that,
together, we can provide a social outlet to the crisis.
It was a huge effort of collective development in which they have participated more than
15,000 people across more than 500 meetings have been held all over
across the country.
We want to thank each and every one of the people who have dedicated time, reflection
and proposals to further this collective effort. Thank in a very special way,
more than 200 associations and social and political organizations that have contributed
your ideas.
All of them tell them to IU developing proposals and programs is a process
Live will continue after 20-N. Therefore I encourage further discussion and providing
ideas about the documents on the "nine revolutions" that you will find on the website www.
convocatoriasocial.org
IU is committed to these proposals and work, both in Parliament and at the
street, to make them happen.
Thanks again.

Cayo Lara

General Coordinator of IU

Marga Ferré

IU secretary Programs

CONTENTS
AXIS 1: ECONOMIC PROPOSALS TO EXIT THE CRISIS
1 IU is committed to put employment above all (6)
2. A fair tax reform (8)
3. Stop the underground economy (11)
4.	?
Proposals to support small businesses and the self employed (13)
5. For a public bank to provide credit (15)
6. public spending (16) It should be rationalized
7. Build a new production model (17)
8. Protection of unemployed persons (19)
9. Ensure the constitutional right to housing (20)

AXIS 2: PROPOSALS FOR ADVANCED DEMOCRACY
1. Proposals to change the Electoral Law (22)
2. Proposals for a full and participatory democracy (22)
3. Proposals for democratizing the functioning of the institutions (24)
4.? Proposals to end corruption and ensure ethical behavior
public office (24)
5. The constitutional process as a way towards the Third Republic (25)
6. Proposals for recovering democratic memory (26)
7. Access to Public Information (26)
8. Secularism (27)

AXIS 3: ENVIRONMENTAL PROPOSALS
1. Priority Proposals (30)
2. Proposals for urban planning. Social rental housing (31)
3. Proposals for sustainable transport (32)
4. Proposals for another energy model (32)
5. Proposals for public water management (33)
6. Animal protection (33)

AXIS 4: SOME PROPOSALS FOR QUALITY PUBLIC SERVICES
1. For a public education, secular, democratic and quality (35)
2. For a public university quality in the service of society (41)
3.	?
Scientific research, technological development and innovation in the service work
society (42)
4. Proposals for a universal public health (44)
5. Proposals for quality social services (47)
6. Proposals for housing is a right (48)
7. Proposals for fair pensions (48)
8. Proposals to reform the justice (48)
9. Policies for Children (49)
10. Security Policy (50)
11. Water as a public service (50)
12. Proposals for a public postal sector and quality (51)
13. Promotion of sport (52)

PILLAR 5: feminist proposals
1. Political Rights, parity democracy and participatory budgeting (54)
2. Social and economic rights of women (54)
3. Curbing domestic violence and social exclusion (54)
4. Sexual and Reproductive Rights (55)
5. Proposals for equality between men and women (55)

PILLAR 6: PROPOSALS TO ADVANCE EQUALITY
1. Proposals for equal rights for LGBTI (58)
2. Proposals to ensure the rights of migrants (63)

PILLAR 7: P
? PROPOSALS FOR SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE AND THE
FOOD SOVEREIGNTY
1. Promote Europe reform the Common Agricultural Policy (68)
2. Act agrifood chain (69)
3. Caring for ailing industries (69)
4. Plans and priority actions (70)

AXIS 8: PROPOSALS FOR CULTURE AND COMMUNICATIONS FREE
1. Culture in freedom and diversity (72)
2. Bridging the digital divide (73)
3. Why a new model of intellectual property and the free distribution of
Culture (73)
4. A democratic society, solidarity and participation information (75)
5. For a public and democratic communication (76)

AXIS 9: PROPOSALS FOR PEACE
1. United Nations (79)
2. NATO and US bases in the world (79)
3. Disarmament and Peace (80)
4. Solidarity and cooperation (80)
5. Our internationalism (81)
6. foreign and neighborhood policy of the European Union (82)

1

PROPOSALS
Economic
TO GO OUT
CRISIS

PROPOSE A REVOLUTION
ECONOMIC BASE AS E
START AN ALTERNATIVE
GLOBAL CAPITALISM
The crisis we are experiencing is a global crisis, at least as deep and lasting capitalist system
the crisis of 1929. That global nature makes it appear
as a multifaceted crises: economic, financial,
environmental, raw, food, energy, and finally political, cultural and ideological matters.
Neoliberalism has been an attempt to overcome the crisis
capitalism, accentuated from the 70s and
generating successive partial seizures. What happens now
It is that neoliberalism fails as a global model and
Capitalism has no solutions to overcome the situation.
We aspire to build a new society of full democracy and free from exploitation, but do not give up the management of the immediate. It should be
Clearly, we do not propose that capitalism more
efficient but overcome capitalism and for this, the measures of this program will create better objective conditions and increased social welfare to achieve those objectives.

That resistance has to start from the concrete that is what
benefit or harm a majority and not to an individual.
The fact is ours; the individual is the them. The
resistance is alternative. Resistance is offensive. Resistance is given. Resistance is revolution.
Therefore, the United Left wants to put at the forefront of its agenda the commitment to repeal
three scheduled by the Socialist Government reforms and
right political forces:
• The constitutional reform has been established
deficit ceiling and priority for the payment of the
as debt obligations over the legal system. Promote a constitutional Counter-establishing the principle of sufficiency
tax and setting a minimum percentage of
Budget devoted to social spending, which should
collect an increasing convergence with EU
European.
• The labor reform, supporting the Legislative Initiative
People driven by CCOO and UGT
• The reform of the public pension system.
• In addition, we will take the necessary measures to restore the purchasing power lost by employees
public and pensioners as a result of
Government measures on their salaries.

We must face the reality that the economic crisis
that fattening hard way with youth and
Women causing her not to enter the market
Work also entails the consequent return to housework, with the consequence of an involution
unprecedented for the old patriarchal roles.
The precariousness of young people in the labor world for the highest rates of unemployment, high seasonality and strong contractual rotation is characterized, as well as the
elongation and flexible working conditions. The objective is clear: to generate a mass of
precarious workers and low-wage workers
school failure.
Today there are conflicting model out of the crisis: that
not looking for a solution for the whole society
but for a very small and powerful social sectors; and resistance to the imposition of that model
by broad public sectors.
This resistance should have a consistent goal: overcoming the current social, political and cultural model dominated by neoliberalism and the creation of conditions
to end capitalism.

1.? UNITED LEFT IS
AGREE TO LOCATE
ABOVE EMPLOYMENT
SHAFT AS ALL ESSENTIAL
YOUR WORK
This is the core of our entire program. Is
more serious problem for most citizens.
While there is a significant rate of unemployment will be crisis.
Human labor is the only thing that creates wealth. Unemployment
It represents despair for millions of people
you see no future and the social and economic decline
for society.
GENERAL program. ELECTIONS 2011. UNITED LEFT / 6

Employment above all, means
• Create jobs from the public, because today many companies have difficulties to create without help.
• Support small businesses and freelancers to
in a position to create jobs.

an exemption provided for in employers' contributions to social security amounting to 8,000
millions of euros.
• The priority in this aid will be directed towards the
youth employment contracts for under-35s
and will be extended the same benefits to contracts
relay with this age limit

• Redistribute and rationalize existing employment

We propose:
In 2012, Plan for Employment:
1. A program of green jobs comprising reforestation, operation and maintenance of surfaces
forest. (300,000 jobs).
2. A program of sustainable housing rehabilitation
Residential (200,000 jobs).
3. Social Jobs Plan, to ensure full
development of the Law Unit and improve health,
education (especially of 0-3 years) and certain services of the Administration. (170,000 jobs).

In 2012, to help those who have exhausted all benefits:
4. A Training Plan / Employment to address the situation of unemployed who have exhausted their benefits.
In collaboration with the municipalities and combining work and training. (300,000 jobs, including
20,000 trainers).

In 2012, to distribute existing work, raising the quality of life and reconcile
personal and professional life:
5. Reduce by law the working week to 35 hours (maintaining equal pay).
• The compensation of the reduction in working hours
businesses and public administrations, would generate 400,000 jobs, according to our
estimates.
• To help small and medium enterprises and self-employed to create the compensatory employment derived from the reduction in working hours

In 2012, to increase public investment creates jobs:
6. A framework agreement with utility companies
(Water, gas, electricity, etc.) (50,000 jobs)
7. An investment plan in infrastructure proximity. (80,000 jobs)
8. Expansion Plan for Employment 2013
• Extension Programs Crash Plan
They would not have been able to meet its objectives on the ground
of time
• public employment programs:
Aeae Forest maintenance (70,000 jobs).
Aeae sustainable rehabilitation of homes (200,000
jobs).
Plan aeae social jobs (50,000 jobs)
• Plan training / employment (150,000 jobs).
• Support to SMEs for hiring (400,000
jobs)
• Basic services (20,000 jobs)
• Infrastructure proximity (30,000 jobs)
9. Expansion Plan for Employment 2014
• public employment programs:
Aeae Forest maintenance (50,000 jobs).
Plan aeae social and public employment (50,000
jobs)
• Plan training / employment (150,000 jobs).
• Support to SMEs for hiring (200,000 jobs)
• Infrastructure proximity (130,000 jobs)
UNITED LEFT ELECTION electoral proposals 2011/7

And how do you pay this?
We have said that creating jobs is not an expense but an
investment, because it is the only thing that creates wealth.
The theoretical cost of this plan is 40,000 jobs
million euros to invest mainly in 2012.
But job creation is not an expense but an investment. By
1,000 € used in a contract of employment,
public finances recovered at least € 586 between taxes and Social Security contributions.
That is, of what an entrepreneur, for example, a manufacturer of bags, used in contracts, almost
60% returns to the Administration and also packing
manufactured materials needed, and possible trade generate new revenue.
Therefore, the funding needs with effects on the deficit and therefore produced after deducting tax revenues are estimated at 2 points of GDP
during the first year, that would successfully
offset by the tax reform proposed in the
corresponding points of this program.

2.? A FAIR TAX REFORM
PUTTING ALLOWED
ABOVE EMPLOYMENT
AND MEET ALL THE DEFICIT
PUBLIC

If someone sold; someone bought it and if someone spent, someone claimed.
On the left we also care about the deficit.
Prolonged excessive deficit in time limits
options of future generations. But the deficit is
also an instrument of economic policy. If necessary to create jobs, we accept it because it is not a
expense but an investment in all that creates wealth:
human labor. If it is generated by the aid given to
Banking reject them, because only begets debt,
financial speculation and exacerbating the crisis, as is
checking.
The main objectives of the proposed tax reform
Izquierda Unida:
• Ensure the principles of equity and progressiveness
established in the Spanish Constitution
• Ensure funding without deficit above 3% (understood for the whole cycle) needs
budget of the government,
while guaranteeing the consolidation and development of public services that constitute the
called welfare state, and particularly
health, education and the application of the Act
Dependence.
• Position the Spanish tax contribution in the middle of
the countries of the European Union, so that in the
final exercise of the legislature (2015) contribution
tax in Spain lies within the 40% of GDP, ie
a minimum increase of approximately 8 points. Spain
It has a tax contribution of the lowest in the
EU27 (it ranked 20th place).

Article 31 of the Spanish Constitution.
1. Everyone shall contribute to sustain public expenditure according to their economic capacity through a fair tax system based on the
principles of equality and progressiveness that in no
case be confiscatory in scope.

Background:

Our proposal is not about taxes is tax justice: that all income taxed in the same way, whether of capital or labor, and pay more
they have and more wins.

The IMF set to at least 4 points of the Spanish GDP
tax giveaways in Spain.

The goal: to have sufficient resources to place
job creation above all. Money follows
there being; nobody has seen anyone burning tickets,

The PSOE candidate acknowledges in an interview with El Pais
(17 September 2011) that during the past decade
taxes have been lowered by an average of 22,800
million € per year.

The amount of bonuses, exemptions and deductions
(Tax expenditure) in the 2011 budget exceeds
40,000 million €, regardless taxes
as the IBI, which all buildings are exempt owned by the Catholic Church.
UNITED LEFT ELECTION electoral proposals 2011/8

Along with this, in Spain five circumstances exist
Differential:

The tax does not penalize polluting, unhealthy and dangerous activities that do not apply measures
corrective.

A low tax contribution

The tax contribution related to the environment
polluting industries and ranks 10th in Spain
in the EU-27 as a percentage of GDP, mainly
by low taxation of diesel and petrol (25th
ranking position), transport (19th place, excluding fuels) and pollution and
recycling (19th place).

The difference in tax payments in Spain in 2010
in relation to the EU-15 is 31.5 points of GDP
40.4 points of GDP according to the Ministry of Economy and
Eurostat, ie a difference of 8.9 points.
The only European countries with lower tax contribution that Spain are Slovakia, Greece, Ireland, Latvia,
Lithuania and Romania. The fiscal contribution of countries like Spain are Austria (42.5%), France (41.6%),
Italy (42.4), the Netherlands (38.5%) and the UK (36.1%)
A high shadow economy
Various studies put the black economy into a
range of between 20 and 25% of GDP. Average
EU is 15%. The very concrete studies
Technicians Guild of Finance estimated
23.3% of GDP. A report reveals that FUNCAS
while GDP has grown more than doubled between
1980 and 2008, the underground economy has grown by 4.
A high tax fraud
Which 75% comes from large companies and fortunes amounting to 42,700 million euros annually.
A reversal of the principles of equity and progressiveness
tax, established in the Constitution
So that it complies fully exposed by the
Buffet billionaire that his secretary pays proportionately more taxes than he.
• The earned income pay more than the capital.
So one euro obtained working pay more than
one euro obtained on the sale of some shares.
• The very high incomes pay progressively less
that income located below.
• SMEs pay proportionately more taxes
that large companies.
• There are legal mechanisms to evade taxes
for large fortunes

The tools we propose to
meet the above objectives are:
1.	?
Income tax reform with the following contents
Main:
• equal taxation of labor income and capital
to recover the synthetic nature of the tax, integrating all of the taxpayer returns
a single base.
• It is the disappearance of the distinction between base
general tax (progressive rate) and savings (two
fixed) types. That is, all yields (the
labor and capital) accrue and pay taxes in a
progressive rate.
• Establish two new sections in income tax:
For statements Ææ between 60,000
€ 120,000 of taxable income with an elevation
rate from 43 to 45%.
Aeae A final stretch to liquids exceeding quotas
€ 120,000 annually at a rate of 50%.
(Affected Contributors: 732.400
3.96% of respondents)

people,

he

• Move all the reductions and deductions
share.
• Extending the exemption from the obligation to declare to the limit established by regulation to all
taxpayers regardless of whether the
revenues come from one or more payers, replacing the self-assessment by an information return showing all payers, gross amount
perceived and deductions, in order to
UNITED LEFT ELECTION electoral proposals 2011/9

fraud control and the economy. It's about
not to penalize precisely those who are victims
temporary and precarious contracts.
• Deletion of the special tax regime applicable to
workers posted to Spanish territory.
(Currently in force up to 600,000 euros).
• Limit the joint declarations.
• Elimination of the tax benefits from private pension plans.
• Removal, if any, of the tax advantages
and the deputies have.
• Removal of tax advantages Church
Catholic and other faiths. Renegotiation
the Concordat.
2. Corporate Tax Reform:
• Increase of 5 points in the tax on profits of entities, corporations and agencies
with a tax base from 1 million benefits (estimated revenue increase: 14,000
Additional € million / year), reducing the actual differences with the effective tax rate
MSEs
• Review and simplification of tax exemptions and bonuses to raise the average effective rate
and promote small businesses and investment
productive and creative job. Encourage 'share
productive '(reverse sales / employee), the' quota
labor stability '(permanent employment / total employment),
'Time share' (inverse of total / employee hours). Increase for companies without employees (financial instrumental), operating to or from tax havens
• Limit maximum salaries in the private sector, which does not cost tax deductible
Company part of the gross remuneration,
in every respect, directly or indirectly,
kind or in cash, in excess of € 90,000 per year.
3. Tax Reform
• Reduction Super reduced VAT rate (4%) for certain food today is not included (cereals and other
flours, meats and fresh fish) and compresses
and diapers, for both children and the third age.

Also for public transport in motor vehicles
more than 8 seats.
• Encourage the adoption of a special tax to 25%
luxury consumer goods, and other acquisitions and
luxury expenses. Given the need for approval by the European authorities for this
As a provisional basis and until there is
approved the creation of a tax is proposed
Especially on luxury goods and services with a
equivalent rate (7% difference from the standard VAT applicable).
• From 1/12012, in the case of small companies and freelancers, VAT
will accrue at the time of full or partial payment of
the invoice.
4.? Reform estimation system modules
• Limit module system for the first 3 years
activity, goes on to direct estimation or direct estimate simplified.
• During the first two years of activity, the current modules would be reduced 50% and the third
year to 75%.
• Exclusion from the start of the activity of the subject
liabilities turnover of more than 20% of their income
with the same client and those issued any
bill for an amount exceeding 1,500 euros
5.? Intervene in the process of dealing with the future EU Directive on Tax
Financial transactions to anticipate entry
into force on January 1, 2013 and for the type
minimum tax is 0.1% on the sale of bonds and shares and 0.05% in the
For derivatives, and include in the ITF currency trading.
6.? Restoration of Heritage Tax in the terms and rates applicable to 2007, until approval
a Solidarity Tax on large fortunes
replace him.
7.? Reset Handyman. This tax, which taxes the inheritance has been almost eliminated. Yes
recovered, the state would get 2.552 million of
euros.
UNITED LEFT election proposals ELECTIONS 2011/108. Reform IBI
• Removal of the exemption from property tax on real property owned by the Catholic Church.
• IBI increased by 100% for housing
empty, considered since receiving the license
first occupation and according to water consumption and
electricity.
9. Presentation on the maximum period of one year of a
Bill financing Estates
Where local financial sufficiency of local councils and other local entities and guarantee
taking into account environmental criteria
set taxes.
Meet the covenants of the FEMP in policy
three thirds, to give effect to the financial sufficiency of local councils, as administration more
close to the citizens and guarantee the attention to
neighbors.
Proceed to rebuild the current structure of expenditure, which condemns local authorities to
structural underfunding wound that leaves local autonomy and provision of services by the municipalities, which assume powers to greater
improper because of social pressure and the neglect of
other administrations.
10.?
Adoption of a package of tax measures
green, designed to advance compliance
principle of "polluter pays", according
with the proposition of law presented by IU in
Congress of Deputies, whose main contents are:
• Elimination of the exemption on hydrocarbons
domestic flights peninsular.
• Convergence of taxation for diesel and petrol
• Deductions on corporate tax saving energy, water and mobility of workers
• Reduction in income tax of transport fertilizers
public
• Tax on plastic bags, dumping and incineration of waste.
• Tax changes in land use

• Tax due to high level of risk
health or the environment.
11.? Adoption of a fee for overnight stay in hotel facilities.

3.? ENDING THE ECONOMY
SUBMERGED AND FRAUD
To create jobs and
DEVELOP SERVICES
SOCIAL
Tax evasion and the underground economy decisively reduce the resources of our tax system.
Limit funding of all the Administrations
Public, coverage of social needs and compromise the future economic and social development.
Produce inequality in the contributions of the various
groups of taxpayers, breaking the principles of
justice, equality and progressivity of the system, by encouraging
taxpayers untying their duties
tax and generating grievances and social dislocation.
Distorts competition and market transparency.
The fight against tax evasion and the underground economy is a factor in the correction of the deficit by its significant potential. Several reliable studies set the volume of shadow economy
in our country the equivalent located between 23 and
25% of GDP. A decrease of this scourge to the
environment of the European average (12%) represent an approximate tax revenues of about 4 points of GDP.
The fiscal side of the black economy would reach
the € 161,000 million, while the derivative of
becomes irregular employment of 82,400 million, the
Technical Union of Finance.
With the current tax burden and the average contribution rate
Social Security, the tax consequences of these
figures are at least 59,500 million in
evaded tax and € 30,300 million in contributions (employee and employer share) disappointed, what
default totals 89,800 million each year.
These measures, to achieve this goal, from our
point of view, are:
UNITED LEFT election proposals ELECTIONS 2011/11

1.? Define a Plan to Combat Underground Economy
to set reduction targets of the economy
immersed in 3 points of GDP annually in the years 2012, 2013 and 2014 and 2015. Increased
tax collection year € 6,600 million and 3,300
Quotes million €. Tax increase to
end of the period: € 26,500 million (limitation
deficit in 4 points of GDP) and 13,500 million
€ in quotes
2.	?
Establish a concrete plan with annual targets
quantified to combat tax fraud, especially focusing on evasion arising from the
big business and capital, which has been set at
€ 42,700 million a year with the objective of reducing by 75% in the period of the legislature.
Duplicate collection efficiency of the fight against
fraud in the remaining taxpayers by
setting annual objectives.
3.? Depth Reform of the Tax Agency, increasing material and human resources to converge
three years with the average europea.- Change working procedures of the Agency, looking
quality inspection rather than quantity.
Reforming the methodology, organization and distribution of work and domestic responsibilities.
From 2012 financial year, the three
Technical bodies of the Ministry of Finance created by Article 49 of Law 24/2001 of 27
December on Fiscal, Administrative and
Social Order, are classified in the subgroup A1 established by Article 76 of the
Law 7/2007, of April 12, the Basic Statute
Public employee.
4.? Urgent development of the Fourth Additional Provision
Law 36/2006 on measures for the prevention of tax evasion and effective implementation of measures to
improve results in the fight against tax fraud
approved by the full House of Representatives in
its meeting on 28 October 2008 and the
Resolutions 3.9 and 19.1, paragraph 5 of the approved
also by the Plenary in its meeting on May 19
2009, during the debate of communication
Government to the general policy debate around
State of the Union.
5.	?
Creation in the Congress of Deputies
Special Committee on the black economy and
Fraud Prosecutor before that:

• The Institute for Fiscal Studies submitted before December 2012, for discussion and adoption of the
appropriate remedial action, a study on the quantification of the underground economy in Spain, with territorial, sectoral and tax breakdown, and biannually update the study under progress
the methodology determined by the European Commission.
• The State Tax Administration Agency will report every six months on the results of the
fraud control actions with the specific objectives and results expressed before the taxpayer assistance made pursuant
their functions, sending objective data to ensure a transparent and independent management, and
allow monitoring of the evolution of
the underground economy in Spain.
• Service Prevention of money laundering
It informs, as a result of coordinated efforts
with the Interior Ministry, the Attorney General
State and State Tax Agency, the identity of the persons or entities that use in
Spain property and rights to which are held by the companies domiciled in countries or territories
that they are considered a tax haven, and
as the legal instrument permitting their use
or enjoyment.
• Regeneration of the business that staying
the underground economy, with action programs
contribute to this regeneration
6.? Changing legislation the SICAV, establishing maximum stake limit the
2% of the capital to a single owner and elevation 5%
your tax rate on corporate income tax.
Boost international agreement necessary for that
the scope of the OECD and EU the nominal rate of
Funds and mutual funds is equated to type
General corporate tax.
7.? Ask to EU institutions amending Article 56 of the Treaty establishing the
European Community to establish an exception
the principle of freedom of capital movements, the movements made between the United
qualified members and territories as havens
prosecutors. Also propose that the institutions
European lead negotiations with the various
International political organizations or
financial to control and identify the true owners of those movements of capital.
UNITED LEFT election proposals ELECTIONS 2011/12

Nationally and until the above item
becomes effective, perform the following steps in addition
directly related to the fraud and outlined elsewhere in this document:
• Establish a special tax on the movement of capital and skilled territories
tax havens.
• Forcing companies operating in Spain, especially in the financial sector, to inform the
tax authorities of the operations of its subsidiaries or branches in tax havens, in the same
terms that their own operations in
National territory.
• Urge the modification of the regulation of tax fraud
in the Criminal Code to include as a new plea
stiffer penalties for committing tax fraud
using companies based in
territories or tax havens.
• Conduct a verification plan companies, entrepreneurs, professionals, artists and sportsmen
located in tax havens.
8.?
Modification of the Tax and
Each tax laws to identify preventive and dissuasive measures more effectively in the case of
fraud. Legal consideration of fraud and theft to
effects of the Penal Code. Vicarious liability
the other party to the transaction when
there is no proof of purchase of a good or
payment for a service. Establish precautionary measures and
deterrent to acts declared insolvent
and final judgments until they pay their debts.
9.? Ask the European institutions in implementing the
According to the Finance Committee of the Assembly
French National (September 2009) on disposal € 500 note. Additionally,
invoices are paid in whole or in part in cash or bearer documents for an amount exceeding
Euro 1000 may not be used as expenses
deductible from income tax, corporation tax or VAT.
Spain accounts for 17.84% of all tickets
500 € eurozone, tickets are € 500
69.55% of the total money in circulation in Spain
and, if we add € 200 banknotes become the
71.96% of the outstanding cash. Neither of those two
Tickets are commonly used. Its existence is so high that an average family with two children should

have at home or in their portfolios on average
9 € 500 notes.
10.? The obligation for financial institutions, when
left with a house, this pass to be listed as owned by the financial institution; So when housing the financial institution in question will be sold
forced to pay the corresponding% for
property transfer (currently sell
homes without putting his name and save this
assessment of all the earth has to pay).

4.? PROPOSALS FOR SUPPORT
SMALL BUSINESSES
AND WORKERS
SELF AND BOOST
REAL ECONOMY
United Left will give priority in its policy proposals to the self and small businesses,
below 10 workers.
These companies, according to the INE (CCD at 1
January 2011), considering only companies with activity, are subdivided into:
• Companies without (mainly independent) salaried worker: 1,795,000 (55.2% of total
Spanish companies)
• Companies 1-9 employees:
1,300,000 (39.9% of total)
• Total 95.1% of all businesses
• Of the total quantity of companies, 1,706,000
are registered as individuals and, therefore,
They are mostly autonomous part.
There are 3.117 million people discharged in Security
Social and self-employed
Under the goal of putting "Employment above
all, "one of the key levers is supporting
entrepreneurship of small businesses and freelancers to help increase hiring. The companies employ fewer than 10 workers the
85% of jobs.
UNITED LEFT election proposals ELECTIONS 2011/13

Izquierda Unida measures proposed are:
1.	?
A first worker program for small business and autonomous to subsidize for two
the completion of the first year indefinite contract
part of a company or autonomous currently without
Employees:
• 30% of the gross salary in the first year,
up to 6,000 euros / year.
• 20% of gross salary during the second year,
up to 4,000 euros / year.
A discount of liquidation Tax
Companies, VAT or income tax, as appropriate.
2.? Inclusion of social clauses in contracts and
government procurement of prioritizing small businesses and self-employed in order to maintain employment, improve quality
and achieve sustainable environmental management.
Extend those provisions to subcontracting.
• propose to reserve at least 30% of the tender amount which exceeds staff costs
50% of the total contract value to companies
fewer than 20 workers.
• Introduce provisions for all tenders
assess the amount and level of qualification
hand attached to the contract work, maintenance
employment and fulfillment of the obligations under collective agreements.
3.? Compensation for small businesses and freelancers
for new hires necessary to
maintain production by the passage of the day
Normal working week to 35 hours, according to
proposals for the creation of employment by IU.
4.? Immediate transposition of Directive Parliament
European 2011/7 / EU to reduce payment periods
Administration and private companies to their
suppliers to 30 days.

Companies and independent workers under 10
that will be provided directly by the ICO, based on studies of risk Societies
Mutual Guarantee.
6.? Creating a tax bill to ensure collection
for the debts of the Public Administrations
suppliers of goods and services, once past a limit of 30 days. The compensation would
against debts or payments on account of VAT, income tax or
Companies, in the case of the Ad. General,
autonomic portion of those taxes or taxes on debts transferred Administrations
of autonomous regions and municipal taxes and fees in the
If the municipalities.
7.? Requiring financial institutions guaranteed by the Government
a credit program for small businesses and independent volume equivalent to the amounts guaranteed resources and allocated to productive investment.
8.? Establish an agreement between the ICO and boxes
Savings to provide credit to businesses backed
by Mutual Guarantee Societies, under preferential interest rates.
9.? Subsidize Mutual Guarantee Societies
€ 1,500 million for the cost of studies and
cost of guarantees for credit operations and also
for technical guarantees. This would mobilize the order of € 100,000 million in productive investment.
10.? Delaying the mandatory payment of VAT to
the bill is fully or partially charged.
11.? Review of the system and limiting modules
implementation at the first 2 years of business activity. Simplification of the declaration
by direct estimation.
12.?
Support called third sector, consisting of
companies and non-profit institutions.
• Development of a Law of the Third Sector.

5.? Priority to support small businesses
between the activities of the ICO. Subsidizing interest on loans from the ICO-SGR 3-point line

• recognition of the third sector as a social agent and
economic with personality. Establishing appropriate mechanisms for civil dialogue.
UNITED LEFT election proposals ELECTIONS 2011/14

• developing a fairer funding system,
adequate and sustainable.
13. • Set priorities, within the set of measures to support small business and
autonomous, that are linked to the efforts by the
transformation of the production model in the following sectors:
• The basic sectors: construction, automotive,
Tourism, Green Chemistry. These sectors are essential to maintain employment in Spain and must
address major modernization and
change. They are key sectors in a change in the production model in our country, both for its importance in GDP and employment generation.
• Emerging sectors: Renewable energies,
Organic farming, construction and naval and railway equipment repair and health services
social. These sectors may only be adapted and modified to a new production model from the
public momentum.
• The sectors future betting: mechatronics, medical biology, medical devices and biofuels.
These sectors are still poorly implemented.
14.? Creating a Tripartite Foundation for Training
in Business Administration and Human Resources.
15.? Financial support for Product Quality Programs
and after sales service and use of the ICEX as
technical support tool in these programs

5. Why a public bank
TO FACILITATE THE CREDIT
It will not be covered by public money private external debt of financial institutions. The crisis in the sector
Financial is the expression of the bankruptcy of policies
liberal and therefore adequate passes the formula
and the creation of a new public bank to intervene
in the flow of money and can inject liquidity into the self-employed and SMEs.
The essential elements of a social model of Banking
Public are:
• prevailing social profitability criteria, compatible with efficiency and positive results.
• Management model that excludes any speculative trading and / or linked to tax havens.
• Democratic participation in managing the Bank
depositors, if any, and workers.
• Linking the agreed development goals
democratically. The budget law should include a section on resource priorities
public finance.
Accordingly, we propose:
1.? Transforming Savings into a System
Public Bank by nationalizing
same.
2.	?
Public Banking Recovery Specialist
(Mortgage Bank, Credit Bank
Local, Banco Exterior); renationalisation of the Box
Postal Savings and constitution from the Institute
Official Credit (ICO) Public Agencies
Investment in all regions under the model
Catalan Institute of Finance;
3.? The aid received by private banks must match packets capital property
state, with all its political rights and conditioned to a stricter audit of the operational and
executive pay. Ban on dividends and award bonuses or any other
remuneration supplement or stimulate institutions
who they are receiving financial aid, guarantees or public support.
UNITED LEFT election proposals ELECTIONS 2011/15

Regarding the current banking system stand:
1.? Reform of the current legislation in regard to
rights of depositors and customers of financial institutions to:
• complete, honest and adjusted level information
cultural and technical contractors of different
financial products.
• disappearance of any kind of unfair terms
that seeks to unbalance the risk that both sides
take in the legal business.
• removal of the rules limiting the use of interest rates, with special mention
so-called "floor clauses", "clips" and "swap".
2.	?
Collaboration with the Social Banking (cooperatives
Credit, Rural Banks democratised sections
credit cooperatives and civic banking) and support
Ethical Banking.

6. How must be rationalized
PUBLIC EXPENDITURE
United Left believes that any spending cuts
public is inconsistent with the objectives of stimulating the
demands that are essential in a crisis situation
as the current economic.

Moreover, we question the legitimacy of
public debt, often caused to
against arms purchase commitments or
help financial groups with a proven speculative trading.
Consequently, we propose a democratic audit
of that debt.
We propose:
1.? Control of high wages in the Administrations
Public. Limitation of high wages in all public administrations and their
agencies, foundations and companies, related or
dependent, considering the upper limit
the remuneration received by the Chairman of
Government. This provision should be included in the
Law on State Budget. Left
United undertakes to apply this measure in the
regional and local bodies with responsibilities
to fix the remuneration of public office,
positions of trust and company directors, entities
and public bodies, with a criterion of austerity
note that average wages in the territory of the agency and social values
accepted. In addition:
• Removal of any remuneration for participation
or assistance in Boards of Directors or similar institutions arising from the office exercised.
• Development of a catalog of luxury expenses
Government, whose implementation is prohibited, and a code of ethics in accepting gifts.

The appropriate limitation of the deficit can not be obtained,
under these conditions, by way of spending cuts, but
through mechanisms such as increased revenue
proposed herein.

• Elimination of lifetime wages politicians,
legal prohibition of duplication of salaries
former presidents of the Government.

However, it is absolutely necessary rationalization of public spending to redirect it towards efficiency, effectively increasing social spending, improving
public social services and productive activity.

2.? Reduction of normal working hours in all
Public Administrations to 35 hours.
Rationalization of schedules and review of the working methods to ensure that activities are included
in ordinary day. Economically incentivized stimulus for public employees saving
and energy inputs.

Likewise, the United Left does not support any reduction
the salaries of public employees, except high
positions and positions of trust, and the systematic reduction
departments or public business sector decreased.
In this case, reductions only serve for the activity to be developed by the private sector, with higher
costs and no control of spending efficiency.

3.? Amendment of the Law on State Contracts for
• Limit and strictly regulate the reviews
rising prices in the contracts.
UNITED LEFT election proposals ELECTIONS 2011/16

• Eliminate any possibility of insider trading and supplier agreements to hinder the
free competition.
• Establishment of social and environmental clauses. Encourage small businesses, freelancers and cooperatives
• Review of all public contracts with prices
higher than the average market. Requirement
supporting specific reports to keep each
contract under these conditions.
• Compliance with EU requirements regarding the rights of bidders in public procurement that,
so far, they are not met by the Administration
Spanish. Transparency of electronic tendering.
4.	?
Plan internal control of public spending and
the same quality and efficiency of the following
elements:
• Centralization of promotional costs, advertising
etc. level Department, Ministry, agencies
or subsidiaries or related companies.
• supporting annual report, case by case, of all
the cost of maintenance, energy,
consumables, travel, per diem, etc.
• Limitation of advisory and consulting costs, external reports and studies, articles and publications
(Except research publications and analysis).
• Creation in each department, institution, organization, company, organization, etc. a Control Commission
and monitoring expenditure which should form
part at least two representatives of the workers. It shall have jurisdiction to examine and rule
on the control of public procurement, the
outsourcing and project costs
promotion and advertising, renovations, services
maintenance, consulting and advisory expenses
and all other specified in the proposed
above. Its opinions shall be public and officially sent, where appropriate, both the National Audit Office (IGE) and the Court of Auditors
corresponding.
• Inclusion of quality evaluation expenditures (including subsidies and other support) between the powers of the State Agency for the Evaluation of
Public policies and the efficiency of the
IGE and their counterparts in the autonomous regions ,. and local authorities.

5.? Reform and strengthening of IGE and Organizations
similar in the different autonomous regions and local authorities
to strengthen control of the legality of expenditure and
adequacy of its purpose and procedures. Reform
IGE. Establishing a system requirement
and managerial accountability in spending. Repeal
the privatization of control of public accounts and audit. Advertising Intervention reports.
6.? Reform of the Court of Auditors to streamline its work and the effectiveness of its recommendations. Managers must send it within six months, a
report on the measures taken to correct
dysfunctions identified by the Court.
7.? Development of a collaborative program of the Institute
Public Administration with the Foundations
parties and political forces to develop programs
Specific Training for public office
public expenditure control and budget management

7.? BUILD A NEW
PRODUCTION MODEL
1.? We want to defend the public and the role of the public
in the economy. The State must rebalance the market, not only correct. The State must re-enter
in the economy, not only as cyclical life,
but to stay. The State and other public and democratic ownership. We propose:
• Restore public sector public companies
privatized, especially in the strategic sectors: energy, communications, transportation, sovereignty
food, post office, bank, ...
• Develop social protection, social security and
social services.
• Ensuring efficient and service development
public, with public ownership and management.
2.? We oppose the Euro Pact and demand a
complete change in the model of European integration. In any case, on a transitional basis, we will support proposals to increase the deadline for
reducing the deficit to 3% by 2016. The European Union
UNITED LEFT election proposals ELECTIONS 2011/17

You should proceed with the purchase of sovereign debt
member countries and issue own bonds far
necessary to prevent speculation. Debt
private finance should be renegotiated based on
assets of indebted institutions.
3.? We propose a change in the model of labor relations in Spain it is the most negative feature of
current production model, much more than real estate speculation. An essential part of the change in
the labor relations model is not enterprise reform and labor reform. We must change the
business management modes in this country must be
penalize the model of low wages, job insecurity and
deregulation. We consider full employment, decent
and quality as the determining axis of the new production model with work-sharing policies and
sustainable production.
In that direction, the basic income is a measure that
will overcome capitalist labor relations
in the framework of an advanced society. Forms and
application of universal basic income must enter into
economic and social debate, but as there are no conditions for its implementation propose
extension to all people who have no other
income and homogenization in amount and conditions of the current income support systems.

4.? Repeal of recovery and labor reform
the primacy of collective bargaining. Improved
quality of union democracy and the role of
unions.
5.? Reducing the workday to 35 hours
without lowering the monthly salary. Control and limitation of overtime. Rationalization of working hours
6.? Retirement at age 60 with full or economic rights after 35 years of contributions. Recovery
retirement at age 65 and implementing a plan
to achieve progressive retirement at age 60
in the time frame of the legislature. Benefit
maximum at 35 years of contribution period
15 years. Improving and strengthening pensions
sustainability of the system through measures
leading to increased revenue for
quotes. Raising the minimum pension up
reaching € 1,100 / month. Restore the purchasing power
of pensioners.

7.? Locate guidance in the collective bargaining
reduction in wage distribution companies on the
base elevation of the lowest wages.
8.? Raising the minimum wage to 1,100 € / month.
9.? Remove the chains of contracts and training contracts. Promotion of replacement contracts.
10.? Support measures through labor cooperatives,
fiscal and credit. Consideration as interest
social of the cooperative enterprise in which, at least
80% of workers are cooperative members
with full rights in the management and direction
of the cooperative. Include in the secondary education
and professional training for cooperatives and
general training of workers' rights,
consumer and citizen.
eleven.	?
Strengthening the public pension system.
Destope progressive contributions to the maximum
make the system more supportive
12.? Elimination of fellow figure. Contracts rule
for all kinds of work. Practice prevent fraud
consistent in dismissing the 11-month contract to be the state that pays the holiday law.
13.? Deletion of the ETT and Placement Agencies
profit.
14.? To promote the incorporation of women into the population
active employed with the development of battery
measures to encourage this input and help
job creation (universal and free
public nursery schools; extension of
maternity / paternity; Real reconciliation
of family life with work ...).
15.? Strengthening Labor Inspectorate, giving it more budget and staffing in order to be able
ensure effective implementation of rights
and strengthening labor, stop this competence
as supervisor and sanctioning body.

UNITED LEFT election proposals ELECTIONS 2011/18

16.? Limit rigorously grants the
contributions to entrepreneurship, reducing them to employment policy stimulus provided a method of evaluation of results is used.
17.? We propose to introduce democracy in the economy,
from sustainable development planning to
the management of each individual company. Defend
democratic participation of workers in the
economic and business management planning. We bet strongly on the economy
social.
18.? We legally develop the requirement of compliance with the individual rights established in the
Spanish Constitution: right to work, housing, health, education, etc. Recognition
the effectiveness of individual rights established
in art. 27 and 35 of the Spanish Constitution. The implementation of Article 35 implies recognition of
right to work and alternatively a benefit
dignified and sufficient financial and training for
throughout the duration of unemployment.
? 19. Prioritization of productive sectors:
• Consider as basic sectors: Construction,
Automotive, tourism, agriculture from the perspective of
food sovereignty, and green chemistry. These sectors
They are essential to maintain employment in Spain
and incur substantial modernization
and change. They are key sectors in a change of
production model in our country, both for its importance in GDP and employment generation.
• Emerging sectors: organic farming, construction and ship repair and railway equipment
and health and social services. These sectors only
They may be adapted and modified to a new production model from a public impulse. Produce a
radical change in the fundamentals of agricultural policy that truly supports a social model
agriculture, productive and sustainable. The food must be considered a strategic issue.

21.? A new paradigm in the management of commercial and scientific patents to avoid scientific monopolies
and industrial.
22.? Call the political forces and unions for
consensus development of a Plan for Reform
production model change, preceded by a plan
relaunch of economic activity that drives
domestic market, stimulate private and public consumption,
and recover the role of the public sector in the economy.

8.? PROTECTION OF
UNEMPLOYED
AND UNEMPLOYED
Along with creating jobs, protecting the unemployed
It must be a priority objective of economic policy
country, both the central government level and in the
Regional governments in the framework of its powers.
For this, the approval of emergency plans is required
and medium-term strategies with adequate funding.
1.? We reject the ERE in companies with profits
in their income statements. In the ERE approved
It will recover to those affected, for future jobs
working with his old job categories. In
If not rehiring, claiming over age,
etc ... the company must pay the items in its
Quotes from the date of dismissal to date
retirement.
2.? Free for unemployed people Public transport.
3.? Suspension of all enforcement procedures
the seizure of the residence or cutting electricity, gas, water and telephone for
unemployed people.

• The sectors future betting: mechatronics, medical biology, medical devices and biofuels.
These sectors are poorly implemented.
20.	?
Ecological and social conversion and construction
tourism.
UNITED LEFT election proposals ELECTIONS 2011/19

9.? ENSURE THE RIGHT
TO CONSTITUTIONAL
HOUSING
1. • Creating a public park in low-rent housing with stocks currently detentados
Banca and promoters that would be acquired
by the government at cost,
using mortgage bonds and other financial mechanisms. To this should be added, those obtained by
the expropriation of vacant homes.
2.? Reform of the Code of Civil Procedure on
evictions, with the addition of the formula
in lieu of payment in settlement of debt
delivery of the mortgaged property. Until this is
produces a moratorium to suspend all evictions so that no core
coexistence remain homeless, I making effective
constitutional right to decent housing.
3.? Promulgation of a new mortgage law providing for payment in kind as a way to settle
mortgage debt, regardless of the
measures prohibiting the eviction of workers
unemployed and effective constitutional guarantee of
housing rights.
4.? The payment in kind include all those who have been deshauciadas their homes or are
in the process of following the desahaucio
economic crisis, which were void debt
mortgage.

UNITED LEFT election proposals ELECTIONS 2011/20

2

PROPOSALS
FOR ONE
Democracy
ADVANCED

We need a substantial political change that entails
a radical economic, social, cultural and ethical turn. To this
change the left called Third Republic.
An alternative leftist force shall be
aimed at achieving an advanced democracy,
within the framework of a federal, republican and United States to expand the framework of freedom and participation and
ensure economic, social and cultural well-being
the citizens. A society to establish a new
model of ecologically sustainable development, where
major socio-economic options to be regulated
democratically.
We are facing a historical cycle in which it is highlighted that Parliament changes fail are achieved when there is a social force to get them.
We know that changing the economic system has
to be political changes and make policies for the millions who suffer from the crisis. Therefore, in this moment
you should never, be linked with the institutional work
social to move towards a full democracy, based on recognition of the fundamental value of the
social movements as the basis of the democratic revolution that this country needs.

1. P
? PROPOSALS FOR CHANGE
THE ELECTORAL LAW
We must adapt the composition of the institutions representing the people's will, expressed through
their votes and democratize the functioning of these
institutions. That is our goal, so:
We propose the reform of the electoral system to correct the factors causing the imbalance and inequality, such as the size of constituencies,
their size, the electoral barrier and the electoral formula,
to ensure proportionality in the allocation of seats and the equal value of all votes. also
It will ensure that all parties have the same
requirements to contest elections without
discrimination.
We also propose to advance the right to vote,
recognizing from the age of 16 and including
immigrants with 2 years of residence in the
Spanish state.

2. P
? PROPOSALS FOR
Full democracy
AND PARTICIPATORY
We propose the Participatory Social State, maintaining the centrality of the public, promote interest
collective, equity and solidarity, through decentralization of power and articulation of participative mechanisms that permit a process of making decisions more coproduced, with more consensual own
citizens.
A model of advanced democracy needs a strong civil society and vertebrate in organizations
and social groups contribute to the democratization and
transformation of society.
It is moving towards a participatory democracy
that puts citizens at the center of political and enable their participation in decisions
Governments in the planning and implementation of public policies and management of public services.
This requires extending participatory democracy to public and private companies. We want
change the current neoliberal trend to convert
taxpayers and citizens uncritical, "consumers" of services.
Participation requires:
• To promote the organization of civil society.
Establish participatory democracy in the social structure as the backbone, including trade unions and political parties.
• A direct involvement of the state in education
democratic adults, children and youth,
encourage and facilitate the participation processes. The
Citizenship Education is not enough, at least as it is raised
• Establish mechanisms for participation at all
levels of the public sphere, including in
the Constitution developing participation
as a right and forcing the establishment
mechanisms for citizen participation in the
various levels of government and about different subjects and especially in decisions
socioeconomic.
• The overall reform process Initiative
Popular legislative really allow citizen participation in the legislative process:
UNITED LEFT election proposals ELECTIONS 2011/22

• Allowing its use for both creation
for the amendment or repeal of legal norms
any body with regulatory powers.

• Being self-regulatory and binding, with choice
delegates with imperative mandate of the assembly and
direct democracy (one man or woman one vote).

• Reducing the number of signatures required for the start.

• Development of the program budget, with understandable terminology and clear objectives
facilitate regular monitoring and control of their
compliance.

• Establishing mandatory participation of proponents in the debate and procedure in the Houses
Legislative.
• Establishing limits within the processing.

• Have pre-process deliberative spaces
asambleario

• Removing restrictions on matters
treatable and especially constitutional reform allowing in this way.

• Establish monitoring systems as approved and
social control, ie, establishment of surrender
Accounts

• Establishing authorization mechanisms
public performance, such as referendums or
referendums, for matter of state importance,
regional or municipal convened by the prime minister, the presidents of the Communities
Mayors or autonomous or a number
citizens. Introduction to the Constitution
a number of matters that require consultation
compulsory popular such as integration in
supranational organizations or adoption of momentous economic decisions.

• Go towards social inclusion and overcoming
inequalities

• Encourage citizen participation in the management of
public goods and services. The commons
require socialized forms of public ownership. They
about creating a new form of public management
allows citizens to participate in the election
models of organization, operation and goal of public services. For
It established mechanisms for participation
citizen in the performance of the administration and
design, implementation and evaluation of public policies, and its extension to the socio-economic field. Is
participation should be guided by the principles of
equality, autonomy, public deliberation, respect
the difference, popular control, solidarity and multiculturalism. The exercise of this right would be done
through various mechanisms such as democracy
representative, direct and community, as you can
be public hearings, neighborhood assemblies,
autonomous municipal councils, observatories
popular. The material should be comprehensive and particularly socio-economic, such as education,
health, social security, labor rights, budget formulation and execution, environment ...

• Generate information for the approval process by the public, putting the service
the process for institutions and machinery
administrative
• Have gender perspective.
Lost aeae the role of neighborhoods as the basic unit of municipal activity, involving
of neighborhood and social movements and in particular with women's organizations.
Aeae establish the position of Ombudsman to
speed up the response of municipalities when
citizens consider their rights violated.
• Adapt the structure and functioning of public administrations to participatory project.
• Encourage the participation of women in securing parity democracy. Parity in the fields
representation.
• To promote public spaces for participation.
• Create instruments of policy evaluation
public.
• Development of electronic voting to facilitate public participation in decision-making and control
of elected representatives.

• Establishing mandatory pregnancy, management and
participatory control of budgets of public administrations, with the following rules:
UNITED LEFT election proposals ELECTIONS 2011/23

3. P
? PROPOSALS FOR
Democratizing
THE OPERATION
INSTITUTIONS
• Reform Regulations functioning
Parliament of the autonomous parliaments and
Municipal plenary sessions to ensure transparency
in decision-making, minority participation and control of the activities of the executive and
the participation of society in them.
• Financial autonomy of local authorities:
Aeae Meet the covenants of the FEMP in policy
three thirds, to enforce the sufficiency
financial of municipalities, as governed by the public administration and ensure
attention to the neighbors.
Aeae Local Finance Act to define the resources and
the powers of local government.
• Reconstruction of the existing structure of expenditure,
condemns local authorities to structural underfunding wound that leaves local autonomy
and the provision of services by the municipalities,
powers which take improper because of the
social pressure and the neglect of other administrations.
• Elimination of the councils as institutions
obsolete and transfer of its autonomous powers, respecting the particularities and island
encouraging the creation of associations of services between municipalities.
• radical reform of the Senate to make it House
of Federations, within a Federal State and give it exclusive competence on the issues of regional policy, as co-body and organ
Government control. This reform must be accompanied
a total change of the electoral system for the election of members of the Senate.

4.? PROPOSALS
ENDING
CORRUPTION AND SECURE
Ethical behavior
OF POLITICAL POSITIONS
Corruption is a cancer on democracy and cause
discredit of politics and public. Corruption not
it is only a moral but a structural problem with economic and social roots in capitalism. Social tolerance
against corruption you have to change. This regeneration
It requires both regulatory changes as a cultural change driven by a self-reform of the parties themselves
politicians. The regeneration of democratic life will only
possible by:
• Adoption of a comprehensive and severe anti-corruption law, incorporating the offense of illicit enrichment
(Unjustified assets) or assumptions about the ownership of property or obligations to declare or precautionary measures imposing an end to political
charged and dereliction of duty. The corrupt will have to bear the direct and indirect costs
report their criminal actions: that evaded
or damaged, damage to third parties, costs refund
the injured right and court costs.
• Strict control of absenteeism elected
in their respective responsibilities.
• Specific punishments for dereliction of duties.
• Abolition of privileges on tax payments,
the years of contributions, the amount of pensions and
Generally any socio-labor or tax privilege.
• The salaries of elected representatives can not
Official exceed the highest of the range
administration in exercising its work.
• Elimination of charge associated immunity in
concerning corruption offenses.
• Applicability of corruption offenses.
• mandatory publication of the heritage of all
public charges.
• Reduction of charges may be appointed.

UNITED LEFT election proposals ELECTIONS 2011/24

• strict regulation of incompatibilities during the
public office to avoid simultaneous with participation in private entities
Profit.
• strict regulation of incompatibilities after
public office to avoid based on information obtained during enrichment
performance of such charges.
• Adoption of strict measures against the turncoat.
• Revocability of public office. It will be included in the
Constitution recall procedure or motion
Citizen censure the Prime Minister,
Presidents of the Autonomous Communities
mayors and deputies and senators, adapting
the different elective procedures each
one of these charges. The revocation procedure
could start halfway through the
period for which it was elected public office
no fewer than twenty percent of the voters in the constituency. Once collected enough signatures were put to the vote
popular the proposed revocation

5. E? L constitutional process
AS WAY
The Third Republic
We need a substantial political change that entails
a radical economic, social, cultural and ethical turn. To this
change the left called Third Republic.
Transition has become a whole Regime
He has consolidated conservative aspects of it
as non-political, moral or economic break with the
Franco, the monarchical model, the role of
Catholic Church at public expense, the
model 1977 election, conservative groups such fundamental control the judiciary. Have to
incorporate the problem of impunity of Franco,
and recover the historical memory, recognition and compensation that will prepare women and men
who fought against Franco.
While some achievements of the Constitution left today are not a dead letter. The
78 Constitution contains rights such as the right to a
enough paid work (art. 35), the right to

access to culture (art. 44), the right to adequate housing
and right (art. 47) and that the government "establish means to facilitate access by workers
ownership of the means of production "(art. 129) and
"The State, by law, can plan activity
general economic to meet collective needs, balance and harmonize regional and sectoral development
and stimulate the growth of income and wealth and its
fairer distribution "(art. 131.1).
In recent years there are several symptoms of collapse
model, amid an economic and political crisis
hits the working class and is an emptying
representative democracy when it became apparent that decisions
Key adopt them great fortunes, capable of sinking
or revive a coin, and European and global agencies
They unresponsive to any democratic legitimacy.
It is the affirmation of a democratic radicalism: the only legitimate regime is republic, which publishes, in which
care and government, each and everyone is committed to exercise responsibility for their citizenship status.
There is no freedom if the material conditions that make it possible are not present, therefore antitiránica defend the claim against all forms of domination and
coexistence based on the civic virtues. Freedom
is the absence of Republican dominance in both
public and private spheres, so we understand that
Republican State must be a social and secular state.
So, before the exhaustion of a system that has become
illegitimate and works back to the people, we
obligation boost from the base, with the co-creation
Operating as a line, a new constituent process through democratic overflow,
working within and especially outside the institutions, achieve a republican constitution, based
on civic participation.
To this end, we propose the start of a constitutional process
to return the voice and power of decision to the public.
The constitutional process is based on citizen participation in the joint creation of a new path
guidelines that frame the future coexistence, starting with a look back to claim the memory
democratic and recognition of men and women
who fought against Franco, in all its breadth.
The Third Republic will be based on a model of State
federal, defending the right to self-determination
of the peoples who make up the State based on free
will of the parties to join in a common project,
as a free and democratic choice of the people.
UNITED LEFT election proposals ELECTIONS 2011/25

6. P
? PROPOSALS FOR
RECOVERY
Democratic Memory
Remember and honor the memory of the victims of Francoism and restore rights lost for themselves and their
descendants, has been, is and will be a cornerstone of the
Izquierda Unida policy. We are convinced that
Democracy in our country will not be full up
not recognize the black past of our history and
tribute they deserve a tribute to the men and women who faced him.
To do this, we require a profound change in the
Law 52/2007 include:
• Nullity of judgments Franco
as the only possibility of rupture between Franco
and the rule of law and guarantees
• Protocol exhumation of mass graves with judicial intervention.
• Ensure the investigation of missing
in Spain during the civil war and the Franco regime and the
technical work necessary to protect the remains to
identification.
• public administrative and judicial Intervention
search for missing victims of Franco.
• Necessary measures will be taken to ensure the
fundamental rights of the missing and
their families to match the rest of the citizens, as regulated by international law.
• Clear off our streets and squares all references
Franco's honorable past that have suffered in
this country.

7.
? CCESS TO INFORMATION
PUBLIC
Full democracy requires greater transparency in public institutions. Citizens have the right to know and freedom of information. They are
citizens who hold the right to information. The right of access to it is a right
fundamental.

The right of access to information is the right of
every person to request and receive information
public entities and private entities
insofar as they perform public functions.
In a true democracy can only be meaningful participation by citizens if it
You can access on equal terms to all
Information that is in the possession of any
public authority or any private entity
perform public functions. The best tool for
ensure the full recognition and exercise of this
law is the existence of a specific law on access
to information.
The information from public institutions should be accessible to citizens and at the same time, institutions must be proactive in providing and commissioning
the information available to citizens.
Spain is one of the few EU countries lacking
a law regulating access to public information,
so from IU we commit ourselves to promoting the development of a Law on Access to Public Information
based on the following principles:
? The right of access to information is a right
1. E
critical of everyone, that is without
discrimination on grounds of nationality or character
the applicant and must be enjoyed without having to justify the reasons why it is requested
information.
2. E
? The right of access to information applies to all
public agencies, all branches of government
and all those private bodies performing public functions.
3. E
? The right of access to information applies to
all prepared, received or held by public entities, regardless of how
it is stored. Not be imposed any condition or restriction on the reuse of the information received.
4.? Making requests should be simple, quick and free.
5. L
? officials will have an obligation to help
Applicants, every public and private entity designated
CIOs who manage applications, help in their search for applicants
information.
UNITED LEFT election proposals ELECTIONS 2011/26

6. P
? rinciple advertising information: the secret
the denial of information are the exception and only
It may be based on specific reasons included
in the law on access to information, such as security
national or investigating crimes.
8. T
? Everyone has the right to appeal the denial of access or failure to reply to requests
performed.
9. L
? public entities as their own initiative, should put
publicly available basic information and essential
without having to make a request.
10. E
? The right of access to information must be guaranteed by an independent body.

8.? SECULARISM
Secularism implies the existence of political, legal and social conditions that guarantee the right to the full exercise of freedom of conscience in all its manifestations and equal terms.
Today there are no such conditions because the secular character mentioned in the Constitution is denied to
affirmation of Art. 16.3 that "the public authorities
They take into account the religious beliefs of society
Spanish and consequently maintain appropriate relations
cooperation with the Catholic Church and other confessions. " Freedom of belief and free will ignore
election, limiting beliefs or convictions which
They have a religious character.
These relationships are based on: Concordat of the year
1953, base 1976 Agreement, the agreements with the
Holy See in 1979 and the law of Religious Liberty
1980 which cover subsidies, tax privileges,
education, presence and religious symbols in public institutions ..., denying the principle of separation
between Churches and State.
With the aim of building a secular state propose as relevant as follows:
• Reform of the Constitution in Articles 16 and 27
to suppress any religious privilege, strengthening the secular nature of the state and public education system.

• Repeal of the agreements with the Holy See
1976 and 1979 and the Concordat of 1953.
• Repeal of the Law on Religious Freedom
1980 and preparation of a "Law on
Freedom of Thought "to protect, without distinction or privileges, all kinds of beliefs and convictions are of a religious nature or any other
nature.
• Eliminate any public funding,
or administrative tax exemption, land donation
or direct public subsidies to religious institutions and their associations. Are the
faithful of every religion who, if any, should
contribute to the financing of their worship, clergy and religious activities. Income tax be abolished financing of the Catholic Church. The religious heritage of artistic cultural or historical interest, it
restored with public funds, it should be affected to public use.
• Remove all religious symbols in official acts and publicly owned spaces. In any public space (school or university, health,
prison, courts, etc.) will be enclosures
for the worship of any religious denomination.
• The religious acts will not have "official" character.
No public official shall participate in its capacity as such. There should be no display of
faith in the Head of State. No rites are held
Religious in official acts, such as takeovers,
merit recognition, reporting honors, state funerals, inaugurations, etc.
• Respect in school and ideological pluralism
freedom of conscience of students and teachers, suppressing religious indoctrination or display
of religious symbols.
• The public authorities shall ensure the secular nature of the lessons taught in the official itinerary, within schools and public ownership
private publicly funded so
that the teaching of any religious doctrine must
left out of formal education requiring,
immediately, remain outside school hours.
• There will be no public funding for schools with religious ideas or other ideological involving segregation or exclusion or otherwise
for students. No schools will be subsidized with own ideology whether religious
or any other ideological nature
UNITED LEFT election proposals ELECTIONS 2011/27

• Remove the obligation to declare implicitly or explicitly, on ideology, beliefs or religion
on beliefs, or lack thereof, in
any civil documentation.
• Facilitate civil ceremony can be held any dignity outside religious connotations. The public authorities must ensure in
all health care network to abortion, the right to a dignified death
and the provisions of Living Will
• To strengthen coexistence as equals
demand: incorporate civil commemorations
work and school schedule, names of people
illustrious traditions of all the municipal street, neutral name of the school holidays,
equal access to public media,
I eliminating privileged treatment granted to sectors
denominational.
• Submit data files of the Catholic Church
the Organic Law of Protection of Personal Data and therefore the right of rectification
and deletion of data by stakeholders.
However, it is guaranteed to whoever exercise
apostasy without any hindrance for those who prefer.

UNITED LEFT election proposals ELECTIONS 2011/28

3

PROPOSALS
ENVIRONMENTAL

From United Left we propose to change the trends of increasing consumption of natural resources, increased emissions and increase in precarious work
for social and ecologically sustainable development
within an economic model designed to meet
the basic needs of people. We need a
society that promotes human development, a territory
fulfill its environmental functions and a list of
humans with nature to ensure the integrity of ecosystems.
Key to this is public ownership and management of strategic natural resources: water, energy,
air and soil, preventing them from becoming commodities.
Promote renewable energies, the "green jobs" and
support for new forms of solidarity economy.
Make a firm commitment to austerity and sufficiency, understood not as a result of cuts, but
as a search for a simple life, a happy life and
low impact. This is a political attitude of living
better with less. In that sense, in a world in crisis
economic, food and environmental, with a finite world
limited resources, it is essential to address the issue
the decrease, that is, decrease in consumption
of natural resources (raw materials and energy) and
waste and emission of greenhouse gases, which
while combining growth with around
creation and reinforcement of public services and development
human.
You must change the rules of the systems
valuation of goods and services and financing for
prevent these methods continue to establish a growing gap between large agglomerations
urban or industrialized states (acting as
Attraction of population centers, capital and resources), and
the rural world or the Third World, have become
in areas of appropriation of resources and waste disposal.
We must therefore speak of another accounting productive activity and use the Ecological Footprint,
the Human Development Index, the Living Planet Index
Cash and Progress Index, outperforming the index
GDP includes only commercial transactions from a classical perspective and obscuring outsourcing relationships with the rest of the
nature and the issue of care. Indicators
proposed by Izquierda Unida give more precise figures
how real productive activity is inserted and
services in the physical environment: the Planet.
Environmental taxes are part of the necessary reform
accounting with ecological criteria and a reorientation of public spending. This green taxation not

It is intended to fund, but encourage changes
Deep in the production, distribution and consumption: should
taxing activities that harm the environment and
encourage those with favorable effects.
Also the end of the era of cheap oil should lead
a deep reflection on alternative energy
and to locate as central to any debate the need
to raise a democratic planning of the economy
and resources. A plan that meets criteria
demand and need from a perspective of justice
social and sharing wealth. We understand priority
meet the basic needs of the whole population
present without compromising the satisfaction of these same needs by future generations.
As building blocks to develop in the next legislature, after the general elections of November 20
2011 IU proposes:

1. PRIORITY PROPOSALS
• Create a Ministry of Environment that addresses
exclusively issues arising from the conservation, care and protection of the environment.
• As for the territory and taking into account that from the environmental point of view is an ongoing charged singularities, we propose to develop policies
with the necessary global perspective, integrating all these territorial, and
contemplate biodiversity, resources and habitability. Therefore we propose a reform of the law
soil, introducing clear criteria required
compliance of different autonomies
conforming to these aspects. With a clear and reinforced regulation, so that plans
regional and municipal management maintain their
independence, but they are inserted in a frame pre-planned and regulated that meets the needs of environmental protection and adequacy
means. This reform of the land law
you should see channels that articulate the democratic participation of citizens. Since IU argue that the territory is not modified without
who inhabit it.
• Our energy model of renewable energy,
decentralized public and proposes the distributed generation of electricity, pumping about
consumption, distribution networks proximity
municipal and county level, more planning
UNITED LEFT election proposals ELECTIONS 2011/30

democratic focused on replacing fossil fuels and uranium from renewable sources while
encourages saving and energy efficiency

including a proposal to regulate obsolescence
scheduled.
• Animal Protection Act.

• propose a program of closure of all nuclear power plants. Prior to the debate and necessary step
Location of burial of waste
Radioactive whose construction will only serve to prolong
the life of existing nuclear plants. Therefore
close claim, first, all nuclear power plants, and secondly pose a clear strategist management of nuclear waste
attend a safety and responsibility.
• We also propose the creation of a general law
sustainable transport system with a commitment
multimodal and integrated transport, universal and public, to promote and cheaper transport
collective public, especially driving the criterion on foot, by bike and train. Which will promote
motorized transport is effected essentially by
rail, both for people and
the goods, and promoting intermodality
in all. Furthermore, this law promotes mandatory, by companies, to develop plans
bus transportation to the workplace for
its workforce. E also will promote measures to
ensuring speed zones 30 appeasing traffic in cities.
• In relation to water, given the importance of life, argue that Izquierda Unida
it is a human right and a public good management
public. As we understand the watershed
as the basic unit of integrated management of ecosystems. In this management broad public participation should be ensured in the decision process
making.
• We are committed to moving the criteria of transparency
to everything on environmental policies. By
This will promote public works that have environmental impact reports prepared by independent public bodies and will qualify Figures
public administration to ensure compliance. Moreover alternative will require studies that meet criteria of cost savings and
resource.
• We will promote reform of the general law of waste regulation with a commitment to strengthen governance. Proposing amendments
in the criteria for applying waste treatment and clean techniques that do not emit gases
greenhouse. Also we expand the law

• Law of the landscape. In addition to protection, we understand
which it is fundamental law regulating aspects of
landscape to consolidate and expand programs for environmental conservation. Definitely
It is about recovering the collective net worth of
nature and protecting our biodiversity.
• propose a new Common Agricultural Policy, CAP,
in the European Union, able to defend family agriculture, protect the environment and curb
control of the food chain from
big enterprises. The CAP reform provides the
agroganadero opportunity to reorient the model and
that agricultural and food policies established in the framework of food sovereignty.

2. P
? PROPOSALS OF
URBAN PLANNING.
The social rental
living place
It is necessary to democratize land use and
determine their political participation planning
social fabric, defining industrial needs, agriculture, livestock, tourism, services, etc. We favor strategies to generate a network of medium-sized cities
and a productive rural world, and to avoid the concentration
large urban agglomerations are unsustainable.
The city is a place of relationship, encounter
people, where it is important to define the location
housing, productive activities and infrastructure, land use, proximity and accessibility
to goods, services and contacts with others
and protecting the environment.
Capitalism has generated social polarization processes
and territorial polarization accumulation territories
capital population and means of production, compared with areas
involving the extraction of natural resources and
Landfill.
While financial and business concentration was conducted under the prism of the "competitiveness" in the regional policy alluded to competition between cities, towns and
UNITED LEFT election proposals ELECTIONS 2011/31

territories linking it with international trade
promote development. But the reality has been very different and intensive urbanization has shown negative effects:
overexploitation of resources, saturation sinks, excess consumption of energy and climate change.
It would seem logical that economies of agglomeration, the
economies of scale, promote, facing the rural dispersion, lower environmental assaults on the building, the
infrastructure construction, and transportation
and distribution of energy. But it is quite the opposite. At
transport effectiveness depends on the land use and
the proximity of housing to the workplace,
study, shopping, services; depending a lot more
that this infrastructure or the technical characteristics of the vehicles ...
The city must be compact, balanced, for the
social life, designed so owned and criteria
social, economic and environmental sustainability. Where
quality of life is guaranteed, freedom and exercise
human rights from responsibility, recovering spaces for a project of freedom, solidarity and ecological responsibility. It is set
liveable cities, with an optimal collective equipment, equipped with quality public services and large
green areas linking town and country.
The social rent is the main way to satisfy the constitutional right to housing.
The economic crisis that has suffered since 2007
that the number of evictions exceed 140,000 homes. Says UN embargoes were in Spain
in 2010, 197% more than in 2007 and 180,000
families were affected by this phenomenon in 2009.
especially those families in which one or more of its
members were unemployed or had exhausted the supply
unemployment. With evictions expressly denies
the right to housing established in the Constitution,
putting forward the rights to the benefit of the entity
financial or ownership of the property. Today exist
Spanish territory 4,000,000 empty homes being
a million of them new homes.

3. P
? PROPOSALS FOR A
SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORT
The transport function is to ensure accessibility
goods, services and contacts with others,
regardless of where you live, income,

age or gender. Creating accessibility with minimum mobility without generating more mobility than necessary with
system of universal and public transport.
The railway is the mode of public transport
that, along with the walking and cycling, you can us
help reduce emissions.
You need to replace the journeys made by
transportation of greatest impact (automobile)
by shifts in public transport and
reduce travel demand. To this end we propose two strategies: reducing the need to travel great distances, to create conditions for
the walking and cycling and implementing all public transport between urban centers and
railway stations.
The era of cheap energy has led to a form of
based on the "faster and further" increasing movement of people and goods and life
distances traveled on each trip: increased mobility.
On foot, by bike and train normally as ways and means
fundamental, and car, motorcycle, van, truck, bus, plane, TGV, as ways and means
complementary.

4. P
? PROPOSALS FOR ANOTHER
ENERGY MODEL
We must promote distributed generation, production
near the consumption, distribution networks and smart
microgrids municipal and county level. We must
plan for the medium and long term our energy model
with strategies that guarantee self-sufficiency
energy while allowing the substitution will
fossil fuels and uranium from renewable sources.
For this we must agree on a timetable for the closure of all
nuclear power plants, starting with the immediate closure
of Garona, bet on new technologies
coal combustion (CO2 capture), set
our energy planning in the national strategic reserve of coal (only primary source with the
renewable).
While this does not give must not be allowed new coal power stations, oil and gas. It must also
drastically reduced transportation vehicles Low
capacity and internal combustion engines.
UNITED LEFT election proposals ELECTIONS 2011/32

We must promote photovoltaics in roof,
solar thermal energy for air conditioning and hot water,
small wind and geothermal energy, wind Navy,
solar thermal with the possibility of cogeneration,
geothermal, wave and tidal power, increasing
50,000 MW installed capacity of renewable energy.
Only thus can be dispensed in Spain of nuclear power plants and have technical and socioeconomic alternative to
energy production from fossil fuels.
Photovoltaics in roof allows the Self
with low electric power facilities, like
were appliance. It should facilitate the connection
network of small PV installations on
roof, which also includes small wind and micro. Favoring the biomass microgeneration,
"Stirling engine" or fuel cell with hydrogen produced by electrolysis from renewable energies. Do not
there should be quotas limiting the number of installations
photovoltaic.
Renewable energies are not solid recovered fuels, CSR, which encourage waste incineration
and solid waste that pollute the atmosphere. Under proper management, they could be reused or
recycled.

including environmental in all services related to water, according to the Water Framework Directive.
Water is more than a usable resource, it is a well
public, part of the landscape and fundamental
to support life and ecosystems.
A policy of social use, rational and sustainable water
should prevail efficiency, savings, reuse and
integrated purification; and maintain the capacity for renewal of rivers, wetlands, coastal waters of transition,
and aquifers, ensuring ecological flows and the
basin plans.

6. P
? ANIMAL ROTECTION
We propose an animal protection law, in which
provides for the elimination of funding from
shows that include public abuse and death of animals. Therefore, there will not be funded
advertising bullfighting, the bullfighting clubs or
bullfighting schools.

Energy is a universal public good and not a commodity. It should encourage the generation of electricity from
renewable with application of progressive rates, with fixing maximum prices and minimum services.
Closing the program should be established in the central
nuclear by high risks involved in its operations and radioactive waste they generate. The share of nuclear power plants in the energy model
world is very small. The nuclear industry has not been
You can not find a solution to the security problems or generate problem of radioactive waste. Radioactive waste is the clearest proof of
unsustainability of nuclear energy. Moreover, uranium
It is, like oil, a finite resource and with few reservations.

5. P
? PROPOSALS FOR
PUBLIC WATER MANAGEMENT
Water is a common good that should be managed as a
non-commercial public resource, a universal good access
guaranteed as a human right. The new culture
water claims the principle of cost recovery,

UNITED LEFT election proposals ELECTIONS 2011/33

4

PROPOSALS
FOR SOME
SERVICES
PUBLIC
QUALITY

The left has the task of, on the one hand, to defend
welfare systems and, secondly, to build alliances
necessary to go to an advanced model of State
Social in which each right is guaranteed by a
service or government, as offensive to the proposal
slimming the neoliberal state.
Education, childcare, disease,
seniors, health, water supply and
the drainage system, energy, public transport,
post office, sports and culture are not commodities but ...
utilities that depend on state responsibility. Therefore you can not submit them to top
competitiveness of the lowest cost and maximum profit.
Public Services allow satisfying
needs of citizens in terms of access
universal, non-discriminatory and affordable cost. The
social policies that are carried out must be transversal, participatory and redistributive. Therefore they needed
a 100% public services and say no to the privatization of social rights does a business and not
a right.
We defend the universality of public services
against the selection by income. We want no more privatization of public services and common goods but
a "re-municipalization" and conversion property
public. We defend the existence of strong companies
public in strategic sectors of the economy and
more investment in education, health, public transport,
sport, culture ...
Undoubtedly, the central battle of the next legislature will be the battle for public services. Ago
more than a decade that the WTO, the IMF and other financial institutions aim their darts at utilities and spent years attending a privatization more
or less covert them, trying to make fundamental rights into profitable business
a few.
The privatization of public services begins with
a smear campaign orchestrated for the
citizens identify with poor quality public and
Private with effective, when the reality is exactly
the contrary.
IU will work to prove that the public refers
to all and is quality assurance and private
It refers to profit interests of individuals who do not
They prioritize the quality or attention. A true democracy must respond to common interests,
guaranteeing rights and public services that make them reality.

We must combat the widespread idea that the private guarantees freedom, is not true. Can not be
freedom without equality of rights without social justice. Than
Freedom has an unemployed son to go to a center
elitist private or to access a private health center ?. Only a publicly owned utilities
and public management, quality, universal and free
can ensure equal enforcement of the fundamental rights of the person.
So from IU we have to say loud and clear that from
our jobs, for our collective,
from the positions of institutional representation ... that
wherever there is a public representative of the Left
United we will fight any privatization
while public services will work to regain the public res commodified services.

1. P
? OR EDUCATION
Public, secular,
DEMOCRATIC AND QUALITY
A quality public education should be a political priority because it contributes to social cohesion and
training people more equal, more free and more
criticism. IU reiterates its commitment to the defense of quality public and secular education and defend the
Public education is an investment, not an expense.

1. L
? to public education as axis
backbone of the education system
The best way to ensure the right to education
It passes through the defense of a public education system that, over a lifetime, is at the service of the
social needs, equal opportunities and
of democratic values. Consistent with this
We propose:
• Enactment of a law on measures for the expansion and improvement of public education, which serves to
recover its prestige and enhance its role as a hub
backbone of the education system. That law should
in turn ensure the actions listed
then:
• A planned and adequate network of ownership
and public administration, education that meets demand
UNITED LEFT election proposals ELECTIONS 2011/35

its different stages and types and have the resources and facilities.
• Establish manning Resources
creation and opening of schools. This rule
It will be the basis for bidding on construction, expansion or renovation of schools in
Statewide.
• The public land only for public schools.
Prevent transfers of municipal land intended for
private schools.
• Expansion of the network of children's schools of public ownership and management to cope with the demand
schooling of 0-6 years, especially in the
cycle of 0-3 years.
• Modification of the existing rules on Education
Children to establish requirements and curriculum
guaranteeing basic unit and the educational nature of the whole stage.
• Generalization of training up to 18 years,
expanding the range of FP and opening new training methods that combine study and practice
paid labor.
• Reducing the ratio to 20 students per class as
maximum compulsory education, tending
progressively at 15.
• Free books and classroom teaching materials
to enforce the gratuity of the basic teachings, through libraries, resource centers and loan reuse.
• Creation of a Public Company Editorial guaranteeing completely free textbook.
• Integral system of scholarships and study grants and free school canteens and transport
school in rural areas.
• Review Curriculum Frameworks including the gender perspective: recognize the importance of
jobs traditionally performed by women.
Deepen control the contents of textbooks which do not generate sexist attitudes.
Introduce gender curricula in
teacher training programs. Maximize
co-educational projects in schools. Develop training programs for parents. Educating in
affectivity and sexuality as essential for coexistence between men and women elements.

• Integration into the overall system of the "teachings
special regime. " All of these studies (Music,
Dance, Drama and Visual Arts) will have a
equivalent treatment, so that students
opt for any of them do not have to simultanear
the general education and "special.
• Expanding the network of Education
Adults (EPA), in collaboration with the
CCAA, to cover the entire demand in classroom teaching system, complemented by
the distance mode.
• Official Language Schools: be guaranteed in
throughout the national territory a tender offer
quality of teaching languages ​​to adults. Are you
lessons will be offered on the network EEOOII and cover the six levels defined by the Common Framework
For teaching European languages. The studies shall be regulated and give access to
certifications. Special attention will be paid to the
official languages.
• Establish and generalize an educational model for the
foreign language learning.
• FP planned and extended offer, taking into
their social profitability and not only the immediate interest of companies, respecting the right of
training people throughout his life and
vocational development.
• Creating adequate public network of centers
It integrated FP in coordination with the CCAA, where both regulated is taught Vocational
as training for employment, with the possibility of
night programs and blended regime. They
will avoid subsidizing training for employment
private schools.
• Public control of other training activities FP,
with exclusive jurisdiction of the administrations
public about titles, validations, certificates
Professional and recognition of learning not
formal.
• Design and implementation of training and career guidance in VET that promotes solidarity and participatory union culture.
• Articulate the supply of FP programs
On Adult Education.

UNITED LEFT election proposals ELECTIONS 2011/36

2. U
? na quality education
promote equity for success
school for all students

• Incorporate new professional profiles in school:
social education and social work, mediation
intercultural, etc.

A quality public education is one that responds to the diverse educational needs of all
of the population to achieve academic success, by
effective equality of opportunities, which in turn offers
equal opportunities.

• Extend Reinforcement, Guidance and
Support outside school hours, all centers
public, to support students in need.

For IU the quality of education is at ensuring
public education aimed at ensuring all
achieving students about learning to enable them to train as people able to participate,
independently and critically, in the context of a society
increasingly global democratic. For this propose:
• To promote curricular, methodological and organizational changes which can respond to diversity
the students, especially those with more
difficulties, and that benefit the students as a whole contribute to realizing the right to
everyone to learn successfully.
• Promote, in each region, comprehensive plans of action to promote the academic success of all students in compulsory education, which specify actions to support those with difficulties
learning.
• educational programs financed compensation
aimed at groups or areas that present centers
higher rates of failure and dropout.
• Promote a framework plan for school life, with the State Board of Education and Boards
Autonomous school, as well as relevant institutions in other areas of public administration,
oriented to a multidisciplinary and comprehensive intervention:
centers and neighborhoods, families and guardians, and faculty support measures (training, classroom resources,
legal aid, teams of mediators ...).
• framework programs opening schools to their environment outside school hours, in collaboration with the AMPA, corresponsabilizando to
Autonomous regions and municipalities of extracurricular and complementary activities to ensure all public schools in a wide range
quality activities and free.
• Promoting intercultural curriculum development and inclusive approaches from recovering the contents
transversal of all the materials along the
compulsory schooling.

• Enhance school tutorial giving attention to the corresponding character time commitment (two hours
Weekly care and other families).
• Provide counseling services to all centers
public elementary and secondary teachers to support a better attention to diversity
students, and to develop specific guidance programs for families of students with high
capabilities.
• To promote the languages ​​of students from migrant families and minorities in schools.
• Promote equality through education in equality programs, which supervised by service
educational inspection, orient in this sense curriculum materials, the organization of schools and
teacher practices.
• Inclusion of a specific subject on equality
between men and women, as a preventive measure
of gender violence in the curriculum
initial and ongoing training of teachers and
other professionals in education
(Social work, social education, intercultural mediation, etc.).
• Ensure that all schools respect
the affective-sexual, promoting sexual diversity education content exceeding heterosexist
current and offering all professionals and
AMPAS prevention programs LGTBfobia.
• Change regulations on grade retention relegating it to exceptional situations maturing character, given its proven ineffective in most
cases, and strengthening educational reinforcements, personalized attention or other measures
favor progress in learning.
• Basic Regulations on the admission of students who
contemplates the creation of centralized enrollment fees (for municipalities or school districts) adequate and equitable schooling,
seat reservations throughout the course to students in need of remedial education, the
UNITED LEFT election proposals ELECTIONS 2011/37

ban the increase of the maximum ratios and
as monitoring and control schooling
all publicly funded centers.

3. H
? acia a unique network of centers
ownership and management education
public
The use and abuse of educational concerts, which selective practices of the students have been tolerated when
not promoted, they have resulted in two Networks of Centres
publicly funded education with a distinct students. A, formed by the
public centers, doomed to become
in a health care network aimed at the most disadvantaged, and other private schools whose concerted
weight is increasing. The result is still a
dual education system that threatens the fairness and
social cohesion.
The present moment is esecialmente worrying as
the privatization of education is increasing, and the governments of many CCAA attack on public education with brutal cuts, while supporting teaching
with millions concerted and private grants. Is
urgent implementation of public policies
reverse this process for the benefit of the majority. For that
We propose:
• Modify the necessary regulations in order to get to suppress educational concerts, establishing
the moratorium on new roads and opening concerts
to move towards a single network of public schools.
• Progressive reduction of educational concerts,
until complete disappearance, through voluntary and negotiated integration of private schools
in a unique network of public centers, incorporating
immediately to private schools that occupy
public land
• Establish the subsidiary and temporary nature of the
Existing concerts, suppressing the concert where
enough public squares.
• Elimination of the possibility of concluding sections not
required.
• Suppression concert centers not complying
the rules or engage in practices selection
or discrimination of students for socioeconomic reasons, gender, ideology, beliefs or cultural background.

• equivalent conditions to those of public schools
in education, democratic management and conditions
employment of teachers and other professionals
education, including access and mobility.

4.? The education in schools,
religion in churches
We renew our commitment to work for reality and secular education that respects freedom of
awareness, educate without dogmas and eliminate all forms of
indoctrination curriculum. For this we propose and demand:
• Repeal of the agreements with the Vatican and with other
faiths to any religion
left out of the curriculum.
• That immediately teaching religion
out of school hours.
• That the acts and religious symbols disappear
of schools and public spaces
education.
• Avoid grants to schools with its own ideology, whether religious or otherwise,
in order to safeguard freedom of conscience
students and teachers.
• Elimination of any administrative procedure
requiring express beliefs or no beliefs,
in compliance with Article 16 of the Constitution.

5. Education 3.0
We want to move towards education 3.0 you go
beyond the mere provision of instrumental "apparatus".
We associate the technology with pedagogy 3.0
involving a change in values ​​regarding knowledge, learning, methodology and sharing of materials and resources. We propose:
• Implementation of free open source software in the
organize education system and the Administration
A network of digital educational, public, free and shared resources (wikieduca) gradually replacing textbooks for digital material
prepared by the educational community.
• To promote the democratization of knowledge developing, compiling and disseminating for free at
UNITED LEFT election proposals ELECTIONS 2011/38

the curriculum and teacher support materials in free software network.
• public education network, where teachers and students to pool knowledge and experience,
collaborate on projects and development of Learning
content.
• Introduce methodologies personalized attention
smaller and cooperative work groups
that students pass consume information produced by others, to be creators, writers, authors
actively they are constructing knowledge and
share digital content and materials
They have created both teachers and students.
• Provide technological resources centers and not to
students privately, that can be used individually or collectively for the duration of their schooling.

6. M
? im prove, dignify and recognize
the work of teachers and other
education professionals
The social and educational context in which education professionals develop their work has changed
significantly in recent years. The difficulty of
serve a diverse student body, often unmotivated and sometimes with attitudes of rejection
the school system, is for professionals
education more responsibility and effort
added, without being offset by the recognition and
social value they deserve. For IU is
priority overcome this situation and develop measures
to help improve and dignify the teaching profession
and education. We propose:
• one body of teachers, from an initial range of postgraduate training, that contemplates
the various aspects of the teaching, especially teaching and practice simultaneously combining paid, supervised by qualified teachers in schools with the
university training received, along the entire
initial training period and not just in the last
course thereof.
• Statute of the teaching agreed with the unions, regulating access, working conditions,
career and retirement system
Professional public education, that will include voluntary retirement without penalty from
60.

• Establish a system of professional development
own job, which fundamentally values ​​the work in the classroom and in the center, with equal
possibilities for all teachers and we homologue teachers in OECD countries.
• Increased templates and non-teaching staff for effective attention to diversity to
Throughout the school.
• Hourly distribution covering as a collective dedication
new tasks and functions required by the education system, looking from the recognition of mentoring functions of coordination centers. Do not
They will exceed the 15 hours of weekly teaching.
• Reduce direct instruction to over 55 years without
salary decrease, and open avenues for their own request,
they can perform non-teaching duties of educational field.
• Access to job security for temporary teachers through the provision of sufficient places for
cover all the needs of the education system.
• Wide range of quality lifelong learning and
free to all teachers to be held in
schools within the school day, to
from improvement projects proposed by the cloisters themselves, or by education authorities.
Reactivation of teacher training centers, which have been phased out
in some Autonomous Communities.
• Encouraging action research for teachers
improving their professional performance, in collaboration with
the university and its subsequent support in the dissemination.
• Recognize the educational work of personnel services
educational and complementary.
• Incorporate into the private schools delegated payment
management staff and services and special education support staff and education
child, and ensure the principles of merit,
capacity and recruitment advertising.

7.? Increase autonomy,
decentralization and participation
democracy in schools and in the
school districts
We propose measures to advance the democratization of public education (compared to model
UNITED LEFT election proposals ELECTIONS 2011/39

business management that is being imposed), through
decentralization in school districts to boost
the participation of all sectors of the community
educational decision-making, promoting and implementing real democracy in school life:
• Creation of school districts with responsibility
education and planning of educational provision
with commissions of schooling by school district,
to prevent selection of pupils by schools.
• democratic election of directors and management teams by new regulations governing process
Genuine democratic participation of the educational community.
• Foster a management model based not slavishly in business management systems,
following the neoliberal guidelines move
the public market logic systems; but
a representative and collective leadership of education professionals, which are effective representatives of the educational community, trained in communication skills and motivation
teachers and not mere "experts" in resource management equipment.
• Extending the tasks of school boards, returning to be the governing body of the centers and equitable and proportional representation
all sectors of the educational community in them.
• Take steps to enable women to access
management positions in schools.
• Effective Institutional autonomy in the organization and
planning their lessons to better
the needs of their students, and not to impose
performance standards or plans of studies that can be selective or exclusive sexist.
• Encourage the participation of the school community
in educational planning, facilitating associations and the role of School Boards
center, city, district, communities
and the state.
• Promote the involvement of students, families and
AMPAS in drawing up the rules of coexistence and conflict resolution, as well as various activities in schools, supporting and
financing the creation of families in schools
schools, with the collaboration of teachers in non-school hours to those who can attend
family members.

• Recognize, for labor purposes, the public duty as
assistance of parents or guardians to meetings
school councils, school committees or similar bodies, as well as the activities planned by the centers, especially the
meetings with tutors.
• Redefine the composition and functions of the Council
State School, giving it capacity to promote and conduct studies and analysis system
education.

• Participation Royal Decree that recognizes the rights of associations of the AMPAS, promoting and regulating the obligation of education authorities.
• Stewardship of the educational community in the
economic management through a participatory budgeting, setting priorities and working on their
achievement, raising projects and exercising the right to
decide on the distribution of public resources.

8. E
? valuation and strategy
improvement
In order to improve the quality of education system
shall apply assessment procedures to ascertain their strengths and weaknesses, both in terms
their results and their operating processes.
• Promote self-assessment of schools as a strategy for improving the entire educational community.
• Plan external evaluation of institutions designed by
assessment bodies of the Administrations
educational and, in any case, for Services
Educational Inspection. The evaluation plan and the results will be made available to
participation bodies of the educational community
for information and debate.
• Tests to significant samples
students, conducted by the Administrations
education, in collaboration with the National Institute of
Quality and Evaluation, in order to check the degree of acquisition by students of skills
along basic compulsory education.
• Plans counseling and support services
Educational Inspection to schools, teachers, and students and their families, both in their work
daily and self-assessment processes.
UNITED LEFT election proposals ELECTIONS 2011/40

9. U
? No funding commitment
enough of the entire system
educational
Finally and to top, we propose once again
urgent need to ensure adequate funding of the educational system to provide resources
essential objective of ensuring equal
right to education from pre-primary to
University. To do this, we propose:
• Law on Financing of the education system to ensure investments and resources needed to
set of public education services from the
Childhood Education to Superior, in their different
stages and types, avoiding drastic swings and
budget cuts as the crisis pretexts,
control of public deficits, etc.
• In any case, it complies with immediate effect the mandate of the LOE to match spending
the European average public education and progressively increase to 7% of GDP,
besides allocating 2% of GDP to Education
Superior.
Create a Interterritorial Compensation Fund to finance actions to ensure equal enjoyment
the right to education from kindergarten to
Higher Education. The actions carried out in
each community will be financed from the PGE, with finalist character. Priority will be given to measures Plans
to promote the academic success of all students in
compulsory education, as well as specific remedial education programs aimed at groups,
centers or areas with greatest failure rates or dropout. They will be reviewed periodically to
ensure greater social profitability.

2. Why UNIVERSITY
QUALITY TO PUBLIC
SERVICE COMPANY
We defend a university understood as a service
public not to look for the "competitiveness" and "excellence" but the quality and cooperation in the service of society, to make it fairer, wiser, more universal,
more equitable, more sustainable, aimed at training
and criticism of creative people with a high cultural and vocational training, not a university in the service

market and business demands. For that,
We propose:
• Staying the "University Strategy 2015" and open
a public debate with the university community on the University is really needed.
Qualifications system review process
Bologna anyway avoiding the dependency of the
private businesses.
• Establish mechanisms for the transfer of
technological knowledge in the public domain, of
publicly available and not a private business.
• Substantial increase in funding research to public universities.
• University for Peace: Elimination of degrees of "Defense Systems Engineering" of the
Universities and lectures and master related to military purposes. It will be removed as the R & D
resources devoted to arms production.
• Set target gratuity studies
university, priorizándola in Grado. He shall, with immediate effect, that tuition fees do not exceed those of the previous
degrees.
• Statute of the Teaching and Research negotiated with unions, establishing the single body
teacher, and where eradication is consolidated
precariousness and progressive approval of the remuneration of teachers and university administration and adaptation services
EHEA.
• truly democratic representation of all
university sectors in government bodies,
rebalancing and increasing their representation in
including the weight of the student, and favoring
management of this institution that meets objectives
training and no mercantilist. A new statute
more democratic student
• Planning the supply of university places
according to social needs and suppression
widespread evidence of selective access
("Selectivity").
• Public financing sufficient to generalize
pay-grants linked to compliance with the obligations required for their studies and from the conception of the study is an activity
socially useful to be paid and contribute to the
UNITED LEFT election proposals ELECTIONS 2011/41

Social Security. And to provide study aids in both grades and in the Masters.
• Private universities are not financed by public funds and ensure strict compliance
of the legal requirements for the implementation of research and development of teaching
and research.
• Organise flexible schedules for workers who wish to pursue university studies
face to broaden their education and not to
do "full time".
• To promote a participative teaching methodology,
small groups and seminars, based on the active participation and students tutored
really through adequate training
university professors, of the requisite number of
teachers, adequacy of facilities, etc.
• It is therefore essential to reduce the ratio
student-teacher, both in the theoretical classes
and other classroom activities (seminars, tutorials, practical, etc.), without exceeding in any
If a maximum of 50.
• Establish Campus Interuniversity integrators
encompassing the entire public university system ensuring quality and replacing the character
Competitive called "Campus of Excellence"
for a cooperative model. The relationship between universities should be based on cooperation,
not in an elitist and mercantilist competitiveness.
• Support UNED decided to further develop its important and irreplaceable social role,
collaboration with the Autonomous Communities and the
Local administrations. This requires increase
UNED guaranteeing funding resources to provide quality service increasingly demanded by the adult population.
• Articulate vocational training and university:
In the perspective of higher education generalize
as a condition for the new production model
IU advocates, to be encouraged in both seat load average and higher vocational training
University and facilitating the transition between
and driving them to converge, so that the
Training includes the critical study of the
underlying scientific theories into practice
college and professional practices including paid and controlled by the University,
promoting lifelong learning.

• For all this it requires increased funding
public universities up to 2%
of GDP, resulted in expenditure per pupil and student
/ Year equivalent to the average European university. Y
it is not subject to the prior external funding private.

3.? Scientific research,
TECHNOLOGICAL DEVELOPMENT AND
INNOVATION AT WORK
SERVICE COMPANY
IU intends to place scientific and technological activity
in the center of the social debate in order to make it
element of social and territorial cohesion, based on a scientific-technical system that supports an economic model
social and environmentally sustainable.
According to the Federal State model, the actions in R & D should be governed by the criteria of coordination in the strategic design and planning, and decentralization in the management and implementation
of agreed policies. A model that contributes to
the construction of the necessary scientific culture for
choose and decide the social model we want to live.
Our priority proposals in R + D + i is summarized as follows:
• Implementation of the Law on Science, Technology
and innovation, regulations and statutes trying to overcome the most regressive aspects of the Act.
this particular implementation should include:
• Discussion and approval in parliament Plan
State Research, Development and Innovation
Technology (PEI + D + i), a unique tool that integrates
all actions of the new ministry and all
competences in R & D. This Plan will be the framework for
strategic actions of the State and the shaft
reference for regional initiatives.
• Adoption of a multi-year budget law, linked to the objectives of the PEI + D + i, to ensure their
multiannual planning. Substantial increase
resources for R & D. The goal for this legislature is to reach 2% of GDP and an increase
50% of personnel dedicated to R & D.
• effective conversion of all research grants 4-year labor contracts with evaluation
UNITED LEFT election proposals ELECTIONS 2011/42

year. Repeal of the Statute of Fellow. Inclusion
new contracts as contained in the Statute
Workers, similar to Mir, QIR and FIR.
Monitoring the integration of trained staff
in the labor market.
• Coordination of public research sector.
Integration of the various IPOs by
homogenization of their management systems and
developing a career evaluable for
the different scales of staff: scientists, technicians
and management.
• Approval of the Statute of Research Staff
public sector (university -OPIs) to facilitate the
mobility and invigorate the technical scientific system.
• Creation of the National Assessment
Finance and Planning for the whole sector
public research.
• Negotiating a specific agreement for the workforce of the OPIS.
• Creation of a National Council for Scientific and
Renovated technology skills, with a balanced representation of the various social partners and autonomous regions
On the other hand, necessary to launch a series of
policies and measures that enable consolidation
scientific system of optimizing the allocation of their
resources, both financial and human. In particular:
• Plan to reduce job insecurity in
the investigation. The growing insecurity in the sector,
with almost half of its workforce on temporary contracts is not only unfair and inefficient separates
policies of all the countries around us
and the OECD.
• Implementation of a Training Plan
Personal Technical and Management Research.
• Targeting resources for R & D applications
civil, discarding the military model of development through innovation. Eliminating the expense of building weapons of Chapter VIII of the function 46.
Adoption of a law that Scientific Objection
legalize the growing opposition of the Spanish scientists working on defense programs.
• Integration in the design of scientific policies and
Technology of actions and public guidelines
in infrastructure, health, education,

housing, spatial planning, environmental and energy policy, and natural resources. Integration
in public procurement policies. Promotion
research associated with models of sustainable development, environmental protection, renewable and clean energy and health.
• Safeguarding the research as a public service,
rejecting private appropriation of public resources results of scientific research and
technological subsidized by public funds, must be freely use and dissemination. Guarantee
public nature of research results
publicly funded, consistent modifying the LOU.
• Promotion of public-sector articulation
of private R & D. Consolidation and infrastructure growth in public schools
R & D. Creation and promotion of technology centers
Sectoral with mixed public-private financing,
linked to sectoral or regional activities and
serve as the interface between PROs and companies.
• Strengthen industry quality through
innovation linked to technological development
apply the results of scientific research,
leveraging public resources invested in research, and is fed back to the productive tissue of the territory, oriented towards development
socially and environmentally sustainable.
• Policy support growth templates
R & D in the business sector, with special attention to SMEs. Training programs for
Innovation that consider the training and continuous updating of workers to facilitate
assimilation and interaction with the processes of change
technology.
• gradual reduction of the current system of tax relief on R & D. Substitution mechanisms to support the generation of infrastructure
science and technology and increased staff
own businesses.
• Launch of a line of financial aid
for the development of research projects
respond to the demands of social organizations: unions, neighborhood associations, consumers,
NGOs, environmental organizations, pacifists, etc.
• Employee participation in the design of the
technology policies of companies. Modification
Workers Statute and LOLS to
UNITED LEFT election proposals ELECTIONS 2011/43

include the right of workers to information
and participation in the design of technology policies of companies
Research and technological development should be,
Anyway, indispensable tools for promoting
balanced development of the European map and meet the objective of cohesion, understood as a basic pillar of the
European Union. To do this proposes and defends IU:
• Support networking and centers of excellence
Europeans in research and education,
improving the European dimension of lifelong learning with recognition of qualifications and skills, creating titles, certificates and diplomas and establishing minimum European quality standards
education and training.
• Prioritization of technologies that improve the relationship
innovation / volume and quality of employment generated.
R & D development in education, skills to adapt to the innovation process.
• Development of generic and friendly technologies
the environment, to improve the quality
of life in urban and rural environments. Policies
Active dissemination designed for specific cases (SMEs, less-favored regions, sectors
traditional).
• Recovery and strengthening of research
socioeconomic issues, with special emphasis on
aimed aims to study phenomena
marginalization and social exclusion, migration, social consequences of unemployment and job insecurity.
Social impact assessment of policies to reduce public spending and deregulation
working conditions. Assessing the impact of the
technologies generated on employment, the quality of
life and the environment.
• Applying the precautionary principle in the evaluation of all EU programs, especially in biotechnology, environment and energy.

Increasing scientific and technological cooperation
with Third World countries.
• Promotion of biomedical research criteria
of general interest and sufficient public funding
the same, avoiding decisive influence
Private pharmaceutical industry about what and how
investigates.

4.? PROPOSALS FOR
PUBLIC HEALTH AND
UNIVERSAL
We understand Health as a category beyond
the absence of disease and is considered "a state
full physical, mental and social "welfare.
We stand in defense of the National System
Health throughout their conquered nature: public, universal,
quality, comprehensive, solidarity and equality guaranteed.
We believe that the overriding aim is to give
coverage and services to guarantee the constitutional right of citizens to health protection without
discrimination of any kind. And not just on the slopes
restorative or curative but also in prevention and health promotion.
We understand that health is a right, not a commodity. So we promote the universalization of health and non-contributory and subjective right.
Advocate Public Health
• defend the public nature of the national system
health, without "hybrids-mixed" or parasitic formulas, always oriented towards the benefit of the market. We want to end the imbalance
between the CCAA in per capita spending on health.
• We demand the repeal of Law 15/97, to regain Public Health and an end to privatization and claim a free health of re-payment.

• Inclusion of cohesion as important political criterion in the selection process of priorities and
evaluation of proposals, with special emphasis on
solve the problems of society in the regions
less developed.

SANITARY SYSTEM

• Recovery of the concept of development cooperation and inclusion of the South, especially the Mediterranean countries, Africa and Latin America,
within the objectives and policies of cooperation.

Throughout the years, the NHS has displayed a remarkable ability to generate good sustainable results under different parameters
Performance: Health status of the population, coverage,
UNITED LEFT election proposals ELECTIONS 2011/44

financial access and equity, quality and safety
health care and user satisfaction.
These achievements have been achieved with a relatively level
low cost, when compared with the percentage of GDP
dedicated to healthcare in other European countries. The
Spanish citizens enjoy a healthcare system
with a good cost-quality.
However, despite these positive results, the NHS still has problems to overcome some challenges.
• Promote cohesion within a framework of decentralization: Ensure effective equality among Spaniards in access to services and protection
health, regardless of their community and
vertical equity, reducing differences attributable to different levels of income in the provision
services throughout the country.
• The transition from a model based on care
Acute model based on the management of chronic diseases, including mental illness.
• The incorporation of social and health care and
dependency care as an element of fairness prioritizing based solutions
community.
• Adoption of an assessment system based on the
evidence in the portfolio management services and
implementation of a cost effectiveness analysis.
• Improved clinical management framework and the increase in evidence-based policies in the field of equity and quality of health care.
• The public accountability.
• The sustainability and sufficiency, which have
jumped to the forefront today as a result of the current economic crisis.
• Reform of the Health Cohesion Fund enhancing its funding and introducing part with character
finalist.
• Review and improve existing mechanisms for reimbursement of health systems expenditure
attention in case of accidents and
traffic. Reconsidering the role of subsystems
as MUFACE, ISFAS, etc.
• Increase the number and effectiveness of strategies and
Health plans.

• Establishments of common mechanisms to increase the participation of professionals and
citizens in the management and allocation of resources in health services and the development of
a common system for resource planning
humans.
• Full operation of the National Registry
Health professionals, based on a core model training.
• Establish a national information system SNS health outcomes.
• Promote healthy lifestyles and change
social determinants of health, prioritizing health
public.
• Strengthening the role of evaluation and approval
Medicines and Health Technologies and improved
health research.

PROPOSALS
To meet these challenges, IU proposes:
1. Additional financing of health having as
reference indicator or the approach to an additional 1% of GDP (5'7 to 6'7).
2. Additional funding finalist for providing
substantially the Cohesion Fund to finance
equity and strategies.
3. Rejection of co (re-charge) in healthcare and moderator ticket.
4. Health Reform Cohesion Fund that contemplates new goals that will strengthen its
usefulness as a tool to promote common policies of cohesion in the NHS.
5. Universal health provision as not
tax and subjective citizen right.
6. Extension of health coverage to catalog
including optical, orthopedic and oral health.
7. Recognition of the specialty of Psychology and
inclusion of it in the catalog of health specialties.
8. Strengthen the evaluation function of the Agency
Quality of the National Health System.
UNITED LEFT election proposals ELECTIONS 2011/45

9. Establish a common information system with indicators that provide transparency to the results
Health of the National Health System.
10. Participation of workers, users and population control and planning services
health, organizing "bottom up" and
not vice versa.
11. Evaluation of the impact on health management
health services.
12. Integration of resources and the continuity of
between primary care and specialized care.
13. Improvements in mental health by increasing resources
care and develop a community approach and
create community resources that ensures
proper care and promote the autonomy of the mentally ill.
14. Advance the autonomy of the individual. Our life
it belongs to each of us and must guarantee the right to a dignified death.
15. Regular conscientious objection of health professionals, ensuring compliance with current legislation for voluntary interruption
Pregnancy is conducted in public centers, avoiding
referral to private schools.
16. Establishment of a committee of rare diseases,
that nobody is excluded from health coverage.
IU ensure public health care to social groups affected by rare diseases and
minority.
17. Establish the necessary coordination channels
between the health system and the social support system
to give an effective response to the new demands
citizens caused by major
demographic changes in society, primarily the progressive aging of the population
and the chronicity of the disease as a result of medical advances. Patients with
rare diseases, and people with a mental or behavioral disorder, and
their families, will have a prominent place in this
new socio-sanitary space.
18. Human Resources:
• Establishment of a common system for the planning of human resources from the
needs of doctors, nurses and other professions

sions sanitary distribution criteria and the need for the National Health System. To these
effects is necessary to establish and update a register of persons that incorporates
remuneration, career, professional categories, etc.
• Development of a new map of specialties
Medical grounded in a trunk model
formation.
• Define common criteria for remuneration.
• Develop common mechanisms to improve the
participation of professionals in the management and administration of health services and allocation
resource.
19. To rationalize spending and pharmaceutical services
measures of rational drug use.
20. Enhance public health understood as styles
life or determinants of health from the merely welfare. Strengthen primary care,
mental labor, health etc.
21. Establish a common standard warranty time
maximum access to the National Health System.
Single immunization schedule and extent of e-Health and
common digital clinical history.
22. The civil service mutual insurance systems, the
militia and justice must be integrated into the system
General health care. These systems should
be declared immediately extinguish, of
so that citizens who join these estates in the future, do so directly
the general system.
23. Mutual, Occupational Risk Prevention,
Collaborating agencies, car insurance,
Prison Health, tax treatment of private health insurance, are some of the
Examples of the complexity of the framework of the health sector, in most cases inheritance
past, others newly developed. All
they represent a considerable lack of harmony
with the fact that our health system is
universal, and that all health risks should be covered by the single policy that
Spaniards have by virtue of being. Likely
heritage of the unfinished transition between
D.S. system and one Universal. The logic of these devices will systematically against
good sense, financing the S.N.S. and
quality of services.
UNITED LEFT election proposals ELECTIONS 2011/46

5.? PROPOSALS FOR SOME
SOCIAL SERVICES
QUALITY
We must ensure that social services public
be the reference for the development of social protection, which should not be interfered with by a privatization
destructively services for universal coverage
social needs.
We transform social services currently
existing ones, so that they are not a functional mechanism to
capitalist system, which favors the existence of a reserve army of socially excluded. We demand a
participatory social services and well managed from
public.
Social services must fight poverty and
inequality in four areas: socio, socio, socio-cultural and, from a preventive perspective and gender. So we must recover and
ensure a fourth pillar of the welfare state: generator
rights and guarantees of prevention and protection, community network generators and social employment.
We transform the existing social services, so that they are not a functional mechanism,
welfare and poverty controller as a past charitable charities.

PROPOSALS

1. The first step must be to increase
social spending, at least to equate average
European and reach 7% of GDP. Expenditure
it is necessary that serve to address social needs, it is also cost intensive
employment and builds infrastructure and
equipment that support the various
social rights enshrined in the Constitution.
That spending has to be at least the same
the average of the Union, 8 points of GDP higher
the current; in that context reach a budget
budget sufficient for the development of
called law of dependency.
2. Development of a Charter of Social Rights and
legal instrument for the import duties are defined subjectively by citizens.
Unify criteria for fixing cards and social rights through the legal instrument
catalogs of social benefits with distinction

offer portfolios of services and defining enforceable rights subjectively by citizens.
3. We want a State Social Services Law,
conceiving social services as a right
instituted.
4. Promote Basic Law for the implementation of
a minimum income or basic social wage statewide
for its development and management by the CCAA and shared funding. The fight against social exclusion,
especially in times of crisis, it requires this legal instrument of general scope to respond
Statewide enough without undermining the competence of the regional governments to manage and own development.
5. Design of active social inclusion programs
for groups or at risk of exclusion
for various reasons.
6. We demand financing and governance of the Act
Dependence, that any affected person to choose
be attended by specialists at home or in a
center suits your needs and time
expected not to exceed six months. We want to avoid
the perverse application that is making the Law
Unit that promotes the "feminization of
care "by" providing the carer. "
You must be a law of professional and public services,
and the economic benefit for family members should be
exceptional.
7. Policies of disability support should involve a radical commitment to the promotion of personal autonomy and equal rights. We demand
coercive legislation regarding removal of barriers and employment of persons with disabilities.
8. Promotion of policies to support citizens / as with
Disabled as the promotion of personal autonomy and equal rights
a clear commitment to ensure local Accessibility
in the territory in terms of infrastructure and access to employment and social services, Application to
urban planning accessibility criteria
universal. Disclose and make a work of public awareness on the rights of access to all
public spaces for people with mobility
reduced. Enforce laws and regulations
accessibility, facilitating the use of public transport for people with disabilities
making it accessible and affordable.
9. We propose the construction of a national network of
public nursing homes.
UNITED LEFT election proposals ELECTIONS 2011/47

10. We advocate a public social services 100%
for the benefit of users, but also of professionals, as workers
rights and guarantees public and not as precarious workers in private subcontractors.

6.? PROPOSALS FOR THE
HOUSING IS A RIGHT
• consider housing as a right and demand
developed by Organic Law Article 47 of the
Constitution guarantees this right.
• We propose that the State and the Autonomous Communities acquired
annual package built houses and
Finished proportional to the demand for housing
at cost price.

We defend the pension system as a mechanism of redistribution of wealth and not as one
cumulative, as in the case of private pensions. We must defend, inform and raise awareness that
This pension system is sustainable and economic
socially.
We are against any freezing of pensions, indeed, we believe that it is necessary to revalue.
We oppose any change to access and
their calculation, so we propose:
• Eliminate contribution ceilings and bring
contribution to real wages.
• The retirement age will not increase above
age 65.
• The calculation period is not increased to calculate the pension beyond 15 years. We defend not
increase the contribution years needed, but its
decrease

• Encourage self-help housing.
• Moratorium on mortgage payments to individuals
unemployed.

• pensions are revalued at least as much
increasing prices (CPI) and even more for
lower pensions.

• Elimination of "land" clause in the mortgage
into force and future.

• Recovery of the purchasing power lost to pensioners who were froze pensions in 2011.

• All evictions will be suspended in case of
unemployed workers in order to
avoid running the release of housing. They
establish a mediation system that allows
those affected can continue in your home by a payment in any case exceed 30%
of their income.

• more flexible retirement age voluntarily
in certain professional activities, encouraging in that case the pension.

• We demand the payment in kind and it is retroactive for people deshauciadas
eviction process or as a result of
economic crisis, so they do not follow
paying the mortgage debt of a house that already
they do not have.

7.? PROPOSALS FOR SOME
Fair pensions
It goes without cutting benefits or raising the age of
or extending the retirement age to calculate the pension.
What is needed is to strengthen and consolidate the system.

• Ultimately, the public pension system
It can be partially financed by taxes.
We demand the creation of an Organic Law
of Social Security pensions, exceeding the
Toledo Pact and the guarantee and improve.

8.? PROPOSALS
JUSTICE REFORM
The Spanish constitutional system has been unable to
secure the independence of the judiciary. The partisan use of important organs such as the
Constitutional Court, the General Council of the
Judicial or the Attorney General is so clear that
It produced the crisis is undermining the credibility of the
Justice itself. It is necessary to ensure the independence
Judiciary:
UNITED LEFT election proposals ELECTIONS 2011/48

• Reform the system of choice for TC, and CGPJ
Solicitor general
• Attribution to the prosecutor of Instruction in
criminal proceedings.
• Regulation of a system of incompatibilities and
requirements to ensure that members of the Board
General of the Judiciary act autonomously, with no ties or dependencies on
other bodies or authorities.
• The General Council of the Judiciary will have as
priority action the defense of independence
Judges, by regulating to protect
members of the judiciary who are attacked
his duties unlawfully
Correcting this situation requires reform the system of choice for these organs. In the case of the Prosecutor
General, your choice should depend cessation
of the Parliament. You should change the model
Prosecutor, attributing the statement to the prosecutor himself. Another problem regarding the constitutional design
Justice is the permanence of courts from the
Franco, like the National Court and the Courts
Military, which should go away and spend their powers to the ordinary courts.
There is a corporate rejection of an important part of
the judiciary, conservative and sometimes totalitarian ideology, the application of Universal Justice and pressure
exerted to maintain impunity for crimes
Franco. The persecution and clarifying crimes Franco and the restoration of honor of the victims is a moral duty of the democratic state.
Should be regulated otherwise access the judiciary:
• Replacing the classical opposition Access System
for approving access to school court in which
access for candidates based on examination syllabus
that is not only based on memory exercises and others through accreditation of merits.
There is a progressive distancing of Justice regarding its citizens concrete and opacity
the difficulties of the citizen to have
information and access it directly, without
having to hire an attorney or a lawyer. A
added problem is the delay in the proceedings
which must:
• Increase the ratio of judges per capita, for
equate to that of neighboring countries.

Justice propose democratize and transform their
A transparent public administration, agile
and quality, close to the citizen. We must alert
on plans for privatization and liquidation of the right
constitutional to "legal aid" provided to
by on duty.
Modification of the mechanisms for the enjoyment of the
legal aid and simplifying procedures for
concession, in order that he not be deprived of the right
essential to justice for all citizens.

9. POLICY FOR CHILDREN
To United Left the children are citizens, just like adults. Their state of development,
age can not be an excuse to not take them seriously.
We therefore propose:
• Approve an organic law of comprehensive measures to
combat violence against children, addressing
the different forms of violence and establish coordinated action to prevent and detect it in the social, health, educational areas and measures
justice, ensuring prompt treatment of
the victims.
• Increase the percentage of public spending
families and children, to at least the
European average of 2.3%.
• Approve a plan of action against child poverty
and the welfare of children with measurable objectives, performance indicators, budget and coordination mechanisms between
public administrations.
• Reform the Organic Law 1/1996 on the legal protection of the child and the framework legislation
system of child protection, to establish common minimum standards for intervention
government and ensure maximum
judicial review of decisions affecting the
fundamental rights of children.
• Extend the length of maternity and paternity leave as a means to promote reconciliation
work and family and promote positive parenting.
• expressly prohibit civil code in physical and humiliating punishment as a way to educate or correct
children.
UNITED LEFT election proposals ELECTIONS 2011/49

• Create an ombudsman for Children within
Institution of Ombudsman and strengthen
functions of research and systematic collection
Childhood Observatory data to obtain
an annual "x" of the situation of children
in Spain.
• Review the legal and administrative procedures to ensure the child's right to be heard and to promote child participation.
• Include children as a horizontal priority
the next director of the Spanish Cooperation Plan, remain committed to the Millennium
Development Goals and the commitment to achieve
0.7% of GDP for official development assistance.

10. SECURITY POLICY
The State has the fundamental task to ensure their
citizens to exercise their rights freely, so
that the concept of security must be integral. Services of Public Security, Civil Protection, Rehabilitation
social, Road Safety ... being exclusive powers
State, are provided from the Home Office but
They interact with the actions of other ministries:
Health, Education, Public Administration. All
This brings us to the key of Cooperation, so the
effectively demand a coordinated security system
multilateral action.
From the point of view of social welfare Left
and security are complementary concepts. They can not
security policies be effective if it is not addressed
poverty, unemployment, immigration and xenophobia and
social exclusion through comprehensive employment policies
and social protection.
To all this we must unite him a slow process but
very dangerous privatization of public safety
for those who can afford it.
Since IU defend the streets, cities are
to live them, enjoy them collectively therefore advocate a new system based Public Safety:
• The prevention and social protection, Plans
Integral action and crime prevention
in neighborhoods hit by social exclusion.
• Citizen participation, through the revitalization of the Local Security Councils.

• Priorities for action with criminal phenomena (Organized Crime, Violence against women,
Corruption, financial crime ...)
• The police efficiency and effective coordination of all
the security forces, the United Left defends
build a new decentralized police system
civil, equipped with appropriate technical means and a
Modern training as a police career, allowing
solve the general function of public security and administrative police; the police function
judicial or research and healthcare function,
oriented social mediation at the request of the parties problems.
• Strict limitation of private security and control
Of the same
• Set the civilian character of all police forces, which would complete the process of demilitarization of the Guardia Civil. Until then, guarantee the rights of the Civil Guards, as the
association.
• Unify state bodies in the State Police;
diversifying its organization "or Agencies
Addresses".
• Develop the basic legislation for the delimitation of powers agreements between all the police:
State, regional and local; protocols
intervention.
• Determine a common Code of Ethics to all basic
the police.
• Recognition as risky profession Police
and incorporation of the group of local and regional police on the application of reduction coefficients
in the retirement age.

11.? WATER AS
PUBLIC SERVICE
Water supply and sanitation is
one of the most important services that public authorities are obliged to provide the citizens
and they are currently with management problems and
immersed in a privatization pressure, which is already being
object of reflection and mobilization of society
and UI itself.
UNITED LEFT election proposals ELECTIONS 2011/50

PROPOSALS FOR PUBLIC MANAGEMENT
WATER INVESTEE
In Spain there has been an important tradition in the public management of water supply and sanitation, that despite the economic difficulties has operated
mainly giving a good quality service. Is
from 20 years, under pressure from large
private water companies (Agbar and Aqualia, mainly) when a privatization process is proceeding smoothly
preceding that currently assumed that the
private companies managing more than 50% of population
served.
Most of privatization do not obey reasons
efficiency, but the will to give input to the sector
a private business without risk and high profit rates. But privatization is a constant source
problems, since its inception (corruption awards, Sheets of lax conditions) and
in its further development (providing poorer services,
breach of contract, lack of transparency, higher fees unjustified, etc.). Privatization also difficult in the extreme control of public administrations and hinders citizen participation in
its management.
Therefore the privatization of water services has caused the opposition of important social sectors. Since
IU more than a decade, along with unions,
neighborhood associations and other social movements have
They have been struggling, with more or less success against privatization of this sector. Remember struggles
Oviedo, Alcoy, Zaragoza, Huesca, Alcala de Henares and
Currently Huelva and Madrid (Canal de Isabel II).
We are against privatization does not mean that
we are complacent about the current operation
public water services, on which we must reflect to improve efficiency and quality.
Therefore IU proposed:
• The defense of public services management
supply and sanitation and opposition to privatization. IU propose a law in Parliament
to ensure public management of such services,
similar to that in some European countries (eg
Holland).
• The ongoing commitment to improving services
water, introducing new models to improve
the effectiveness, efficiency, equity and quality of service and
to ensure transparency and public participation in their management bodies.

• Support and strengthen the Spanish Association of Operators
Public Water Supply and Sanitation (AEOPAS)
defense body of governance of water,
technical support between public companies and public-public cooperation with public services
Third World.
• If privatization processes are initiated IU
He promises to fight them together
trade unions and social movements, demanding that
this decision is taken, at least, transparency
democratically and with the effective participation
citizens affected.
• IU will propose a bill to clear the figure of the concession fee, money owed
pay the dealer the City to manage
water service or other type privatized. Collecting
canon, which also increases the cost of service is one of the greatest incentives for privatization.
• If the service is privatized IU undertakes to exercise strict control over the operation of the service, analyzing their weaknesses and denouncing breaches of contract and how
irregularities committed dealer. In addition we will raise, with civil society, its redistricting.

12.? PROPOSALS FOR
PUBLIC POSTAL SECTOR
AND QUALITY
• Reorientation of the Spanish postal regulation framework,
with the overhaul of the current Postal Act.
Reorientation of the Postal Act, which fully liberalized postal market in January 2011, in the worst
scenario of economic crisis, which has chosen to transpose the most deregulation and neoliberal options.
• Secured funding for the Postal Service
Universal and regulating its provision
• balanced Regulating competition
• To promote a business model for postal employment and ensuring its viability in the new Postal context
• Employment policies that reconcile the contribution of
Mail to the generation of employment activity
own public postal company.
UNITED LEFT election proposals ELECTIONS 2011/51

13. PROMOTION OF SPORT
It is necessary to develop a Plan of Sports Promotion
coordination with the Autonomous Communities, undertaking specific programs such as the following:
• Actions that stimulate and develop the habit of
sports in children, adolescents and young people
the aim that as many young people regularly practice one or more sports, with specific measures for the completion of teaching
mandatory at age 16.
• Sport at school age in schools outside school hours, must be entroncado
Educational Project with the school where
is performed.
• This plan will have its development up to the university sport where in collaboration with the
Universities from different Communities promote sports in their students, supporting
university competitions while improving
training of sports education levels
before college and the same studies
university.
• For the elderly: a comprehensive public strategy is necessary to support, encourage and facilitate healthy physical activity usually performed between the
old people.
• Disabled people, working closely
with social organizations of disabled persons and the Sports Federations to integrate these people into their activities, improving
accessibility to all sports and support
municipalities to improve the accessibility of
sports facilities of these people.
• Specific programs that promote sport
among women.
• Program investments in maintenance and improvement of sports facilities, coordinated with the
Autonomous Community as needed.
• Awareness campaigns and awareness
the benefits of regular physical activity for the
Health improvement.
• Development of plans for continuous training of technicians and research of sports.

UNITED LEFT election proposals ELECTIONS 2011/52

5

PROPOSALS
FEMINIST

The feminist revolution must be the backbone of all
policies of social transformation from the left,
therefore all our political program must be transversely framed with general policies that address
gender.
Feminism should form a constituent part of democracy, of the relations of production and personal, the
economic model and all areas that make
the social fabric. Hence feminism as a philosophy and practical politics is to IU's structuring and transverse axis of our policy of transformation. Our
proposals, priorities and political practices must be
framed from the perspective of gender. It is the political strategy that demand for items
consolidated final and equality for everyone.
However, for real equality is not diluted between
generic proposals, measures should encarase
They are specifically designed to eliminate discrimination with positive action to encourage and reward such serious imbalances between women and men, in favor of the latter.

1.? POLITICAL RIGHTS,
PARITY DEMOCRACY
AND BUDGETS
EQUITY
The policy remains designed so patriarchal:
citizenship rights are rights of women
Politicians still pending.
Participatory democracy means for women
possibility to directly influence the forms and the
What policy. And one way to implement participatory, joint and transversal policies are participatory budgets with a gender perspective. Do
this policy workable participatory democracy means
create the political environment for women to be integrated fully in an area of ​​direct decision:
Parity, cross proposals, direct responsibility, respect for human rights of the
Women ... are factors facilitators of democracy
participatory and feminist.

2.? SOCIAL RIGHTS
THE ECONOMIC AND
WOMEN
The financial markets and the speculative economy
limited democracy are intrinsically linked. Social and economic rights of all people are
They are caught for the maintenance of capitalist profit.
The capitalist crisis directly attacks conditions
apparently consolidated life and sectors more
women are vulnerable. Therefore, economic independence, job security, equality
wage, today have more sense, if anything, since what
The aim is to seize not only the achievements,
but even the concepts vindicated by women.
The measures being taken are aggravating
inequalities among the most vulnerable sectors of the population and among women and men. We must make proposals fully confronted with political decisions
neoliberal and patriarchal, building societies
invest in social welfare, through a budget
progressive public redeploy resources and wealth.
In this context of transformation and social awareness we must go for public investment in social infrastructure, convert the constitutional right to work on a pillar, develop measures to end
wage gap, with the most precarious sectors
feminized. We generate public systems
further guarantee decent quality jobs.

3.? STOP THE VIOLENCE
GENDER AND EXCLUSION
SOCIAL
Gender-based violence is a violation of the Rights
human and encompasses the entire Company.
Acts of violence against women are varied
and in different forms. The idea of ​​equality between the sexes, although present in the common imagination, not yet
structurally built. Hence, the strength of the
sexist oppression sitting endlessly. To eradicate gender-based violence is also essential to eradicate the cornerstone that supports: inequality.
UNITED LEFT election proposals ELECTIONS 2011/54

It is necessary to expand the narrow development is in
the Comprehensive Act, incorporating many other forms of violence against women, economic violence, violence
sex, prostitution ...

Some of the proposals that make up our strategy for changing society, and in many cases
transversalized must be dismembered and the whole of this program.

Recently, new mechanisms have triggered violence, as the nonexistent "Parental Alienation Syndrome" that has passed since renamed "patriarchal alienation syndrome" because it has been shown
conclusively that its use by some
sectors more responsive to ideological, cultural, gender and androgynous that scientific motivations.

• Creation of a Ministry of Gender Equality / Women
with exclusive competence and adequate budget, from which should coordinate policies
transversal and inter for equality between women and men.

4.? SEXUAL RIGHTS
AND REPRODUCTIVE
Sexual and reproductive rights guarantee freedom
decision on how to live one's own body. They include
free choice of women to practice sexuality without
sexist social coercion without necessarily determine that motherhood stereotypes. They are rights
women have to share sexually our
life without moral or religious determinations preset
or imposed.
We also believe that heterosexism, as prevailing social construction, remains the predominant form of sex do not share. Do not
only meaning of gender inequality,
since the imposition heterosexual remains a form
of oppression against women but because we defend
loving, emotional and sexual relationships of people,
regardless of their biological sex.

5.? PROPOSALS FOR
WOMEN'S EQUALITY
AND MEN
Beyond the laws of paper, it should be effective in
the productive, educational and communication fields the
real measures to achieve a substantial change in the material conditions of women and the
our awareness about patriarchal societies that endure discrimination and continuous arise because of the social relations of production
capitalists.

• Estimates not less than 5%, for carrying
specific policies of equality for women.
Budget increase commitment to gender equality policies, with the obligation to reach at least 5% over the next four years.
• Modification of the law of General Electoral System
to ensure that the electoral lists contemplate
actually 50% of women.
• For the truly democratic election process must ensure that the lists are made
fully in all odd or even numbers
women. It must also be politically and legally ensure that the final composition of the organs
Institutional is equal, as a way to expand
participation of women and to encourage and facilitate
women to decision-making at all levels.
• Effective development of participatory democracy,
through the implementation of the Budget
Participatory Gender Perspective.
• The state budgets reflect
policy objectives of the government, therefore,
they must not only be participated and agreed
with society, but it must also be tours with a gender perspective in its analysis
and in all its programs, to go, equivalently, eradicating inequalities.
• Development of the State Council of Women, composed exclusively of women's associations,
of women for equality and regional councils
women's full autonomy endowed and supported financially by the state. Their reports /
rulings are binding on all matters, that general, have a special impact on the lives of women.
• to put in place mandatory under the Regulation
institutional and organs parity and tips
citizen participation, with a perspective
wide institutional level
UNITED LEFT election proposals ELECTIONS 2011/55

• Elimination of the pay gap between women and
men. They shall take measures to
elimination in their field of direct and indirect discrimination in wage inequality
women. The long-standing claim of equal pay for equal work, is still a demand without getting. All our crossing formalities
labor standards, decay for themselves whether control mechanisms that prevent it are generated den
discrimination, in this case wage.
• Combating labor segregation and casualization
the more feminized labor sectors. the division
sex work and jobs within the same
sector is still an overwhelming reality. Sectors
such as industry, steel, metal, fishing ...
• Building a network of Public Services
possible to reconcile work and private life.
• Policies that advance the domestic responsibility and incorporate in the calculation of GDP work
reproductive, which it is mainly performed by
women, which would be a 25% of its total calculation.
• Encourage the incorporation and career
Women in traditional economic sectors
where they are underrepresented.
• We advocate that not a moment is not to delay
permits the establishment of birth and / or
adoption for each parent / a transferable, progressively they must achieve an equal duration. For
This requires articulating the necessary transitional measures to increase parental permission (or 'other
parent ') to reach equality with mothers. The urgent amendment of the Statute is necessary
Workers and Employee Basic Statute
Public, in the sense normativizar full responsibility in the upbringing and care of sons and daughters.
• Equalization Regime of Domestic Workers
the General Regime.
• Modification of the Comprehensive Law to recognize gender-based violence in all its forms and
I define as a violation of human rights of women, framed in a context of
relationships of domination.
• Budget allocation to specific programs to address prevention, awareness, action against Gender Violence.
These funds will be earmarked for direct and structural measures.

• Modification and actual operation of the Fund
Foods Pension divorced couples.
• In terms of joint custody, we advocate the exercise of custody responsibly, based on
the belief that changes in this area only
are possible with the complicity of the entire society and the
mutual agreement of men and women. We believe that
joint custody is the best choice whenever
is accepted freely and mutually agreed by both spouses; it is not feasible or positive if it is a measure
court imposed without the agreement of both; it can not
grant in case of Domestic Violence.
• IU why not cooperate and will not allow, either by action or omission, the imposition of the Custody
Shared as preferred, in any legislative or regulatory development.
• Development of active policies against exploitation
sexual women and the abolition of prostitution. It is essential the legal equalization of
victims of trafficking, smuggling and prostitution.
• Prohibition of ads and advertising of prostitution, turning women into merchandise, facilitate
the proliferation of gangs, reflect a degrading image. While this measure is consolidated, we must
From the elimination of institutional advertising of the means to benefit from the so-called
"Contact ads."
• Respect for diversity. Policies aimed at immigrants.
• Total Decriminalization in the Penal Code Break
Pregnancy voluntary, based on recognition
the right to the IVE based on the free choice of women and ensure their practice in the first 24 weeks in Public Health. Besides this coverage should
be ensured at any time during pregnancy if
It endangers the lives of women.
• formal sex education.
• Birth control should be considered
as fundamental health products. From there
we propose the reduction in the VAT rate (4%).
• Implementation of programs to enhance
artistic, cultural and research activities
women, given the diversity.
• Supports Control Cooperation. No funding
programs to further encourage discrimination,
strengthening of roles or job segregation.
UNITED LEFT election proposals ELECTIONS 2011/56

6

PROPOSALS
TO ADVANCE
IN EQUALITY

1. P
? PROPOSALS FOR
EQUAL RIGHTS
LGTBI: PAR
the real legal equality
Capitalism stands as supported system
multiple dominations that reinforce submission
large swathes of humanity. The heteropatriarchy contribute to this cause by placing a fundamental part of humanity, especially women
but also those who differ from heterosexual pattern,
at a disadvantage, getting used to
discrimination, subjugation and standardization
male-hegemonic heterosexual model.
Despite the historic gains made by
the LGBTI movement on sexual freedoms in recent years, today there are still positions that defend seek to perpetuate discrimination and inequality. The partnership between the
And right Catholic Church offers a good example of
Therefore, they are trying to impose their moral regarding
the rights and freedoms of citizens. Remains
much to do, but is necessary to prevent any
kick, consolidate what has been achieved and move forward through the struggle and work on the streets and
institutions. The civic dignity of lesbian,
gay, bisexual, transgender and intersex can not
be questioned.
Social cuts and attacks against the State of
Welfare driven markets pose serious dangers for particular social groups
vulnerable to the economic crisis of capitalism.
Today lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender have
certain rights, but we continue to suffer
precariousness, unemployment and school bullying. Precariously there can be no equality.
Thanks to the tireless struggle of the LGBTI movement
despite constant attacks from the right, we have
won legal equality. Now we must continue
defending, but without forgetting that social equality and
Real is still a pending issue.
In this situation from green left alternative and we are committed to:
• Adoption of a Comprehensive Law against LGTBIfobia
criminalizing discrimination on orientation
sexual or gender identity. This law will pick one
specific section on domestic violence in the

same-sex couples, with a program against
intragénero violence that includes education and prevention areas.
• Amendment of Article 14 of the Constitution
Spanish 1978 to include express prohibition
of discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation and
gender identity.
• Characterization of discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation and gender identity as a specific crime and an aggravating circumstance in the Criminal Code.
• Withdrawal or denial of any aid or subsidy from government
those public or private entities for their
ideology or engage in any activity LGTBIfobia demonstration.
• Development of the actions foreseen in the Law
19/2007, of 11 July against violence, racism, xenophobia and intolerance in sport
addresses discrimination based on racial or
ethnic, geographic or social, as well as religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation.
• Creation of an institute or service, free public,
for the promotion, protection and care of equality
LGTBI social collective.
• Development and implementation of plans and policies that address gender and sexual orientation
gender identity transversely.
• Establishment, in provision of section 149.27
of the Constitution, basic rules for all
media, both publicly owned
and private, to promote respect for diversity and awareness to fight discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity.
Approval of a control protocol stereotypes
and prejudices about the reality in the media LGTBI
communication.
• Support for the development, coordination and operation
of associations and promoting LGTBI
dialogue between the administrations of the State and
the LGBTI associations.
• Applying transversally of fighting
discrimination based on sexual orientation and identity
gender institutions, workshops or other entities working discriminated realities:
women, youth, immigration, functional diversity,
Roma people ...
UNITED LEFT election proposals ELECTIONS 2011/58

• Promote the implementation of the European Directive
2000/78 / EC on equal treatment in employment
and occupation with the help and involvement of
unions and associations of employers to
against discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity in the workplace.
• Development in Spain of the European Programme for Action
Community Progress (2007-2013) and especially
the fourth section, entitled "Anti-discrimination and
diversity ", which aims to support the effective implementation of
principle of non-discrimination in all policies
EU.

Educating in diversity
affective-sexual
• Inclusion in the educational curriculum, so both
transverse and specific, relevant content
education in sexual diversity, diversity of family models, values ​​of respect
and tolerance, etc.
• specific and permanent training of teachers
to work the sexual diversity and gender
in education, in collaboration with the associations LGTBI.
• Implementation of a psycho service (Tutoring
Attention to sexual diversity) in all
public schools that may advises,
address and mediate conflicts and issues related to sexual and gender diversity.
• Development of a specific protocol for responding effectively to cases of bullying
LGTBIfóbico on in education.

Our health care
• Consideration of HIV / AIDS as a
true state matter, and therefore firm
a State Pact against HIV / AIDS committing all social and institutional players
involved, to ensure a comprehensive response to
infection and universal access to services and prevention programs, treatment, care and support,
with special attention to the social groups most
vulnerable.
• Promoting research and innovation of new drugs and therapies to fight infection

HIV / AIDS, as well as coverage by
public health restorative surgery for
lipodystrophy.
• Implementation of public awareness campaigns against social stigmatization of people living with HIV / AIDS.
• effective engagement of the health administration with the health care of LGBTI people,
and especially in relation to our sexual health,
launching information and training actions for health personnel on health
LGTBI and contemplating these insights in their
initial and continuing training and facilitating a deal
egalitarian, dignified and respectful of people LGTBI
in healthcare environments.

We are also family
• support of family diversity. The actions of the
Administration in children and families contemplate family diversity and ensure the rights of children, of parents.
• Amendment of Law for Assisted Reproduction
allow the sale of eggs within marriages between two women.
• Recognition of the right to joint adoption and parentage of unmarried couples of the same sex
equating to unmarried couples differently
sex.
• Inclusion in the catalog of benefits of the
Social security coverage processes
assisted reproductive couples of women and girls
• Ensuring the proper implementation of instruction
which regulates the filiation of children born by surrogacy in the terms that determines the
same.
• Recognition of the right to enjoy low
of parenthood to couples formed by men.
• Amendment of the articles of the Civil Code concerning
and the determination of paternity test to resolve the situation of marriages of two women
when they try to enroll their offspring in the
civil registration and are required prior appearance
of nonpregnant before birth.
UNITED LEFT election proposals ELECTIONS 2011/59

• Working internationally for countries
Source adoptees / as eliminate restrictions on international adoptions by couples
the same sex and / or LGBTI people.
• Reformulation of the terminology referred
to maternity leave (long period) and paternity
(Short) when they are awarded to members
same-sex marriages.
• Possibility in health centers is carried
out freezing eggs and sperm before
hormonación start processes by the
transgender people.

Justice and security LGTBI
• promoting knowledge of reality by LGTBI
the staff of the administration of justice
and the forces and state security,
and creating specialized programs
attention to allegations of LGTBIfóbicas actions.
• Training for combat LGTBIfobia among prison staff as well as the rejection of
HIV-positive people.
• Promoting awareness-raising of the prison population on sexual diversity and HIV / AIDS.
• Promoting the use of condoms in schools
prison.

Equality at work
• promotion of specific training for agents
social (business / and unions) about the reality and promoting equality of LGBT in
the workplace, as well as incorporation of the LGBT look explicitly in its policy, plans and
agreements.
• Training and awareness of and responsible
labor inspection in reality LGTB to monitor and ensure non-discrimination on orientation
sexual or gender identity in the workplace.

6. CULTURAL DIVERSITY
• Promotion of cultural initiatives
LGTBI with reality and discussion about gender and sexuality. They promote seeking

university collaboration, reflection and
scientific research on sexual diversity
and gender.
• Promotion of scientific research initiatives
(Such as chairs) on the reality LGTBI from all
perspectives: sociology, anthropology, history,
health, social psychology ... encouraging collaboration
universities and other scientific institutions.

Sexual freedom without borders
• commitment and cooperation in the defense and promotion of the rights of LGBTI people in few
international forums and organizations involved Spain.
• Support for the development, coordination and operation
the LGBTI international associations and promoting dialogue between administrations
State and LGBTI associations.
• Support for the commemoration of the International Day
LGBTI Pride, as a day of celebration and recognition of sexual diversity and the fight for
human rights of lesbians,
gay, transgender, bisexual and intersex.
• Stricter monitoring of compliance with the principles
equality and non-discrimination in the EU governing
each and every one of the countries that compose it.
Appropriate actions will be proposed (reforms
legal, social intervention programs and,
case, sanctions) to fight LGTBIfobia
institution that still exists in certain countries
Union.
• Preparation and approval of an action plan LGTBI
Spanish for international cooperation. This plan
will own equity for development.
• Tracking and monitoring of the Spanish funds
cooperation to prevent them from institutions and organizations that advocate or harboring the
LGTBIfobia.

Right to self gender identity
• Promoting an international commitment for depathologization and transsexuality
elimination of psychiatric manual of mental disorders.

UNITED LEFT election proposals ELECTIONS 2011/60

• Implementation of a plan for professional insertion and employment promotion for the transgender population, with special mention and attention to transgender women.

• specific studies to know and
address the incidence of HPV infection and
HIV / AIDS in the group of lesbian women.

• Modification of the law on foreigners so that the name change be allowed
and sex of transsexuals immigrants
identification documents issued by the State
Spanish.

• Promoting the use of the female condom through
awareness campaigns to prevent
STI lesbians.

• Changing the Gender Identity Law with
transsexual community participation: decrease
the time required treatment and removal
the need to "diagnosis of gender dysphoria"
as a prerequisite for change
name registration, registration authorization change
for children in care and their parents / mothers
accompanied by a medical report to support it.
• Approval of a protocol that does not indicate pathology
some care for transgender people
in public health, ensuring treatment
hormonal, psychological support, surgical treatments, decentralizing the UIG (Unit
Gender Identity), to be treated by the
specialists and the provinces of users and
addressing the care of minors.
• Implementation of a treatment protocol for children and educational intervention transsexuals.
• Promotion of comprehensive laws on Transsexualism in
Autonomous regions, to ensure non-discrimination and the rights of transsexuals.
• Deletion of references relating to sex in the
National Identity Document (DNI) and other official documents.

Visible lesbian
• Commissioning of public social awareness campaigns that offer reference for the empowerment of women and lesbian visibility
in the public sphere.

Free Youth cabinets
• implementation of programs to promote self-esteem and self-recognition of the adolescents LGTBI, creation and / or support services and support
LGBTI youth guidance and safe spaces and
open for socializing.
• Promotion of LGBTI youth associations, with the
aim to promote the participation and empowerment of the LGBTI youth in society.
• Implementation of assistance mechanisms within social services to address issues such as abandonment or expulsion from the family home
LGTBI of children and adolescents.

Diversity ageless limits
• Training of nursing homes and geriatric
on sexual and gender diversity, with special
attention to the fight against LGTBIfobia.
• Promotion and training of volunteers to assist
LGBTI seniors and / or functional diversity.
• Promoting awareness-raising of the elderly population on sexual diversity and gender and
HIV AIDS.
• Institutional support for self-management experiences
residential centers for elderly or LGTBI
seropositive.
• Promotion of a policy of free enjoyment of sexuality
in residential centers for seniors, is
regardless of their sexual orientation or gender identity

• Training of health personnel, mainly from
gynecology area, about sexual practices among
women and their risks, for inclusion in their
action protocols.
• Inclusion in the policies of gender equality
actions aimed specifically at lesbians, transsexuals and bisexuals.
UNITED LEFT election proposals ELECTIONS 2011/61

2. P
? PROPOSALS for
guarantee rights
migrants
Improve the rights, ensure compliance: all and
all are part of citizenship

A legislature setbacks
programmatic proposals made are based on a
very negative assessment of current developments in migration policies in the European Union and Spain.
At the EU level, beyond the rhetoric, it is lacking
of a real common immigration policy, given the defense
each state makes its exclusive competence. Community umbrella has primarily served to adopt
control measures and selection of migratory movements, immigration and shielding their common borders,
all with a clear repressive and selfish character.
The amendment to the Schengen Agreement, made by the
presidents of France and Italy following the arrival of some
thousands of migrants to the Italian and Maltese coasts, is the
logical consequence of the policy derives from EU
immigration and rights; They are used as migration
an excuse for cuts freedoms that affect all citizens, stationing himself a fortress Europe
insensitive to what happens outside its borders and increasingly
repressive inside.
The threat of the rise of the extreme right, once again,
It has been used for the worst forms; instead of fighting
xenophobic and racist positions, governments appropriated
of its program, which will be a powerful incentive to
right wing groups with either presentation
become more presence in the whole EU.
It has continued with the externalization of borders,
which aims to make inaccessible the southern border of Europe,
with a high economic cost and much more painful in lives and suffering. The actions of the agency
FRONTEX not only trying to "protect" our borders
unwanted "invasions", but to prevent departures from countries of origin or transit at any price.
The consequences of the political changes in North
Africa and the civil war in Libya, aggravated by the intervention
foreign, it has highlighted the priorities of the EU:
while to justify bombing with the excuse of
need to protect the civil population, thousands refugees lost at sea trying to escape by
any means.

At the same time it blocked any type of immigration that is not related to employment and selected according to
needs of our domestic markets (circular flows,
uptake of highly skilled professionals ...) which
It has increased the effects of the economic crisis. They
close the way to family reunification and the right to asylum
It becomes an empty forecast content rules.
The Spanish government has had the dubious honor of leading
some of the toughest proposals. The PSOE appears to have
assumed the "unpopularity" of speeches focused on the defense of human rights of migrants (whether regular or irregular) present in our country. Your satisfaction
to join the discourse of good immigrant is an immigrant
with high professional qualifications and vocation
assimilated to the national past a reasonable time, do not contribute to a pedagogy from the left on the reality of immigration, its link with the policies of neoliberal globalization and, above all, allows the survival of
administrative situation of "irregularity" that strips
thousands of human beings of their most basic rights.
In this term we have witnessed significant setbacks in recognition of civil rights and the

design fair migration model. Despite the social activism and political pressure made from the IU, a
further reform of the Immigration Act has increased the periods of detention thereby running Directive
the shame; the new Asylum Act, adopted in 2009,
Of course a clear regression in relation to the previous rules; Finally, reform of the electoral law has been removed
the Spanish emigrants vote in local elections
and hindered their exercise in the rest.
In our country, unjust and immoral Act Immigration remains. The current regulatory framework of foreignness, despite the official rhetoric, denied basic rights, hinders access to documentation and imposes a
repressive penalty system, which is generating that
a growing part of our society is found
outside the exercise of basic human rights. Many immigrants, especially those who
are "paperless" (with a tendency to increase
due to the rigor of the current regulations and the impact of
crisis), are subjected to exploitation by employers
unscrupulous, who see in this situation the possibility
to source of cheap and docile labor, without social security and union demands.
To all this must be added the famous round
1/2010 issued by the General Commissariat for Immigration and
Borders on January 25 of that year, in which it urges
generalized expulsions and arrests, even violating the provisions of the Aliens Act, which shows
Government policy that, beyond the electoral rhetoric ofipropuestas UNITED LEFT ELECTIONS 2011/62

cial, is focusing increasingly repressive strategy means guarantees the rule of law
as an obstacle to its goals. The implicit message
Raids (whose indiscriminate use in the vicinity of schools, health centers or stations
Public transport is widespread) it promotes xenophobia and racism, as the immigrant becomes a target
permanent policing, using physical appearance as a sign of illegality and criminality.
All these policies have resulted in progress
in Spain and across Europe of xenophobic movements
and racist; the link between immigration and crime (driven in an irresponsible way for some
different media and governments) and government policies that foster marginalization and criminalization of immigrants, have contributed to
a worrying climate of social rejection, which is reflected in the advance of extremist groups in recent
municipal elections, especially in Catalonia.

Program proposals:
all / as citizens / as
United Left considers that immigration should be tackled as a structural fact that transforms and enriches
the host society, which implies the necessary development
a set of policies that are geared towards an active form of citizenship based on the principles of universality of human rights and multiculturalism.
The policies towards migrants are from
a firm commitment to inclusive citizenship, by
which they should be conceived under the mainstream without
any remaining population of differentiation, except in
areas where specific actions are required,
always betting on a unique concept managed.
Under these assumptions, we understand that the UI program
It must be clear and radical in defense of the rights and
pluralist coexistence, which could be summarized in the following proposals:

General principles
Respect and implementation of international treaties
human and combating racism and xenophobia which is linked to the Spanish State, and ratification of those who have not yet been, especially rights:
• The International Convention on the Protection of
rights of migrant workers and their families,

adopted by the General Assembly in its resolution
45/158 of 18 December 1990.
• The Convention on Decent Work for domestic workers, adopted on 16
June 2011 by the International Labour Conference
Job. At this point note that, despite the
Recent advances in reform, they are excluded from the
unemployment contribution and not reached all
the group claims:
The inclusion of employment aeae home in the Regime
General social security and equality
Total Workers Statute. This option will allow full recognition of the rights
employment of domestic workers and the establishment of a Sector Collective Agreement.
Aeae Immediate application of the rules governing
the prevention of occupational risks in the sector
household employment and development of prevention plans for domestic workers.
• The International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights
1966 and the European Convention for the Protection
Human Rights of 1950, especially the
on raids and illegal detentions.
• Rejection of the measures or instruments which tend to impede the right to emigrate enshrined in
the Universal Declaration of Human Rights,
as outsourcing of border control and
establishing repayment agreements with countries
where human rights are not respected, leading a policy change in the EU.
• Stripping cooperation policies and development aid to countries of origin or transit of migration of coercive connotations prevail
the needs of their populations on interest
political, commercial or financial, and suspend the
sale of arms and ammunition to countries in conflict.

Legislative changes regarding
immigration and asylum
• Rethink the current migration model, opening
immediately the process of developing a real
Law of Rights and Freedoms of Foreigners in
Spain to repeal the currently in force and
ensure the necessary coordination between the various
ministries and administrations, from a global logic
that exceeds the administrative control and vision.
UNITED LEFT election proposals ELECTIONS 2011/63

• Removing the sanction of expulsion for the mere irregular stay, streamlining the mechanisms of attachment
to facilitate access to documentation. Repeal
the orders not executable expulsion, giving the
people affected by the corresponding residence and work permits.
• Closure of Detention Centers for Foreigners
and while this does not occur, strict compliance
the legal provisions that establish their character
no prison and the effective guarantee of rights
internal with maximum transparency and the right to control social organizations.
• Restore your asylum as a fundamental human right, with elimination of the figure of the "inadmissibility
admissible "and border barriers and consular
preventing their exercise, recovering diplomacy
for the application and the suspensive effect of resources.
• Conduct policy and constitutional amendments necessary to recognize the right of
-active and passive suffrage to nationals
non-EU with legal residence at least
two years or who already hold a residence permit
Long-term, discarding the principle of reciprocity.
• To promote the reform of the Civil Code on nationality to make it more accessible, especially
people of foreign nationality born in
State territory.
• Boosting comprehensive bill for equal
treatment and non-discrimination. Should contemplate
possibilities for social organizations are
legitimized and intervene in administrative and judicial review procedures for
Foreigners, using the concept of legitimate interest;
This will help overcome the fear of reporting
and widespread impunity for such acts. The
Authority for equal treatment and non-discrimination should be a body independent of government; in
Consistency should be appointed by the Congress
Deputies have a collegial character, include participation of social organizations and to include
its features the ability to denounce.

Action plans
• Strengthen tools to combat labor exploitation, trafficking and smuggling, particularly robusteciendo the Labour Inspectorate and adopting a
supportive approach to victims.

• Ensure alternative care for unaccompanied children in distress or in compliance
strict international treaties and the Law
Menor. Immediate suspension of illegal forced deportation disguised as "family reunification".
Support for social and professional integration of protected
when they reach adulthood.
• Full access of immigrant women, regardless of their administrative situation, measures and plans for protection against abuse and
gender violence, epitomized by the
trafficking and prostitution.
• Streamlining administrative processes of immigration, registration and, in particular, recognition of qualifications.
• Strengthen budgets and human and material resources necessary social services, and
public health and education systems primarily in areas with shortages
origin, today you exacerbated by a higher concentration
immigrant population, providing skills
and resources to municipalities to perform their functions and address the most immediate problems
these populations.
• Avoiding an imbalance in the distribution of immigrants in certain schools,
fighting discriminatory measures taken
held in private schools. Centers
sanctioned discriminatory educational practices can not benefit from any form of public funding.
• Commitment to strengthen the association of the
immigrants, while facilitating their
dialogue in political, trade union and neighborhood organizations, all instruments required for participation in public affairs and
to defend their interests as workers and
as citizens.

Spanish citizens abroad:
from words to deeds
Izquierda Unida maintain that Spanish society must recognize the important historical debt
-and we never have enough compensada- contracted with our citizens residents
Outside, whose contribution to the social, economic and cultural development, especially in difficult times
UNITED LEFT election proposals ELECTIONS 2011/64

Franco's dictatorship, was crucial for the country.
Consequence of that exile and diaspora immigration
They are almost two million Spaniards and Spanish that
now reside in countries on all continents, to the
who they contribute their labor and social and cultural background
their communities of origin. You also have to pay
most attention at the moment, the wave of
"New migrants" young and well formados-, the
that the current crisis pushes beyond our borders.
Years after the development and adoption of two basic laws, the Statute of Spanish Citizenship
Foreign and grandchildren access to Spanish nationality on the Law of Historical Memory, we may conclude
who have not had a deep development in aid
particularly of migrants and, in general, the whole
residents abroad. Largely not
He has moved from words to deeds, developing
Statute standards and concrete implementation measures;
Also, the reform of the electoral law has been a
blow the whole of Spanish emigration.
The last major disappointment has been the recent reform
LOREG agreed by the PSOE and PP, which are deprived of voting -clearly inconstitucionalmente- in
Municipal and regional elections (and the same
year) and imposed on them the "begged vote" in general, without
that, however, there has been the slightest political will to address other historical claims
As for channels of participation.

Education and Culture
• Adoption of a promotion plan classrooms
Spanish language and culture (ELK), ensuring
open from 8 students and keeping with
6 and in which the incorporation of children will be allowed
no Spaniards, especially Hispanic Americans.
• Design of a strategic plan to develop new
educational media on which the Internet and satellite television will play an important role.
• Adaptation of the DELE diplomas to reality and characteristics of students of the moose and conservation of existing certificates issued by the Ministry of Education.
• Development of the international sections and more open to Spanish residents of the Cervantes Institute.
• Creation of a program of language classes and general education for adult immigrants.

• Increased resources for the participation of migrants in the UNED.
• TVE Internacional will develop a programming
quality, taking into account the informational, educational, cultural and sporting needs of Spanish citizens abroad.

Pension
• Integration of contribution periods in countries
emigration in the computation of the 1,800 days give
SOVI right to pension. For those who have recognized less than those 1800 days before 1
January 1967, they would be allocated a pension calculated
pro rata on the same basis.
• Calculation of the period of military service for this purpose and the general pension.
• Recognition of the periods worked in Spain
which they have not yet been fully recognized by the
INSS and the bonus years, with effect
retroactive, from the triggering event. Equal treatment with other Spaniards in the calculation of the bases
regulatory.
• Improvement of non-contributory pensions to equate them with the minimum wage.

Elderly care
Extra Spanish State action to ensure that
our elders have residences, centers
day and floors protected in the country of residence or
Spain for returnees.

And Equality Unit
Specific measures to ensure the exercise of rights equivalent to those of residents in Spain (Law
Dependency Equality Act, etc.), with special attention to the problems of older migrant women.

Youth
Support program for the Spanish youth abroad, through a system of scholarships and
practices, incentives for business projects and active employment policies in Spain through
Employment Offices.
UNITED LEFT election proposals ELECTIONS 2011/65

Associations of migrants
and returnees
• Creation of an official register of associations
Spaniards abroad and inclusion of such associations and returnees in national plans
promotion of associations and voluntary.
• Increase the budget for migration and returnees, both for operating expenses and for activities of general interest,
the framework of multiannual cooperation programs
with the various public authorities.
• Simplification of the rules of grants and establishing criteria of transparency and objectivity in the
assign them to the centers, associations
and federations, speeding up processing and limiting
justification, in all programs, the amount of
the aid granted.

Participation
• Creation of two constituencies of direct representation of migrants in Congress
Deputies and the Senate.
• Retrieve the municipal vote, which must be enjoyed without the administrative burden of having to
previously request. Development urn vote
electronic voting.
• Just as is the case in other organs
institutional citizen representation, as
the Council of Elders, the Youth or the
Women Federations registered partnerships
Official Gazette or in the provisions of the Statute Census
of Spanish citizens abroad, they should have
direct representation in the General Council
Spanish Citizens Abroad, whose composition
Global should respect the principle of gender equality.
• Spanish Residents Councils should be formed by representatives of associations and
migrant federations. Universal suffrage as
only be justified if they were empowered.

Nationality

Spanish born before December
1978 can recover their Spanish nationality
originally. Establishing double Conventions
simultaneously real and nationality, especially with
the countries of Latin America, the European Union
and Switzerland.

Foreign Service Reform
• Strengthening the network of consular and
Ministries of Education, Labour and Culture, with the
recognition of labor rights and tax
the workforce employed, under the
Spanish legislation, which will result in better
quality of public services and greater protection
Spanish interests abroad.

Return
• Support returnees in the process of reintegration in Spain. The Government shall ensure in
a period not exceeding six months social integration
returnees, through especially restore unemployment benefits suppressed by the Aznar government and without it they demand a
minimum contribution periods in countries
emigration for allocation.
• Equal social rights with other Spaniards, especially in terms of performance no
tax without being required any period
residence in Spain.
• Equal tax to taxpayers living in Spain, especially in the IBI treatment.
• Agreements with the State of residence to prevent
double taxation. Access to facilities
public housing and supervised apartments.
• Centralization of administrative procedures in the
Return office, following the single window system in collaboration with the associations and federations of migrants and returnees as provided for in the Statute of Spanish citizens abroad.
• Updated information on the Internet through the Website
of Return. Social protection program for returnees living in extreme poverty.

• Adoption of a Nationality Code that enables the simultaneous dual nationality, suppressing
the current obligation of renunciation of nationality
foreign, and to ensure that children of mother
UNITED LEFT election proposals ELECTIONS 2011/66

7

PROPOSALS
AGRICULTURE
SUSTAINABLE AND
SOVEREIGNTY
FOOD

The current food system generates pollution
water and soil, loss of biodiversity, deforestation
and desertification, eutrophication of lakes and seas, loss
the right to food sovereignty. Such sovereignty
It should be based on the promotion of the exploitation agroganadera
family, recovering traditional rural areas and
recognizing the contribution of biodiversity conservation performing extensive Livestock Farming. Needed
contemplate a new agrarian reform.
It should boost agriculture and livestock farming by
using techniques aimed at obtaining food with all the natural properties, with optimal use of the physical environment, preservation of the environment
and maintenance or natural increase fertility
ground, excluding the use of synthetic chemical products (fertilizers, pesticides, antibiotics, etc).
A key factor is the development of local agriculture,
oriented short marketing circuits, with special attention to the production base of each territory.
Producing and distributing food goods by using the large-scale agro-industrial production and
for the international market, increasing speculation on food prices and concentration
land, agricultural and food resources, very few
hands, while impoverishing small production and
condemns malnutrition and hunger for millions of people. It is clear that food safety and quality,
environmental security and social justice are three elements that have to coexist in harmony in policy
food.
Agriculture and livestock of the XXI century must have
multifunctional nature, protecting the multiplicative plant material, guaranteeing the right of
farmers to dispose of their own seeds, applying
development programs, and organic livestock farming and prohibiting the use of GMOs in food production, as well as
biological patents.
Industrial agriculture or agribusiness, intensive
in energy, water, fertilizers and agrochemicals has
increased emissions of greenhouse gases.
Agriculture can be adapted to emit much
fewer greenhouse gases and
to become a carbon sink.
From Spain and within the scope of the European Union propose that a new Common Agricultural Policy drives
able to defend family agriculture, protect the environment and curb the control of the food chain by large companies. The Livestock Farming requires fair prices for food production,

to enable a fair income, and for that the CAP must
include market regulation instruments to end food speculation and volatility
prices, and the abuse of power and agribusiness
supermarkets.
It is possible to act because the process of reform will continue
throughout the year 2012 and the resulting CAP must encourage family and agroecological model, local agriculture
and peasant and a just and sustainable market.
Our territories qualified to find the
organic farming for its climate and the extensive production systems applied in a number of
crops. In animal production, we possess a rich genetic heritage of indigenous breeds of hardiness
and mostly adapted to the environment, which promotes breeding
in extensive regime. In the fishing field is required
protect resources and ensure that artisanal fishing has
for coming. The presence of artisanal fishing methods
ensures an important part of sustainable development
coastal areas.
It must be made an ecological forest management, based on
soil protection and biodiversity to prevent
the degradation of plant cover and desertification.
Therefore, we propose

1.? DRIVE IN EUROPE
REFORM POLICY
AGRICULTURAL COMMUNITY
The impact of the CAP in Spain has not been positive, and this
It has worsened with the 2003 reform and its specific adaptations in the Spanish case. The workforce
in agriculture it has fallen by 8% and stood at
4% of the entire workforce. Agricultural income
is 65% of the average income of the various sectors
production.
IU adds to COAG, Plataforma Rural, Via Campesina,
Ecologists in Action, Friends of the Earth, Greenpeace,
SEO / BirdLife and WWF, to promote participatory and inclusive discussion on the implementation of the CAP
Our dependence on agricultural imports is growing, precisely because of the paradigm
the PAC that the important thing is the cheap price is based. But the delivery of agricultural trade to
UNITED LEFT election proposals ELECTIONS 2011/68

big monopolies and the resulting speculation has
Indeed break that paradigm.
• Market measures. In the absence of proposals
in this area, the EU should change its policy of deregulation of markets and establish mechanisms
that avoid price volatility and fluctuation
of agricultural markets and prices to ensure
farmers who exceed their production costs
(Management and public policy, intervention, control
production, maintenance of milk quotas, quotas
sugar and vineyard replanting rights clause
exceptional measures, etc.). Application of the principle of Community preference and rethinking the current framework of trade liberalization through negotiations with the WTO and free trade agreements
EU with third countries, given their perverse effects
farmers both North and South.
• Imports from third countries, control and demand
in terms of environmental, social, labor
and food quality and safety of the Union
EU imposes on its own farmers. For the serious risk they pose to the sector, we reject the
Agreements with Morocco and Mercosur.
• Direct aid. Direct support should serve to boost farm viability and employment generation, through the development of a professional and sustainable agriculture, widespread throughout
the territory and nutritional quality productions and
health security. We must direct all efforts to ensure that viable farming
economically itself.
• Application of the concept of active farmer, as
recipient of public aid and establishment
limits aid to farms on the basis of
level of self-employment and employment generated.
• coupled payments: the amount to be chapter should
be as high as possible to support sectors
difficulties (up to 10-15% of the national ceilings).
He later applied in Spain at the highest level
to address the situation of the sectors in crisis. Before
the diversity of Spanish agriculture is not possible
application of a "flat tax" would generate enormous
problems and relocation support. It is necessary, by
therefore seek a more balanced solution.
• Financial Framework 2014-2020. Rejection cutout
PAC 15% in the previous programming period (2007-2013) proposed by the Commission. With
these figures, the weight of the CAP in the financial framework
EU overall decrease of 33% today to 25%

2020. In the case of Spain, the first pillar of the CAP
It is critical because it is 100% European money without
need for financing and is intended entirely
farmers and ranchers; also it means the only
so that Spain will in the future to balance their
contribution to the EU budget. To this must be
adding that for the next period is thought to include a
more measures within the first pillar
CAP. In any case, we expect the current cuts in direct aid that goes to the second
pillar of the CAP can be removed in the future.

2.? ENACT A LAW
FOOD CHAIN
A law that addresses issues such as unfair commercial practices prohibited, collective bargaining
agricultural contracts within Organizations
Interprofessional Agrifood and incorporating
clauses applying competition law to
agriculture, allowing interpretation of this similar to what is done in other Member States (France).
• Reform Act Interprofessional Organisations
Agrifood so they can fully develop their role in the structuring of the chain
agrifood.
• Regulate the traceability of product prices and public support for the creation of Cooperatives
Marketing allow aggregation of
bid against supermarkets and direct sales to consumers. The price differential between
I paid the farmer and the consumer pays
is between 400 and 500%.
• Excluding the Agricultural Cooperatives of limitations
established by the EU in considering SMEs and
aid ceilings.

3.? Serving sectors
IN CRISIS
• Livestock. Development of a strategic plan to ensure its viability in the medium to long term: grain and oilseed supplies at stable prices
(Agreements between herders and farmers), consumption
UNITED LEFT election proposals ELECTIONS 2011/69

Local through greater interdependence
farmers, promoting protein crops
EU and pulses, maintenance of community protection mechanisms (quotas, tariffs,
update the reference prices, etc.).
• Fruits and vegetables are very important in the Spanish agriculture (38% PFA). The "cucumber crisis" and
subsequent fall in prices has shown the vulnerability of this sector completely turned to the (interior and exterior) market. It is essential to improve
its structuring within the food chain and
search for the stabilization of prices and production. Is
necessary to improve the care of the Administration
this sector and to better defend their interests and their
projection in all areas.
•	Olive oil. The situation is mainly
the great imbalance in bargaining power between supply and demand and a strategy
aggressive product for use as a "hook". This
draws attention in a market that is behaving well with a good balance between production and consumption needs. We therefore ask:
regulatory mechanisms (storage) with a
update trigger prices,
Domain face positions and malpractice
food distribution, quality protection
and consumer information, combating fraud ...

4. Development of an Integrated Rural Development Plan:
development of agricultural production and employment opportunities should constitute the central criteria of rural development, the implementation of policies based on the sector, supporting biodiversity
agricultural and rural employment, especially for young
and women. Subsidies should be given with economically social and environmental criteria and not under
criteria for the benefit of large producers
some sectors. Faced with the current policy of decoupling of CAP aid in relation to
production, it is necessary to reorient the distribution
of its CAP budget and do so, in particular,
to the needs of rural areas, small farmers, disadvantaged areas and areas
mountain.
5. Development of agriculture and livestock production
a multifunctional ecological goal: the protection of plant multiplicative material, guaranteeing the right of farmers to have their own
seeds, applying programs of development of organic agriculture and livestock farming and prohibiting the use
genetically modified organisms (GMOs) in
food production, defending and valuing
the designation of origin, even in markets
non-Europeans.

4.? PLANS AND ACTIONS
PRIORITY
1. Implementation of the Agri-Food Council
State and the Agricultural Advisory Committee. Respect of legal certainty in the application of Law 10/2009
Agricultural representation.
2. Raise the issue of land reform and land ownership based on the new requirements
food sovereignty, the development of the
rural environment and the efficient use of resources
agricultural and livestock.
3. Developing a Plan Sovereignty Guarantee
Food taken as a principle the right of
peoples to decide on their agricultural policy for them
same, respecting the environment. This means
prioritizing local agricultural production and the
quality food. You should regulate access to
land, seeds, water and credits.
UNITED LEFT election proposals ELECTIONS 2011/70

8

PROPOSALS
FOR ONE
CULTURE AND
Communications
FREE

Without free access to culture and the media, the human being is neither be free. Citizenship
without culture is easily manipulated.
Large corporations have the key to modern
media and are also owners
cyberspace. It is therefore essential to ensure pluralism
and free access to culture as a guarantee of equality
opportunities.
The process of "globalization" imposes its cultural hegemony. Culture is the second economic activity
USA after weapons and has become
the field of economic and ideological strategy first
order. The best way to deal with that "imperialism
cultural and ideological "is promoting the creative base
the dissemination of the works of our cultural environment,
strengthening the protection of creators and facilitating
the most that the public is educated and enjoy
works carrying new values.
Culture is the foundation of a free society and therefore
from United Left we consider fundamental vigorously promote the creation and dissemination of
knowledge and culture to reach the set
of the population and thus fulfill its emancipatory work.
In this sense and since Technologies
Information and Communication Technologies (ICT), especially
Internet, have become an essential element for the dissemination,
we express ourselves outside of the false and interested
war between "creative" and "Internet". Those who advocate a free, democratic, popular and critical culture
we need to place in the same trench creators
and researchers and those who are to enjoy their work. Although it seems obvious, it remembers that for
you can have the maximum distribution of culture has
to be able to create cultural contents (books, movies, theater, music ...) in full dignity.
And for that culture fulfills its essential social function
It is very positive to have maximum exposure without the
access to them is limited by economic gaps or
sociological.

1.? CULTURE IN FREEDOM
And DIVERSDAD
Since UI claim more leisure time and a culture of free access; understood as a communication
"Public service" and effective access to information
free and plural. Faced with an official policy of showcase

cultural exhibition of culture, privatization
architectural and cultural heritage; against complacency American penetration in the industry
and musical and audiovisual trade, colonization
television programming and television deterioration
public, contaminated by "trash TV", IU is committed to developing a culture of change, creative, modern, decentralized and participatory; a culture of peace
and solidarity, defender of cultural diversity in a
environment respectful of differences. A culture based on the heritage of the past, historical memory
and knowledge in the information society. Already
promote a policy of Freedom of Expression and Creativity
uncensored and through a policy of free access
all citizens to cultural goods.
We therefore propose:
• Advancing public transparency criteria
policy used for subsidies, procurement and contracting.
• Support Programme to cultural diversity, with specific budgetary allocation.
• Promote awareness and exchange of the different languages ​​and cultures of the peoples of Spain between
all its inhabitants, and regulate the use of languages
State officials in public institutions.
• Make available to the public our rich cultural heritage, including from rehabilitation plans, legislation to curb speculation, the uses that damage the heritage and
spoliation of it, using a police policy and
criminal illegal trade and the destruction of
our cultural, artistic and architectural heritage.
• Promote the creation and artistic, scientific and technical research, devoting more resources and establishing a no "patronage" relationship between government and creators and researchers. The
Public subsidies should not be applied depending
trade performance.
• Create articulating spaces of different cultural movements. Develop sectoral policies
support for music, dance, painting, sculpture, museums, exhibition halls, theater,
cinema, audiovisual content, circus, all
kinds of sports and leisure and public spaces
entertainment.
• Reinforce the network of theaters and state cooperation
and international. Fiscal support to musical Cafes.
UNITED LEFT election proposals ELECTIONS 2011/72

Enhance creativity, production and performance
songwriters opening new spaces in the circuit of culture, municipalities and media
audiovisual media.
• Conduct a continuous promotion campaign
the reading. Develop a network of public libraries and media libraries.
• Create a state public media library file model of comprehensive culture, free, decentralized and free consultation.
• Free admission to all museums and architectural and cultural heritage; the media libraries and
public libraries, newspaper libraries, record libraries, film libraries and media libraries.
• Given the precariousness of the sector
Show, propose to unions representing workers negotiating a Convention
Framework to promote full employment, to a maximum working week of 35 hours. Employment status and
Attorney creator and actor and artist, improving their
social, living and working.
• Support for Spanish cinema and other audiovisual works:
against the invasion of American productions,
defend and enhance European cultural exception.
Protect and promote national cultures of the country
with economic, fiscal and policy measures, enhancing the very creation of content for the media, film and television, setting minimum quotas of screen and ensuring the support of
TVE the Spanish and European cinema.

2. CLOSE THE DIGITAL DIVIDE
Today the network provides basic tools for
general culture and citizenship. Social mobilization encouraged in internet among other reasons
make the digital divide poses a social bankruptcy
excluding large sectors of society in a
important part of citizenship. We put that gap
around four areas: social class gap (income
conditional access technologies), gender (network
It remains a mostly male space and
digital illiteracy affects more women), age and
gap between urban and rural areas.
Therefore, just as the Second Republic started teaching missions to tackle illiteracy,

today our proposal is to launch cyber missions that are intended to break the digital divide
these four axes to extend what is now a condition
required the full exercise of citizenship.

3. Why A NEW MODEL
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY
FREE AND DISTRIBUTION
OF CULTURE
We live in a time when advances in
Information and communications technology (ICT)
amplified and have democratized access to information and culture. In some respects also
democratized access to the means of production, causing in many professions (especially
the publishing, audiovisual and musical worlds) workers,
creator or artist has given the means to which
Access had previously only large entrepreneurs.
Moreover, this development has made between irreversible crisis in the classical model of industry in many
fields. These were based on the need of a support
to transmit physical works and ideas, and the need
to create a distribution network for those arrived
consumer / citizen. It was nice while it lasted. They
he has finished. Internet has made this model obsolete. Basically, it has eliminated intermediaries
(Publishers and distributors) and is facilitating contact
directly between the creator and the consumer of his work.
• We believe in the democratization of communication
and culture, to manage publicly copyright, free software and policy
Cultural supporting creators from the base and disseminate the arts among all levels of the population,
but especially among disadvantaged groups and territories economically and socially.
• propose profoundly change the current model as the existing intellectual property conceived
initially to protect the work of the creator
Individual, it has become primarily an instrument of profit maximization large
multinational companies and hinders access to knowledge.
• In this regard we believe that the current Act
Intellectual property is misplaced and outdated
for two reasons:
UNITED LEFT election proposals ELECTIONS 2011/73

• Current law recognizes rights which are
authors and left to private entities
raising them. In practice there
de facto oligopoly in which only a few
Companies have the ability to efficiently collect these rights (SGAE and CEDAR). This privileged situation makes is they who decide the game. No operation
democratic nor transparent in these companies and their
private nature forced to aim
main seeking the maximum economic benefit,
above the interest and willingness of some authors most of whom do not even get to see
the money of the rights that have been raised in
your name.
• Copyright required by law are
nature and character waived. Today in
many authors advocate on free distribution
their works through the Internet and ICT, as
that they feel is the best way for your
work and ideas to reach their audience. Social movements have been constructed as Free Software
and legal alternatives such as Creative license
Commons seeking community collaboration
and the free movement of works and ideas like form
that authors and consumers win. The only ones
who do not win in this situation are obsolete intermediaries. But the indispensability of rights causes are management entities
the rights to make decisions about the work of
one author organizers of charity concerts
They see as the SGAE requires payment of rights
Musician author will act although this
act so. Managers of cultural centers
They look like they intended to charge for artists
activists are Creative Commons licenses and other free distribution, etc.

Repeal the current model aeae duty collection by private management companies.
Creating a public entity management,
presence throughout the state, aimed at the
to provide adequate service, not profit.
Aeae Ensure adequate contribution of telecom operators and industries
Information Technology at the fair remuneration of creators, so that this is not based
in a system that penalizes the digital canon
citizens indiscriminately regardless of the use that they give support and
digital and electronic devices.
Aeae Recognize alternatives to "copyright" traditional, such as Creative Commons licenses, and let
with the author the amount of rights
those who want to license their work, and the ability of the author to waive these rights.
2. Ensuring freedom and net neutrality against attempts lobby of the SGAE and its allies
coartarlas politicians. In this sense it requires the
repeal of the "Sinde Law".
3. Encourage the dissemination of eBook, reducing
price and promoting that digitize works
literary and scientific that are public domain.
In this sense the government should support initiatives like Project Gutenberg
with works written in all official languages
State and publishers do the same with works
you discontinued.

Therefore, assuming that want a system
protects the rights of authors and authors, who are
who create works of music, literature, cinema, theater,
visual arts, etc., but at the same time, the
greatest possible facilities for such works can
reach citizens, we believe that IU should:

4. Support IU Free Software Movement (open
source). Set mandatory use of free software (in its free majority) on all computers and information technology in all official
Public Administrations. Urge the presence
Free software required on all computers and
school media use do not want to be educated
our school to be customers of Microsoft or
Apple, and it seems acceptable that continue paying
expensive licenses with public money when we
free and best available alternatives. Boost
total opposition of the Spanish State in the Union
European, attempts to boost software patents closed: favor the maintenance of monopolies and prevent the sharing of benefits
investigation.

1. Promote the repeal of the current Property Law
And intellectual development in a participatory manner with
all stakeholders, a new law:

5. propose the reform of the General Law
Telecommunications 2003 to ensure access to the Internet as a right of all citizens,

• the creator as a human shield for the interests of these companies that have become obsolete is used.
The author's interest always was and is always to
reach their audience, not being part of an industry
and a distribution network

UNITED LEFT election proposals ELECTIONS 2011/74

also repeal exclusivity companies
Private telecommunications to provide internet access, facilitating the creation of companies
public (eg municipal character that facilitate wireless network to its neighbors
neighbors).

• Despite the importance of ICT, Left
United are aware that these are not an end
in themselves, but only a tool, if
although of great importance, which, if used properly, can move towards an increasingly high level
political, social and economic democracy.

6. we propose a General Communication Act
Audiovisual ensuring the distribution of licenses
between the public service and social initiatives
audiovisual business, so that the three sectors can have radios and televisions municipal, regional and state coverage. Recognition
in the new media law in the third sector (as
Free and Community) radios.

• The socio-economic and class conditions strongly influence the diffusion of ICT, so
than traditional inequalities created by
current capitalist system is compounded by an uneven
access to information and knowledge by
the poorest sections.

4.? A SOCIETY
DEMOCRATIC INFORMATION
Solidarity and participation
Our efforts will focus on enhancing the potential of ICT as a tool for social progress.
We must avoid the unwanted "digital divide", work by
universal access to communication potential of ICT,
reject restrictions on their freedom, fight against
attempted monopolization by large
corporations and promote the neutrality across the network.
From United Left firmly we defend the right to free expression both to produce and communicate
information and knowledge, to receive and process at all which ICT play a key role today. In addition, we intend to use the free expression
to create new information and knowledge. For this
IU works to reason that our country is at the forefront in the fields of universal use
computers, Internet and other new technologies
information and communication. We want to democratize
access to information and knowledge.
We start from the following grounds:
• The information and communications technology
(ICT) are a major factor in almost all
fields of our contemporary societies,
including political and personal, as evidenced by the recent popular uprisings in the world
Arabic or movements like 15-M, in which success
They have played an important role as social networks
Facebook and twitter.

From those grounds we define our
goals
• Faced with the commodification of information and
consciousness, Izquierda Unida promotes the democratization of access to information and knowledge.
• In front of a neoliberal vision of the use of Information
Telecommunication and left to the
market growth and the expansion of its distribution,
United Left defends the universal use
computers and the Internet through policies
directed mainly public citizens, territories and most disadvantaged social strata.
• In front of a dirigiste vision of progress based only unilateral action by Administrations
Public, the United Left defends participation
of citizens in the definition and implementation of
technological development policies, through the
organizations that underpin society.

Our proposals
7. Define Internet access as a universal right
and free for all citizens since
the development of networks and their importance for
advancement of the Information Society
8. The gratuity of the service include up to a speed of 10 Megabits, expandable to measure
technological improvement.
9. The implementation of Universal Service Free prioritizing will be held territories and most disadvantaged social classes and include a comprehensive Help
for incorporation into the Information Society
that in addition to consist in that free Internet access on long-term loans without interest
to acquire computer and free courses
UNITED LEFT election proposals ELECTIONS 2011/75

Computer and Internet, without which measures
Mere access to the Internet would be perfectly useless.
10. Reduction of telecommunication tariffs
They are about 30% higher than in the countries
OECD, which severely penalizes citizens, families, freelancers and small businesses. He
colocasen goal would be that the average
countries belonging to that organization.
11. Creating a network of classrooms free access
full connectivity in all municipalities, especially in rural areas, and a computer equipment with Internet access appropriate to the needs
of schools of all levels, with a
goal of two students per computer and schedule
wider access to the school.
12. Promotion of a training policy aimed
to achieve full digital literacy, especially addressing the needs of groups
more traditionally excluded and away from
new technologies. Full will also boost
accessibility of public information services
through the network of people with disabilities and
special needs.
13. Development of Free Software, establishing use
preferably of open source software (open source) in public administration, overcoming technological dependence monopolistic situations.
14. Digitization of cultural and historical backgrounds
administrations and made available to
free and free citizens on the Web,
also allowing the digital download of funds
state libraries. The publication of these
funds will be made through free licenses and open formats that ensure their dissemination
without the restrictions imposed by the current model
intellectual property.
15. Promotion of electronic management procedures
to simplify and optimize time and costs, as well as interactive participation in decision
policy decisions, fostering citizenship
Active willing to do it and developing the means
Technical existing software (such as program
"Participates 1.0").
16. Promote the digital signature to access these services with full guarantees.
17. Ensure the protection of citizens and citizens against companies operating in the provision of

the connectivity and communication services, whether in
software, mobile phone, internet or even hardware
beyond the rights they have as consumers.
18. Do not penalize the free exchange of files,
According to the current judicial doctrine, and support
the right to copy.
19. Oppose the introduction of software patents, by favoring large corporations and
large multinational firms, causing a
prejudice the free software movement, both
Individual programmers and small companies that produce this type of program.
20. Proposal for digital freedom in use
Free software utilities, progressive administrations migration to free software,
avoiding paying licenses to large corporations.

5. Why means
PUBLIC COMMUNICATION
AND DEMOCRATIC
The democratization of the media is the
other side of the reform of the electoral law as prerequisites for genuine democracy.
The impunity of the audiovisual business, reduction
public service and blocking social initiatives
prevent access of citizens to proposals
IU. To marginalize into mainstream channels of information we are prevented from participating on equal terms which reduces our social impact as the electoral law makes the vote that we raised in
less seats than correspond with us
proportionality truly democratic.
The new General Law on Audiovisual Communication
set to words which can not guarantee with the facts. Formally assumes the democratization
It is developed in Latin America by announcing a
equitable sharing between the public service, social initiatives and audiovisual businesses. But in
practice reduces public service, blocking social initiatives and grants impunity to large commercial enterprises. The law limits the space
public service 30% of the national coverage, increases the precariousness of the regional broadcasting
by making it dependent on a transitional arrangement
UNITED LEFT election proposals ELECTIONS 2011/76

the PP seeks to eliminate, contains social initiatives
at the municipal level with a regulation that imposes
tremendous limitations for broadcast and grants
absolute impunity in the audiovisual business
70% of the broadcast.
IU proposes:
• The general law of audiovisual communication really ensure fair distribution of licenses between the public service, social initiatives
and audiovisual business so that the three
sectors can have radios and televisions
municipal, regional and state coverage.
• a definitive model of financing RTVE established for adequate resources for the
social profitability of its neutrality guaranteed a state public service that strengthens a democracy
quality with well-informed citizens.

• A legal framework with the force of law, such as how
effectively guarantee the respect and exercise
effective rights under Article 20 of the constitution, endangered by the strong position of
corporate concentration in the media sector
communication that accompanies the terrible precariousness of labor relations in media companies and the fragility of the entire profession
journalism.
• Establish within media companies
and participatory bodies for consultation and dialogue among information professionals and
companies, for everything related to contents
news, editorial, processing of information in the editorial and management.

• Maintenance and shield the public character of the airwaves.
• The law is the same for all utilities (municipal, regional and general
state), preventing the privatization and their use
to benefit the interests of governments.
• The right of access (blocked for thirty years) apply to all radio and television
public ownership as a constitutional mandate which obliges the distribution of free spaces available between the parties, trade unions and social organizations.
• That a public debate on the draft opens
decree which aims to impose a regulation that prevents the development of social initiatives
on radio and television.
• to immediately constitute the State Board of
audiovisual media (CEMA) that the general law
audiovisual communication charge monitoring
public service, monitoring of audiovisual business, the proper application of the right of access and extent of media literacy so that the knowledge about the media provide citizens
used to control the economic and political power.
• That good university education is guaranteed, the
professional autonomy and decent working conditions workforces communication
to prevent their precarious contribute to misinformation of citizens.
UNITED LEFT election proposals ELECTIONS 2011/77

9

PROPOSALS
FOR PEACE

PEACE AND COOPERATION
SOLIDARITY
The dramatic crisis facing humanity (food,
energy and financial) result of the capitalist system, imperialism, has accentuated the antidemocratic features of international institutions: it has
promoted the use of force in contravention of international law, the delay in the fulfillment of the
Millennium Development Goals, the substantial increase
intended spending on armaments and R & D programs
military, and war as a tool to ensure
that dependent countries have channels
supply of energy resources.
The Founding Charter of the United Nations or the right
They are systematically flouted international by not having a "democratic government in the world", with
UN redesigned, reformulated, which are the
genuine democratic expression of the world of XXI century.
In this barbaric and criminal phase of capitalism, not only
It attacks the welfare of people in developed countries, making us back 40 or 50 years in social rights but also multiply inequalities
about poor countries, leaving millions of people to their fate, condemning them to starvation,
death for lack of medication and extreme poverty.
The concentration of wealth in very few hands, (the
capital accumulation driven by neoliberal policies of the Washington Consensus and Brussels), not only
It is predatory social gains achieved in
the twentieth century, but also destroys biodiversity and
peace.
In our context, the current EU, designed
by and for the merchants, since the Treaty of Maastricht
to Lisbon, not only did not contribute to progress towards
a democratic architecture of the world, nor toward a progressive disarmament, and to enforce the law
or respect international human rights. Very
On the contrary, it has favored maintaining the current
international disorder, inequality, war and
vulnerability to the people who demand social justice.

revolutionary processes in the Western Sahara, Tunisia
and Egypt). But we must go further to
achieve greater coordination in the common struggle
against neoliberal policies, war and hunger.

1. UNITED NATIONS
We want to contribute to the redesign and reconstruction of the
United Nations for its 193 Member States
are those who really decide the government of the world,
with a more participatory and democratic structure.
The recent experience of veto exercised by the United
States at the request of the majority immensely
General Assembly recognition of a Palestinian State
It is the last button shows the need
in the XXI century with a "democratic world government."
Therefore, we call for the elimination of the Security Council.

2.? NATO AND BASES
AMERICAN IN
WORLD
Since the Washington Summit last of Lisbon,
NATO maintains a Strategic Concept that allows you
act anywhere in the world without authorization
Security Council UN against
of international law.
NATO poses a threat to peace.
President Zapatero's decision to cede the Rota naval base to join the missile shield
NATO makes Spain one of the countries
world that are committed to rearmament, thereby
increase in military spending in response to insecurity
world.

Izquierda Unida against this aggressive situation for the whole of mankind defends the need to agree
common agendas for action with the anti-capitalist alternative political and social organizations of all
continents.

From United Left consider that a decision
this size corresponds to Parliament and
It must be submitted to a referendum, to be citizens who decide whether Spain should play
that role in the international community.

We have taken steps forward, closer ties
left in Latin America and the Caribbean, or the
African left (approach emphasized by the pro-

The very basis of Rota, Moron as well as all
the US naval bases deployed on every continent, must retreat to territory
UNITED LEFT election proposals ELECTIONS 2011/79

USA, since now play an intended function
exclusively for the control and domination.

We propose the establishment of an International Convention
Disarmament that concrete:

IU advocates a new security architecture
world that is based on human security and common security, and it must be aimed at
disarmament and ending the main global threat:
hunger and disease in impoverished countries,
betting diplomatic conflict prevention and effective control of the arms trade and material
dual purpose.

• The prohibition and ecological destruction of the entire arsenal of weapons of mass destruction ABQ.

Izquierda Unida for Spain should not become the
spearhead of the military operations of NATO.
Undoubtedly, with the installation of naval shield
missile, Spain sends the wrong message to the
Mediterranean countries, Africa and the rest of the world.

• The diplomatic conflict prevention, the renunciation of war.

• The drastic reduction of industrial and R & D programs
armament to the point 0.
• The rigorous application of the Code of Conduct on Arms Exports.

In addition, we work by:
• The reduction of the military budget.

Both his last performance in Libya as performed on the former Yugoslavia, NATO make a
criminal organization acting against the law
International.
The naval bases of the United States of
America deployed on every continent play a vital role in monitoring, surveillance and provisioning of intervention forces in any
part of the world.
The democratization of international institutions
It demands the dissolution of NATO and the closure of all
US bases in the world.
Similarly we continue to support the closure of
Guantánamo.

3. DISARMAMENT AND PEACE
We are facing the highest level of spending
weapons of history. With only a reduction
1% of military spending could cover funding
required to meet the Millennium Development
Goals (MDGs).

• completely separate military presence in the life
civil and political.
• Failure to consider the arms industry
strategic interest and access to information on military spending.
• Conversion of military programs to civilian use, including the land they occupy.

4.? SOLIDARITY
AND COOPERATION
We should increase our solidarity with all peoples who suffer the calamities of famine, disease
and poverty. We condemn the delay in meeting
the Millennium Development Goals is the consequence
logic of the capitalist system, which requires the exploitation of natural resources in developing countries. He
If the famine in Somalia is paradigmatic. While
and the starving Somalis, European fishing vessels operating armed to ensure the business.

The arsenal of weapons of mass destruction continues to ABQ
It is a threat to humanity and the proliferation and uncontrolled arms trade makes
industrialized countries needed accomplices in
Most conflicts.

The savings in arms spending must be one of the
basic sources of financing to meet deadlines
the MDGs. Locate funding for employment, basic services, education and culture will contribute to put
an end to the drama of mass migration, which are treated
by the system as a threat.

War is a profitable business for the industry and
armament research.

We agree with Jean Ziegler to review every death
hunger as a murder. We join his idea
UNITED LEFT election proposals ELECTIONS 2011/80

create an international tribunal to sit on the bench
both financial speculators and the price of food.

Party of the European Left should play an important role to draw these alliances and agendas with the
left on every continent, towards the development
a new internationalism.

Therefore we ask:
• That the EU trade agreements is required of
real way the fulfillment of Human Rights
(HR).
• Supporting advocacy programs DD.HH, care for victims and displaced persons.

In Latin America and the Caribbean continue denounced
permanent attacks of European and American right against the revolutionary process initiated democratically pursuing regional integration and
fighting neoliberal policies.

• Consider development cooperation as a public policy and denounce the dismantling of
cooperation through the disappearance of the funds for it.

The criminal US blockade on the Republic of
Cuba, despite the repeated complaints of the Assembly
General of the UN, remains for us / as one
our axes of international solidarity, as
that the demand for the release of the 5 Heroes
Cubans imprisoned in US jails.

• That in times of crisis increases solidarity,
so we asked for an increase in resources for cooperation provided this is not commodified or privatized in the hands of large companies.

We also oppose all trade agreements seeking to achieve the EU not to take into
account the asymmetries between regions, fair trade and
complementarities.

• That development funds do not serve to strengthen
privatization policies in countries of destination
(Example: water privatization in Latin America).

In the case of Colombia, note that the Government
Santos is the clear continuation of Uribe Government
with regard to the violation of human rights and
murder of indigenous, trade unionists, peasants and activists of social movements. Given
the dramatic situation of violence and repression in the country
Andean, the Multiparty Trade Agreement signed between
Colombia, Peru and the EU is yet another example of the
Current EU is more concerned with establishing mechanisms that favor free trade around
few make progress and ensure compliance with the
basic rights

• That no public money with public-private partnerships (NGOs and Transnational) are made.
• End bipartisanship destination grants for cooperation. Most of the current funds are shared between organizations close to the PSOE, the PP and the Catholic Church.
• defend the plural nature of the aid to cooperation.

5.? OUR
Internationalism

We will also continue to support the right to self-determination of the Saharawi people and denouncing the role of
Government of Spain and the EU, which renounces exercise
managing the process of decolonization, so
we demand:

Both towns have managed to defeat barbarism, as those who suffer, have our support
internationalist.

• that Spain recognized before international bodies such as administering Power of "de jure"
the territory of Western Sahara by assuming
both their primary obligation to ensure the holding of transparent, verifiable and referendum
fair to allow the Saharawi people to exercise
the right to self-determination and denouncing,
also the maneuvers of obstruction of the occupying power, Morocco, that have prevented their free
celebration.

We want to advance common agendas braiding with various political and social organizations in the world. He

• Spain, as the administering Power, should ensure
the respect for human rights of the Saharan population

It is impossible to defend the ideas and values ​​of the left without exercising and practicing internationalist vision
in the struggle for socialism to end the barbarism
organized capitalism.

UNITED LEFT election proposals ELECTIONS 2011/81

West until the Saharawi people has not exercised its right to self-determination.
• Spain should pursue all diplomatic efforts in their power to be attributed to the Mission
United Nations for the Referendum in Western Sahara
Occidental (MINURSO) on competition
monitoring and verification of respect for human rights
human by the occupying power.
• Spain's refusal to participate in the illegal exploitation
natural resources of Western Sahara and denounce before international bodies expolio
thereof by any State or company.
• Support for the resistance of the Saharawi refugee village
in Tindouf camps.
• For the right of self-determination of the Sahara and its
independence.
We will continue saying loud and clear that Morocco, as
occupying force is impoverishing natural resources
Western Sahara in violation of international law.
Also, we will not rest until the Palestinian people count on a recognized state with its capital
in Jerusalem with the 1967 borders.
The criminal actions of the Israeli Government, the continuation of the settlements or criminal
blockade on the Gaza Strip, must have a strong response by the international community to conclude as soon as possible the peace process
Middle East.

The ENP and its instruments,
partnership agreements, were laid bare with the revolutions in Tunisia and Egypt.
The European Union was necessary accomplice of Ben Ali,
Mubarak or Gadaffi as it is still Netanyahu,
Mohamed VI or the regime of Saud dynasty of Saudi
Arabia.
Partnership agreements are conditioned, as
its Article 2, the strict enforcement of rights
humans. It never has frozen any EU agreement
association with the apparent breach of this clause in Tunisia, Egypt, Morocco and Israel.
The EU is not an actor of peace, but encourages rearmament
Member States and neither is nor waiting in initiatives leading to the democratization of Nations
United, peace, disarmament and the substantial increase in
cooperation to end hunger and poverty, weapons of mass destruction par excellence.
From Izquierda Unida we promise to change
substantially the current Foreign Policy and Neighbourhood
EU. This must be based on peace, disarmament, cooperation and democratic international relations.
Moreover, we are committed to strengthening a European united response in the social, trade union and political
that allows us to go to a new European constitutional process to build a social Europe of rights and not
a Europe at the service of the markets.

We support all revolutionary processes in the open
Arab countries of North Africa who speak the common language
of the universal demands of political and social rights.
We renew our commitment to the victims
violations of human rights and recognition
and public support for the work of human rights defenders
Human rights in the world.

6.? FOREIGN POLICY
NEIGHBOURHOOD AND EU
CFSP call (Foreign Policy and Security
Common), defended for more than ten years within
EU has blown up in the war in Libya.
UNITED LEFT election proposals ELECTIONS 2011/82

www.izquierda-unida.es
www.convocatoriasocial.org
