General Election 2011 Electoral program UPyD
GENERAL ELECTIONS 2011
ELECTORAL PROGRAM

Content
1 - GENERAL ELECTORAL REFORM ACT
2 - AMENDMENT OF THE CONSTITUTION AND STATE
2.1 - redistribution of powers between State, autonomous regions and municipalities
2.2 - Senate Reform
2.3 - Equal linguistic rights
2.4 - secular state
2.5 - Succession to the Crown
2.6 - Reforms of the Judiciary, Constitutional Court and Procuratorate.
2.7 - Improving citizen participation in political decisions.
2.8 - Simplification of administrative rules.
3 - ECONOMY.
3.1 - Policy unnecessary public expenditure savings and elimination of duplication.
3.2 - Regional Financing
3.3 - Local Government
3.4 - Savings and Financial System
3.5 - Tax reform and the fight against fraud
3.6 - Labor Reform
3.7 - Sectoral Policies: entrepreneurship, industry, construction, services.
3.8

- Energy Policy

3.9 - Infrastructure and housing
3.10 - New technologies, communication and digital economy
3.11 - Agriculture
4 - EDUCATION, SPORTS AND RESEARCH

4.1 - Compulsory Education and Training
4.2 - Universities and research
4.3 - Sport.
5 - SOCIAL POLICY
5.1 - Support for the unemployed
5.2 - Protection of the right to housing
5.3 - Pension reform
5.4 - Care for vulnerable groups
5.5 - Immigration
5.6 - Policy equality and combating discrimination.
5.7 - Public safety
6 - HEALTH ..
6.1 - Restoration of the National Health System.
6.2 - Streamlining investment and health spending.
6.3 - Planning health enhancing primary care and chronic care
6.4 - A more transparent health policy.
6.5 - Training and professionalization of health workers.
7 - JUSTICE ..
8 - TRANSPARENCY AND ANTI-CORRUPTION ..
8.1 - Transparency and anti-corruption. Right to information.
8.2 - General government
9 - ENVIRONMENT AND LAND MANAGEMENT ..
10 - CULTURE ..
10.1 - Intellectual Property
10.2 - Media
10.3 - Cultural Policy
11 - International Policy Cooperation and Defence ..
11.1 - Europe, international relations and foreign policy.
11.2 - Development cooperation

11.3 - Defense.
1 - GENERAL ELECTORAL REFORM ACT
1 - The current Organic Law on General Elections (LOREG) puts the
provincial representation to equal the value of the vote. It is a system that
It favors exaggerated representation of the major parties and
Regional concentrated in some provinces, thus damaging equality
indispensable opportunities for all citizens can be no
only voters but eligible. Democratic regeneration policy
Spanish requires in-depth reform to restore equality LOREG
of the vote and a more balanced territorial representation.
1.2 - Amendment to the Organic Law on General Elections.
2 - Increased number of deputies from 350 to 400 and replacement of the formula
D'Hondt electoral other more proportional electoral formula, and the formula
I will do.
3 - constituency is the province, plus Ceuta and Melilla, for 198
Deputies; at least one member from each district are elected, and
Moreover, up to 146 will be distributed in proportion to the population of each official
constituency.
4 - The remaining 200 deputies will be elected in a single constituency
national character.
5 - Until the development of computer tools allow
simple introduction of open lists, the procedure of choice
Deputies will follow the principle of "open lists" so that the
elector has the ability to alter the order of candidates on the list.
6 - Rear Reform art. 68 of the Constitution to abolish the province
as constituency, replacing the region.
7 - Elimination of any artificial obstacle to political pluralism, as
obligation to collect 0.1% of the electorate of the constituencies
who want to present extra-parliamentary parties.
2 - AMENDMENT OF THE CONSTITUTION AND STATE

2.1 - redistribution of powers between State, Communities
Regions and municipalities
8 -Reform of Title VIII of the Constitution to clearly define the division
of powers between the central government, autonomous communities
and local authorities, to avoid duplication and close the regional model,
stating that the following matters must be exclusive competition
State and non-transferable: international representation, defense, justice,
education, health, environment, civil protection and natural resources without
discard the study of other subjects or some decentralized management
state powers. All autonomous regions have the
same powers, legislative capacity and financing system
fiscal responsibility.
9 - Approval of the reforms of the Statute of Autonomy require
equal to two-thirds majority in each chamber.
10 - Abolition of the fourth transitory provision affecting Navarra, as
transience beat her when it was established as a community
autonomous.
11 - Removal of the first additional provision that enshrines the rights
Historic of the leasehold territories as contrary to the higher value
equality governing the constitution and consolidate an unacceptable situation
privilege.
12 - Adjust the transitory provision on Ceuta and Melilla to your
Current legal reality as autonomous cities.
13 - To amend Article 2 CE: where "nationalities and regions" says should
say "autonomous communities".
14 - Restoration of prior control of constitutionality for cases
Reform of Statutes of Autonomy, avoiding legal uncertainty
Statutes generates approval of dubious constitutionality.
15 - Abolition of the Provincial Councils and Provincial Councils, whose
competencies will to play Autonomous Communities
Municipalities.
16 - gradual and voluntary Fusion, within expiration date,
of municipalities with less than 5,000 inhabitants, and adjacent to each other
or attachments to major urban centers, in order to rationalize
local administration and improve the efficient delivery of public services.
17 - Delete the organs of the General State Administration empty
skills as a result of the decentralization process, including
ministries and directorates.

2.2 - Senate Reform
18 - Reform of the Senate to be a real camera
she territorial representation and the various communities and cities
autónomaspuedan defend their interests, leaving the Congress general

nationwide. You have a mixed composition: a fixed number of
community senators elected by regional parliaments, and other
of senators directly elected in proportion to the population of the
Autonomous communities.

2.3 - Equal linguistic rights
19 - In communities with two official languages ​​must ensure equality
language rights in dealing with administration, education
compulsory in all public services. Article 14 EC prohibits
discrimination be included after the word "race", the word "language". For other
hand, languages ​​do not have political rights, and therefore deleted the
EC Article 3.3: "The richness of the different linguistic modalities of Spain
it is a cultural heritage that will be object of special respect and protection ".

2.4 - secular state
20 - Article 16 C.E. on religious freedom, paragraph 3 shall read
thus: "No religion shall state character". UPyD boost secularism
State, guaranteeing freedom of conscience and religious practices
Legitimate which do not violate the basic principles of the Constitution and
as the self-financing of religious denominations and the total separation of
religious precepts and state institutions.

2.5 - Succession to the Crown
21 - eliminate discrimination on grounds of sex Article 57.1 EC.
22 - Delete the oath of King allusion to the rights of "
autonomous communities "(Article 61.1 EC), because they have no rights,
only citizens.

2.6 - Reforms of the Judiciary, Constitutional Court and Prosecution
2.6.1 - General Council of the Judiciary: election of its 20 members:
23 to 12 judges are elected directly in open lists,
with secret and personal vote of the members of the judiciary.
24 to 4 by the judges and magistrates, three secretaries
court, three prosecutors and two attorneys.
25 - the remaining eight are chosen, four by Congress and four by the
Senate. None may be a former member of Parliament or of the
Legislative Assemblies of the autonomous regions, nor have been
member of a political party in the previous parliament or have been part of
their electoral lists.
26 - The Constitutional Court will increase from 12 to 15 judges to avoid
draws. To improve its politicization, the 3 new magistrates choose
the General Council of the Judiciary among jurists who have not been
affiliated to any political party in the previous term and 20 years
professional experience. It will study the two judges elected by the
Government are elected by prosecutors exercising by direct vote and

secret.
27 - To strengthen the independence and depoliticizing the office, the Attorney General
the State shall be elected by a 3/5 majority of Parliament from a
slate voted by secret and direct suffrage, by prosecutors in exercise.

2.7 - Improving citizen participation in political decisions.
28 - Amendment of article 92 of the Constitution governing the referendum
advisory in order that the decisions of special relevance to undergo
Also popular referendum at the request of citizens. It will take
have at least 500,000 accredited signatures
29 - Reform of the constitutional rules governing the legislative initiative
popular (art. 87-3) so you can exercise in own law matters
Organic and constitutional modification (art. 166). The presentation will be required
of at least 500,000 accredited signatures.

2.8 - Simplification of administrative rules
30 - Revision of the existing regulatory framework to eliminate rules
outdated, confusing, redundant or ineffective and superfluous. Simplification
drastic current regulations to ensure compliance, prevent
breaking the unity of the market and the restriction of freedom of movement
Spain.
3 - ECONOMY

3.1 - Policy unnecessary public expenditure savings and elimination of
duplications
31 - The Government of Spain should use its constitutional powers
to cut unnecessary expenditure of all public administrations and avoid
duplication between them. Only thus can ensure the viability of the state,
balance public accounts and ensure equal treatment of
citizens. Our goal is to reduce by € 42,000 million (4% of GDP) the
superfluous spending by the following:
32 - Constitutional reform that clearly demarcation skills
regional and local state, avoid duplication, closing
definitely the autonomous model and return to the state competence
education and health (maintaining its decentralized management) to
ensure the same quality throughout Spain.
33 - Apply all administrations budget methods
inspired by the philosophy of zero-based budget, rather than the
incrementalism.
34 - Rules that limit the maximum number and size of units
administrative autonomous communities, ie, of ministries,
MPs and staff be appointed.
35 - Rules limiting state official cars, allowances for
and mobile phones representation at all levels of the administration.

36 - Study budgets thresholds deficit, debt and
degree of public service provided by public media, to
to propose its reform, downsizing, privatization or closure.
37 - Closing airports and AVE lines without enough traffic, adapted to
other possible uses. Program evaluation of all infrastructure
existing and future according to criteria of cost-benefit and
energy and environmental sustainability.
38 - Elimination of redundant regional administrative bodies
that duplicate those of the state, and economic and social councils, councils
advisory, audit offices, data protection agencies, agencies
traffic, meteorological agencies, statistical offices and offices
trade abroad.
39 - Establish mandatory salary bands for all categories
senior officials and regional or municipal office, to take as
reference remuneration of the corresponding levels in the
Central Government when performing the same function in
any administration.
40 - Drastic reduction (about 80%) of the 5000 non-administrative bodies
different legal nature (public companies, foundations, observatories,
commercial ...) companies with autonomous regions and municipalities,
considering in each case the possibilities of relocation of workers
affected.
41 - Establish legal limits on spending growth all regions of
similar to the limits of the deficit, how mechanisms penalty case
default. Spending limits are consistent with forecasts
revenue and deficit targets as well as the overall objectives of
country. If the regional budget breaching behavior causes
European commitments that are attached sanction, it will move
proportionally to the Autonomous Communities responsible.
42 - Mechanism previous budgetary coordination between the Communities
Autonomous and State, equivalent to the Community "European semester" for
supervision by the Council of Fiscal and Financial Policy.
43 - Restore the unit of Spanish domestic market, by state law
harmonization to abolish regional and municipal obstacles,
administrative and language, to the free movement of goods,
services, people, businesses and capital. The national approval
professional and business will be valid and sufficient in all Communities
Autonomous.

3.2 - Regional Financing
44 - Reform of regional financing based on the following
principles:
45 - Setting of multilateral negotiations with all communities in the
State Coordination, excluding bilateral between the State and each community.

46 - Abandonment of fiscal balances as indicators, as they are the
people who pay taxes and not the territories.
47 - Securing the necessary resources so that citizens receive in
anywhere in Spain similar benefits in all services
Public transferred to the Autonomous Communities.
48 - All regions have received a funding per
Similarly capita in terms of population equivalent.
49 - simple and transparent system of financing, avoiding the proliferation of
funds special character.
50 - fiscal responsibility of the autonomous communities, which will take
with tributes obtaining additional resources.
51 - Restrictions on the transfer of tax legislative powers, as
difficult to manage the collection, facilitate fraud and threatening
unity of the national market.
52 - Strengthen the State Tax Administration Agency (AEAT)
allowing the participation of the Autonomous Communities in their bodies
Guiding while avoiding fragmentation.
53 - Abolition of the Economic Agreement Basque and Navarre, with the consequent
Quota removal Basque and Navarre contribution to implement a
common financing scheme for all the Autonomous Communities.
54 - Increase territorial Compensation Fund (FCI) for editing
effective regional imbalances.
55 - Waiving of the new statutes of autonomy
State investment condition in each community that should only
respond to national needs.

3.3 - Local Government

56 - Addressing immediately the reform of local administration and
give it a new funding model that will provide sufficient
resources to carry them, increasing their share of taxes
State and the Autonomous Communities. The new funding model
abide by the population of fact, not of law. Clear delineation of
powers between the municipalities and the Autonomous Communities
avoid "inappropriate powers". Drastic and urgent measures to combat
high delinquency that exists in the field of local administration.

3.4 - Savings and Financial System
57 - To condition the granting of state public aid, as the FROB, the
acceptance by the Autonomous Communities and Savings Banks
the reforms that are required, including limiting wages and
severance, termination or retirement of directors in
financial institutions receiving public aid.

58 - Delete the veto of the Autonomous Communities to mergers
Savings between different communities.
59 - Giving the Bank of Spain all regulatory functions and
supervision of banks with the Autonomous Communities.
60 - Legislative reforms to the boards of banks
savings, and banks participated by those undertakings, are composed of
Suitable professional counselors recognized solvency and not by non-
other qualifications that come from political activity.
61 - Separate social work Banks banking.
62 - prohibit abusive practices such as granting loans
preferential managers or buyers of homes
belonging to the institution.
63 - Lost State aid: if losses are recognized upon settlement of the
relief funds, the financial institutions that have been used to
assume from its future profits.
64 - Complete the process of financial restructuring, recognizing the
real situation of balance, recapitalizing viable institutions (with
EFSF aid if necessary) and liquidating unviable. Reform
Official Credit Institute (ICO) to provide it with the means and structure
necessary for it to mediate in lending to small
and medium enterprises (SMEs), most in need of funding. Reform
the ICO should be complemented by a transitional measure for the
financial institutions give preference to the financing of SMEs
competitive market.
65 - Guaranteeing the independence of the Governor and the Bank inspectors
Spain and the National Securities Market Commission and other
watchdogs, giving them a similar status to that of inspectors
of Finance.
66 - Reforming the rating agencies and increased private competition
avoiding conflicts of interest between its various activities,
promote European and international initiatives necessary for
be effective.
67 - Promoting improved regulatory and supervisory system
European and international finance. Must meet standards
international Basel III, financial institutions require more capital and
better quality, greater liquidity, better systems of risk assessment and
more reliable accounting standards. In Europe should
be advanced towards the consolidation of an integrated monitoring system
financial.

3.5 - Tax reform and the fight against fraud
68 - comprehensive plan to combat tax fraud. The black economy
Spain assumed in about 20% of GDP and is growing as
consequence of the crisis, with a decline in revenue of about 70,000

million per year. The plan should include:
69 - Increase the means of the State Agency of Administration
Tax (SATA).
70 - Campaigns Increase public awareness against tax fraud.
71 - Strengthening coordination between the Tax Agency and regional administrations,
interconnection with real-time data of the Basque regional farms,
Navarre Finance and the State Treasury, a plan joint anti
tax fraud of all tax administrations.
72 - Reform of the figure of tax offenses, aggravating penalties,
extending the statute of limitations and expediting procedures.
73 - Priority inspection of major sources of tax fraud.
74 - International Anti-called "tax havens".
75 - Strengthening the patrimonial control of physical and legal entities
capital gains detect unjustified.
76 - Increased collaboration of the financial system to reduce
opacity of operations and cash management abusive High
denomination.
77 - Prioritize cutting wasteful spending and the fight against fraud
tax to the requirement of new tax contributions of citizens, as
reduce household consumption and business investment lengthening
economic crisis.
78 - deep fiscal reform to modify the tax system as a
set. The increase in revenue will be achieved by expanding the base
and simplifying the tax system, so that most of the load is not
as now rests on employed persons, and increase
contribution of capital income. The aim must also be to encourage the
growth and equity.
79 - Eliminate tax privileges granted to the SICAV.
80 - Reduction and rationalization of expenditure or tax benefits that
reduce tax collection: tax expenditures in income tax, the tax
corporate and VAT in Spain annually equivalent to 4.4% of GDP. Many
obey the action of pressure groups, they are not justified and are
ineffective or distortionary.
81 - The Heritage tax must be reformed to make it a tribute
levied on large fortunes, eliminating the many mechanisms
today allow tax avoidance. Maximum and minimum should be set in
basic features of the tax for all Spain.
82 - Harmonization of inheritance and gift tax given to the
Autonomous communities to avoid discriminatory treatment and phenomena
relocation, establishing a minimum tax and a minimum free

common to all.
83 - The capital gains will be taxed as income of
I work in income tax.
84 - Creating a new indirect tax on consumption of goods
Luxury and services.
85 - Measures to SMEs and freelancers:
85.1 - The objective assessment regime be allowed modules
exclusively on sales made by retailers to
final consumers.
85.2 - Accrual of VAT charged when the bill rather than when issued.
86 - Introduction of an international transaction tax
financial (known as "Tobin tax").
87 - Promotion of a common European fiscal policy to complement the currency
only.

3.6 - Labor Reform
88 - Reform of the labor market in depth all new
Contracts will be permanent and temporary suppressed, except for
Replacing low and justified temporary jobs. Severance
dismissal increase progressively according to seniority. The new
labor model will allow new workers entering the market
less permanent job as compensation to become
undefined with high compensation, without sudden jumps. This will increase the
protection of the worker and encourage training within the
company.
89 - Progressive implementation of the right to retain compensation
Cumulative change jobs, thus facilitating the voluntary return dismissal
job of retaining the right to compensation
Collected.
90 - Develop hiring part-time, making it attractive and
competitive.
91 - Reforming collective bargaining so consider
individual situation of each company, particularly if it
attesting through severe difficulties.
92 - To promote more rational, like the rest of Europe schedules,
to facilitate the reconciliation of work and family life. Incentives in the
companies setting up telework systems.
93 - Improve active employment policies based on training
unemployed, using the resources freed by the removal of subsidies to
permanent contracts. Establish systems of quality assessment and
effectiveness of the training courses for the unemployed.

94 - Improving public employment services by increasing resources
They have, avoiding territorial fragmentation and fostering collaboration
Private.
95 - Increase control of the incapacity to prevent absenteeism
unjustified, strengthening the fight against the black economy and
compliance with labor legislation. Studying the return of services
Labour Inspection to the General State Administration.
96 - Unions and employers' organizations should be financed with their
own resources progressively to ignore a deadline of
public budgets.

3.7 - Sectoral Policies: entrepreneurship, industry, construction,
services
97 - Delete the many obstacles and unjustified tape still
persist for business start-ups by which digital laventanilla only
allows complete the formalities before any public administration, reducing
substantially the administrative burden and time
constitution.
98 - Ensure the independence of supervisory and regulatory bodies
the markets.
99 - Designing an industrial policy that does not select the areas of future
They have to change the production model, but provides conditions
favorable for employers to do so.
100 - Increase the resources of the Spanish Institute for Foreign Trade (ICEX)
to promote the internationalization of Spanish companies, particularly
attention to SMEs.
101 - Tax incentives for the internationalization of SMEs using
fully the possibilities offered by EU Regulation 800/2008.
102 - Deepen the transposition of European legislation to increase
competition in the service sector.
103 - diversify tourism to rural and cultural tourism compatible
with landscape conservation and the environment, and quality of life
neighborhood tourist areas.

3.8 - Energy Policy
104 - Energy serious and rigorous debate culminating in the development of
a National Energy Plan, integrated into the European context.
105 - Maximum development of energy efficiency policies and
savings by encouraging efficient systems in industry, buildings,
transport and the entire energy chain: production, transmission and
Citizen consumption.
106 - To promote the development of clean energy and the transition to a model

low carbon economy, reducing fuel imports
fossils.
107 - Review of subsidies for renewable energies considering
Amortization of installation and progressive output to the free market. The costs
renewable must be shared by all energy sectors.
Removing subsidies to the production and consumption of fuels
fossils.
108 - Planning and promotion of decentralized energy production and
of rural energy sources such as small-scale agriculture (such as
biogas) and promoting "smart cities". Promoting
micro, with the installation of reversible counters for these
equipment.
109 - Maintenance of installed nuclear power and opening a debate
transparent, objective and rigorous on the risk and cost of this type of
power.
110 - Establishing an energy mix Mix or energy production
allowing electrical system stability of generation, transmission and
supply and coverage of demand peaks, using criteria
environmental, cost and technical capacity. All energies can
integrated into the national energy mix, including the still little
developed, such as wind medium power and geothermal.
111 - Law enforcement and selection, the sooner site
for a centralized temporary storage of spent nuclear fuel.
112 - Establish a system of price formation and the light energy
transparent.
113 - Removal of subsidies to coal mining and closure
not cost efficient operations, with investments in productive economy
in the affected areas.
114 - Improvement and renovation of the electricity distribution network for a
efficient integration of renewable energy, network deployment
Smart and introduction of the digitized measurement of final consumption with
to adapt the consumption generation.
115 - Increase gas and electricity interconnections with the rest of
Europe.
116 - Support through fee exemption for hybrid vehicles under
and electrical consumption. Establish a plan for the latter development
fast connection points throughout Spain, liberalizing the sale of energy.

3.9 - Infrastructure and housing
117 - To review the desirability of privatizing AENA (Airports
Spanish Airports and Air Navigation) and subject it in any event monitoring and
effective control by the A.E.S.A. (State Agency for Aviation Safety)
not degrade the current levels of safety.

118 - Train more Air Traffic Controllers for them to meet the
Air Traffic needs to work a number of hours similar to
European average.
119 - National Plan of Airport Network all existing airports
and project and study of operational civil airports with almost zero and / or
military, to empower them, reassign other uses or dismantle.
120 - Required financial and economic analysis and social viability
any public investment in infrastructure, with public exposure
binding of these studies and the criteria for processing,
period for comment publicly.
121 - Development of the Strategic Infrastructure and Transport
effective promotion of intermodal and rail, devoting special
Railroad attention to the Ports, development and improvement of connections Centers
Intermodal, and improving services along the chain
logistics service providers.
122 - Developing a Plan of port infrastructures and intermodal
market-oriented of the Mediterranean Basin, North Africa, the Middle East and
Latin America. Development of the Trans-European Transport Network with the project
Mediterranean Rail Corridor rail, and Corridor
Atlantic Rail Freight. The aim is to increase transport
rail and maritime transport as complementary modes by
road, thus achieving greater integration of the single European market
boost economic activity.
123 - Direct the public investment in housing to
public housing rent protection without option to buy, encouraging
private management of the activity. The stock of unsold homes can
used to create a public park in public housing
rent. You must study a procedure option such housing
and review of the award to the beneficiaries in case of default
later.
124 - Restoring the independence of the appraisal companies
real estate, external control element loan guarantees
mortgage, by banning corporate investment
banks or savings banks, and by establishing processes
Free allocation of covert commissions.
125 - Promoting the rehabilitation of buildings and homes as a way of
contribute to the recovery in residential construction.
126 - Study mandatory energy efficiency and efficacy of new
urban development, providing its development as part of the installation
renewable energy.
127 - Review of the Urban Leases Act, increasing
obligations and guarantees of the parties.
128 - Adjustments to regional regulations to the Land Act in the State
on land reserves in ciudades.Aprobación of a National Plan

Sustainable development that reconciles and harmonize plans and strategies
development of the autonomous regions. Approval of global plans
territorial strategy in each of the Autonomous Communities as
precondition for the approval of the general plan, subject to
mandatory reports of the adjacent autonomous communities and the state.
129 - fiscally stimulate the private sector to develop housing
rented, by creating new opportunities
private investment and promoting SOCIMIs (Corporations
Listed Investment in real estate).
130 - Develop a single national law on the ITE (Technical Inspection
Buildings), to facilitate their understanding to all citizens and agents
Professional, to which all municipal ordinances shall be subject
existing and future.

3.10 - New technologies, communication and digital economy
131 - Deployment of telecommunications networks with private and public investment,
national and EU, for access to high speed Internet, both
fixed or movable, so that 20% of the connection points provided in the
2015 of 100Mbps.
132 - universal access to the Internet with 100% coverage of the territory
national and a minimum speed of 10 Mbps by 2013, reached 30
Mbps by 2020. With the most efficient technological solutions based
their cost, and with appropriate policies to reduce connection fees and
the prices of services to equate the European environment.
133 - The government will contribute to the deployment and sustainability
networks of high or very high speed in the less profitable areas for
private investment, using tax burdens free media as: a)
compensation Telecommunication industry returns obtained in the
auction of radio spectrum ("digital dividend"), and b) removing the
obligation imposed on telecommunications operators to
RTVE funding, making them share the cost of deploying
new networks and proportionally balanced.
134 - Mandatory preinstalled infrastructure
telecommunication works tracing all interurban road or improvement.
135 - Promotion of eGovernment promoting the interconnection
between systems of government. Concentration
infrastructure and resources to reduce overlap, simplify
procedures and optimize service platforms.
136 - politicize the appointment of directors of regulatory body
(CMT), developing another that puts the
professionalism, prestige and innovation capacity in the sector,
Proposal and evaluation of the Royal Academy, the Centers
Most prestigious universities and professional associations.
137 - National Plan of the digital world society,

include a) promotion of electronic commerce between employers and
consumers. b) promotion of ICTs in education. c) relations with the
Administration. d) promotion of telework.
138 - Continuous monitoring of the quality of service
provided by telecommunications operators through: a) assessment
compliance of service parameters; b) publication of the
results transparent and accessible to all users through
an official link on the Internet; c) regulation to correct deviations
in the basic indicators of quality; d) provision of an access point
to inform citizens and gather petitions concerning quality
services.
139 - Ensure a transparent, accurate, intelligible, and objective information
Full of the services offered by telecommunications companies.
140 - To promote electronic voting in all polling calls one
After ensuring the safety and reliability of the processes of collecting and
data processing and the guarantee of the free exercise, direct and
secrecy of the vote.
141 - To promote the priority use of free software in government
Public, especially those processes where the use of systems
copyrighted assume a cost to citizens in their dealings with the
Administration and the exercise of fundamental rights.
142 - Strengthening legal protection of citizens and their private data
against abuses by companies in the aggressive recruitment policies
telematics customers.

3.11 - Agriculture
143 - Assess the role of agriculture, animal husbandry and sustainable fishing
environmental activities as conservative rural, marine and fisheries environment,
and as much as strategic policy State. Provide solutions to
existing negative environmental effects of current practices
(Intensive agriculture, massive use of pesticides and fertilizers químicoindustriales), which must fit within the Europe 2020 strategy towards
smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
144 - Design a national water policy that treats water as a
common resource of all Spaniards and facilitate irrigation.
145 - Encourage competition in the distribution of agricultural products
reducing excessive markups that cause large differences
between prices in origin and destination, strengthening the position of farmers
on the Food Chain and fighting against abusive practices
intermediation.
146 - To promote a reform of the European common agricultural policy to defend
agriculture according to the following criteria regarding payments
Direct:
147 - Possibility to link payments to the number of workers

exploitation and not per hectare, ensuring that only those who cultivate the
lands receive payment, redefining the concept of "active farmer".
148 - mandatory ecological component linking direct payments,
for example, permanent pasture, soil cover or crop rotation,
environmental public goods. Application of the principle of "
polluter pays "against the uncontrolled use of pesticides and to promote
modes of production compatible with the environment
149 - Support small farmers through minimum payments
direct.
150 - Eliminate subsidies that encourage crop farming practices or not
sustainable.
151 - Measures CAP market to strengthen the position of farmers in
the food chain to increase its competitiveness and ensure its own
subsistence delete your helplessness and strengthen the right to security
food.
152 - European standard that controls the power of large distributors and
applying rules regulating competition.
153 - Promoting self-management organizations in small and medium
holdings in order to participate in the control of supply
154 - Flesh out the notion of "food stock" in order to ensure
food security
155 - Price of most real markets related to activation.
156 - extend the intervention period to sectors such as the dairy
a more effective and efficient system (such as the Canadian) is achieved.
157 - End of refunds on exports, as agreed last
Doha Round, provided that all parties comply.
158 - Supporting and strengthening rural areas through:
159 - Support for the role of agriculture as a creator of economic activities
Additional in rural areas.
160 - measures to help young farmers, with particular emphasis on
training and skills development.
161 - Aid for the use of advisory services and training.

162 - To facilitate the exchange of best practices among farmers.
163 - Development of an efficient agricultural sector and generate
quality products, provide environmental public goods.
164 - Development of an efficient and competitive industry through aid for
innovation and modernization of farms, with a reduction
emissions of greenhouse gases, improving soil quality and

reducing the use of scarce resources such as water.
165 - Promotion and development at both national and European,
Integrated Production and production method in the sustainable and rational
use of inputs.
4 - EDUCATION, SPORTS AND RESEARCH

4.1 - Compulsory Education and Training
166 - pact on education that embed stability to the system and
starts recognizing teachers and true experts in
education.
167 - Allocation of State responsibility for education, without prejudice
that management is still played by the CCAA. In the territories
two co-official languages, legal recognition of the right to education
in the official language of choice, and to ensure learning curriculum
suitable for both, with momentum trilingual (and bilingualism in
English in the whole of Spain). Staff mobility throughout Spain on
and equal opportunities.
168 - Promotion of the European dimension of education closely
connected with the formation in values, attitudes and skills related to
European citizenship.
169 - Increase investment in education and research to achieve
half of the more advanced European countries, guaranteed by law
Financing Education.
170 - educational reform to combat high rates of failure and
school dropout and improve the levels of education of children and youth
Spanish people. The outlines of the model we support are:
171 - voluntary child-primary and primary teaching and
Compulsory school until age 16.
172 - continuous and preferential attention to primary education, basic system
education, to be reviewed in depth and rigor.
173 - Secondary Stage two basic routes: solid high school and
rigorous, unified longer than the current age and begun to more
Early, quality and Vocational Training, which allows obtaining
ESO and access to higher education, with access from 14
years.
174 - more realistic, reducing the number of subjects and Curriculum
planning based on overall student work and learning not only
in school hours.
175 - Promoting the culture of effort. Establishing clear criteria
to promote progress. Enhancing the diversification and reinforcement, with
specific support programs as alternatives to grade retention.

176 - Continuous assessment system through external testing
content-based and clearly detailed minimum competencies.
Priority training objectives. Set by the curricular project
educational, unless authorities in centers with special features.
177 - Recognition of the student as the subject of the right to education,
whose integral formation as an independent citizen should be the ultimate objective
the education system. Curriculum to instill democratic virtues, is
respectful of all beliefs systems compatible with democracy
and exclude the ideological, identity or religious indoctrination.
178 - Development and improvement of the network of public centers to the
provision of public services depend stop concert with entities
private. Rigorous administrative control of the admission criteria and the
discipline of the schools supported by public funds,
They must be the same in public and concerted, real and gratuity
all of them. Education of children and young people living in areas
marginalized or from families in social exclusion
normal academic centers and reinforcements needed, avoiding
ghetto-concentration centers.
179 - professional management of the centers, based on the principles
of enforcement goals, initiative, competence and
transparency of results. Attribution to the Faculty of some
powers currently attributed to the School Boards. Reduction
radical bureaucratic duties of teachers, equipping schools
administrative staff enough.
180 - Allocation of public authority responsible for the centers and
teachers to ensure a working environment and respect and eradicating harassment
school, with special protection to children who because of their ethnicity,
native language, sexual orientation or other status are more
exposed to autism.
181 - Revision of the education curriculum for 0-3 year period to ensure the
unity of purpose and comprehensive consideration of psychological and developmental stage
0-6.
182 - Inclusion of students with special educational needs in
the same centers and groups, preferably the rest of the students,
giving priority to early detection and intervention. Depreciation centers
professional support required.
183 - Commitment to educational equality between men and
women. Coeducation in schools supported with public funds.
Curriculum that promotes equality for women and the use of language
Contrary to discrimination.
184 - Strengthening of learning foreign languages, especially
English through bilingual (or trilingual education in territories with two
co-official) languages. At the end of high school students must achieve
level required for continuing their studies in another language.

185 - Provide flexible education system and the media to
they can be addressed the unique needs of immigrants, preventing
xenophobic or racist attitudes.
186 - Training, selection and promotion of teachers should be based on
academic excellence and teaching skills. Training and
systems access to the teaching profession should be more demanding. Suppression
new teacher training Masters, which will be replaced
for teacher training, similar to the MIR system, consisting of the exercise
teaching paid for a period of one or two years under the
supervision of experienced teachers and accredited competition.
Deleting restricted or quasi restricted contests. Hiring
Interim and possible must be an exceptional resource and not a common form
entry into the profession.
187 - Review and strengthening of the position of inspector, who must oversee the
evaluation of teaching practice and help the functioning of the centers and
the extension of the best educational practices.
188 - Revision of vocational training model to a dual model
corporate responsibility in training and learning.
189 - Optimization of the public network of vocational training through
fusion centers and the creation of centers of reference for each family
professional human and financial resources, technical resources.
190 - Greater autonomy of vocational training centers to adapt
qualifications to the demands of companies in their environment, promoting
relations between companies and centers.
191 - more flexible access to training courses integrating the various
Training systems, enabling the validation of modules
to encourage student retention in the education system and making
possible the realization of a real "career". Rearrange
Degree studies to enhance their continuity with the studies
university.
192 - Encourage student mobility vocational training with
a system of grants and loans.

4.2 - Universities and research
193 - Firm commitment to the integration of Spanish universities
the European Higher Education Area (EHEA). Opposition attempts to
impose higher education reforms failed in high school.
194 - Greater integration of the Spanish university system to promote
student mobility by introducing a national catalog
qualifications specific to each guidelines.
195 - Teacher mobility, overcoming inbreeding. Reform
faculty selection and return to university officials
right to transfer.

196 - Assessment of the quality of education preferably based on their
results, encouraging the realization by graduates of evidence
approved external.
197 - System loans, scholarships and mobility aids to ensure that
everyone has the opportunity to study with dedication and
use, full or part time. Rates set for the graduate
Similar to grade. Reduction of student failure through access
more rigorous and limiting the maximum length of stay in the
universities face.
198 - Study of the abolition or merger of centers manifestly
underutilized, and fusion of public universities for centers
better equipped, more competitive and better integrated into the national and
International.
199 - Promoting research decoupling the templates
university departments teaching needs. Empowerment
programs like Ramón y Cajal, and stabilization of research staff
hired. Encourage collaboration between universities and businesses,
while still boosting basic research.
200 - Returning to the State of skills related
research, development, innovation and technology transfer to
Spain has a common integrated model on European models and avoid
fragmentation of policies in R + D + i.
201 - Reaching a State Pact with a stable investment commitment
low R & D + i 2% of GDP for the whole legislature, consistent with our
independent economic development situation, to promote
change in the production model and allow researchers a career
stable and attractive career. Creating unique and Finance Agencies
Independent evaluation.
202 - Eliminate any barriers or related merits
knowledge of official languages ​​in the calls, contests or
jobs for access to research posts in the various
Autonomous regions and research bodies, except in areas and
jobs requiring the use or investigation of the official language.
203 - Modify the composition and functions of the Council for Science Policy and
Technology, incorporating funding agencies, evaluation and
monitoring, enforcement officers, IPOs and the scientific community, as well as
the social agents involved in the whole process of transfer
technological and innovation.
204 - Reform and CSIC audit aimed at the signing of his contract
management, full transparency in its procedures, with greater participation
researchers in their decisions, and professionalism and independence
in its management.
205 - Development of a single labor contract research that improves the
conditions and rights of young researchers, promoting the

best career to a stable and productive tasks tissue
investigation.
206 - To promote the mobility of researchers in the public system
research, implementing a single national system of access to places
IPOs and researchers in universities, with the incompatibility
access within a given time frame, to places in the institutions where
He has done his doctorate. Promote transfer policies
Researchers systems between public research and industry
Private, eliminating administrative, fiscal and academic barriers. Creation of
technologist career to foster greater public-private joint activity
207 - Redefine the priorities of the State Innovation Strategy for
modernize the industrial-business network, improve internal efficiency
R + D + i through project management, and encourage the creation of
private or mixed companies with high R & D + i. Favour
creating research clusters involving public centers
research, universities and companies.
208 - Give financial support to patents which are granted either by the
Spanish Patent and Trademark Office or the European Patent Office
(European Patent Office) for maintenance and expansion.

4.3 - Sports
209 - State Coordination and collaboration with the Autonomous Communities,
Municipalities, universities and other public institutions as
Private, for the development of sports and promotion
physical activity and sport.
210 - Promoting regular physical activity for their important role in
health of all social groups, with special effort: a) campaigns
promotion of physical activity for the Elderly; b) access
disabled sports people; c) more efficient programs against
childhood obesity. To improve the safety of the athletes will be provided
conducting medical examinations with the corresponding monitoring
Health Centers.
211 - Promotion of sports centers in coordination with municipalities
and other administrations, making them Social Focal Points
where both young and older adults can gather to enjoy
sport.
212 - Collaboration with the municipalities for the construction and improvement of
sports facilities of schools, so that they can
Sports become social centers during non-class hours.
213 - Promotion and support of sports associations in schools
by sports promotion programs, with the creation of schools and
sports clubs. Promoting social training programs, drivers
Fair Play for teachers and sports coaches, aimed at eradicating
violence and xenophobia in sport, stressing the importance of values

sports. Promoting special programs for children at risk
social exclusion.
214 - Promoting equal opportunities in the world of sport
measures to allow greater participation of women, improving
reconciling sport and family life.
215 - Elite Sport: ADO maintenance plan and review of the Centres
Specialized High Performance and for elite athletes
to improve in efficiency and effectiveness. Provide its top athletes
access to sports careers or own teachings. Collaboration with
Autonomous communities in screening programs for talent
developing adequate infrastructure.
216 - Final Solution to Degrees Sports and its validity
professional. Professional Sports Act that addresses the slopes
professional, fiscal, trade and social security.
217 - Legal regulation of sports betting to increase the percentage
of revenues dedicated to promoting grassroots sport.
218 - Strengthen the custody and control of the Administrations of the organization
expenses and Sports Federations, and streamlining its management positions
their diets and remuneration. Its activity and income must be
audited by the Court of Auditors and agencies
219 - own bankruptcy Corporations Act Sports. I do not know
It will clean any public funds or sports club Deportiva SA
professional, posting a deficit ceiling and more effective control
operation of these entities
220 - Programme to improve sports facilities with clean energy
and renewable, recycling of materials used. Construction of new
facilities use technologies that take care of the Environment and
sustainable development. Using environmental sustainability criteria in
sports facilities, especially in new construction and in
organizing major events.
221 - Support and promotion of the Green Charter of Spanish and Sport
the National Strategy on Sport and Sustainability and Agenda
21 of the Spanish sport, through close collaboration between CSD, COE,
FEMP CCAA and government.
5 - SOCIAL POLICY

5.1 - Support for the unemployed
222 - Improving the system of coverage for workers who exhaust
its benefits and unemployment benefits, eliminating the requirement of
over 45 years old to access state Active Insertion Income, which
It provides coverage for eleven months compared to the current aid of 400
euros for six months (to be deleted).
223 - Mix minimum income of insertion of the Communities

Autonomous, which today are very different requirements for their discriminatory
and amounts. We propose the combined efforts of the General Administration
State and the Autonomous Communities with income support in two phases:
a state first and second regional. The State will coordinate the
Communities to the admission requirements, duration and amount are
similar throughout Spain.
224 - Strengthening the control of unemployment benefits and subsidies to
Preventing Fraud in your collection.

5.2 - Protection of the right to housing
225 - Active support to increase the supply of mortgage loans
with payment in the housing loan amortization.
226 - Change bankruptcy law in order to introduce
Restrictions on the principle of unlimited liability in the
insolvency proceedings of a natural person, following the fresh model
start, existing in the US and in some European countries. In this
system, once executed all the debtor's attachable assets, the
Remaining passive it is exonerated by court order without consent
creditor, which, without prejudice to establish the necessary precautions to avoid
fraudulent behavior, allows the debtor to start a new activity
socially productive.
227 - Average interest rates on arrears on mortgage loans,
So they have a máximo.Modificación limit taxation that penalizes
in lieu of payment to pay off the mortgage debt.
228 - extremely vigilant of the Bank of Spain on practices
abusive banks and in mortgage lending.

5.3 - Pension reform
229 - Set of flexible retirement age, encouraging
properly the voluntary extension of working life. Introduction
Progressive's total working life for pension calculation, allowing
to all workers who have passed the required contribution period
for 100% of their pension using the sum of all contributions of its
working life for the calculation of the base.
230 - fiscally penalize early retirement in companies with
benefits, so tothe public coffers is not profiting. Ensure that the
early retirement of workers with long careers
have a neutral effect on the Social Security system.
231 - Complete the separation of funding sources Safety
Social, so be clarified and properly display the situation
financial and equity Social Security, so that all
Non-contributory benefits are financed by taxes.
233 - Complete with any privilege in the pensions of parliamentarians,
both Congress and Senate and the regional parliaments.

5.4 - Care for vulnerable groups
234 - Amendments to the Law on Promotion of Personal Autonomy and Care
Dependency to place it within the State lascompetencias
social security matters in order to ensure equality and equity minimum
and the existence of a single system. The Care and Social Services to
Unit shall have jurisdiction over all of the municipalities, door
entry and foundation of the protective system.
235 - National Security Act and Social Rights that guarantees Services
access to basic services for all citizens and establish a
minimum coverage, an information system and common management for all
State, with stable funding, and allocate the competence
management to local authorities.
236 - Improving the system of family fostering harmonizing
CCAA regulations on the matter in the best interests of the child, with
a single information system foster care / adoption for all
national territory, in order to avoid the loss of family ties between
brothers in foster care or adoption processes in different regions.
237 - Adoption of a National Law on Minimum Income for Insertion
converting the aggregate current and Regional Programs Revenue Laws
Minimum (with different name, amount and criteria for access) in a
Coordinated and homologous system in terms of the basic conditions
(Duration, amount, in the alternative, profile of beneficiaries, etc.) throughout
Spanish territory.
238 - The Social Jurisdiction is competent in determining the
entitlement to benefits and the review procedure
acknowledging the situation of dependency.
239 - Recognition of the post of Personal Assistant to a profile
professional and academic, and creating offices to Independent Living
public funding, managed by the group of people with
disabilities.
240 - Ensuring the right to full participation in the electoral process and
the administration of justice for people with disabilities.

241 - Strategic Plan of care for people with Spectrum Disorder
Autism and their families, and National Plan of Care for Diseases
Neurodegenerative (Alzheimer, Parkinson's, multiple sclerosis, ALS, etc.)
address the necessary intervention in the health, social and research area.
242 - Procurement Plan that includes the requirement that companies
tenderers or recipients of the award of public contracts and concessions
Grant demonstrating compliance with the obligation to reserve
employment for disabled workers, and establishes the obligation for
all Administrations to reserve a minimum percentage of hiring.
243 - Foster family care of older redefining
"Dependent" and the system of tax breaks and subsidies in general,

with the creation of public spaces residential direct management and expansion
coverage of day centers, home care and telecare.

5.5 - Immigration
244 - Immigration policy should be the responsibility of the Union
European to establish a unified European legal system. We propose
transfer to the EU policy management Citizenship and Immigration
through a European Immigration implement policies
integration and common visa. Meanwhile, it is essential to synchronize
different national laws, ensuring cooperation between States
members.
245 - Combating illegal immigration mafias, reinforcing
cooperation between European institutions involved in the fight against
organized, such as EUROPOL and INTERPOL, reducing crime
lack of coordination between Member States. Strengthen human resources and
materials for organizations fighting trafficking in human beings
human, and increase penalties for such offenses.
246 - Improving the social integration of immigrants and their families with the
creation of a National Service Integration of Immigrants
manage, in cooperation with regional and local administrations,
Immigrant service office, conducting courses of culture and language
Free Spanish, supplementary training for minors in the
school system or family reunification.
247 - Review of the Immigration Act to improve the treatment of migrants
on non-EU residence permits and work,
establishing equal rights of foreigners with Spanish,
conditioned on reciprocity in the respective countries. Recognition
right of residence to the spouses and children of foreigners who died in
Work accidents.
248 - End the illegal character of the correctional centers
Internment developing all possible control measures to
dictated meet in the Aliens Act, promoting access to
Centres associations specializing in serving immigrants,
complying with limits on the number of inmates in those centers, and
regulating access to families and communicating with boarding
outside.

5.6 - Policy equality and combating discrimination
249 - Development of policies for the effective achievement of Equal
Opportunity and Treatment national essentially equal
effective for women and men and particularly opportunities
education, access to employment and civil rights.
250 - New Law against Gender Violence or Violence, Domestic or
Sexist, replacing the current Organic Law of Protection Measures
Integral Gender Violence, which violates the principle of
equal to rely on the criminal asymmetry and unequal treatment in the field

court, resulting in an excessive and unfair application for thousands of
men. A law which, in addition to face gender-based violence, protect
all members of the family.
251 - National Law Custody of minor children by both
parents, refusal in separation and divorce so that the
Sole custody is exceptional, harmonizing the legal regulation
same throughout Spain to ensure equal rights for all
citizens. Joint Custody Law held:
252-the principle of the best interests of the child to continue their daily lives and
their education with both parents and their families.
253 - forecasts of the European Charter on the Rights of the Child as the
which every child is entitled to their parents, who have responsibility
together in their development and education, and in the event of de facto separation, legal,
divorce or annulment, is entitled to maintain direct and permanent contact
both, and the Convention on the Rights of the Child UN
which requires states to respect the right of children to maintain relationships
personal and direct contact with both parents on a regular basis, except for
interests of the child.
254-the shared responsibility of both parents or shared parenting,
with the search for agreements in the child and opting for
mediation in the conflict to the maximum desjudicializar processes
separation and divorce.
255 - Foster responsibility in the tasks of family care
women and men through the development of social services, especially
of nursery schools and care dependency, and companies
working hours and services to facilitate the reconciliation. Boosting
extension of parental leave tend to equate motherhood
paternity and to promote equal employment opportunities for men
and women, and the right of both parents to participate equally in the
Rising children.
256 - Support for the development of policies favorable to equal treatment
homosexuals. The request for adoption of children by couples
homosexuals, boost standards ensuring fairness prioritizing
always the interest of the child. Equal comprehensive care to people
with gender identity disorder (transsexualism) in public health
Spain.
257 - In international politics, active need to respect the principle of non-
discrimination based on sexual orientation secreting countries, imprison
and executed people for their sexual orientation or gender identity, which
They must be considered serious violations of Human Rights.

5.7 - Public safety
258 - Progress in equalization and wage convergence Forces
State Security -Guardia Civil and National Police with police
regional and local. Enforcement of Occupational Hazards.

259 - Limitation drastic Free Designation system for occupancy
jobs in the Security Forces for the benefit of
Internal competition system, in order to ensure fairness and
neutrality of police work, adjusted to existing legislation without
partisan interference, especially in the fight against terrorism and
organizated crime.
260 - increase in staff and resources of the Judicial Police, and
economic police units, money laundering, drug trafficking,
people, computer crime and similar offenses linked to changes
social and technological.
261 - Development of an integrated policing model to coordinate, under supervision
State, tasks and missions of the Security Forces of the State
regional and local policemen, advancing the operational integration of
all security forces and police career in the different bodies
of security.
262 - Debureaucratization of police templates, entrusting
specialized officers from other bodies of the administration,
or public employees, proper administrative tasks.
263 - Full Execution of sentences of prisoners terrorists. For your
reinsertion in the terms provided by law must break with his band,
ask forgiveness from his victims if possible repairing the damage, and
cooperate with justice in the investigation of the facts that
They were involved.
264 - Repayment of the State Pact for Freedom and Against Terrorism,
and the integrity of the Political Parties Law to prevent the presence in the
institutions heirs of Batasuna organizations committed to
political achievement of the purposes of terrorism.
6 - HEALTH

6.1 - Restoration of the National Health System
265 - Returning to the State of the powers of Health in order to
reinstate a common health system throughout the country, based
on the principles of equity, quality, efficiency and citizen participation.
We propose a great Covenant Health, similar to the Pact of Toledo on
Social Security, health care away from the political dispute and permits
deep reform of our health system with the following objectives:
266 - Lost cohesion and fairness of the National Health System.
267 - Improving the financial situation and the rational use of resources
ensure the sustainability of a public, universal and solidarity system.
268 - Promote citizenship and participation of health professionals in
SNS management.
269 ​​- Establish a change in health planning, promoting
Primary care and chronic care.

270 - Establish a policy of transparency in the management of Health.
271 - Implementation of a single health card for the whole territory
national enabling full access to SNS anywhere on equal
conditions, regardless of who finances the provision.
272 - Establishment of National Reference Units for certain
pathologies or very specific technical, funded by the state.
273 - Measures to ensure the sustainability of the SNS in the economic crisis:
274 - Create a National Supervisory Commission consisting of a SNS
reduced number of independent people to do an analysis of the
situation and propose a reform plan to Parliament. This body could
have ongoing responsibilities to monitor compliance with the proposals and
ensure quality of care and other guiding principles. Is
essential participation of scientific societies and
patient associations in their choice of the manner determined by the
Cortes.
275 - Strengthening Health Councils to promote the participation of
citizens in the management of health centers, encouraging presence
Patient Associations, consumer organizations and
local scientific societies.

6.2 - Streamlining investment and health spending
276 - Streamline personnel expense with the following measures:
277 - Changing the remuneration system for recognizing professional performance
appropriately, rewarding the efforts of the workers.
278 - Develop a draft common career for the whole territory
national who really values ​​the efforts of professionals.
279 - Make a national study of foresight, periodically reviewed the
future needs of the NHS to establish a National Resource Plan
Human realistic planning criteria needs
health professionals.
280 - rationalize pharmaceutical spending and fighting hiperprescripción
high consumption of drugs, especially among the group of
pensioners (20% of the population consumes 70% of spending), due to
short time that primary care physicians have to meet their
patients, which reduces time to information and health education.
281 - Increase progressively the actual query time decreasing
bureaucratic tasks. Development of electronic prescriptions and medical history
computerized to facilitate better doctor-patient relationship.
282 - Promote measures of population health education, promoting
Participation in these activities of the various health professions
(Doctors, nurses, physiotherapists, occupational therapists,
psychologists, etc.)

283 - Set reference drugs for certain pathologies, being
excluded from public funding more expensive therapeutic equivalents
except justified exceptions clinics. Equivalence should be established
therapeutic drugs for funding very prevalent diseases,
with the consensus of the scientific societies.
284 - Review of the contribution of pensioners in providing
pharmaceutical, equaling that of active workers, excluding
those with lower incomes, and cost very little scope for
certain chronic diseases.
285 - National protocols for use of drugs for hospital use
high cost, both to ensure equity in the care of patients
as proper control of spending.
286 - Improving funding and activity Assessment Agency
Health Technology under the Ministry of Health, for a
correct identification and analysis of available techniques and assess their
inclusion in the portfolio of services of the NHS. This agency will integrate
CCAA different agencies, avoiding duplication and inefficiencies.
287 - Development of a National Strategy for the pathologies high
economic and social cost, with multidisciplinary participation, based in Guidelines
Clinical Practice and backed by scientific societies, to be implemented in
throughout the country.
288 - Avoid applying indiscriminate copayment on health because it is
ineffective and unfair except for specific situations. Exceptions
will apply only after a thorough analysis and after applying other measures
cost reduction and increased efficiency in management, and in any
If ever taking into account differences in income levels and health
Health users.

6.3 - Planning enhancing health and primary care
chronic care
289 - Developing Areas such as health care backbone
health, services organized Care (AE), Attention
Primary (AP) Socio-Sanitary (SS), Health-Public (SP) and other sectors
related to environmental health and social development.
290 - Promoting primary care and equipping of professional media
materials, improving resolution capability allowing access
AP physicians to the right tools, evaluating later
proper use and the cost of these measures.
291 - Accelerating specialty in Community Nursing
the field of primary health care, allowing their development
professional and giving them exclusive competence to legal level, that is
thus favoring the care of chronically ill and the development of activities
promotion and prevention.

6.4 - A more transparent health policy.
292 - Centralize SNS objections to a national examination and a scale
uniform merits, and a regular schedule of tests that avoid
interim situation of professional and excessive rotation in the
plazas.
293 - Ensure the biannual advertising leading indicators
health. All public and private hospitals will be required to
written report twice a) - Medical care and Activity
surgical, including frequency of complications and effects
in the most frequent adverse therapeutic procedures, as well as
possible consequences resulting after the resolution thereof; b) - Activity
researcher; c) - Teaching activity, both undergraduate and graduate, and
the activities of health promotion and health education do
among the population of their area. The Ministry of Health, in consultation not
binding to the Interterritorial Council and Specialty Committees,
establish the specific data should appear in reports
semester and ensure their advertising and web accessibility.

6.5 - Training and professionalization of health workers
294 - final development of the core curriculum of medical specialties without
decrease specific training. The possibility should valorase
increase training time.
295 - Develop specific areas of training or subspecialties,
establishing access from different specialties and the criteria for
obtaining qualifications in these areas.
296 - The State is solely responsible for the accreditation of training
health, assessing the creation of a Spanish Agency Formation
Health, the Ministry of Health and with the participation of
Autonomous Community
297 - charges professionalize management by systems SNS
professional accreditation objectives and selection mechanisms that ensure the
Admission decisions based on merit and ability.
298 - official surveillance professional intrusion and advertising and
health information. Marketing ban as
drugs of proven therapeutic products.
7 - JUSTICE
299 - Recovery by the State of exclusive competence for
Justice to facilitate the homogeneity of the structure, coordination and
connection between all courts and tribunals, and reduce the huge
spending that has produced the transfer to the Autonomous Communities, eleven
today, management of human and material means
administration to the service of justice.
300 - Perform a thorough analysis of the situation and needs of the
Administration of Justice to determine the structural reforms

necessary, the review of the remuneration systems and inspection and the
investment required to approach the European average both
budget and the number of judges per capita and get lower
the long delays resolution of issues.
301 Abolition of special courts on domestic violence as
such, returning the field of civil and criminal jurisdiction these matters and
taking advantage of the existence of such courts and personal media and
materials which have to strengthen judicial plant needs.
302 - reinforce the means for the effective enforcement of judgments in
In order to achieve the satisfaction of the fundamental right to judicial protection
effective. This requires optimizing existing resources
patrimonial investigation and establish monitoring mechanisms
Steps taken by the personnel responsible for execution.
303 - Amendments to the Criminal Code to disable, or suspend
Automatically, public officials and representatives democratically
deliberately chosen to comply with the final judicial decisions or
that by any publication or public statement opposing the
compliance with laws and judicial decisions or incite their
default.
304 - Repeal the procedural law, under terms such as "streamlining" or
"Modernization", restricts the fundamental right to protection
effective judiciary to eliminate or reduce the possibility of appeal or
appeal, resulting legal uncertainty arising from disparities
criteria, even in the same province, and thereby increasing the
litigiousness.
305 - Measures to reduce litigation:
306 - Promote the use of a more clear and simple language in the field
court in its relationship with citizens, so that the procedures
judicial readily understood without professional advice,
and provide information on the mechanisms of development
procedures.
307 - Stop the proliferation and unjustified regulatory reforms
ephemeral laws that require stability to enhance legal certainty
and consolidate legal criteria. In short: "few laws, clear and
are met".
308 - Promoting preventive law or the advice to the assumption of
rights and obligations, particularly consumers,
reinforcing the advisory role of the notary in those legal transactions
They require his involvement.
309 - Promoting regulatory agreements of the consequences of ruptures
couples to reduce conflict and the problems arising from the
coexistence of different systems of civil law in our country, in
many cases clearly exceed the constitutional powers of the
Autonomous communities.

310 - Enact a law introducing the necessary incentives Mediation
to encourage their use, always voluntary, adapted to different areas:
family, civil, commercial and criminal.
311 - Modify the Arbitration Act to limit judicial review of the clause
Arbitration patents nullity, a specific fee for the event
it is intended to go to the ordinary courts.
312 - Enact Law on Voluntary Jurisdiction devolved powers
not inherent in the judicial functions to notaries and registrars.
313 - Amend the Law of Civil Procedure to strengthen titles
executives as a way to lighten the procedures and avoid phase
declarative in many cases not justified, extending the character
executive deed in the line followed by the countries of our
environment.
314 - Increase fines in cases of legal proceedings conducted with
dilatory procedural bad faith or courage, or that involve misuse
resources of the Administration of Justice.
315 - Criminalization of the denial of any genocide or terrorist crime,
as it occurs in our country with those political parties or associations
related to the terrorist group ETA who continually use expressions such as
"political" prisoners or violence "policy" to refer to members or
activity of that terrorist group, as if their crimes had not
I existed.
316 - Consider the inclusion in the Criminal Code a new offense
unfair administration authorities and públicosque charges, in the exercise of
public authorities, causing, by act or omission, the State or
citizens they represent an economically assessable damage, either
infringement of the rules governing the exercise of their activity, either by the
adoption of decisions that have been avoided with diligence
minimum required responsible, materialized in acts, expenditures or investments
manifestly unnecessary or disproportionate or motivated by spurious
outside the profitability reasons, the public service or welfare
the citizens.
317 - Repeal of LO 12/2011 amending LOPJ for judges,
prosecutors and court clerks to return to public office in the
future career without losing seniority and with the privilege of having
preference to the choice of destination.
8 - TRANSPARENCY AND ANTI-CORRUPTION

8.1 - Transparency and anti-corruption. Right to information
318 - Principles and Measures Act against Corruption and Transparency
in Public Administration to prevent corruption in government
public and any natural or legal person having any relationship
private interest with them, practices and boost transparency and access to
all information to improve the quality of institutions and

encourage participation and citizen control over political life and
the actions of the government.
319 - Develop the fundamental right of access to information, following
the Convention on Access to Official Documents of the Council of Europe,
any person to request and obtain, easily, quickly and
free, all information held by public bodies, and also the
benefiting from private grants or public funds or provide services
public, with no limits other fundamental rights and interests
legitimate they clearly prevail over the fundamental right to
information.
320 - Compulsory advertising budgets, budget execution,
the salaries of civil servants and public managers, current expenditures,
and monitoring projects, subsidies, accounting for
public enterprises and other aspects of management
public resources of public administrations and easy to understand
and treated with high frequency through the Internet. They will also be publicizing the
accounts of political parties, trade unions, employers and associations
professional or public interest they receive public assistance.
321 - Creating a platform of "open data" (open data) to develop
available to citizens and businesses all information held by the
administration that is not classified by a simple platform
functional.
322 - The alleged offenses against public authorities may not
be candidates in elections. The precautionary suspension be approved
public employment or position of the person against whom there because the reasons
enough to believe criminally responsible for the crime. They may also be
provisionally suspended by a court decision and public offices
elected.
323 - Criminal actions against directors, officers or employees of a
business enterprise or a partnership, association, foundation or organization
Private-public agencies, or who performs public functions,
involved in corruption.
324 - All responsible bodies, institutions and public companies
will be held accountable on an annual basis, publicly and before the
relevant committee of Parliament on the main expenses
incurred, contracts that have passed on the cost originally planned,
debts and unpaid bills, etc.
325 - New Act requirement liability and penalty cases
most serious of those public officials who, after completion of its
mandate, it is found have hidden debts or defaults or organ
management that were responsible.
326 - Amendments to the Criminal Code to eliminate the express exclusion of
political parties and unions of the regime of criminal responsibility
legal persons, so that both political parties and unions to
be held criminally responsible for the crimes committed in the name and on behalf

thereof or for their benefit by its members and charges.
327 - Anti-corruption measures in government contracting, limiting
the possibility to award contracts directly in favor of a contractor,
amount of smaller contracts and the possibility of subdividing contracts,
demanding the publicity of administrative contracting. Ban
hiring senior management personnel, consultants, legal representatives,
managers or agents of companies having conflicts of interest
the administrations públicas.Modificación contract law sector
public to ensure free competition.
328 - Strengthening of incompatibilities modifying the laws that
regulated to make them more stringent, preventing the possibility that the charge
public to give preference to private interests over public that
It represents, and preventing benefit over total public compensation or
partial, with term limits to a maximum of two terms.
329 - Incompatibility of the office of mayor and councilman provided
congressman, senator or regional parliament and European parliament.
Set in any case incompatible perceive more than one salary
by positions of a political nature.
330 - depoliticization of the Court of Auditors, choosing its members without
partisan interference. Their Directors will be appointed as members
judicial bodies and not by Parliament. They may not be
exercised any elected office or have been members of governments
State or Local Autonomous Community or officials of any of them
fifteen years prior to his appointment.
331 - Control exclusively by the Court of Auditors of funding
politicians, trade unions and employer parties, which shall submit statements
consolidated financial statements of all its territorial and institutional organization,
including foundations and subsidiaries. This information should
published in full in the match page on the Internet to be
easily accessible for anyone.
332 - Prohibition of institutional advertising campaigns promotion
Administrations, and anyone trying to link them to the party or parties
rulers and their elected representatives or candidates. Obligation
make an annual report of all the ads and institutional campaigns
made in the previous year, indicating its purpose, amount and
winners of the contracts concluded.

8.2 - General government
333 - The State Government will have real powers of coordination
Similar CCAA to which the European Union is facing its states
members.
334 - Elimination of all overlapping of State Communities
Regions and municipalities, removing all economic committees
Social Agencies Data Protection and defense bodies
regional competition. Drastic reduction in the number of dependent entities

-agencias of administrations, observatories, companies, etc., leaving the
essential to public evaluation and control of their budgets and debts.
335 - Simplification of the Administrations establishing common modules
its size and organization, objective criteria of population,
public policy, comparative experience and improved efficiency.
336 - Changing the Law on Local Government to set
exhaustively the minimum services to be provided by municipalities, and Act
financing of local authorities to ensure adequate financing
to exercise its powers in a transparent and clear manner.
337 - depoliticization of the public administration to be professional,
stable, streamlined, efficient and measurable: a) - To be determined by law
number, structure and naming of Government Ministries State; b) The ministers, secretaries of state, general secretaries and public officers
of the principal organs or agencies must pass a pre-assessment
before his appointment to the Congress of Deputies.
338 - Development of eGovernment simplifying the obstacles
bureaucracy that penalize citizens and companies: an Internet portal
unique and common to all administrations to perform all
efforts to create a business, processing of an application, etc.
339 - mandatory periodic evaluation of all public policies, for
objectives with clear indicators that were previously fixed. Those who do not
meeting the objectives they will be amended or withdrawn. The evaluation will be a
publicly accessible, systematized and generated so
regular.
340 - harmonize local legislation so that the structure and functioning of
municipalities more homogeneous and less dependent on the decisions
every mayor and council plenum. Management agencies, entities,
companies and foundations of municipalities will be strictly professional.
The council of the municipality shall not form part of their bodies.
341 - professionalization and depoliticization of public employment in order to avoid
abuse of free appointment for positions as officers and
technical, law limiting the maximum number of temporary staff,
professionalizing the post of public officer. The system can not be used
be appointed to provide any post of a technical nature. The
local government officials will enable state.
342 - Establishing a common pay scale with minimum and maximum thresholds
for all elected representatives of local authorities and to the
Free staff confidence associated appointment to the position, according to their
population and other objective indicators. Eliminate fees for attending
public authority that holds representation commissions.
343 - Abolition of the privileges of politicians: the salaries of
presidents will be incompatible with any other public or private pay.
Other pensions for former senior politicians are deleted.
9 - ENVIRONMENT AND LAND MANAGEMENT

344 - The responsibilities of environment and land management will
exclusive of the State which may delegate the management to CCAA and municipalities
when it advised the public interest, in any case avoiding policies
regional and local negative environmental conservation and
landscape, such as excessive urbanization, infrastructure or superfluous
fractionating the management of protected areas between different
Administrations. For more effective protection of the environment, it is
essential to increase the criminalization and prevention of environmental crimes.
345 - Return the state of all constitutional powers over
water management in a single, decentralized Water Administration, with
Basin agencies under it, defined by boundaries
river and with full respect of the principle of basin unit,
and return to the rule of Maritime Terrestrial Public Domain transferred to the
Autonomous communities.
346 - Development of a new Hydrological Plan to ensure the protection
uniform water and best utilization, rational decisions
on transfers, desalination plants and other necessary hydraulic works, preserving
coverage of long-term needs. Standardizing criteria
Water Planning Management, Management of the Public Domain
Hydraulic and the establishment and operation of hydraulic infrastructures, and
criteria and standards applicable to fees and charges as elements
market unity and equality among all Spaniards.
347 - Penalize through a tariff system or certifications of balances
Water disproportionate consumption of water and non-core.
348 - Implement separate potable water and irrigation, ensuring uses
alternative to treated water before discharge to the environment.
349 - Reform of the Coastal Act to shield the character demanial
Maritime Terrestrial Public Domain and to ensure legal certainty of the
affected.
350 - Law on the Litoral Floor establishing common conditions
urbanism in the coastal strip and unify the criteria to follow in reports
binding state concerning processes that affect developers
coast.
351 - Implement greater political protection, conservation and
restoration of wildlife habitats, sustainable development
forests, soil and landscape, and increase pressure against crime
Ecological including an active fight against forest fires.
Encourage reforestation with native species adapt and gardening
Urban climate and water availability.
352 - Eliminate subsidies that encourage crop farming practices or not
sustainable.
353 - Environmental Control in the application of biocides in both
agricultural and forestry practices and the urban environment.
354 - Agree on a single national policy against animal abuse.

355 - Implementation of adaptation policies and increase resilience
Global Climate Change.
356 - Eliminate incentive to use technologies with high emissions
particles, and implement energy policies leading to reduced
Emissions of greenhouse gases in meeting the objectives
set internationally, and reduce economic bill that Spain should
assume for their CO2 emissions.
357 - Compliance with air quality standards imposed by the
European legislation with strict identification and control of activities
potentially polluting of the atmosphere. Unification of criteria
control, inspection and sanction of the various administrations. Review of
Spanish Strategy on Climate and Clean Energy 2007, 2012 and 2020 Change.
358 - Development of a national map of environmental health risks
of the population.
359 - Improve the urban environment by reducing private traffic in the
inner cities, strengthening public transport and rehabilitating
neighborhoods consolidated as an alternative to sprawl of cities.
360 - Establish a National Plan Against Noise including lower their
sources, forcing the networking and compliance measurement
European regulations on these matters.
361 - Apply effective policies 3R waste: reduce, recycle and reuse.
Encourage recycling sector, promoting its quantitative growth and
qualitative with an appropriate tax treatment.
362 - Universalize wastewater treatment and increase
anaerobic digestion of organic waste. Promote the recovery sludge
the sewage treatment stations by application
controlled agriculture as a way to combat soil erosion, improving
safety criteria and control applications.
10 - CULTURE

10.1 - Intellectual Property
363 - New copyright law for the digital era to defend
culture and its dissemination as a social good, and returns control of their
rights both creators and users, rather than criminalize
use of new technologies and re-prioritize rights
fundamental.
364 - Public Domain: legitimize it as a space for creation or amateur
as a free option vocational promotion creation, prioritizing
record of print works. It will enhance access to the digital collections
commons (such as RTVE), priority use of copyleft licenses and
Free software in eAdmon.
365 - Repeal of the "Law Sinde" and monopolies
Collecting Societies copyright. Encourage and flexible

the market for patents and licenses, preventing industrial concentration
excessive rights in the hands of oligopolies and large corporations.
366 - new options will be opened to the management of the private copy right
(Copyright). Compensation for private copying will be done through taxation
special and not by canon or any other rate managed by individuals.
367 - Creating two platforms established: a) - payment platform for
professional creation of those works under copyright or copyleft licenses
paid for the use, flat rate or any other agreement between agents; b)
- Platform copyleft license for free content for works
whose copyrights have expired and gone to the commons, and
works of authors who want to include them in the public domain by any
right.
368 - Reorganize rights management companies: a) - Companies
CMOs nonprofit funded by membership fees; b) Companies collectively or individually-profit management, suppliers
management services, auditing and promotion; c) - Network dependent bodies
the Ministry of Culture, with responsibility for managing and conserving and
Disclosure of funds Public Domain, preferably digitized.

10.2 - Media
369 - The General Audiovisual Communication Law should ensure the viability of
RTVE and rationalization of public media
regional and local, valuing the public service provided or should
pay and allowing privatization or closure for economic reasons
accordingly with transparency policies, and ensuring freedom of
competition in the audiovisual market, preventing the concentration of
media facto oligopolies.
370 - Development of a National Audiovisual Council (CENA) that
monitor compliance with the General Law on Audiovisual Communication
prevent illegal restrictions on competition guaranteeing
loyal, and ensure compliance with codes of practice and competition
self-regulation to promote the quality audiovisual content.
371 - Professionalization of the Boards of Directors of the media
audiovisual public, preventing the presence of party representatives
politicians and unions to ensure the independence of information and
professional management.
372 - Development of own production of RTVE, and guarantee that events
high social demand, such as sports and similar events, not
They issued exclusively in payments, especially those with
public grants or institutional support.
373 - Promoting the production and dissemination of European television programs.
374 - Protecting consumers from misleading advertising, sponsorship
covert and teleshopping regulation to eradicate commercial practices
disloyal.

375 - Establishing a model of investment return for administration
audiovisual productions and film, eradicating practices
flawed and corrupt that they have made obtaining public aid
real aim of some productions, with the elimination of
repayable grants.
376 - digitization and making available to citizens around the background
literature (archives and libraries), phonographic and audiovisual State to
via the Internet and pay-per-use, streaming, or through
P2 networks
377 - Defence of Net neutrality, guaranteeing the right of
Internet users to share, receive or offer any flow
legal information via the Internet but may not be discriminated against
arbitrarily by access providers, content and services
Internet, recognizing the legality of the private use of P2P applications
file sharing. It will ensure that institutions and industry
report transparently on the rights of users and
characteristics of services.
378 - Ensuring the effective protection of personal data on the Internet,
reinforcing efforts to fight high tech crime,
especially regarding the protection of children and youth.

10.3 - Cultural Policy

379 - Eliminate the duplication of grants and aid to industries
cultural now granted by various ministries for the same purpose,
avoiding duplication of procedures and management control difficult and
the bills. Apply for and obtain the necessary funding through the Institute
ICO Official Credit, creating a specific line.
380 - Integrate the Cervantes Institute in the Ministry of Culture given the
nature of their duties, they must be integrated into the set of
State cultural activities.
381 - Liquidate the Alliance of Civilizations, integrating its functions
existing cultural institutions, eliminating duplication and
redundancy and arbitrary hiring and spending increases.
382 - Funds 1% of the budget devoted to public works
cultural investments must be managed by the Ministry of Culture, the
Autonomous Regions and Municipalities with criteria of rationality and
transparency, we are dedicating to restoring BICs and purchase of artworks
of living authors.
383 - VAT of e-books have the same super-reduced rate (4%)
which applies to books on physical media, under the criteria of neutrality
competition.
11 - International Policy Cooperation and Defence

11.1 - Europe, international relations and foreign policy
384 - State Pact to avoid changes in foreign policy when
Governments change, which must assume the defense of the values
democratic and human rights, compliance with Resolutions
UN and the defense of citizens, national interests and
development of multilateral diplomacy, as guiding principles
Spain international relations.
385 - The government should be responsible for international policy,
strict compliance with the Constitution as to the scope of the
Head of state and government of the nation.
386 - Strengthen the unity of the Spanish action in Europe, reforming the
Congress-Senate Joint Committee for the EU.
387 - Institutional reform and democratic regeneration of the EU:
388 - reinforcing the European Parliament as the legislature and representation
the sovereignty of EU citizens, with the choice and control
President of the European Council.
389 - higher average for the European judiciary to encourage their
independence.
390 - open lists for the election of Members of Parliament
European.
391 - common European fiscal policy with the progressive integration of the
tax systems of Member States and creation of an EU Treasury
able to effectively intervene in monetary policy and crisis
funding.
392 - European Policy R & D & I programs gradually replace
nationals of Member States.
393 - Common European Foreign Policy to unify the representation of the
EU countries in international organizations, with a single contact
International.
394 - A common immigration policy, with the restoration of law
the Schengen area, canceling the exceptions of some States
members, and a European Charter on the rights of immigrants
Community.
395 - fairer distribution among member countries costs
immigration control at the entrances to the EU, and developing a
network of shelters for irregular migrants in all regions
European.
396 - Increase EU treaties with third countries on
immigration, considering aspects such as regulation of flows
migration, development cooperation, trade agreements,
technology transfer, monitoring and return of nationals.

397 - Introduction of a system of "green card" that allows citizens
third countries have a joint residence and work permit
EU.
398 - protection of territorial integrity of the EU.
399 - Establishment of a binding agreement of all EU members
for the reciprocal protection of its external borders and its territorial integrity.
400 - Establishment of the obligation of all EU members to
protection and respect for their internal borders and territorial integrity
Member States, including the recognition of not altering the
borders processes unilateral secession or independence.
401 - Immediate expulsion from the EU of any territory which is secreted or
became independent unilaterally in any Member State.
402 - Assumption of an active role in the solution of the Sahara conflict
Occidental. Support for the Saharawi people in the exercise of the right to
self-determination, Morocco claiming full compliance with the
UN resolutions on the matter, and driving in the EU respect for the
Sahrawi rights. Defense extending the mandate of MINURSO to
Active protection of human rights in Western Sahara.
403 - Middle East: a) defense of the right of the Palestinian people to a State
own viable peacefully and on the basis of the pre-1967 borders;
b) Defense of the right of Israel to exist in peace and his
security within internationally recognized borders.
404 - Support for the development of Equatorial Guinea to a regime truly
free, representative and effective control of development cooperation with the
country, avoiding corruption both enhance public cooperation and
private contracts.
405 - Requirement of respect for Human Rights to all governments,
without exception, as the foundation of international relations of Spain
with third countries.
406 - Active support for the democratic opposition in Cuba by establishing fight
a democratic regime, both international institutions and forums
as to the Cuban government.

11.2 - Development cooperation
407 - Coordination and complementarity between cooperation policy
development of the General State Administration agencies
regional and international cooperation of municipalities. The plan
Designed by the AECID Director will be the instrument governing cooperation
Spanish, and therefore decentralized cooperation shall restrict their
rules. Also the Master Plan must meet conditions
complementarity with the cooperation policy of the European Union.
408 - Grant of public aid for development NGOs in a transparent manner, setting
meritocratic scale publicly and publishing the scores for each

project and presented program.
409 - Assessment and monitoring of cooperation interventions
development, incorporating the results of future interventions.
410 - Promoting the participation of civil society and the private sector
the fight against poverty, increasing tax deductions for
donations to social purposes and exempted from tariffs to companies that provide
technical cooperation.
411 - international agreement that allows impoverished countries have
political space to design their development plans with more flexibility,
negotiating ensuring special and differential treatment of countries
development, where longer periods for implementing ensure the
commitments.
412 - scrupulous monitoring of the implementation of the Democratic Clause
European Union development cooperation, without reducing cooperation
with these countries through NGOs and civil society is not involved with the regime
dictatorial, but without subordinating bilateral cooperation with exceptions
these governments to respect for human rights.

11.3 - Defense
413 - Establish a rational defense spending, recovering levels
investment lost during the past legislatures for:
414 - Approval of the remuneration of professionals Forces
Armed with comparable technicians Civil State.
Fair compensation for extraordinary services rendered and missions
citizen security and terrorism. Fair, rational and non-application
Complement arbitrary Special Dedication (CDE). Approval of the
administrative status of the staff of FAS passing special services
for NATO officials.
415 - Improving the quality of life of members of the Armed Forces
their families, by appropriate design of the workday, permits,
licenses, housing, schools, destinations consort situations
displacement maneuver and international missions, as well as the
life nuclei within the bases or barracks, where activity
military should not interfere with personal life out of service.
416 - Provision of adequate equipment and materials means that the Forces
Armed to properly carry out, in good condition
security, fulfilling tasks given them standards
required by NATO. Similarly it is necessary to review and adapt,
case approved weapons programs.
417 - Conversion of posts professional soldiers and sailors in
attractive occupations and labor worthy, career oriented
complete, integrated and definitive military professional.
418 - Reactivate the weapons programs and suspended material and
complete its development according to the actual demands of the United

Over our armed forces, giving special support to the emerging
Spanish industry sector.
419 - Improved control capabilities and response to potential threats
and risks identified in the Spanish Security Strategy especially -EES-
relating to cyberspace.
420 - Matching with other advanced countries of the environment Figure
-RRVV- volunteer reservist in the FAS, with clear rules of
activations annual plans, training, promotion and access to positions
operating.
421 - Review and amendment of the Law on Military Career to fit the
reality of our Army, establishing a transitional regime for
correct the effects of the integration of scales, promotions, etc., as well as the
recognition, establishment and detailed articulation of three races
Professional -Tropa and Seamanship, NCOs, officers-in frame
equality and internal promotion on merit and ability, where a soldier
You can reach the rank of General.
422 - Organic Law of the disciplinary regime that equates with FAS
equity and justice, within the specificities of military personnel,
these professionals with any of the state administration,
standardizing the Military Penal Code to the Penal Code in those articles and
procedures that may involve unjustified discrimination or prejudice
of constitutional rights.
423 - Integration of Military Justice in the judiciary, both judges and
Judges and their courts. Independent legal advice for
members of the Armed Forces, mainly for kinds of troops.
