Vu: Gerolf Anne Mans, Madou 8/9, 1210 Brussels

Election

K
O
T
S
W
YOU
R
E
T
H
C
A
R
YOU
E
D
E
D

ELECTIONS 25 MEI 2014
An exploration
the Vlaams Belang program

Table of Contents
Voorwoord........................................................................................................................3
1. Flanders, in Europe, and the world ........................................ ............................. 4
2. For Europe, against this EU .......................................... .............................................. 8
3. To work with Flanders ........................................... ......................................... 12
4. Caring Vlaanderen................................................................................................16
5. Baas in eigen land......................................................................................................20
6. Right veiligheid....................................................................................................23
7. Time for wise education ........................................... ......................................... 28
8. For a Flemish media and cultural ......................................... ......................... 30
9. Smooth and safe weg.................................................................................................33
10. Environment: return to common sense ......................................... ................. 36
For more informatie......................................................................................................38

2

Preface
Dear voter,
The Vlaams Belang is a party program and as such has a unique position in the political landscape.
After all, our party does not want to get piece of the pie, she wants to change the recipe of the cake. Vlaams Belang
differs fundamentally from the other parties, for whom less take part is an end in itself. To be able to be 'there' are
they are willing to do so much water in the wine that their participation policy ultimately makes no difference. A program party on the other hand, maintains its program, saying before and after the elections the same.
Vlaams Belang has spent the past thirty years or delivered no ministers, but it does have for thirty years
clear and unequivocal message brought, and loud voice where others prefer silent. From this pioneering Vlaams Belang has broken many taboos and political debate in this country profoundly influenced and controlled.
Never before have the topics of the Vlaams Belang as current. More than any campaign or theoretical reflection also, the practice of every day confirms the value and accuracy of our program, that a clear answer
offers to the problems and challenges of the 21st century.
A vote for the Vlaams Belang is a certainty that the pressure on the boiler remains.
A vote for the Vlaams Belang is the only guarantee that your voice still heard on 25 May.
A vote for the Vlaams Belang is your big stick!

Gerolf Anne Mans
Vlaams Belang chairman

3

4

1. Flanders
state in Europe
and the world

Since 1970 again and again tried to save Belgium through constitutional reforms. All those federal reforms, however, the subordinate role of the Flemish merits little changed. Despite the fact that the
Flemish Parliament has been given a number of powers, the main policy instruments are still firmly in
anchored the federal level. Francophone Belgium, say the PS, continues to determine the direction of this country. Moreover went
State reform always involves massive wealth transfers from Flanders to Wallonia. Each have
the so-called Flemish negotiators somehow land surrendered to the French imperialism
Brussels, Flemish Brabant and the municipalities with facilities. The sixth state reform of the Di Rupo government is no exception.

Flemish state becoming the only alternative
Meanwhile, the constitutional reforms of this country have a complicated and unmanageable tangle. With seven governments
and 8 parliaments were the powers highly fragmented, so that no government in this country until good governance
is capable of. The most fundamental problem remains that Flemings and Walloons two different peoples. Both
have completely opposite views on how society is best organized. Therefore hit on all Belgian level
blocked, while the Flemish policy does not have the necessary powers to remedy this.
The economic crisis is nevertheless urgent need for socio-economic reforms are being implemented
custom of Flanders, we want our welfare and prosperity secure for the future. The confederal models in that respect now be pushed forward by some, not solve the Belgian
impasse. Confederalism means indeed that the Belgian framework remains intact and can still Francophones and will
uncooperative. Flemish state is therefore the only realistic alternative to the unworkable Belgium. Only that way out
can guarantee sure the Flemings as free people can take their place in Europe and in the world. The Flemish
Importance will take the lead in the active preparation of the Republic of Flanders. There is plenty about the gepalaverd
desirability of an independent Flanders, now the first concrete steps must be put in order to actually achieve that independence. The first step is to propose a viable strategy.

Therefore:

- No more Belgian state.
- Flanders as a sovereign state in Europe and the world, as the best socio-economic reform forward and produce a concrete, achievable strategy.

Orderly division of Belgium
The model for a Belgian property settlement that Vlaams Belang from moving forward is that of an orderly division.
The separation of Wallonia must be able to proceed in peace and order through a negotiated solution and with respect for
international law. A property settlement which takes place in such a peaceful way, does not provoke fear
for possible adverse effects on economic or social issues.
The fact that the Belgian division of property also in practice it is a perfectly feasible, has been demonstrated on several occasions. The most
The obvious strategy is that the Flemish Parliament first proclaims the sovereignty of Flanders, free from
all francophone Belgian bolts and vetoes. The divorce negotiations will then have to start from Wallonia
go. International principles for state succession will serve as a guideline. There must include agreements
to be made new state borders, the division of debt and the Belgian possessions and on the fulfillment of international commitments entered into by Belgium. Simultaneously Flanders is a constituent
meeting be convened to draw up an own Flemish constitution. Flemish Constitution Proeve which Vlaams
Importance designed at that time, can act as an inspiration. Flanders has the international community file
defend assertive manner. Once this process is completed, may ultimately be the independent Republic of Flanders
proclaimed. Flanders, just like the Czech Republic and Slovakia in 1993 and Serbia and Montenegro in 2006, fully ready to
step towards independence.

Therefore:

- Is the new Flemish Parliament to proclaim the sovereignty of Flanders.
- Should Flanders property settlement talks with Wallonia startup to an orderly division of Belgium
come.
- Should the Flemish file of the division to be properly presented to the international community.
- Should the Flemish parliament to establish its own constituent assembly in order for a constitution

5

the Republic of Flanders working out.
- Should Flanders finally proclaim his independence, in good neighborly relations with Wallonia and the world.

Brussels, capital of Flanders
The decades of mismanagement, which was held in Brussels, our capital saddled with huge problems. Or
it is about economics, immigration, crime, poverty, housing policy, education or finances, in Brussels currently runs every hundred. The Flemings must urgently here to take responsibility, because Brussels is still
their capital. Brussels is territorially completely in Flanders and traffic running all connections along Flanders.
In the economic field, there is an intense interaction. Brussels, Antwerp next, our main economic
motor. Finally, live in the ancient Flemish city that Brussels is still a lot of Flemings. In short, there are reasons
to about the links between Brussels and Flanders certainly does not break.
Hence, choose the Vlaams Belang in full for the preservation of Brussels as the capital of Flanders. Flanders must permanently
and up to invest in Brussels. To this end, in the current context must exercise their widest possible
and as visible as possible are present in the town. A self-conscious culture, politics and more focus on the Dutch
education are certainly essential.
Also when it comes to a Belgian division of property, Flanders and Brussels have a vested interest in getting together
one and the same connection is also their future to draw from. Brussels does not want it to socio-economic graveyard
degenerate, however little choice. An independent city state, Brussels is indeed simply not viable. The same applies
for any Walloon-Brussels cooperation. Only Flanders has the necessary critical mass and
financial capacity to help a capital such as Brussels. Flanders for his part, has every interest to this window
in the world and continue to nurture this economic metropolis in his lap.
Vlaams Belang is therefore of the opinion that Flanders everything there at the time of the Belgian property settlement must
to do to the people of Brussels to offer an attractive project. The final place in Brussels in the independent
Flemish state will therefore be the result of consultation with the people of Brussels. From the conclusion that a major Brussels
Francophone presence and has a metropolitan function to fulfill, it is obvious that they have a specific
will gain status. Vlaams Belang will therefore ensure that the bilingual status of Brussels also an independent
Flanders is maintained.

Therefore:

- Is and Brussels even after the separation, the capital of Flanders and the seat of the Flemish institutions.
- Should Flanders up and invest directly in Brussels and make themselves more visible in Brussels
social and political landscape (eg. by the guaranteed representation of Dutch speakers
All Brussels policy bodies).
- Taking resolute structural reform (partial fusion of the 19 districts, one police, one CPAS, one housing company etc.) and another policy.
- Dutch children give priority in the Brussels Dutch-language education.
- The Flemish Community transformed into a consultative body.
- Improve control on the language law and expand into public hospitals and police.
- Should Flanders at the time of the Belgian property settlement the locals offer an attractive project and guarantee them the bilingual status.

A solid action plan for the Vlaamse Rand
The remaining French and international influx, the Flemish periphery of Brussels under heavy pressure. In Hall Vilvoorde today has only one in two births a Flemish / Dutch mother. The demographic displacement of the Flemings was never as poignant as today. Politically it remains francophone imperialism
further Halle-Vilvoorde gnaw. The sixth state reform is the best proof. The six peripheral municipalities
Brussels was by this agreement electorally largely incorporated in Brussels. At the judicial level, the Francophones themselves can
henceforth operate throughout Halle-Vilvoorde spacious facilities.
The Flemish government, however, has a lot of opportunities in Halle-Vilvoorde to turn the tide, but fails time and again to use them. Even if the powers of the Flemish periphery and on land
Planning in the hands of the N-VA ministers are (Geert Bourgeois and Philippe Muyters). Precisely went under their wing

6

the situation in the Flemish periphery from bad to worse. Instead of ensuring affordable housing in their own region for the
Vlaams-Brabant, urbanization was - and hence the French language - the Flemish periphery further encouraged. Also
the implemented mobility policy plays into the hands of a further Frenchification Edge. The N-VA therefore carries a
heavy responsibility. A muscular action plan for Halle-Vilvoorde in any case came to nothing in the house.

Therefore:

- A coordinated housing policy in the Flemish periphery promoting live in their own region.
- A spatial planning policy aimed at stopping the safeguard of the green nature and urbanization.
- No mobility policy Edge throws open for migration from Brussels.
- An education policy which ensures the Dutch language character of our schools. Discontinuation of subsidization
of French-language education in the suburbs and from any interference of the French community in this regard.
- Strict control on the language law both regarding administrative affairs and education, and in the social relations between employer and employee. Moreover, the language law compliance must be enforced, for example,
by substitution of failing governments by a supervisory body.
- Abolition of the facilities for Francophones, granting full authority over the municipalities with facilities to the Flemish government and a real division of the judicial district of Brussels.
- Waiver of the Brussels Capital Regional Community.

Our prosperity secure
Belgium is one big transfer machine that systematically skimming the prosperity of Flanders and siphoned to Wallonia. That
has been for many decades the case and costs us lots of money. This situation does not justify more, given the current
economic crisis, our wage competitiveness, the waiting lists in the Flemish care, etc.
This ongoing transfer of wealth is being sold to us as "solidarity" with Wallonia. True solidarity is contrary
voluntary, transparent, efficient and finite. In Belgium they reached just the opposite. The Flemish-Walloon transfers are extremely
complex and opaque, so the extent of their nature remains unclear. The latest estimates (VIVES, KULeuven)
go up to around 16 billion euros per year. That is annually about 2700 euros per Fleming flowing south. Also
efficiency does not arise: half a century of massive flows Flemish Wallonia have no millimeter ahead
helped. The Walloons are always very comfortable dealt with the funds that come automatically from Flanders.
The sixth state reform of Di Rupo will not diminish this wealth flows. The special financing was reformed so that the existing transfers are even greater.

Therefore:

- Waiver of the Special Finance and full fiscal autonomy for Flanders and Wallonia.
- Complete separation of social security.
- Complete separation of the debt, preferably according to the principle of origin (responsible for the
debt takes its installment in itself).
- Stopping the wealth transfers to Wallonia.

7

8

2. For Europe
against these EU

European cooperation is important. She has contributed to peace, freedom, democracy and prosperity. The European Union
However, a supranational institution that meddlesome and expansionist acts and more power to itself draws.
The EU has increasingly totalitarian features, goes against the European diversity and cavity fundamental European
values ​​and achievements, such as sovereignty, subsidiarity, freedom, prosperity, democracy and the rule of law. The
Vlaams Belang does not advocate the abolition of Belgium to replace it by an EU superstate, a kind of 'United
States of Europe. Vlaams Belang is the only pro-European party, because they are the only EU and euro-critical party.

Against this EU
Vlaams Belang wants to move towards an EU superstate, Belgium wholesale, halted. In addition to the orderly
division of Belgium's Vlaams Belang wants an orderly dismantling of the EU and the eurozone. The euro cost only
but money and must be replaced by a smaller-scale, sound currency that is shared by a number of historical
and culturally affiliated countries with the necessary budgetary discipline. Vlaams Belang wants another voluntary European
(intergovernmental) cooperation that existed before the Treaty of Maastricht. Checkpoints for this are the European Economic Community (EEC) and the European Free Trade Association (EFTA). Flemish independence, freedom,
voluntariness, subsidiarity and sovereignty should be central.
Within the EU creates the so-called Schengen Zone '(free movement of persons) that more and larger groups of people
migrating from southern and eastern Europe to western and northern Europe and Flanders. The Schengen area is a boon to illegal immigrants, traffickers, criminal gangs, etc. Thus, it is estimated that 900,000 illegal
immigrants enter the Schengen zone. The Schengen Convention should therefore be terminated so that Member States
again can pursue its own asylum and immigration policies.
In an EU superstate, Flanders is nothing more than a glorified province with barely powers or controls
its own policy. Vlaams Belang is certainly open to international cooperation and global developments,
but wants states and peoples themselves hold the final word on their policies and commitments.

Therefore:

- Discontinuation of the evolution towards a totalitarian EU superstate, return of power to the Member States
based on a partnership as it existed before the Treaty of Maastricht.
- No EU constitution, not a "United States of Europe ', no banking union.
- No Eurobonds nor EU taxes.
- No 'social union' with equalization of social security.
- Restart control over its own borders (denounce EU Schengen postponements).
- The labor market protection from unfair competition from cheap labor from Eastern Europe.

The euro is not a currency, the euro costs money
The socioeconomic and cultural fault line between Flanders and Wallonia equally divides northern and southern Europe. To
whatever it takes to maintain the expensive euro, the EU creates a European transfer union Belgian model. Thereby turning economically strong (especially northern) countries financially for economically weaker (mostly southern) countries.
Besides the miljardenmelkkoe of Belgium and Wallonia, the Flemish are now willy-nilly by a miljardenmelkkoe
the EU and many (southern) European countries. Only the Vlaams Belang has opposed the European Stability Mechanism (ESM), a so-called 'permanent rescue fund. The rescue and preservation of the euro has already every Fleming
cost at least 6000 euros, a figure that continues to increase as long as the EU is keeping the euro alive artificially. Except for the fact
that Fleming is evacuated by the EU, EU Member States are in no way helped by the billion transfers from
Flanders. On the contrary. They are just as Wallonia in the Belgian context, financially dependent on the EU and
downgraded to chronically ill patients. In EU circles is now even suggested that a 'one-off' tax
on savings - including yours! - In the euro zone is an option. Again, the euro cost us money and should be replaced by
a smaller scale, sound currency that is shared by a number of historically and culturally affiliated countries with the necessary
fiscal discipline.

Therefore:

- Preparing a 'neuro', a smaller-scale, sound currency with countries with a similar economic
have background.

9

- Abolish the "permanent" bailout fund (ESM), no billion flow from North to South.
- No new EU loans and -noodfondsen.
- No "one-off" tax on savings in the eurozone.

The EU is wasting our tax money
Not the Europeans or the Fleming, but the EU is living beyond its means. In times of financial and economic crisis, which
citizens and taxpayers are asked to tighten their belts, it is only natural that the government
saves.
The money from the taxpayers by the EU to put it mildly not always spent as effectively. That often comes
by a lack of efficiency, sometimes by fraud, but especially through the pursuit of self-preservation and more power by
increasing bureaucratic: "eurocracy. In many cases, one can speak about mere waste of money, as money
is sucked out by the EU to jihadists 'additional aid' megalomaniac EU palaces, nonexistent projects
non-working officials. This should put a stop be put to, especially now that the EU imposes heavy savings in some Member States and other countries forces us to 'solidarity'. The EU must lead by example and to consumption itself
put the cloth. Vlaams Belang devised a plan against the current EU waste, indicating that the EU annually
more than 2 billion euros could save.

Therefore:

- Belgium needs a heavy discount demands on its annual EU contribution.
- No EU money to other continents for 'additional aid' or jihadists' to promote
democracy '.
- Full transparency in the use of EU funds.
- Pruning in operating funds for MPs.
- Discontinuation of the monthly move between Brussels and Strasbourg.
- Abolish useless EU institutions such as the European External Action Service, the Committee of the Regions and the European Economic and Social Committee.

No EU enlargement
The EU has an enormous expansion. In less than 20 years, since the Maastricht Treaty, the number of Member States
more than doubled, from 12 to 28. Many countries that were absolutely not ready for accession to the EU, such as Bulgaria
and Romania, still joined, with all its consequences. Countries such as Greece, Spain and Portugal also never had
may adopt the euro. Yet the EU is undisturbed. Macedonia, Montenegro, Turkey, Serbia, Albania, Kosovo,
Bosnia and Herzegovina in the queue. Some Eurocrats dream even of an EU superstate which includes North African countries belong.
The upcoming free trade agreement between the EU and the US (the 'Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership, or TTIP) comes without transparency and in an undemocratic way to stand, and also threatens our sovereignty, culture and economy. Negotiations should therefore be suspended.
The EU's darling is undoubtedly Turkey. Since 2005 crosses the negotiation about Turkish accession and
EU billions of euros of taxpayers' money in Turkey. But Turkey is not a European country and therefore has no place in the EU. Moreover
it does not meet the conditions for even more but to start the accession negotiations. To be sure,
millions of Turks will move to Europe when she has the chance to do so. Recently, the EU has decided that in your place
over three years, 76 million Turks already visa-free travel throughout Europe.

Therefore:
-
-
-
-

10

No further EU enlargement.
The negotiations on the forthcoming FTA with the United States (TTIP) suspend.
Discontinuation of EU negotiations with Turkey. No abolition of visa requirements for Turks.
Stopping the EU-billion flow to Turkey.

Flemish diplomacy and defense
A sovereign and independent Flanders have to meet its obligations towards the international community.
That means in the first place preference to build relationships with our strong economic partners and countries where a government dominated culture comparable to the Flemish. A powerful defense is one of the important elements of a
sovereign state to defend its own interests in the state. An EU army sweeps that possibility out. Yet international cooperation in the field of defense in this high time necessary. Participation in an alliance or
international cooperation must not lead to a loss of freedom of choice concerning the purchase of weapons
or participation in operations.
To the functioning of our current defense apron a lot. In the first place, is the withdrawal from Germany, which
ten years ago was completed, have not been fully digested. In logistics centers is to gather a mass of material substance
and military bases are still in reconversion. Moreover, repeatedly cut in military spending to a
level which is not sustainable. The personnel policy is due for renewal. After years of contraction is the time in to
put on recruiting and retaining young soldiers. The camps deployable units on site with a large
lack of staff leaving some tasks are always placed on the same shoulder. An improvement of the remuneration,
working conditions and career prospects in the short and long-term imperative.
Vlaams Belang continues to advocate for the preservation and the development of a rapidly deployable army units which have
on modern equipment. Pool Formation with neighboring countries must be implemented. A dynamic force is responsible for
all basic operational tasks and specialized assignments entrusted to us in accordance with international agreements.
To defend its own airspace is one of the basic operational tasks and can not be entrusted to a
other country; nevertheless, cooperation with neighboring countries also indicated here.

Therefore:

- Agreements with the Netherlands, Germany and similar countries in Northern and Central Europe instead of the current
French and Mediterranean fixations.
- No EU army but working with our partner countries.
- Rapid completion of the withdrawal from Germany by repulsion or "smart" recommissioning of stockpiled weapons and material.
- Development of a rapidly deployable army that can vouch for the specialized jobs that are agreed with the partners.

11

12

3. At work
with Flanders

In Flanders we work much more in SMEs and unemployed people mainly belong to the older generation. Lie in Wallonia
The maps completely different. The energy and the sense of initiative are the business of the Flemish labor market.
Formulate a response to the economic challenges is a towering problem as long as the levers of a full employment policy remain Belgian.

Labour costs and labor unions
We call on all representative unions and employers' organizations to finally break with the Belgian socio-economic framework. In particular, the unions have roundly draw the map of the Flemish employees. In
Instead of being concerned with the payment of unemployment benefits, they will punch out the typical issues
represent faced by social progress in Flanders.
Vlaams Belang presents some solid interventions for Flanders to work in truly rewarding. We have calculated
that if Flanders employers' labor costs by 25% trims, can shrink the overall labor costs by 6.5%. Additionally,
also to salaries for employees with 25% down.

Therefore:

- Socio-economic consultation to Flanders and Belgium abolish collective agreements.
- Reduce labor costs for everyone by a quarter.

Strengthen those who want to work
Unemployment benefits simply limit in time to save the social security system is anti-social. But who continues
hang in the unemployment we want to impose training. Thus we strengthen the innovative power of our economy from the bottom up. There must be a clear social culture of rights and obligations. Financial penalties are a big stick.
The major companies in Flanders benefit from a complete system that encourages tax shift work. For us
prevails that lives in the workplace, with management and staff. For employees, the social achievement of the stays
wage index does not come into question. This is possible by a system of temporary net indexation. In this way, the walk
labor costs get out of hand.
In Brussels, we want a large-scale employment program, which is part of the "pact with the Brussels' we want
close. In the rest of Flanders should still be more focus on the employment of young people and the over 55s.
Working agreements will be easier when more flexible conditions be included to perform overtime, for temporary employment and telecommuting.
Because they are at odds with flexibility, but also because they push people into a corner, his affirmative action known as 'disadvantaged' and quotas nonsense. Immigration is not a response to labor shortages.

Therefore:

- Putting a distinct Flemish activation policies on legs by focusing on innovation, experience and flexibility.
- A stop to the unfair advantage of foreign workers by restoring the internal EU borders.
- The preservation of the index and purchasing power. Through a temporary net indexing the wage costs may under
keep control in times of crisis.

Own power
The economic structure of Flanders stands or falls with our SMEs, transport routes, creativity and innovation. Therefore
Vlaams Belang wants to create free zones where innovation, entrepreneurship and venture capital meet. That dynamic has been stalled since the middle of last decade and needs a restart to result in an in-depth
industrial innovation.
Of course, everything starts and ends with the people who work in our industrial and service sectors. Universities
and colleges, but of course, the technical and vocational education should be the men and women who
will ensure our prosperity. So-called "community schools" to work around sense for work and entrepreneurship, and the necessary
self-discipline. Guided courses, training and retraining courses and especially the modernization of the teaching material should thereby
help. A motivated teaching staff, that hands free to teach and especially to coach, then do the rest.

13

The Flemish IWT policy (Innovation, Science and Technology) may connect not only academically educated young people and should appeal to as many people with creative ideas. IWT is not a luxury but an absolute necessity. The
financing of innovation must be structurally up, regardless of the business cycle. The European agreed standard of 3%
is our minimum.

Therefore:

- Revaluation and promotion of technical and vocational education.
- More money for innovation, science and technology.

No regelneverij, or anchoring
Despite all his trump cards Flanders is likely to have to fix the head of the field of economic strongholds.
Flemish politicians and administrators run himself over to his but the best pupil in the EU class, in the vain hope
Belgian bypass impediment thereto. The result is drift control and bureaucracy, which the competitiveness of the Flemish
economy improves at all. There is a shock therapy needed that the politicization of the Flemish top positions and diarrhea
end of regulation.
Vlaams Belang wants legal certainty for companies wishing to invest by putting in fewer but better
laws and decrees. The government should enforce current legislation in the first place and enforce rather even
to enact more regulations. Honest businesses must be able to rely on an automatic granting of licenses if the government does not respond within a reasonable time.
A Flemish government should first and foremost serve the interests of the inhabitants of Flanders. This means that a
strategic sectors should remain anchored, about what the EU also wants to say. The way in which
energy, transport and public services in Flanders are completed, should be consistent with the ideas
the Flemings themselves. Therefore, the Flemish Government must dare to be ambitious and build a strong example Flemish Energy.

Therefore:

- Get more with less and thus a stop to the regelneverij.
- Depoliticise Flemish directors.
- Solid anchoring of strategic sectors.

Debts cleanup
The Belgian public debt is again at 100% of GDP. Vlaams Belang does not believe that rehabilitation is possible through the
raise taxes. There needs to be saved. Healthy budgets are the reference to long-term prosperity
and to ensure well-being.
First condition for balanced budgets is fiscal autonomy for Flanders. Thorny issue is the precise distribution
of the Belgian public debt to arrive at the tax autonomy. Vlaams Belang believes the land portion that
debt has caused - especially Wallonia in PS tutelage - that has to pay. Meanwhile, a Flemish-Walloon Agency for Debt helps maintain the confidence of the holders of Belgian debt and imagines
guarantees the payment of interest on the debt and capital repayments.
Build financial reserves needed to finance the payment of the historical debt and the cost to
capture of an aging population. But also to counter speculation against the financial situation of the country.
The Vlaams Belang will therefore work to create a nest egg. We propose to immediately stop the interregional flows to Francophone Belgium. Remediation is only on the expenditure side of the budget. No new
taxes so. The tax revenue should more correctly be collected and the soil under the black economy must be
swept away. Moreover, we have a concrete plan for a radical degreasing of the government apparatus. Many
attention is paid to the government closely interwoven society, the trade unions head on, which again will be
core must submit to.

14

Therefore:
-
-
-
-

Tax autonomy for Flanders.
Cleavage of the debt according to origin.
Flemish-Walloon transfer stop.
More enforcement, monitoring and inspection, less fiscal arbitrariness.

Ceilings for tax burden
Vlaams Belang sees tax revenue as an instrument of policy and not as a boxing match between the government parties, with a reduction in VAT must always be compensated by an increase in a different rate and
where high taxes are paid by grants for whom the right 'connections' have.
Anyway the overall downward pressure must. Therefore we would be entitled to a maximum tax burden for all taxpayers in the Constitution, the tax on income may not exceed 50%.
Taxes may, subject to certain conditions, certainly down. Allow us to begin the rates
simplify and harmonize what our neighbors. Fewer and lower tax rates in the personal income are
an oxygen cure for consumer confidence. The tax base increases again, just like the readiness
to show solidarity. The tax reduction is thus eminently a social measure with a great return on investment. Less
taxes means more revenue for the state treasury. A social tax policy also provides for an extension
the exemption still fill in declarations for certain groups, as already for retirees, and a drastic simplification of the declaration itself.

Therefore:
-
-
-
-

Daring to opt for lower taxes.
Simplifying tariffs.
No grant arbitrariness more.
Social reform of the tax system.

And agriculture?
At this time, in the agricultural Flanders is a small sector. Nevertheless make that part of an agri-food sector
accounts for 150 000 jobs with a turnover of 60 billion euros. Exports of agricultural products accounts for
five billion. Yet our farmers are struggling. The income gap with other professions is increasing,
the choice of a farm does not obvious.
Vlaams Belang is on the side of the family farm. We want to save our farms and agricultural landscapes through a resolute choice for sustainability in agricultural policy. Reform should lead to increased efficiency. For this is the EU bureaucracy is not necessary.
There must be an end to the palaver about the space required by agriculture in Flanders. A lot of space
planning processes will get stuck, leading to a huge legal uncertainty for many farmers. We want the
target of 750,000 hectares of agricultural land is finally completed.

Therefore:

- Enhancing the agricultural sector to greater transparency, so without the current EU bureaucracy.
- Urgent and final record of 750,000 ha. farmland.

15

16

4. Caring
Flanders

Vlaams Belang is a Flemish solidarity between generations, between rich and poor, healthy and sick, between
employed and unemployed. Every member of our national community which is in distress, is entitled to social assistance. Flanders is competent for policy against poverty, but is confined to setting up a multitude of actions and projects
without structure and without measurable objectives.

Tackling poverty trap
The transformation of the PWC to a real social housing can play an important role. A good detection and
an equitable approach to poverty and its causes can the vicious circle between poverty and need for care or
break disease. For less affluent Flemings must also be equipped with a system of maximum order
basic care is guaranteed for everyone. The limitation of the maximum should be proportional to income
and the ownership situation.

Therefore:

- A Flemish poverty policy based on solidarity among the Flemings themselves.
- Should work be made a full social housing.
- Automatic allocation of rights.

Affordable care for everyone
In many sectors, the waiting lists grow, for example on social housing, child care, youth welfare, the disabled, mental health care, care for the elderly. This is a pain point for far too long winded and
where welfare no effective response offers. The savings from the Flemish government harmonize the various
sectors little hopeful.
Vlaams Belang be able to do every Flemish employment in accordance with his needs in quality and affordable care without long waiting lists. Here the development of an integrated policy is essential,
sufficient guarantees for the continuity between prevention, home care, primary care and residential care.
There must be a greater focus on home care. Thus, the charges become more equitable spread across the various waiting lists. A
leverage is the expansion of the personal budget (PGB). Additionally, a care voucher or -cheque imaginable,
whereby the claimant is entitled to either day care or day and night shelters. The government guarantees the subsidy
of the facilities. When people feel less need to be concerned about temporary assistance and emergency shelter, they will
be willing to care for a family member to take longer in itself.
A rest home recording has major financial consequences not only for the older care recipient, but often also for the family.
Vlaams Belang is therefore calling for the introduction of a maximum invoice in residential aged care. That is to say
that when the cost of staying in a regular residential care (nursing home) exceed a certain limit,
government, depending on income and property situation, the amount bijpast above that limit.

Therefore:
-
-
-
-

Eliminating the waiting lists.
A guaranteed right to health care.
A maximum bill in homecare.
A maximum bill in the elderly.

Opportunities for families
Vlaams Belang calls for an adaptation of the system of family allowances for the needs of the contemporary Flemish
family. The current system is too complex and the benefits do not cover costs. It is that even in the least logical
allowance is the smallest, when the costs are greatest.
Unlike, the present arrangement, the Vlaams Belang proposes an increased amount for the first three children
reverse 250 euros. The cost for the first three children are indeed the greatest. For the fourth child we suggest
to pay a sum of 90 euros and from the fifth 50 euros per child. It goes without saying that all social surcharges
as well as the school bonus, which will be provided under the current arrangements are retained. Also need parent families

17

continue to enjoy the provided social allowance. The children in such families should not bear the brunt of the decisions of parents.
An older man or woman who chooses to take on a caring role at home, should not financially punished for it
be. The introduction of a carer, a benefit for the working parent home while preserving acquired social
liens, offering the choice to work from home or outdoors.

Therefore:

- Reform of the child with a family bonus for the first three children.
- A modern home carer for the working parent.
- A quality and affordable childcare.

Flemish social security
In Flanders and Wallonia dominate various "medical cultures. Flemings go initially to the often
family doctor; Walloon sick do rather rely on a specialist. The Flemish policy makers prefer a geëchelonneerde health care and teamwork. The Walloon opt instead for the more expensive technical model. The Flemish
Importance targeting a Flemish state as a model in Europe, including on health and environment. The Scandinavian
model can inspire here. We argue in this respect, an integrated health care with the classic medical concept
'patient' is complemented by a vision of the whole person, who strives for harmony with their environment. Health care must be result-oriented in that respect rather than competitive. In addition to a substantial change in mentality
A full revision of the nomenclature is necessary. A revaluation of the intellectual health professions
and especially the GP profession is discussed. GPs should play a central role in a flexible tiered system
health care.
Vlaams Belang, the income structure of parts of social security must evolve more towards a system
of funding from general resources. It goes without saying that this adaptation of the system for the funding of
our social security very gradually to come into effect. A Flemish social security and health and Flemish
Welfare should allow for a more transparent and efficient policy. It is absurd that the Flemish government responsible
for the elderly policy, but not for the pensions.

Therefore:
-
-
-
-

Division of the Belgian social security.
Parts of the social security financed from general funds.
Revision of the nomenclature.
A central role for the GP.

Solid pension scheme
In the coming decades aging of the Flemish population will be a social concern of first order. Around the
aging and, in particular, to control the cost of health care under control, we will also over the treatment
and must address medicalisation.
The increasing problems relating to the sustainability of pensions already have nothing to do with the height of the
pensions. The minimum pension for employees is 1123 euros for a single person and 1404 euros for a
family. This is slightly above the European poverty line. It is therefore not surprising that the risk of poverty
Over 65s rises to 20.8% and for over-75s to 26.9%. Especially for the lower pensions is a catch-up operation required.
An insured financing of pensions depends on a sufficient number of workers. Should Unemployment
therefore be kept as low as possible and early retirement must be discouraged from the labor market. The
discussion of working longer is no longer acting on the abstract retirement age of 65 but over the duration of the
professional career. It is therefore important to not statutory but the actual duration of the working career to
draw, so go there for some time, fewer people retire and more people continue to contribute. This creates
space for a realistic increase in pensions.

18

Therefore:
-
-
-
-
-

Pull up the actual duration of the working career.
Raising of pensions to at least 70% of their final salary.
Possibility of unlimited earn after retirement.
Halting the misuse of early retirement.
Abolition of solidarity contributions on pensions.

Affordable and decent housing
For families with modest incomes is increasingly difficult to find an affordable and decent home.
However, the Flemish social housing should be no social safety net, but a real public housing must be true
Flemish people with modest incomes can rent a house at a reasonable price. The Flemish social housing
is due to the mass immigration is increasingly confronted with problems of ghettoisation and uninhabitable. The solution lies in small-scale social housing projects which in an appropriate way in the cities and
Municipalities are implanted.
Vlaams Belang is in favor of an offensive quality of housing policy in the private rental sector which for everyone
decent housing guarantees. Therefore Expoitation must be fought relentlessly.

Therefore:

- Maintaining the principle of living bonus. Better yet, the housing bonus must be wagered at stimulating
live in the city.
- Upgrading of social housing.
- Limiting the number of foreigners per social housing complex and a social housing estate.
- A local social housing policy through the development of a social rental assets.
- Alternative living arrangements possible.
- Combating social repression.
- Stimulating live in their own region.

19

20

5. Boss in
own country

Despite the many messages triumph, the government has problems in the area of ​​migration and asylum by no means under control.
The massive influx of foreigners we experience over several decades, has been all but halted.
This mass immigration has been put to the test the capacity of our society and represents the
import of unemployment, deprivation, crime and conflict.

Stop asylum abuse
A major immigration channel is called 'asylum' by 'political refugees' (often economic
refugees) in 2012 were filed in Belgium 21 461 asylum applications, which related to 28 285 people.
Within the European Union, Belgium ranks fifth in terms of number of asylum applications, with 1.7 per 1,000 inhabitants.
Three times the average for the EU. Netherlands is not yet at the half.

Therefore:

- A new international protection regime, based on the principle of the refugees in the
region.
- Faster processing of asylum applications, without opportunities to litigate endlessly.
- Reception of asylum seekers in detention centers, for the entire duration of the procedure.
- Halting medical tourism, the money-hungry medical aid to illegal immigrants when it is not urgent.

Effective expulsion
Although Secretary De Block is uitslooft to convince us to the contrary, eyes return figures far
spectacular. In 2012, 11 386 were former asylum seekers and other illegal aliens, including terugdrijvingen at the border,
removed from the territory: a return to the 2006 level (11 555). In 2002 there were still 14 576. That
the total government does not intend to make work more forced repatriations, evidenced by the fact that the
capacity of the closed centers dropped to 500th place (a few years ago, 600).
The complete failure of the deportation policy is fully evident at when we compare the number of removals from the territory with the number of orders to leave the territory. In front of 76 497 orders were in 2012
issued only were 9491 cases of forced repatriations and voluntary redundancies. A return percentage of
12.4%. Based on the figures for the first nine months of 2013 there is certainly no sign of any improvement.

Therefore:

- No tolerance policy for illegal immigrants, but on the contrary, active detection and containment in closed centers with the
for the effective expulsion.
- Enhance the capacity of the detention centers.
- Abolition of the regularization: illegal stay can not legally binding.
- Criminal aliens off the land, and make every effort to ensure that they will serve their sentence in the
country of origin.
- Linking development aid to countries in their migration policies and the will to cooperate in identifying and /
or repatriation of nationals.

Family reunification: avalanche not stopped
Who wants to bring a family member, since July 2011 subject to something stricter rules. Yet there are every year
admitted some 30,000 family reunification. Residence permits are also obtained through marriages or based on
a false statement of legal cohabitation. The current punishment is sufficiently strict to achieve a deterrent effect.

Therefore:

- Family formation in the country of origin, just as a snowball of immigration can be avoided.
- A stricter approach to marriages. The annulments should lead to the withdrawal of the out
resulting residence permits.
- Apparent legal-together homes impossible.

21

New citizenship law 'too little, too late'
Since the enactment of the so-called fast-Belgian law in 2000 obtained more than half a million foreigners
Belgian nationality. Not surprisingly, most liberal nationality laws in the world. The Law of December 4
2012 did bring some changes, but remained aberrations. An elimination or rotation of the fast-Belgian Law
did not exist. For example, foreigners are still living in Flanders Belgian without one word Dutch
to speak.

Therefore:
-
-
-
-

No more citizenship by virtue of birth in Belgium.
Application of the Vlaams Belang designed Citizenship Code.
The nationality must be earned and can only be granted after a stay of at least ten years.
Rejection of dual nationality, citizenship should be exclusive.

Kordaat adjustment policies
Citizenship should be the culmination of a successful integration. The data subject must demonstrate the desire to connect his fate permanently to that of our community. Adaptation policies should no longer be an informal kind of reception policy
be limited to some free language lessons. The contrast must be thorough and efficient.

Therefore:

- The introduction of a citizenship test which prospective citizens must succeed.
- The imposition of a trial period for "new Belgians". Who effective sentence of more than one year
rises, loses the right under Belgian citizenship and can also lose his right of residence.
- Depriving of entitlement to social security for those who do not meet the integration requirement.

Islamization stop and reverse
The growing presence of Islam, coupled with the growing Muslim extremism, is indisputably
the main threat to public order and peaceful coexistence in our country. The Flemish government worked
Islamization of Flanders in the hand: mosques were increasingly recognized and subsidized, Muslim broadcasts
on radio and television were created and a Flemish 'imam training "was expanded. Vlaams Belang wants
put an end to this concession readiness. Do not we have to adapt to the presence of Islam, to whom
Here comes must adapt to our values.

Therefore:

- Of course, religious freedom must be safeguarded, but the recognition of Islam should be withdrawn
be.
- An end to the subsidization of Islam.
- A total ban on headscarves for public servants.
- An absolute ban on the ritual slaughter without stunning.
- Closing of extremist mosques and the immediate expulsion of hate imams and other Muslim extremists.
- A general building stop for new mosques.

22

6. Right
safety

23

Every day once again proved that the soft approach has yielded only hard crime. Unruly detainees receive compensation because they would be mistreated in prison. Heavy criminals
still come after one third of their prison release. Prison sentences are converted under three in a while
home detention. Foreign gangs of thieves have free play lead by the lack of international cooperation and procedural errors led to laughing gangsters go free. Who has the resources, can be easily in many cases
surrender process. Almost nowhere in the world are criminals dealt with in such a gentle way as in Belgium.
And we do not forget especially the fate of the victims, because most of them left after a tragic experience emotional
and financial standing in the cold. Over time so that criminals are punished more quickly and efficiently, which imposed penalties
also be done really. And victims, but also police and security personnel receive the much needed respect.

Focus again at the criminal court
All too often end in serious crime cases are not more or much too late for the criminal courts. Examine the judicial staff
take too much time and too many weapons to get defendants to delay proceedings. This leaves lie many criminal cases, leading to an unprecedented high number of dismissals decisions by the public prosecutors. The prosecutors also get too much
opportunities to make serious criminal offenses surrenders, without judicial control, which leads to unacceptable
class justice.
For minor offenses amicable settlement must remain possible by the prosecution, but for heavier correctional
Facts must always exist a judicial control and there will be an entry in the criminal record. Even if severe and
organized financial crime must remain a priority on prosecution and trial. Justice must therefore about
sufficient trained staff and resources to deal with all crimes, even the most complex.
The Vlaams Belang wants to re-settle the criminal court the center of gravity of the criminal justice system, which is a much broader arsenal
punishment should be given opportunities. He must be given the assurance that all sentences imposed - including community service, short
prison sentences and fines - actually be implemented in the future so that he can determine a realistic sentence.
The maximum prison sentence should be increased to 40 years. The limitation for very serious crimes should
be abolished. For heinous and terrorist crimes and for dangerous repeat offenders is a "special
life imprisonment "created, which ensures that the convicted can never leave prison.
The Vlaams Belang wants a much faster and more efficient procedure law to Dutch model in which banal formal errors
more easily can be recovered. Summary justice (punishment within the week) should be the norm for easy
criminal offenses.

Therefore:
-
-
-
-
-
-

A faster and more efficient legal procedure whereby trivial procedural errors can be recovered.
No class justice through a thorough review of the afkoopwet.
Focus should be on the criminal court with a broader array of potential punishment.
All penalties imposed, too short, should be implemented.
Prison sentences of up to 40 years.
For heinous crimes should be imposed an extraordinary life imprisonment.

Executing punishment
In this absurd country prison sentences under three years almost no longer executed in the prison. Justice Minister
Turtelboom now calls from the rooftops that they "put an end to impunity" because electronic surveillance (ET)
providing for sentences between four months and three years. Turtelboom has indeed reduced waiting times,
but an ankle remains a ersatzoplossing and is not comparable to a real prison. In addition, it is ET
for convicts shortened under the year to barely a quarter and often only one-eighth of the sentence. Longer
prison sentences are still reduced to barely a third of the sentence imposed, often still a significant
section via ET.
Vlaams Belang demands that the criminal court itself should be able to determine the actual length of a prison sentence. Only when
he determines that a previously convicted after a penalty area under clear conditions could be released early
(eg, an anklet regime), may do so decided by a sentencing court. The law-Lejeune
and all other early release mechanisms, including the royal mercy law, must therefore be abolished.

24

Therefore:

- Abolition of the laws Lejeune and other early release mechanisms.
- Ankle Regime must be drastically reduced.
- Criminal Judge determines the actual duration of the prison and it is not touched.

Expand prisons
The limited prison capacity, of course, has contributed to the cause of the lack of sentencing in this country. Our prisons are overcrowded for years, even though the majority of the imposed prison sentences are not carried out.
The new prisons are being opened or announced, do not serve the real capacity of
to expand, or in order to increase the comfort of prisoners on the basis of the one man / one-cell principle. Moreover, the is
Government plans to close at least three existing prisons.
Instead of the planned 11 000 places Vlaams Belang wants to raise the prison capacity to at least 15,000.
All existing prisons should serve to retain and - if necessary - to be renovated.
Nearly one in two prisoners in this country is the number of illegal aliens and criminals in our prisons amounts to about 30
percent of the total prison population. It is becoming increasingly apparent that the Belgian policy of open borders
led to massive imports of criminals. With countries of origin should therefore watertight agreements concluded
to which the foreign criminals commit their punishment to sit out in their homeland. "New Belgians" that a sentence of one year or more have effectively imposed should be deprived of their nationality and their right of residence.
Vlaams Belang years denounces the inhumane manner in which detainees are treated in this country. They hear
home in specialized and secure care facilities. The fact that approximately one used on three prisoners inside prisons drugs, weighs heavily on the climate inside these establishments and undermines security.
The drug intramural must therefore be tackled much firmer.

Therefore:
-
-
-
-

Prison capacity should be expanded, while maintaining the existing prisons.
Foreigners should serve their sentence in their country of origin.
Criminal "new Belgians" should be deprived of their nationality and residence.
Internees belong in specialized institutions.

More police, livable neighborhoods
The Vlaams Belang wants more police officers on the street, also and especially in those urban areas which have the other parties 'given up'. We do not accept 'no go' zones and want a system of zero tolerance in every neighborhood that suffers from a
outrageous crime. This means not only that the police act firmly against any wrongdoing, but also that the
Police is supported in this by the prosecutor and public services such as the economic and social inspection. Only through a
driven by performance and we can evolve through the systematic persecution and punishment for a viable society.
Vlaams Belang wants to revalue the local policeman. He must be in his neighborhood are a known and visible contact.
Consequently he will often suspicious developments can signal or interference. Also neighborhood information networks can have a
play important role in the security policy. In difficult areas a system of surveillance should be introduced
be. On the regional roads, slip roads and municipal roads network should come from smart cameras
that can recognize license plates.
The training of our police officers must be improved and professionalised. At the expected retirement wave
compensate, the number of inspectors should be raised in training. The local police should be organized more efficiently. Agents of the operational framework must be freed from all kinds of red tape,
so they can focus more on their core business, namely the effective maintenance of public order, detecting offenses and providing assistance to those in need. Citizens who were victims of crime must
so can count on a very short response time of the police.
Police officers must feel also protected by society because they have their own personal safety and
risk their lives to protect society. Libel, intimidation, threats and violence against police officers must

25

therefore be addressed even stricter. At the same time they deserve better legal protection so they do not have to fear invariably criminal prosecution if criminals sue them.
Vlaams Belang also calls for a merger operation for many smaller police. A police can only really be workable if it serves more than 75,000 inhabitants or more than 150 counts men. We therefore urge that
in consultation with the zones a scientifically fusion operation is being prepared.

Therefore:
-
-
-
-

More police on the street and zero tolerance against street crime and gang violence.
Revaluation of the local bobby.
Thorough training and protection of police personnel.
Merger of smaller police.

Down with impunity
A weak link in the security chain is the reaction of the public prosecutor on crimes. By the immense number of criminal files, staff shortages and a lack of support is not always the trouble to investigate the facts. A lot of files are therefore simply dropped, much to the discontent of the victims. Is already
responded to crimes, this happens in many cases too late and substandard. Vlaams Belang wants of the public prosecutors
again the nerve centers making the fight against crime. There must therefore be an end to the deliberate
neglect of the prosecution. The profession of prosecutor must be made more attractive.
To do a good job the investigation services should be adequately staffed. The cooperation with the investigative services
of surrounding areas and the federal police must be optimized and regular training are required for the fast evolving
nature of the crime remain the boss, think of cybercrime and organized financial crimes.
The people within the criminal police services should therefore be given every opportunity and means to make use of
the most modern detection and communication techniques.
Also introduced by the severe overloading and understaffing at the public prosecutors was the system of municipal administrative sanctions (GAS). For tackling nuisance behavior, this is a useful tool, but punishment for crimes
this is absolutely not the case. The perpetrators there will come very cheap off and get the offense is not even listed on
their criminal record. Also missing in this whole process an impartial judge. The prosecutors have this power
Therefore, again pulling back.

Therefore:

- Prosecutors must be again the nerve centers of the fight against crime.
- The investigation services should be provided with sufficient resources and personnel, as well as the latest
investigative techniques.
- GAS fines can be useful for police violations, but not for serious crimes.

Victims out in the cold
Face a misdemeanor has left deep scars. Adults and children who were victims of a
crime or a traumatic experience, will have the right to respectful and fair treatment by the various agencies, such as police, justice and external emergency services. The Vlaams Belang wants victims on a
simpler way (via the Internet) crimes may indicate and may make statements. Victims should also
opportunity to follow the progress of their case and must be kept informed of, and right of inspection
and to have a say at all stages of the sentence.
The criminal proceedings should lead to the condemned both the material, physical and moral damages to the victims
actually pays. Therefore to appoint a pro deo lawyer at any criminal proceedings interests
representing the victims. After the sentence to enable the government everything in its power to help the offender's ability
identify and recover the compensation awarded. Furthermore, the right to defense should be extended to
the defense of one's own property or business.

26

Therefore:
-
-
-
-

Easier reporting of crimes (via internet).
Victims should be informed about the state of the file.
Real and rapid compensation for the damage to victims.
Right of defense should be extended to property.

Punish juvenile delinquency
Despite serious problems with juvenile delinquency and gang crime Justice is not able to give young criminals
resolutely tackle. Justice still works today with the absurd and obsolete fiction that young people are not able
to commit crimes. Vlaams Belang wants a contemporary youth sanction law regulating the juvenile court may
will impose full criminal sanctions rather than protective. For the care of severely delinquent
Minors must be created much more capacity, and just like in the Netherlands, it should be possible for young people
from 12 years may be subject to a strict re-education process. In Brussels last create a penal institution
minors are established. Parents should be actively involved in an anti-truancy and in compliance
imposed measures such as house arrest. Repeal of the children's money should be used here as a big stick.

Therefore:

- Towards a modern juvenile criminal law so that young offenders can be punished effectively.
- More storage capacity and strict re-education courses for serious offenders.

Drugs crackdown
Vlaams Belang pleads for a drastic change in the approach to the drug problem and wants to abandon
The existing policy of tolerance. Possession and use of cannabis should be re-criminalized; its findings
should always trigger a response from the prosecutor. We want a mandatory withdrawal for addicts, a strong preventive ontradingsbeleid in schools and more drug controls traffic and discos. We must also assertively
preparation in the border regions.
Drug trafficking is indeed a major source of funding for organized crime and even terrorist groups. By
our central location and the lax justice policy, this country has become a major hub for the drug world, both
for the import and transit of cocaine and heroin as for the production of synthetic drugs. Drug production and trafficking
must therefore be tackled hard, with heavy prison sentences and dissuasive penalties.

Therefore:

- Strong prevention in schools and more drug control in traffic and nightlife.
- Hard tackling drug production and trafficking.
- Binding rehabilitation programs.

Flemish Justice and Police
Vlaams Belang rejects the hopelessly complex reform of the judicial landscape, classification on provincial basis is not always applied. Thus Leuven shabbily treated, Halle-Vilvoorde falls
prey to the Brussels Frenchification drift and the Flemings heavily discriminated against in Brussels. Vlaams Belang wants to
soon as possible, a full split of Justice and Police. Pending the orderly division of Belgium is Brussels
Justice and security held under national guardianship.

Therefore:

- Justice and police should be Flemish jurisdiction.
- Flemish Brabant must immediately be a full judicial district.

27

28

7. Time for
wise education

The future of our education is at stake. Each Minister of Education will be delighted his highly personal
stamp printing are trained in the way young people. With plans of Minister Smet (Socialist Party) who has
reform anger reached its peak. In recent years, however, there is so much reformed, that there should be for the next legislature, a moratorium on further changes. The world renowned quality of the schools
Flanders is a delicate thing. We must not throw its strengths as weaknesses to be addressed.

Retain what is good
The positives - and thus the quality - of the Flemish model, the pedagogical freedom of the schools, the strong
teaching skills of the teachers and their broad general education, the importance we continue to attach to knowledge and, not least, the importance of language skills. These are all factors militating against the network and directional blur that aims minister Smet with his "comprehensive first degree." Because if it appears that we are losing ground internationally
then it does not help at all to throw overboard our strengths. Vlaams Belang still believe firmly in our time-honored
assets. The position and the autonomy of the teacher is the common denominator. We need more freedom again
for schools to organize their educational independence of the guidelines of the Flemish government.
More freedom for schools means that school boards shall always unequivocally side with their teachers. The teacher turnover is high by unsung disciplinary problems by numerous administrative work and the
displeasure due to the reforms. Instead of monitoring schools to increase their principals and teachers,
the government should re-establish confidence in them.
A firmly established, jointly supported educational project is the logical extension of the right of every child
and his parents to find a school that meets their needs. However, this right is not absolute and schools
why not have the obligation to register everyone who signs up. In that respect, the successor to the GOKdecreet (equal educational opportunities), the decree SES (socio-economic status of the families of the students), more than
a missed opportunity. The government thus curtails the freedom of the school to develop an educational project as well as the
parental freedom to enroll children in a school of your choice.

Therefore:
-
-
-
-
-

No ideological education reforms but investing in the training and supervision of teachers.
No more political games on the backs of schools and educational networks.
School boards who stand firmly behind their teacher corps.
No teaching skills without transferring knowledge.
End social experiments imposed "social mix" without participation of schools based on their pedagogical project.

Classes Flemish, Dutch-speaking schools
A balanced pedagogical project must be based in Flanders on a vision that presents the school consistent as a Dutch institute. Our public culture is one of openness and consultation, which for us means every school
should be free, for example, not to allow the Islamic headscarf in school and during excursions.
Critical young people are necessary. Therefore, a school more and party politics to stay neutral and not
politically correct dogmas impose. It is not up to the school to tell what the world should look like politics. The
schools must start from reality and help children to learn responsibility. A multiculturalist indoctrination or condoning hear religious extremism therefore no school at home.

Therefore:
-
-
-
-

The multicultural indoctrination in education should be immediately brought to an end.
Freedom for schools to ban the Islamic headscarf.
Dutch as a language of education remain our first priority.
Flemish fluently multilingual with excellent linguistic and cultural openness.

29

30

8. For a
Flemish
media and
cultural policy

The cohesion of society is under pressure. Instead of anonymity and alienation we place recognition
and trust. Art and culture are not the task with pulling that cart by definition. Nevertheless, they have to play an important role.

Synthesis and cross-fertilization
Who draws from the tradition, strengthens our identity. In addition, we are very conscious choice for a Flemish and Dutch context.
We apply for the international marketing of the high-flyers in our culture sector without additional efforts
opposite would be for groups and ensembles especially in Flanders itself be active. Talent and artists who are seeking a personal artistic language, we wish to fully support by them for infrastructure
to make available to. We seek all means to reduce project grants out of hand in the past.
Freedom of the cultural landscape has a legitimate interest in order to rely more on self-collected funds.
Dutch in Flanders should not only administrative and teaching language, as well as custody and access language and culture
remain. Further strengthening our ties with the Netherlands will strengthen the status and image of our language and also
the place of Dutch help to safeguard the international institutions.
We derive Flemings for a big piece of our identity to our heritage. The visualization of heritage and their integration into the spatial structure in practice rather difficult. Vlaams Belang wants cities and municipalities more responsibility and participation by encouraging a truly local heritage policy. Mee decide to give them the chance
a modern, yet historically responsible vision to develop the renewal of urban neighborhoods, the protection
including of local heritage.

Therefore:

- No government money for alienation and multiculturalism.
- No opaque and arbitrary subsidization project for a small group, but large infrastructure and equipment for all artists.
- Modernize Classic protection procedures and to link the protection of towns and villages that
of the patrimony itself.
- For cities and municipalities the ability to provide non-Western forms of construction in building codes
to close when incompatible with the spatial capacity.
- To strengthen our ties with the Netherlands.

Objective media and Flemish programming
The public broadcaster has proven in the past to be a pioneer in terms of making quality
programs in all genres and on radio and on television. Under pressure of this success, the commercial broadcasters have
followed that path. Vlaams Belang believes that the VRT must continue to play that role of leader and more Flemish
identity must promote.
We also ask for more attention politically neutral information programs. The media bear a crushing
responsibility in the way they construct Flemish politics. Existing broadcasters, both
public and commercial, are under the media decree requires an objective and impartial reporting. Digits
however, demonstrate that the same parties absorb a much larger share of media coverage than their electoral
strength suggests, especially when Vlaams Belang under its electoral weight should boxing. The public broadcaster
should be neutral and should guarantee freedom of expression.
It launched last year third VRT channel 'Ketnet / OP 12' costs each year about shoddy 7 million. The children's channel was
supposedly it needed to serve specific minority groups, including foreigners in Flanders via an English-language offering. It is not the task of the Flemish government to serve foreigners in their own language at their beck and call.
The Vlaams Belang is also strongly opposed to the granting of airtime to third parties on the association 'Muslim Television and
Radio Broadcasting. It is unacceptable that tax money is used to promote Islam in Flanders.
The public broadcaster has no less than five national radio programs. Not all fulfill the public service remit of the VRT, some have previously commercial use. The public broadcaster must work devoid of commercialism at all levels
in order to avoid potential market distortions. In the context of radio stations, this means that the radio stations, the VRT
must divest and sell that do not work in accordance with the public service mission.

31

The media have in recent years not only evolved, but also omnipresent. Media literacy and -weerbaarheid today are absolutely necessary skills to cope ages against the flow of information through
the media, not least social media, coming towards them. Media education should be part of the curriculum in
all directions of secondary education. The Vlaams Belang wants the mission of the Knowledge Media Literacy
spread to all walks of life for the growing digital divide - the elderly, less educated and
disadvantaged groups - to close.

Therefore:

- The offer of the musical with Flemish tax-funded radio stations must consist of at least 30%
Dutch productions exist.
- Ample space for debate and interpretation in which all political groups are covered, report the Flemish
Media Regulator to the Flemish Parliament.
- In the context of the current budgetary constraints delete the unnecessary third VRT channel.
- The public broadcaster must repel the radio stations and sales that do not work in accordance with the public service mission.
- No "Muslim Television and Radio Broadcasting".
- Plug the digital divide through media education.

A different policy
All files sport and sports budgets should remain the full and exclusive responsibility of the Flemish minister
Sport.

32

9. Smooth and safe
on the way

33

The Flemish mobility policy fails on all levels. The current situation on the Flemish roads are certainly striking. Flanders as long as not all the required competence in their own hands, the current traffic problems will only worsen. The
However Vlaams Belang opposes any form of smart kilometer levy and wants to introduce a road tax for
The foreign users of our road network as an alternative.

Better mobility in urban areas
Given the high degree of urbanization in Flanders, the Vlaams Belang pays special attention to urban mobility.
For visitors and commuters to public transport in the city is the primary mode of transport should be. The potential
combinations of rail, metro, bus and train links are too limited to move smoothly in and around the city to
move. Urban public transport also takes too often the news with violent crimes.

Therefore:

- The entire traffic management, including road safety, transfer to the regions.
- Betting on modern technologies such as sensors that measure the flow of cars, then recommended a
and speed to be imposed to allow green waves.
- Build car parks in through smooth tram, metro and bus connections to the city center
stand compound.
- Bus, metro and tram lines so similar and at the rail tuning, that the combination of these vehicles is considerably more efficient than using the car.
- By analogy with the Railway Police a police bus Tram-Metro Brigade appoint 24-hour surveillance on 24
means the stations and on the lines.

Flemish government fails to BAM
The Flemish government opted for the BAM route as a 'solution' for the closure of the Antwerp ring road. This seems to have reached the goal of self-imposed tunnel vision of Flemish Minister-President Kris Peeters and Antwerp mayor Bart
Weaver who had just eye never seriously considered for the BAM-route and the other alternatives. The
Oosterweel whole saga was therefore more a political game Stratego than a search for the best mobility solution. The
Flemish government also deliberately took a huge risk. By adding new elements to the basic route is
not inconceivable that legal proceedings will delay the whole project. The commencement of works in 2016 than
Also likely "wishful thinking."

The BAM choice is not only a choice against public health, the planned customs clearance also weakens the competitiveness of the port considerably.

Therefore:

- In anticipation of real solutions already take robust measures in the short term in a relief
can do for traffic congestion in and around Antwerp. Vlaams Belang pleads for example, has long
for toll making the Liefkenshoektunnel.

Safer on the road
Safety cameras and average speed checks in combination with accessible public awareness campaigns are not enough to make traffic safer. The government has not made enough effort to determine whether certain infrastructure measures
Placing avoid accidents or motorists can encourage safer behavior. This does not mean that traffic sinners according to their effective offense should receive appropriate punishment.

Therefore:

- General increase chances of being caught for speeding offenses, without falling into a witch hunt or to proceed to
called super fines.
- A Flemish system of accident registration and import analysis, with a view to the necessary infrastructure
measures. Already provide better and safer bike lanes, the Dutch model.
- The transfer to Flanders discretionary powers to collect traffic fines and sole discretion collected
to spend sums.

34

Alternatives to road transport
Although it is in many cases of little use to expand the road infrastructure systematically, it is sometimes designated
in order to relieve a busy road via an additional connection. The Flemish government presented during the previous legislature 25 so-called 'missing links' fixed. Only 4 of these 25 compounds were realized. The lack of decisiveness is significant.
We not only consider the Antwerp Oosterweel Dossier, but the procrastination on the Brussels Ring and
Legal geblunder on the North-South Limburg.
The waterways offer a strong potential that the distress traffic on the road can be somewhat mitigated. As
well as at the track were great opportunities. The reactivation of the Iron Rhine, the freight link between
Antwerp and the Ruhr area, is still pending. Particularly distressing is the lack of punctuality of passenger traffic of the SNCB, but just as the obsolete equipment and the shortage of seats on some lines. That there
by the end of 2014 will be a new transport plan on the table, does not mean that the current plan dates from 1998. Most
problems that the current SNCB is struggling, also will not be resolved through the planned transformation of a
3-fold to 2.5-fold structure.

Therefore:
-
-
-
-
-

As quickly as possible to fill in the missing 21 Flemish transportation links.
More incentives for freight transport by water and rail.
Reactivation Iron Rhine.
A new transport must structurally improve the punctuality of train traffic.
SNCB, the transformation of a three-tier to a clear one-tier structure and thus the creation of a
autonomous public company.

35

36

10. Environment:
return to
healthy
wit

Energy and environment matters since the mid-nineties associated with climate change. Our thinking
on the energy issue, however, is not limited to the threat of climate change. We are also critical of
doomsday scenarios, annoyed with international climate agreements and strategic games with the 'buying' clean air.

Environmental and energy tune
Vlaams Belang wants common sense returns. When outlining an innovative energy goes
Indeed, not a difficult choice for the economy or the environment. Both elements must complement each other. Despite energy savings we find that the demand for electricity continues to grow strongly. This is not to catch by
renewable energy. In a healthy balanced energy have different forms of green power in place,
however, it should be considered a critical and long-term. So collide more and more wind farms on their limitations. In
Unlike solar energy cheaper, wind turbines will be able to continue to run solely on grants. However, energy or that just barely survives through subsidies has no future.
States seeking a complete nuclear phase-out, there now come back. Bring large increases in the energy bill
After all, businesses and families in difficulty. In Flanders remains indispensable electricity through nuclear energy in the future. Obviously safety should be ensured, as the responsible handling of the
nuclear waste.

Therefore:

- Flanders should be provided with all the levers of energy. Which are essential for prosperity
and safeguard welfare.
- Supporting and subsidizing technology, rather than subsidizing energy.
- No closing of Doel 1 and 2 as long as there is not enough spare capacity.
- Research on the nuclear power plants of the fourth generation that security and responsible handling of nuclear waste remain assured. The research center for nuclear energy in Mol needs to be further developed.

The intelligent use of space, resources and welfare
Flanders is a densely populated country. We must sparing with open space. Therefore, companies should be encouraged as much as possible to stay or invest in the city. Also includes stores in town. The rising
population density also puts great pressure on our economic resources. Along with its air and water quality
Soil quality is not only valuable economic goods, they also have a strong influence on our health.
Vlaams Belang also calls for sufficient attention to animal welfare. To the welfare of farm and utility animals
improve, the focus should be on support and information. There is no point in Flanders certain sectors
prohibit. They then move to countries where we can not exert any control. We emphasize again
we are strongly opposed to ritual slaughter without stunning.

Therefore:
-
-
-
-
-

Older decontaminate industrial sites in the cities of priority.
No additional large shopping centers on the city edges.
Waste policy tuning to the principle of maximum utilization of raw materials and energy sources.
Establishing an Inspectorate Animal Welfare with its own hotline and police powers.
General ban on slaughter without stunning.

37

38

For more
information

About our Community views we refer to:
- Anne Mans, G. (2012, 5th ed.) "The Orderly Breakdown of Belgium '
www.bit.ly/ordelijkeopdeling

- "Capital Manifesto" plan of the Vlaams Belang for a future-oriented and prosperous Brussels.
www.bit.ly/hoofdstadmanifest
- Brochure "The sixth state reform. Flanders ripped off '
www.bit.ly/vlaanderenopgelicht
- The reaction of the Vlaams Belang in response to the Government Declaration of Di Rupo in the Chamber of Deputies' Vlaams Belang against the Di Rupo government.
www.bit.ly/regeerverklaring
- Brochure "Flemish money in Flemish hands. Our response to the failure of Belgium '
www.bit.ly/vlaamsgeld

About our views on Europe and the EU, we refer to:
- 'Europe Manifesto, the vision of the Vlaams Belang in a free and responsible Europe.
www.bit.ly/europamanifest
- Proceedings Europe Colloquium November 24, 2012 "Pro Europe, against the EU '
www.bit.ly/proeuropa
- Claeys, P. (2013) 'In no bubbles', which describes how the virtual elimination of internal borders in the
EU has made the immigration even bigger and oncontroleerbaarder.
www.bit.ly/zonderbellen
- Brochure "The cost of Europe '
www.bit.ly/kostprijseuropa

About our economic, social and financial position, please refer to:
- Our social economic program 'Better Flanders for a lower price. "
www.bit.ly/economischprogramma
- The recent congress text 'Vlaams Belang: Social People's Party. "
www.bit.ly/sociaalprogramma
- Detailed economic analysis can be found in the bi-monthly 'Financial and Economic Comments'.
www.bit.ly/fecommentaren
- The quarterly publication "Your Country 'in which the agricultural and horticultural sector extensively discussed.
www.bit.ly/platteland
- The newsletter 'Our Cause' that quarterly specifically focuses on the self-employed and entrepreneurs.
www.bit.ly/onzezaak
- Brochure'Vlaams money in Flemish hands. Our response to the failure of Belgium '
www.bit.ly/vlaamsgeld

About our positions on immigration we refer to:
- Brochure "full is full!"
www.bit.ly/brochureimmigratie

About our views on security and justice we refer to:
- Brochure "Adieu to the laxity '
www.bit.ly/adieulaksheid

39
