INTRODUCTION
Yes, it is possible. Humanity has already overcome many disasters. Behind the crisis of the capitalist system
unfolding before our eyes, there is the possibility of a better world. We must seize it. It is within our reach. Again
necessary that we decide. The ecological disaster, the explosion of inequality, insecurity and poverty,
répétéesde violations of democracy, denial of human relations based on solidarity and cooperation, this has
a case that human action can overcome. All these evils find their common origin in the
essential characteristic of our time: the undivided domination of the Financial Capital of the world. But this
unshakable dominance in appearance is actually very fragile. Because it depends entirely of choice
policies that people can reverse. A rontons ff fi nance and we soon shall find a future.
This is what we propose in this program. We did not wait for that the subprime crisis,
stock market panic of 2011 and the dictates been addressed by the European Central Bank, non elected body, to
sovereign governments of the European Union. Together we fought the pension reform that
Sarkozy has already justified by the demands of financial markets. In 2005, we defeated the arrogance of
powerful who wanted to burn the Constitution in a European market supremacy. Had we not reason
against those who claimed that the Lisbon Treaty would deliver a Europe that protects, with a "
leadership "in solid fi n? Everyone does he not see today that their promises were false?
We were right but our vote was trampled. Because it is now the "financial markets" which the
Governments con fi es the real power. It is tyranny that throws the world into turmoil, demanding
the people of the sacrifice these ever larger in order that they govern the mountains of virtual money they have raised. Such
is the concrete result of neoliberal policies which have continued despite the crisis. European governments
want to go further in this direction by including in the Basic Law states the objective of budget balance,
Nicolas Sarkozy calls the "golden rule". If such a provision was incorporated in the French Constitution,
claims of debt holders would be required to our elected representatives.
The problem is political. Just as the nobility of 1789 could not break with the old regime, the
fi nancial capitalism is unable to get out of a system that gave the privilege. To resolve the crisis, we must
regain power. To fi ne with social insecurity generated by the reign of the pro fi t for the respect of
ecosystem threatened by climate réchau ff ement and destruction of biodiversity premium requirements
short term, for the adopted laws aimed at satisfying the public interest rather than the insatiable greed quelquesuns requires that leaders who are elected do not depend in any way for the fi nancial oligarchy and the people,
in favor of a Sixth Republic, exercising the power for good. It takes a citizens' revolution.
Already revolutions develop on several continents, Latin America, the Arab countries ... Leadership
that have granted the United States is being challenged from all sides. Youths rise, indignant. Scholarships,
financial markets are involved, including the "Heads of State" that gave them so much power!
So we, in France, also make up the people. An event happens that can be an opportunity. In this
exceptional period, the presidential and the 2012 parliamentary will be much more than yet another deadline
election. And when all the people shall exercise its sovereignty and say where he sees the general interest, it can
open the first act of this citizens' revolution.
This program wants to contribute. Not as a collection of ready-made solutions. We are in one of these
moments in history when only the direct intervention of the majority can reinvent the future. But as a
tool to make both majority beliefs can change everything.
First, we must break with the policies of the governments in power in recent decades.
Of course, there was the di ff erences between the policy of the governments of the right and the left governments.
But there was also unfortunately common: the belief in the current construction, liberal, of
EU, will reduce the "cost of labor", the dismantling of public services, the refusal
ronter a ff of banks and financial markets. These dogmas continue to be repeated by parties and media
dominant. They are applied with blindness by governments and international institutions, Union
EU, IMF, WTO, European Central Bank, indi ff erently led by members of the PS or the UMP.
We propose to break with these principles that have led us into an impasse by imposing your vote
other ideas, other institutions and other representatives.
Second, we know the fulcrum from which reconstruction: the human. The wealth of a country lies
in human labor, in the ability of his wives and his men to associate freely and to create, invent,
occur. The title of our project, the people first, not simply expresses a moral preference, he also said our
strategy against the crisis. By refusing the domination of capital fi nancial on work, fighting against insecurity in
guaranteeing to every person the right to care, to educate, to stay and work, we protect and
the creative forces that are increasing refonderont our country and will help to change the world tomorrow.
In the political order too, we place the human, citizens first. Again this is not simply
compliance with our democratic ideals. It is also a necessary condition to overcome the crisis. In front of the
domination of financial markets submitting our societies to the interests of a small oligarchy, we need to
sovereignty of the people, the only way to target the general interest. To abolish the privileges of our time, we must
take then win the confrontation with fi nance. The first condition of our success will be the mobilization of
women and men, the construction of new relations of forces favorable to workers and citizens.

The people first, always.
The Left Front is just born for the need to reinvent the left relying on popular involvement. In
creating the Left Front, activists of political parties and formations that make up the - there are now six (Left
unitary, French Communist Party, the Left Party, Convergences and alternative Federation for an alternative
social and ecological, Republic and Socialism) - jostled their habits and have united in order to put themselves in the
height of this exceptional moment.
We aim to radically disrupt the political life of our country. We want the popular classes
found their place so that the system becomes increasingly census. We want to shake up the situation left.
We want the inflexible will to resist the fi nance left and becomes majority in the country. It's here
condition for a left government to do a good job and opens a way out of the crisis. This is the condition for
fight lasting Sarkozy, the right and the extreme right.
This program is the result of our reflections but also of public forums held throughout the country. Like the
Left Front is a framework open to popular involvement. It outlines we
want to debate to clarify the choice that every citizen will have to do in 2012. Legislative workshops with all
those and all those who wish to complete it will enable, enhance and translate it into action
Legislative even more accurate. This book aspires primarily to be enriched, discussed, challenged same. He wants
cause and nourish the political debate, without which it is not mature democracy, a condition of an emancipated people.

1. SHARE WEALTH AND ABOLISH
SOCIAL INSECURITY The
France is richer than ever. But neither has this wealth been as little shared. The reforms
liberal who are still accelerated under the current government allowed a small minority to accumulate fortunes
considerable. Poverty and insecurity have spread, affecting areas far preserved. The social selfishness
propertied violates the public interest. By sharing the wealth and ensuring everyone's right to a stable life
and dignified, will allow us all to live better. This is the first project of our program. To create
million jobs it offers a real reduction in working hours, a secure job and training
throughout life, creating a new bank credit and selective new powers to the employee (s)
in companies. He wants to abolish the precariousness and advocates an increase in wages and pensions, the right to
housing for all, the defense of a true welfare, consolidated and expanded public services.
Act now
Restoring 35 hours
The right to retire at 60 with full rate
SMIC to 1700 euros gross per month for 35 hours
Introduction of a maximum wage for all businesses
Immediate increase scholarships, broadening of social rights to young adults
Convening of regional and national assemblies for employment, quali fi cations and wages 100 Repayment
% Of health spending Repeal of Molle Housing Act
Rent freeze
Maximum income set at 360,000 euros per year
Stopping the RGPP
Repeal of Hospital Reform reintroduction of joint elections in the Safety Management funds
social
Immediate action against job insecurity and precarious tenure for 800,000 Public Service
Action for Change Impacts sustainable ent
SMIC to 1700 euros net per month for the legislature redesign of the Labour Code to abolish the precariousness and establish
the gender equality
Construction Begins a security system, employment and training for all
Establishment of a social status for all young people to their autonomy
Creating a public drug center

INCREASING SALARIES
We want to restore the right to work, employment and rest in a new distribution of wealth. For that,
we will establish the e ff ectives 35 hours, the right to retire at 60 with full rate, the minimum wage to 1700 euros and a salary
up in public and private companies.
After questioning by the right, the 35 hours will be fully established by law, and are not annualized, or loss
salary and hiring with the corresponding (particularly in the public service), under the control of elected
staff. The overtime will be strictly limited. We will act in an open logic
employment, reduction of working hours, abolition of precariousness and installation of a "Security employment training
". Each year, we will meet the social partners and the di ff erent public authorities in an assembly
national and regional assemblies to fix specific targets for employment, quali fi cations and
wages.
Hyper-rich and poverty m ass, the explosion of inequalities
45% is the share of French who were unable to go on holiday this summer, 32%, that of those who can not
even from one week in the year. For twenty years, inequalities are widening. Between
1990 and 2008, the purchasing power of the richest 10% increased by 27% and the poorest 10%
only 13%. But these cipher res not aware of the unprecedented accumulation of wealth that
concentrated in a few hands. Between 2004 and 2008, with the right, the income of the richest 1%
increased an average of 7700 euros per year and one of the richest 0.01%, to 180 400 euros per year. All
top of the pyramid, Liliane Bettencourt won in 2005 the equivalent of 15,000 minimum wage.
Meanwhile the poorest 50%, subject to insecurity and mass unemployment (between 2.7 and 5
million unemployed according to the calculation methods in 2010) were content with an average increase of 900
per year.

We also will restore the right to retire A60-year full rate (75% of base salary) for everyone
with consideration of the arduous nature of specific occupations eligible for early departures. No employee
will not receive pension lower the minimum wage. The funding of pensions will be ensured in particular by a contribution
new on the financial business income at the same rate that employers contributions on wages.
The increase in the rate and mass of employer contributions on wages will be adjusted depending on the choice of
management of these companies. No use of fi scalisation pensions or social welfare will be made for
their funding.
In order to curb the increase in inequalities of wealth in our country, we will conduct a comprehensive reassessment of
salaries and wages, unemployment compensation and pensions, and indexerons on changes in the cost of
life. This reassessment will be done at both ends of the wage scale. We will pay the minimum wage immediately to
1700 euros gross per month for 35 hours, according to union demands, and 1700 euros net during the
legislature. A maximum salary will be introduced. The European Trade Union Confederation has also, in
all companies, the gap between the lowest and the highest salary can not exceed
1 to 20. Thus, the bosses will not be able to earn more without first increase employees 'bottom rung'. By
fi scalité, we will issue a maximum income set at 20 times the median income (aujourd'hui360 000 per year).
We want to eradicate poverty! No income will not be fixed under the poverty line (about 800 euros
month for a single person, or 50% of median income: it concerns 13% of the population) taking into account the
family composition. Social minima will be fi xed by reference to the minimum wage and indexed it.

ABOLISH PRECARIOUSNESS
The second characteristic of capitalism in our time is the generalization of precariousness. We will fight this
scourge that eats away slowly at the lifeblood of the country. We will act to eradicate unemployment and take action
against the precariousness of all social life, especially in favor of those and those are the first
victims: young, precarious workers (operated by the diversion of laws), the unemployed (and sidelined
stigmatized) women, etc.
To get the kids precariousness, family dependency and use of wage during their studies, we
will create a status for all young people for their independence. We will implement a system
fi nanced allocations for youth training, national solidarity, and for those in search of a first
Employment by professional Social Security. These secure contracts for training and employment will be eligible for the taking
in charge of social security contributions in order to include among others the formative years in the contribution period for
retirement. Thus, entering the job market will not be this time that the young white working as much or
more than another employee for income and lesser rights.
The CDI is a full-time sheave ffi rmed as a standard employment contract, the use of temporary and term contracts
determined strictly regulated. A maximum quota of temporary and fixed-term equal to 5%
ff ective e in large companies and 10% in SMEs will be established unless otherwise justi fi ed. In order to fight against
perpetuating the in fi nity of the galley, we will create an automatic right to full time work for the times
partials. The rights of employees of subcontracting companies will line up on those donors
order. The internships will be supervised obligation to pay 50% of the minimum wage from the first month of the course, limiting
the duration of internships six months, three months waiting period between two courses, quota of trainees per company,
social contribution on allowances and internship trainees access to social protection. Social security
professional for all employees will be created.
In addition to the new rights given to employees and works councils in case of dismissal and relocation,
we will restore the administrative authorization dismissal. We will ban the stock dismissals and the
distribution of dividends for dismissing enterprises. If relocation or bankruptcy, we
will institute a right of employees to resume their business as a cooperative.
We will repeal the RGPP and strengthen the public service, including hiring the necessary
satisfaction of services rendered to the population. Because the state must be exemplary, we titulariserons 800,000
precarious Public Service.
We will repeal all anti-social laws that broke the Labour Code and commit to introduce its redesign
new rights and guarantees high for employees and a new convention Unedic (to the end of
radiation, stopping social control mechanisms in place for the unemployed at employment center, the entitlement to the
Unemployment protection from the first month of work). Hierarchy and the principle will favor
including recovered: no company agreement may not be less favorable to workers than agreement
branch or common law (see p. 63). We réintroduirons the obligation to reinstate the workers abused
sacked if they wish and we will remove the work from Sunday Extension Maille law.
Respect for these rights and these protections will, every day, the best guarantee of the decline in su ff rancid to work.
The new Labour Code will ensure the abolition of insecurity and gender equality in the enterprise
providing for significant penalties for businesses that do not respect gender equality. The e ff ective of inspection
Work will be doubled to enforce social rights of labor. We will do a good social protection

common and basic right for all by strengthening the principle of solidarity between generations. The loss
autonomy (the right called "dependency") will be covered within the framework of social protection without recourse
private insurers. And we will promote, at the departmental level, the creation of public centers of "autonomy".
The struggle for Occupational Health will be declared national cause from the first year in office, and we will engage
immediately, in consultation with the health personnel and employee representatives, reinvestment
Solid State in occupational medicine.

EMERGENCY PLAN FOR HOUSING AND REAL ESTATE AGAINST SPECULATION
Because of the crisis and the housing bubble, housing conditions of our fellow citizens are deteriorating. We will in
new housing law and a national priority. For this, we will repeal the law Boutin (Molle) and all
Aid fi scal private speculative housing. Social rental housing will be recognized as the universal housing
accessible to everyone. We will engage a multi-year national contingency plan of building 200,000 housing
social public per year for five years, including a specific component as housing for students and young people.
We bear housing budget to 2% of GDP in payment appropriations, and return to the stone to help
40% of the cost of operations, with surplus fi ed public loans and long repayment duration.
The al-housin m ent in France
France has more than 3.6 million people homeless or very poorly housed which must be added
five million badly housed people (degraded condominiums, overcrowded housing). Between 2002 and 2006,
number of unpaid rent has jumped 83% in the private sector. The number of expulsions decisions exceeded
the 100,000 a year, up almost 43% in ten years.
1.3 million social housing applications are su ff concern rancid and 3 million people, a
haussede 25% in less than 10 years. 3.5 million families are in fuel poverty, that is to say they spend more than 10% of their resources to dépensesd'énergie.
These dramatic human situations are not inevitable. They are the consequence of rising rents
(+ 50-90% depending on the area between 2000 and 2010) and the too low number of housing construction
social.
We will ban evictions of every person and family di ffi culty economic and social. Us
will guarantee to each and everyone the right to maintain its housing, the implementation of a rental security
mutualized. We will implement a social tari fi cation guaranteeing the right and access for all and all to water and
energy. We will guarantee and strengthen the means of emergency accommodation.
We revaloriserons PLA deleting the month waiting for the award in its retroactive nature and indexing
the package loads on the real evolution of these. To promote access to housing in the private park, we
will remove the deposit.
We will remove the surloyer and resources ceilings. Initially we will block rents
encadrerons in the public and their evolution in private by the price cap for sale and to rent in
according to the tension in the territories. Secondly, to ensure equal access for all to
quality housing, social diversity of habitat, and allow lower rents for the largest number, we
we fi xerons the objective that the proportion of rent and expenses s da ns the budge t s fam ilies does not exceed 20%
their income.
We will apply the law of requisition of vacant housing and engage a housing mobilization plan
Empty: reducing the vacancy within one housing, we will strengthen requisition procedure and criteria
the annual deduction
10% after the fifth year and exemption for foreigners. We will establish a tax on offices
empty.
We will create a national and decentralized public housing service, housing and the city.
This utility will be divided into four components:
a financial public pole, pressed the Caisse des Depots et Consignations, to fund social housing.
a public pole of the building to break the monopoly of the construction majors and allow the lowering of rents and
charges.
a land and decentralized national agency in the regions, with significant intervention fund for
fight against speculation from the ground by a public control of land through long leases and to incite
social housing construction in all municipalities.
public or tools for public purposes whose mission would be to locally implement the right to housing
with democratized management, consolidated by a reinforced representation and majority of local elected officials,
employee representatives, associations and bene fi ting users new rights of decision and control.

We will act for a determined implementation of the extended SRU going up to 30% in areas of tension and to 25% on
the remaining territory, the minimum threshold of social housing; in municipalities that do not respect the SRU law, while
more than 10 housing construction program must meet the 50% quota of social housing. In case of
refusal, the prefect of authority may take the necessary measures.
The financing of the funds allocated to social housing will be provided by increasing the Livret A ceiling of 20 000
euros, the re-centralization of its collection by the Caisse des Dépôts et Consignations, the increase of 0.55%
employers' contribution to the e ff ort construction to establish a real 1% housing. We will tax the
fi nancial and property speculation with the creation of a tax "housing contribution" of 10% on income
fi nancial, and we will remove the taxation of social housing adopted in the draft budget law of 2011.
We will support communities that will create the conditions for a social home ownership. We will support
innovative projects favorisantl'accompagnement of people demanded'urgence.
We will act to generalization, throughout the public and private residential park, standards
environmental, for the application of standards reducing energy bills and CO2 emissions and
the emergence of a die of eco-construction.

HEALTH, OUR COMMON GOOD!
The level of health indicators reveals above all socio-economic inequalities. In this sense, measures
above all contribute to strengthening the right to health, we de fi ne that as "a state of well-being
physical, mental and social "and see as a cross-cutting concern of all public policies.
We will order primarily to closures and divestitures hospitals, maternity hospitals, care centers and
abortion. We will ensure e ff ective access and free contraception and abortion.
We will repeal the law Bachelot and the 2003 law establishing the tari fi cation to the activity. We will invest heavily to
give back to the public hospital means necessary to quality health policy.
We will restore full refund to100% of health expenses covered by Social Security in there
including eyeglasses and dental care; mutuals will be oriented mainly on issues
prevention. We will delete packages and franchises. The funding of social protection is to be built
from contributions on wages, with a modulation and a contribution on the financial income
companies, banks and insurance.
We want to rebuild and develop a public health service based on proximity and quality of care with
staff, elected officials and citizens. We will promote networking between them and hospitals with medicine
ambulatory to develop necessary technical support without the opposing proximity, to reduce
time to dangerous and costly waiting and contribute to cooperation of professionals. We will promote
health centers and respect leurvocation initial access to health care for all.
Working in partnership with the private practice will be strengthened. In order to support "the person" in his
whole - not the "sick" - the GP will see its position considerably upgraded. General medicine
will be considered a specialty, upgraded in training, in remuneration and recognition
university. Rather than a policy based on fi nancial sanctions, public power will develop new
forms of compensation including development issues, prevention and health education.
To cope with the shortage of general practitioners and some specialties, the number of students at the entrance
medical education will be increased so significant in view of the removal of supply restrictions.
We will organize a negotiation concluded by a majority agreement to redefine a new medical convention,
questioning the excess fees and creating real incentives for the installation (fi nancial,
techniques, installation assistance or equipment, etc.) to fi ne with deserti fi cation Medical.
To fight against staff shortages, we will launch a training program for all disciplines
health, free from the influence of pharmaceutical companies.
We will organize training for entrance exams in the public service. APL will also be done
before multidisciplinary commissions on the principle of three third-time training, production and care
time trainer or contribution to health education.
The meshing of the national territory should be provided to respond to health needs and not based on
accounting logic. To do this, we will establish a national health coverage equal throughout the country. All
living areas will be provided with public health facilities (hospitals, hospital services, maternity, emergency ...)
in relation to their population. The responses to the lack of autonomy will prisesen load by Social Security to
100% for the "care" party and the development of public services.
We will organize a broad public debate for a progressive reform of psychiatry respecting freedoms
individual.
We will release pharmaceutical research submitting laboratories to markets and by establishing a

public pole of the drug with at least one public company that will take place on the research, production and
drug distribution.
This public pole:
will produce some drugs;
control the drug safety system, placing on the market and their price;
will be endowed with powers of sanction against laboratories that fail in their duty of safety;
will boost public research and will adopt a charter including the duty of research on so-called drugs "
unprofitable ".
We will restore public health, health promotion and prevention, means they lack,
particularly in terms of study and research. We will respond to health security requirement with a real
democratic control and permanent mobilization of all stakeholders.
The ARS will be deleted. All provisions for health will be implemented by bodies
bringing together the personal and the professional, the elected (s) and citizen (ne) s.

A PACT FOR A NEW GROWTH UTILITIES
Public services must meet the needs of people and the public interest. They must be preserved
any submission to private interests as fi nancial markets.
Education, health, social protection, research, energy, water, transport, telecommunications,
credit, housing, Position, security and justice will be protected as our common heritage because they provide
the conditions of equality and citizenship.
We will do ours the objectives of the Covenant for public services adopted to the States General in January 2011, based
on the principle of social appropriation, equality and solidarity, the common good reconquest by the people in the
full exercise of its sovereignty and the ambition of sustainable human development.
We will rebuild and develop our public services. RGPP which dismantles be repealed, positions which
meet the collective needs and were deleted from the right will all be restored. For the equal access of all there
is guaranteed, we will maintain and rebuild the local public services and revise the tariffs,
applying where appropriate gratuity.
The general revision of public policies (R GP P)
Conducted under the guise of "responsibility" and "rationalization", RGPP is a terrible company
dismantling and application of private standards in the public service. Established in 2007 and continued
every year since it goes from light (nonremplacement the principle of staff on two;
hiring of casual workers outside the competition the public service; managerial logic management
universities across the LRU law - see box p. 79) the most sordid (reduction in emergency accommodation,
superprimes granted to prefects or presidents in terms of job cuts). RGPP degrades
service to users, deprives affected territories of public services and causes severe su ff rancid
among personnel (increase in suicide).
We will develop and create public services, de fi ned democratically by citizens, employees and their
elected, ensuring a distribution of wealth that should enable the e ff ectivity rights and fi nanced by just fi scalité
and redistributive, taxation of income and financial assets, taxation of unearned income and the
removal of exemptions from employers' social contributions and fi scal niches today to bene fi t
high incomes and big business.
The means of public services will be strengthened with fi nancing released from the grip of financial markets
to enable them to fulfill their missions in the service of the public interest, without any constraint
fi nancial profitability. Ffi ciency e social criteria will be established democratically and took plac e li criteria
merchants.
The public service delegation will be strictly controlled. There will be created a new status of local public Establishment
Citizen inspired Epic. They will be led by communities, employees and users. Company management
public who are bent on introducing private logic to the detriment of the general interest will be replaced by
competent and committed to public service managers. Managerial methods ine ff ective and cruel introduced
in public services at the expense of employees and users, resulting in an unprecedented degradation
conditions of work and service to the drama, will be abandoned. We will expand and will increase the role of
the people's representatives in the management of public services.
The con fi ed public service sectors will be protected from the liberalization of markets and their call for competition.
The public monopoly is restored where the public interest so requires. European and global level, we will act for
supportive public development cooperation in order to expand and strengthen public services: their
harmonization can only be done from the top. We will return including the 'Services' Directive (the "

Bolkestein ") and we will end all companies including liberalization in the sectors of rail, mail
and energy.
New public services will be created and developed, especially in the field of early childhood.
A public service of information and culture, subtracted from the power of money and political pressures will
guarantor of pluralism and the exercise of citizenship
The State shall guarantee access to each and every one to sport of choice throughout life. It will give the
sports movement means of fulfilling its public service missions.

2. TAKE THE POWER TO BANKS
AND FINANCIAL MARKETS
In recent years, fi nance conquered exorbitant powers. The dollar international currency of reference, has
more no connection with any material reality. Capital holders can do as they please on
stock markets systematically deregulated. They got a fi scalité the bene fi t of capital income, the right
to escape largely taxation, free movement of fi nancial capital in the world and they allow
Today "note" states, placing them under the threat of attack from speculators.
We will end these privileges unprecedented and contrary to democracy, which place us under the threat of crises
fi nancial incessant and devastating austerity policies. We will implement a new regulation
blocking speculation and fi nanciarisation of the whole economy and will place under social control private banks
who violate. We will act to change the missions of the European Central Bank and create in France a
public banking pole and fi nancial who will act for jobs and wages, against relocation and speculation.
Act now
Adoption of a law establishing a financial center including transforming public policy and criteria
credit
Placement under social control of private banks that do not meet the new regulations on
fight against speculation and the end of our economy nanciarisation
Money exchanges blocking with fi scal paradise
Scalité fi reform: elimination of the shield fi scal, increase the ISF and the tax on capital income,
taxation of fi nancial corporate earnings, implementation of the principle of modulation of corporation tax and
the employer's social contribution rate enfoction employment goals, training and corporate salaries
Removal of exemptions from employers' social contributions which have shown their ine ffi ciency
Creation of a National Fund and regional funds for employment and training
Action for Change Impacts sustainable ent
Transformation of the missions of monetary policy and governance of the European Central Bank (ECB)
and the Bank of France and creation of a European fund for social, ecological and solidarity for
the expansion of public services, employment and quali fi cations
Creation of new powers for employees and their representatives in the management of their business, as well as
citizens in the banking institutions and local authorities

MONEY BUSINESS
We will propose specific measures to detoxify the fi nance companies and to put an end to the
disintegration of the labor market and the industrialization of the country. We finally nirons with 30 billion euros
annual exemptions from employers' social contributions, which has seen the ine ffi ciency for employment, and with the
fi scal exemptions.
P fi scal rivilèges big business: the exam ple of Total
The oil group Total In 2011 more than 10 billion euros in pro fi ts, distributed half of its
shareholders. But it does not pay a penny under corporation tax. This is the consequence of the "bene fi t
Consolidated Global ", a fi scal tailored niche for 5 large groups designated by the Minister
Economics (including Total, Vivendi and NRJ). This device is indicative of the fi scal privileges granted
mainly to large fi rms transnational. Small businesses with less than 9 employees are well
taxed on average to 30%, where those CAC40 are only 8%. But only a small
share of 170 billion euros niches fi scal bene fi t which every year at the expense of businesses
State budget.
We will tax the fi nancial income businesses.
We modulerons the corporate income tax and social contribution rates in order to encourage companies to develop
added value, training, wages and employment, by penalizing companies which relocate, expand their
fi nancial investments or use of new technologies to cut jobs and deteriorating conditions
of work. We will create the conditions for imposing the funding to banks at low interest rates, deprojets
Holders of strengthening employment, quali fi cation and the potential to create added value in the
territories. Thus, regional funds and the National Fund for Employment and Training will use the means
public intervention to them (bonus fi cations of interest, loan guarantees) by reusing this e ff and
funds now wasted in fi scal gifts and social enterprises.

All these aids have a binding social and environmental consideration.

PUBLIC MONEY
We want free public fi nances of Gri ff es fi nancial markets.
Our strategy has four pillars: regaining control of capital movements at the borders of the Union
European; possibility that central banks contribute directly to the financing of goods and services
public; holding requirement of public debt securities by fi nancial institutions; Repeal Pact
stability and the Pact for the Euro + to open the way for a new European pact for social progress and
co.
We propose that the ECB (and the national central banks like the Bank of France, which together
Euro-system) directly fi nance by money creation, a social development fund, solidarity and ecological
European. This will replace the Financial Stability Fund established in May 2010 by the leaders of the euro and which
they intend to replace, from 2013, a "European Stability Mechanism" flanked the "Pact for the Euro +
".
The "golden rule" and debt
The issue of debt is the subject of a double lie:
- The debt is due to redistribution policies. Now it is the fi scal policies that have widened the right
debt. Since 2002 the increase in fi scal and social exemptions has lost nearly 100 billion
euros to the state budget and caused the doubling of the debt. Furthermore, since 1973 the state has abandoned its
prerogative of coinage. Unable to fi nance directly or with the Bank of France or
today with the ECB, it is thus forced to turn to private banks, which charge interest at
pass. Debt is all annuity few.
- The "fiscal discipline" would have the same meaning for a household and a State. In reality, the public deficit, although
used, creates the request. It allows companies to fill the order book and stimulate
creation of wealth and jobs, tax revenue bases and para fi scal which then contribute to reducing
debt. Drastic austerity cures by removing the passage of useful services to the population, lead
Greek scenario: it depresses demand, companies are closing or laying off, the economy goes into recession,
so the fi scal revenues fall and fi ne ... debt increases.
Government securities for Social Development will be redeemed by the ECB and the central banks
national. This creation of money, allocated through the Development Fund, would divide the masses
large of funding at zero interest rates or very low, among the member countries of the euro, according to their
own needs and, specifically, for the development of national public services and their cooperation
European. The Fund also fi nancerait public projects democratically selected on the basis of criteria
accurate creation and securing of jobs, development of training and research, respect
the environment, elevating the potential of value creation territories.
This would not only defend, but to raise the European social model.
Without waiting, the Banque de France will be at the service of these objectives.
Because public investment is needed and especially in times of crisis to supplement the
failures of private investment, we reject the dogma of the reduction in public spending. We refuse
to include in the Constitution the objective of a balanced budget that Nicolas Sarkozy calls the "golden rule". Us
establish a fi scalité that gives its place to a truly progressive tax on income.
The reform of the fi scalité will contribute to this radical reorientation of economic policy. Us
will order the dismantling of the fi scalité heritage committed by the current government, we will delete the
Shield fi scal and we will increase the performance of the ISF. An anti-avoidance legislation will fi scal taxation
French revenues abroad. Far from any merger between the CSG and the income tax, we will implement a
new social contribution on the financial income in order to move towards the abolition of the CSG and the extinction of all
fi scalisation of social protection.

MONEY BANKS, FINANCIAL PUBLIC A POLE
Against the dictatorship of financial markets and capital managers, the obsession with short-term and
circumvention of democracy, we will act to establish the company's power over banks and credit in order to
otherwise produce wealth.

We will create a fi nancial center by public networking of public fi nancial institutions
existing (Deposit, Credit Foncier, OSEO, CNP, Post Bank), banks and mutual insurance
in accordance with their statutes and the nationalization of banks and insurance companies. This network will be responsible
a new public service mission of credit and savings, in the service of employment, training,
real growth and preservation of the environment in order to overcome the crisis and the influence of markets
fi nancial.
Its action will support the social struggles locally, supported on new rights for employees and
citizens and regional funds for employment and training. Employees and their representatives will have a
right of referral of the network.
The "governance" of such a center based on the new powers exercised by the representatives of the nation, the
representatives of employees working in these institutions and their users: business and local authorities,
of course, but also employees, unemployed, precarious and their representatives, consumer associations
and environmental protection associations. Such democratic management will include the development
the specific missions of general interest for the financing of SMEs, housing, community
territorial services rendered to depositors.
We will fight speculation and fi nanciarisation our economy by prohibiting the sales of OTC, the
selling and speculative products and blocking capital exchanges with the fi scal paradise, which
contribute to their disappearance. We will impose the separation of deposit banks and investment banks.
We will ban stock options, LBOs and off balance sheet commitments and will force companies to transparency
fi nancial. We will protect local victims of toxic credits. International movements of
capital for purposes of speculation and fi nancial investment will be controlled and taxed.

MONEY IN EUROPE AND THE WORLD
We will act together to change the European treaties, in order to put an end to the independence of the ECB
vis-à-vis national and European democratic institutions, and its mission, and its monetary policy
Credit prioritize employment and sustainable human development.
This action may start today in the struggles for other fi nance companies and
public services, with the European Solidarity Fund for social development and ecological fi financed by the creation
monetary ECB.
At the same time, it would be to establish a Euro-Mediterranean cooperation for social progress, ecological and
Co-development towards the countries of the Maghreb, Mashreq, black Africa and the Middle East.
Concurrent with these actions for other use of the euro in France, Europe and the world, we
take initiatives to put an end to US domination of the international monetary system with
creation of a global currency alternative to the dollar. It would allow the development of a massive new credit,
inexpensive and selective, to fund the necessary investments to Southern peoples to control their
development and to protect the environment and common goods of humanity.

3. THE ECOLOGICAL PLANNING
We now know, the ecological disaster potentially undermines the very conditions of life
human on Earth. But climate réchau ff ement, destruction of biodiversity, the rapid depletion of
Natural resources are not natural disasters, but the result of capitalist logics
pro fi t maximum short term. Faced with the tyranny of productivism, we offer the ecological cation as plan-
way to redefine our production, consumption and trade based on the general interest of
Humanity and the impact of economic activity on the ecosystem. It will clarify the guidelines and
public investment necessary to launch an ecological transition and promote development
sustainable job-creating social equality and human factor. It will build on environmentally debated and voted on
Parliament, together with a fi nancial planning law.
Act now
Moratorium on all deregulation of energy policies, repeal of the law NOME
Establishment of an ecological transition plan reintroducing public control of energy and
promoting public investment conditioned to ecological criteria, social and democratic
Establishment of a financing plan for sobriety and e ffi ciency and energy for the diversification of
energy sources
Action for Change Impacts sustainable ent
Public control of water management and sanitation

CHOICE OF CITIZEN ENERGY UNDER CONTROL
We rea ffi rm the requirement of public control, social and democratic life of the energy sector, the only guarantee of
transparency, independence, expertise and quality of facilities and operations. We will create a
pole 100% public energy including EDF, GDF, Areva and Total renationalised. Its employees will everyone
under the same status. They and they will be closely associated with the public company management choices, and freedom
of expression is guaranteed. Citizens will also be involved in the management of this pole. We will act in parallel
for the creation of such a public pole at European level.
NO ME Law (New organization of electricity m arket)
Adopted December 7, 2010, she created by Article 1 of the system of regulated access to nuclear power
Historical (Arenh), through which EDF is forced to sell its private competitors a part of
electricity generation from nuclear power plants. Thus, the "nuclear rent" power plants, built by
public investment and thus by the citizens, the private bene fi ts in the name of competition "and not free
distorted ". This system can only lead to a lack of investment and term souscapacité of production situation and, mechanically, the rising price of electricity on the EDF network,
operators increasing their margins at the expense of users. This is the true face of liberal dogma where
Competition is expected to bene fi t to the consumer!
We will propose an immediate national public debate on energy policy in France. This great debate will
allow the rethinking of energy choices and nuclear and prepare the replacement of fossil fuels. He
will take place under citizen control of information to the decision-making and will end with a referendum. In
the civil nuclear field, all options - including nuclear exit or maintenance of a nuclear
Secure and public - will be decided. No choice in the fi nal energy policy will be e ff before ectué
the conclusion of this public debate. Without waiting, the reinternalisation all maintenance and
Nuclear safety will be initiated.
We will implement a social tari fi cation and progressive that ensures access to energy for all and all. Us
put end to power cuts which are increasing at the expense of the poorest.
We will schedule public investment, jobs and training necessary to sobriety, e ffi ciency
energy and diversification of energy sources, including renewable energy. Us
will put in place the necessary procedures to safety diagnostics, preservation of the planet and our
environment. The necessary reduction of consumption can lead to lower standards of living classes
popular. This is the energy conservation we aim: less consumption for the same purpose. They are
ostentatious waste of the very rich that must be fought.
We will repeal the laws of energy liberalization. We will launch a deep geothermal network. Us
commit e ff ort for solid research, technological and industrial-border fi, investment,
Training for the development of renewable energy and public use as well as for the
processing of waste from nuclear fi die.

We will develop a national plan for submission to the energy standards of accommodation and all
public buildings. We will create for individuals on a means-tested allowance to fund the
thermal renovation of housing.

RELOCATE THE ECONOMY, COOPERATION, FIGHT GHGs. A NEW
TRANSPORT POLICY
The France will act to the institution of protections and social and environmental standards common to Europeans,
face the pressure of capital and low-cost production in globalized markets with, for example:
Concerted national levies on reimportation in Europe delocalized productions
an "odometer" tax in order to reduce the transport of goods preventable.
Levies and taxes will be allocated to a fund for the co-development policies to fi nance
social and environmental development.
All public policies will contribute to the fight against the emission of gases and greenhouse e ff (GHGs).
We will establish a national public transport Pole promoting the development of public transport and
access by all.
We will repeal the laws of rail liberalization. We will engage the deleveraging process of the system
Train and put end to the measures defined scalisation exemption and promoting air transport by
low-cost companies.
We will promote the development of local public transport and free.
We will develop rail and fl uvial and coastal shipping. We will promote piggyback,
regenerating, modernizing and adapting the existing networks, lowering rail fares and travelers by securing
a single price per kilometer. We will put into law on single wagon (railway mail) as a service
of general interest, eligible for government subsidies. We will launch a great plan with as piggyback
goal that all trucks crossing the country between the Belgian border and the Spanish border pass over
trains.
The state and banks will guarantee the financing of these measures.
The "transport tax" paid by the companies, will be doubled, generalized and adjusted.

AGAINST COMMON PROPERTY OF MERCHANTABILITY, PRESERVE AND SHARE
NATURAL RESOURCES
We resolutely defend the inalienable right to water as a common good of humanity by engaging in a process
social appropriation of water management and sanitation.
We will accompany the public management of water by the competent local authorities in order to enable them
to ensure public control and therefore control by citizens, elected officials and users: a public debate will be held
on the use of this common good. Communities can decide eg free of cubic meters
necessary for life, progressive billing or misuse of di ff érenciés tariffs between households and
industrial.
We aim to be a public water utility. It will pool resources and investment. He
based on a decentralized organization and controlled locally by communities, customers and employees.
The state will intervene against the commodification of water by setting up a national equalization mechanism
to allow equal access tariffs m3, with the objective that the water per family expenditures do not exceed 3%
their resources in accordance with OECD recommendations.
We want to get out of the economic model that makes users pay on their bill, most of the challenges
Environmental and future investment for the distribution and treatment of water, thanks to
new methods of funding. For this, we will create a public fi-border trades and research
water and sanitation.
We allongerons legal guarantees to promote a long-term use of products and develop instructions
so that the user no longer pays the price of packaging. We will strengthen the legislation against the use of molecules
chemicals that are harmful to health. We will fight against the consumerist alienation limiting advertising space
public and on all TV channels. We will ban GMOs in the field and the free sale of pesticides
harmful chemical herbicides for health (the "Roundup" in particular).

4. PRODUCE DIFFERENTLY
The current production method is not intended to satisfy human needs. It gives priority to short the bene fi t
term ignores the immense social needs because these are unprofitable while encouraging
unnecessary productions the bene fi t of the consumption of the richest. It severely degraded working conditions
and employment. We oppose it a new mode of production whose fi ality will be the development of all
human capacity and the development of every (e) rather than the interests of capital. It will be based on a policy
promoting eco-industrial development, a policy of reducing working time with job creation
correspondents, and the development of useful job integrating new common needs. This
reorientation involves strengthening the rights of the employee (s) to advance to collective control conditions
work, organization and content.
Act now
Creation of public centers of the National ecological transition industriePlan agriculture, revision of the mandate
Safer and Procurement Code, support for young farmers and responsible agriculture
Action for Change Impacts sustainable ent
Redefinition of industrial-border fi priority to meet social and environmental goals
Adoption of a new common agricultural policy based on food sovereignty objective and centering
production on domestic needs
Establishment of a new human progress indicator (HPI) after popular debate and vote in Parliament

PROMOTING SUSTAINABLE HUMAN PROGRESS
The organization of society must be for a purpose: the general interest and the emancipation of each and everyone. It must therefore
encourage socially useful activities because there is no human progress when only activities o ff a rant
profitability su ffi health capital develop. It should allow e ff ective a citizenship because there is no progress
sustainable if citizens are transformed into consumers ordered to sell a production that is constantly growing
irrespective of any consideration of the environmental impact and real human needs.
These new objectives require indicators other than those from which is currently considered "progress"
corporations, including GDP used to measure growth. We therefore propose the implementation of new
indicators that will initiate a radical reorientation of our modes of production, exchange and
consumption, but also to invent a new concept of progress.
A synthetic human progress indicator (HPI) should take into account four criteria groups:
personal development and empowerment (protecting freedom, education, improved working conditions
Life expectancy in good health ...), sociability and social cohesion (development of associations, rates
employment, level of social protection, taking into account any dependencies, isolation ...), equality and
Social Justice (wealth inequalities and income, social reproduction, gender equality, equal access to the
culture, public services ...), the environmental (ecological footprint, pollution, emission rates
CO2 ...).
The exact composition of the HPI will be a popular debate and then be submitted to Parliament. Thus the HPI will be a
democratic instrument enabling the company to discuss its purposes. This will be implemented at all
levels.

PRIORITY FOR EMPLOYMENT AND QUALIFICATION
Employment for all is a necessity. Unmet needs are immense. Every woman and man
aspire to participate with their work for the good of all. Our policy aims to create millions of jobs. In the
also we will manufacture the human first.
We will develop the first richness of France, which is not fi nance but human labor, that is to say,
employment and quali fi cation of its workers. It is the opposite of neoliberal policies, generalizing unemployment
and déquali fi cation work, enrich the capital but deplete the real economy.
We will fight against the priority social and economic mess that is unemployment. Far from "fl exicurité
"We will secure the routes of each and everyone in the employment and training with continuity income
throughout life. Professional Social Security
will be established, supporting periods nonemploi, training and withdrawal activity, especially for
women or men raising their children. So we will prevent the country's labor force is destroyed by
mass unemployment.

Thanks to the e ff orts of youth and public education service, France bene fi ts of a regular level rise
knowledge and quali fi cation of workers. Paradoxically the economy creates more jobs
insecure and graduates undergo massive déquali fi cation. Quali fi cations are still less recognized
the Conventi o n s collect ives. T he merchant of educati it was acting to substitute airent certi fi cation and pay
perishable to quali fi cations sustainable insured for free by the public service. To produce otherwise, or n d s
évelopp e ro ns and recognize instead the quali fi cation of work. Continuing vocational training must
be in the public service. This public service will incur support training plans into development policy
we will conduct in economic sectors that address social needs of the country: new energies,
piggyback industries to relocate.
We will promote a new type of development with a new use of money, the development of
employment and new rights for employees in the company, in the Constitution.

ENCOURAGE OTHER FORMS OF OWNERSHIP
Unlike the ideologues of the market that make the private capitalist enterprise unique model, we will encourage the
Diverse forms of ownership, essential to political e ffi cient job creation. The law will recognize this
diversity and protect the face of "free and undistorted competition", which is tantamount to impose everywhere the only
logic pro fi t private.
Our program provides for the extension of public ownership through the development of public services. It promotes to
new social appropriations by the nationalization of major levers of economic action, industrial and
fi nancial. It offers decentralized forms of social ownership. He also wants to systematize the use of economy
Social and Solidarity (ESS).
Public support for the social economy, including cooperatives, will be greatly increased. A help
fi nancial will be given to employees who return or establish their businesses as a cooperative. Us
will promote the creation of cooperative societies of collective interest (SCIC) for involving employees, users and
local authorities in local development projects. The state controls, communities and
will address priority public services to these cooperatives through the amendment of Article 53 of the Code
public procurement. Support will be given to self-directed and cooperative housing initiatives, as part of
create programs of social housing in new and in rehabilitation. Finally, the ESS will be included in the program
economic and social sciences in high school.
It is in this sense that a framework law of the ESS will be necessary in order to define precisely the award criteria of
resources of the State and public institutions: social and environmental fi alities companies and
beneficiaries associations can not be divorced from a truly democratic functioning.

INDUSTRIAL AND TECHNOLOGICAL RENEWAL
We reject the model of a service economy that we assign the international division of labor driven by
fi nancial. We want to develop and restore industrial potential of France. Because the ecological emergency
involves relocating the economy and social emergency order to fight against unemployment worker, we
refuse to limit our industrial ambition few leading sectors and want to rebuild an industrial fabric
diversi fi ed.
The state of the industry in France
The French industry has suffered the brunt of the economic crisis, the manufacturing industry saw its production
fall by 12% in 2009 (15% for intermediate goods). This decline is partly the result of
tertiarisation artificial, large groups excessive outsourcing some of their activities to
Companies called "service". The share of industrial employment in total employment passes 32.2% to 19.9%
between 1978 and 2008. Faced with this dramatic situation and plant closures that continue every day
we will act to support employment, training and the production of real wealth industries, not
only multinational automotive, the main object of attention that Sarkozy has "watered"
eyes closed. This is a considerable challenge, both social (job retention ponds France and refusal
relocation), strategic (developing industrial-border fi breaking with the strategy of fi rms focus
on "pro fi t centers' compliance with the knowhow of human labor), a planning issue
Eco (economical choice of materials and energy sources), a European issue, avoiding wars
commercial devastating.
We will hire a planning policy and industrial development of the territory based on requirements
employment, quali fi cation, research and environment. This new way of doing business, produce and

exchange will lead to a new type of growth, more human, social and ecological.
We will take the fi-border strategies in emerging and strategic sectors, integrating research, innovation,
development, training and production to reduce such energy consumption by insulating the park
old buildings, or in the field of public transport and development of living spaces.
We will launch industrial plans to restore delocalized productions. It is absurd that the whole
paracetamol in the world is produced in China or the essential constituents of the food industry do
most are manufactured in Europe.
We will abolish the competitiveness clusters that concentrate activities on a few places in a competition
the territories, the bene fi t of the constitution of cooperation focal points to better link research, training,
production and employment. In this framework we will create public centers of industry in the territory. These
bring together public and private partners in these territories and will work in conjunction with Citizens Forum
Science and Technology and other research bodies by providing employment in these clusters holders
the title of doctor and by recognizing that title in collective agreements. On the CNRS model,
will create a technological and industrial research public institution relying on the existing structures.
We will end to exemptions from social security contributions. Companies that relocate and will lay off
repay any state aid they have received.
Aid to enterprises will be subject to strict rules. They will be tailored to the level of
social and environmental requirements that respect (reduction of imposed part-time, differences of
wages for example). The fi nancial public division will provide a bonus fi ed credit to companies for employment, training,
research and development on criteria of social and environmental benefits of investment and production.
We will support business investment policies to industrial innovations productions
useful. We will encourage the relocation of activities and distribution of short circuits.
We will strengthen the presence of the state in the capital of strategic companies for their preservation and
development.
The support of the State and public authorities to SMEs, which are the job creators today will
strengthened.

TOWARDS A NEW AGRICULTURAL MODEL
We will work for an ambitious agricultural policy responding to meeting the food needs of men and
women. We will bring this requirement as nationally, and internationally.
We will implement an ecological transition plan for agriculture to make a French agriculture
Quality model of agriculture, GMO, largely autonomous non-renewable resources, relocated,
participating in the public health of consumers and contributing to the fight against climate réchau ff ement. Aides
public, agricultural research, technical advice, credit policy and agricultural education will be redesigned in
according to this objective.
We will end and will reverse the agriculture and concentration process will recreate jobs in agriculture.
For this, the mandate and governance of Safer (land development companies and rural settlement) will be
reviewed in order to be rendreles majority government. We will play a systematic right of preemption
released land for the installation of farmers or expansion of small farms. Us
will support the establishment of young farmers and the consolidation of small farms, including through
land reserves, especially near cities. The ecological transition of agriculture and job creation
being conditioned to just remuneration of agricultural labor, the mass distribution practices will be supervised
through minimum prices for producers and ffi cient maximum multiplier coe. We had ffi rmerons
Also supporting alternatives spinnerets labeled, food, short, local, organic and based on
fair remuneration in order to allow the greatest number of bene fi t of quality food,
including through the development of call o ff Public res permitted by a new Public Procurement Code.
The fisheries policy will aim to ensure the preservation and renewal of fish stocks. Attractiveness
trades of the sea will be strengthened through improved training and working conditions.
The national scope for the use of CAP aid will be fully used to promote
peasant agriculture, employment and ecological transition of agriculture.
At European level, we will act for the adoption of a common agricultural policy (CAP) consistent with the objective of
food sovereignty, focusing production on meeting the needs of the domestic market rather than trade
on the international market on the basis of social and environmental lowest bidder.
Europe, for fair distribution of added value between producers, food industries and large
distribution, should guarantee access for all consumers to quality food.
Internationally, we will act for a new organization of agriculture in the UN framework,
in order to support the development of regional markets, regulate world markets, to implement a
World Food agriculturally and to promote relocation and ecological transition of agriculture and

fight land grabbing process.
We will be at the initiative of building a strategic alliance with the countries involved in the defense of the
Food sovereignty and peasant agriculture. We impulserons a development cooperation
prioritizes agreements with states implementing policies that meet these principles. Whenever possible,
the France will veto the conclusion of the Doha Round of the WTO, the signing of free trade agreements
(including EPAs) negotiated by the European Union, all the pressures of the IMF and the World Bank and
conditions imposed on development aid to southern countries.

5. THE REPUBLIC FOR REAL
The Republic proclaims the equality of citizens. It therefore does not summarizes a set of institutions, such as the
Republican political regime or the republican school. It is much more a project to realize: that of equality
citizens, the sovereignty of the political community, of freedom with respect for the general interest. This is
why we must constantly ensure that the real corresponds to the ideal and particularly the institutions
well contribute to achieving these goals. This is often the case today. Discrimination persist even
worsen. The attacks on freedom multiply. It has become necessary to conduct a republican refoundation
our country in line with its motto of Liberty, Equality and Fraternity.
Act now
Rea ffi rmation of the 1905 law on secularism Introduction of an annual negotiation of the social partners for
respect for equality between women and men
LOPPSI repeal of laws, and HADOPI and draconian security laws
Regularization of undocumented migrants
Annual Review of discrimination
Repeal of the organic law on fi nance laws (LOLF) of 2001 to implement alternative rules
not involving the reduction of public expenditure
Repeal of RGPP and public job creation plan (in education, health, justice, police ...)
Doubling the amount of state aid in prevention and social assistance to communities and
associations
Action for Change Impacts sustainable ent
Creation of the Department of Women's Rights and Equal
Control framework law against violence against women
Fight against sexism Act

SECULARITY, PILLAR OF THE REPUBLIC AND CONDITIONS OF LIVING TOGETHER
Secularism is a pillar of the Republic one and indivisible, living and bearer principle of inalienable rights guaranteed
any member of society, French or foreign: the separation of politics and religion, freedom of conscience and
worship, equality of citizens in any domain without discrimination of any kind; State neutrality towards
all philosophical convictions, religious or political.
Regarding religion, the French government will act to none of them is blacklisting the pretext
secularism, as does the National Front regularly about the Muslim religion.
We rea ffi rm the appropriateness and timeliness of the 1905 law on secularism. All subsequent modi fi cations of the law
1905 ff ecting to these principles will be repealed. For us, this fundamental law of our republic is intended to
apply to the entire country.
No public funding will be granted for the construction of new private schools or
renovation of existing ones. Any gender segregation or community public space will be prohibited
(eg choice of doctor of sex in the public hospital). The President of the Republic to renounce definitively
his title of Canon of St John Lateran.
We will defend secularism in the European institutions and the refuse public funding of religi one organ i and s
s ati o ns co nfess i e onn girls. No. us will ban sects.
In international relations, as in our country, secularism is a prerequisite for peace because it allows the
respect for the right of every people and every human being regardless of his religious convictions. Us
So get rid of international policy of France in its references to the North American theory of the clash of
Civilizations that seeks to divide the world according to religious affiliations.

EQUALITY MEN-WOMEN: DISPOSE OF PATRIARCHATE
We will set up a Ministry of Women's Rights and Equality, located in the Prime (or
First) Minister, with means and supported by the delegate (s) Inter (le) s charge (s) of implementation
social and economic equality.
We will organize an annual negotiation between the social partners on respect for professional equality
(hiring, wages, pensions, promotions) at the industry and business. The violation of equality
Work will be fought and strengthened sanctions.

"Directive (clause) of the most favored European '
Supported by the association Choose the cause of women and the Left Front, it is to harmonize by
the top European women's rights, by adopting at Community level the most national laws
Progressive: Dutch laws on contraception and gay rights (le) s, French rape,
Belgian on parity, Swedish abortion and parental leave, Danish sex education ... Contreexemples: the Polish and Irish abortion laws, the latter prohibiting done by
recognition of the "rights of the unborn child". Adopted February 18, 2010, a resolution of the Assembly
domestic demand will still only informative report. It is time to take action!
From the law against violence against women adopted in July 2010, we will adopt a framework law on these
issues including proposals made by the associations of the feminist movement. We will provide the means
necessary for the implementation of this law on education, prevention and information, and measures to
take for victims of violence.
A text anti-sexist law will be developed, defining means and sanctions, condemning discrimination and insults
sexist and trivialization and pervasiveness of pornography and the exploitation of bodies in
commercial fi ns.

We will work with our European partners to ensure that the "Directive of the most favored European 'way the
day.

IMMIGRATION IS NOT A PROBLEM
Hatred of foreigners, the hunt for migrants defined gurent our republic: it must be fi ne!
The fl ux migration develop in the world, they mix different motivations. France must not
fear, it must not disregard the immense human and material contributions they have already given him. No, the presence of
immigrants in France is not a problem.
Zero immigration is a myth that divides and ff aiblit our country. Although they might be less important than
in the past, France will continue to know as all countries of the world of migration flows. We must therefore carry
policy of refusing ghettoized society who are not guided by the obsession of refoulement of foreigners.
We will restore the unique card 10 years and the right to family reunification, conditions for a dignified life. Us
abrogate the successive immigration laws adopted by the right since 2002, and we will conduct an overhaul
Code of entry and residence of foreigners and asylum (Ceseda). We régulariserons undocumented whose
number has increased simply because the reforms right. We décriminaliserons unauthorized residence, we will close
detention centers, we will restore the right of residence for medical reasons.
We will respect scrupulously the right to asylum to be offline migration policies.
Our vision for the future of France will rely on a new Nationality Code, based on the full respect and
Automatic ground right from birth to a right to naturalization for all foreigners who
wishing to acquire French nationality beyond five years of residence.

COMBATING ALL DISCRIMINATION
We will adopt a law that will eradicate gender discrimination. The rights of the PACS will be strengthened. The
right to marriage and adoption to gay couples will be recognized. The lesbians women will have access to
assisted reproduction.
A law for persons with disabilities will meet their needs imperatively: setting
accessibility of buildings, accompanying the welcome at the public school, professional integration Income
Replacement equal to the gross minimum wage for those found unable to work.
We will restore the High Authority of fight against discrimination by strengthening its role and the decentralizing and
we will put in place also mediations, including the function of the Children's Ombudsman.
We firmly act against discrimination against foreign workers. The violation of social rights
foreign workers, are victims notammet without -Paper weakens all workers and their
social rights.
All discrimination field will be taken into account (public places, school, work, housing, access to goods and
services ...), they are based on the trade union or political commitment, whether racist, sexist, based on
religious belief, sexual orientation or gender identity, they stigmatize young people, immigrants,
of Travellers, people with disabilities, whether they relate to age or social origin.
An annual report will be tabled in Parliament, followed by decisions to better enforce laws provided for the e ff ect.

SAFETY: A CASE NATIONAL SOLIDARITY
Prevention, deterrence, punishment: the fight for security can not be e ffi cient without relying on these three requirements.
We will repeal the law LOPPSI 2 and security laws detrimental to our freedoms, protect citizens against the
fi chage generalized and video surveillance. We make sure each and every means of a quality defense
expanding and upgrading legal aid and compensation of lawyers present during police custody.
Anti-youth laws criminalizing devices and in di ffi culty families will be repealed.
A law against corruption and conflicts of interest will be taken to punish the "white collar crime".
We absolutely have to stop the decline in e ff ective police and recruiting. Police forces will
drive their action in the context of ethics based on respect for people, they will bene fi t a
Training in this direction and better working conditions. We will proceed with the integration of all the fonts
public safety in a uni fi ed public service.
It will be the same for the Department of Justice is one of the first victims of the RGPP with recovery
a map of the courts throughout the country and the launch of a vast plan of humanization of the universe
prison.
It will drastically revise the allocation of police forces in the country: communes
Popular are the first to su ff er today the "rationalization" of e ff ective across departments and
e ff ort should therefore be made to meet their needs, e ff ort relayed by a construction plan
Local and opening stations.
We will restore its place in policing.
The state aid in prevention and social assistance for local authorities and movement
associations, will be doubled in grants or direct investment of the state in the public services
most affected.

6.
CONVENE
MEETING
CONSTITUENT OF LIFE REPUBLIC
Existing institutions have distanced people power, causing a serious democratic crisis. Abstentions beats
records. Politics tends to be reduced to a presidential competition between all five candidates
which are distinguished primarily by their personal styles, mediated by the media mainly devoted to liberalism.
Between elections, power steering without the people against him even as we have seen in recent years
under the presidency of Nicolas Sarkozy. In this situation, the most powerful private interests give heart
joy. This is the oligarchy that governs. To restore true democracy, it is time to found a new
Republic.
Act now
Convening of a Constituent Assembly
Repeal of the 2010 territorial reform
Recovery of proportionate in all elections
Creation of the National Media Council
Action for Change Impacts sustainable ent
Foundation of a sixth parliamentary republic, social and participative
Development status of the elected and the status of the voluntary

A CONSTITUTION DEMOCRATIC INSTITUTIONS OF THE WORKPLACE
To ensure control of its destiny, the people must regain power. We want new institutions
to guarantee popular sovereignty, ensure the primacy of the general interest on the financial interests allow
a popular continuing involvement in all acts of professional, social and political life by listing
new rights for citizens (ne) s and employee (s).
The Constitution that we defend rea ffi rm social rights: the right to employment and work, health, housing,
to education, to social protection. It will strengthen the powers of the citizen where he works, recognizing the
Corporate Citizenship: We will institute new rights for employees in the company, and the status of
large companies will be rede fi ned taking into account their social responsibility. Economic power will not
only in the hands of shareholders, employees and their representatives will be involved in the choice
Business investment in the light of social priorities, environmental and economic
democratically debated. The favorable opinion of the employee representatives and works councils will
mandatory for all strategic decisions. We will establish a suspensive veto on redundancies and
the obligation to consider the cons-proposals by unions.
In public companies, the users' rights will be recognized and exercised. The right to strike and to organize the
freedom of expression will be comforted. The EC will recognize broad rights of expertise, control,
proposal and decision. The inter-union representatives in the TPE will be recognized, and we will act to
the extension of rights "group committees" at the European groups. Hierarchy will
recovered (no corporate agreement less favorable than sectoral agreements). A genuine occupational medicine
with means of prevention, analysis and decision will be developed. We will put in place immediately
a residence citizenship. Non-EU residents will bene fi t the right to vote in local elections.
Against presidentialism, we will defend the parliamentary system and will restore the balance of power. Us
want to restore the rule of the National Assembly over the executive. The exorbitant powers of the President
Republic must be removed as part of a rede fi nition general and a reduction of its powers. The
Government will be accountable to the National Assembly. We will propose the abolition of the Senate or its reform
Deep into a relay room of local communities and citizens' initiatives. Will be proportional
restored for all elections. Parity will be guaranteed by law, cumulative mandates strictly limited in number
and time. We shall ensure the independence of the judiciary to the executive branch by establishing a Council
greater justice in place of the Supreme Judicial Council, half elected by the magistrates, half
appointed by Parliament. It will be accountable to Parliament. The High Judicial Council will decide
appointments of all judges. The institutions of policing and justice will be reformed
in accordance with respect for fundamental rights as formulated in the new Constitution.
The Constitution that we want to guarantee the independence of the media with regard to the political power and powers
money. The chairmen of public channels will be appointed by their board of directors, in which
staff representatives constitute 50% of members. We will improve the working conditions of
journalists to allow independent, pluralistic and quality.
The right of citizens to intervene in the development of the research will be included in the Constitution. Us
will guarantee the creation of citizen forums Science and Technology, with the power to investigate, since

the populations concerned so request. Their composition will be representative of all stakeholders of life
Public. Working alongside existing research bodies in the territories, their work evaluated by
scientists will result in an annual report before the National Assembly. The government will be required to be
answer.
We will create a Ministry of Public Education and associative freedoms. We will replace the circular Fillon
of 18 January 2010 which requires associations of private enterprises management criteria, a law that will strengthen
the possibilities to act associations serving the public interest and preserve associational freedoms.
We de fi nirons at all levels a fi nancial policy of supporting the associations, transparent and favoring
operating aid rather than aid project that put competing associations.
We will strengthen the powers of bodies grouping associations nationally (CNDA and CPCA), which
take a leading role in the management of a national observatory of community life.

INVOLVEMENT PEOPLE STANDING
We want to strengthen and amplify the direct sovereignty of the people. Participatory democracy will be included in the
Constitution and laws will decline this principle to provide the means, tools, spaces for its implementation.
It will apply to the development of legislation, the implementation of major public policy and management
local authorities, including through participatory budgeting.
A status of the elected (e) in all communities (municipalities, departments, regions, and national assemblies
European) will be guaranteed and a status of a volunteer. A new pluralistic national authority responsible for monitoring
constitutionality will be created instead of the current Constitutional Council, with citizens able to seize it.
We will create new areas of popular response. The referendum, or any other form of consultation
direct popular, may be initiated by petition involving a substantial percentage of the population.
Any change in the scope of public services will be decided after consultation of the people.
The initiative of legislation will be open to citizens and to citizens, trade unions and associations.

ORGANIZATION OF TERRITORY
The 2010 reform of local authorities will be repealed.
The general principle of responsibility that the State shall guarantee the equality of citizens on the whole
territory should be rea ffi rmed and strengthened (equalization fi nancial guarantee the enforcement of rights, equal
treatment, etc.). No one will be left behind. Decentralization will be organized according to the principle of
Close to optimize public decisions in the direction of greater satisfaction of the general interest
while defining the respective roles of the State and di ff erent territorial levels in France and Europe. It
deny the competition between territories and will build on the development of cooperation.
In the territories Overseas, we will promote a new development model for human progress
Endogenous breaking with the current model of dependency and inequality will support regional cooperation to
global alternative service (co-development, ecological sites of universal interest).
The autonomy of local authorities will be ensured through the actualization of the principle of free administration
contained in the Constitution and a reform of the local fi scalité involving material fi nancial assets and the
businesses.

FORMING PROCESS, A CONSTITUENT ASSEMBLY
To fully respect popular sovereignty and the foundations of democratic and social Republic as
we want to build, we will engage a constituent process, putting the heart civic engagement and debate
public.
A separate Constituent Assembly of the new National Assembly, with a mandate to draft a
New constitution for a Sixth Republic, will be elected to su ff universal rage in 2012. It will be elected to the
full proportional without threshold, with parity. Parliamentarians in office may submit it and
elect (s) of the Constituent Assembly will not be candidates in the next election. The procedures for the election and debate
public will be established after consultation with social organizations.
The proposed text is the result of a public debate involving citizens, social organizations and political
which, in forms to define (popular assemblies, General, citizen forums, etc.), relayed by the media,
will allow the people themselves to appropriate the issues.

This draft new Constitution, once voted by the Constituent Assembly, shall be submitted to popular referendum.

7. MAILING THE LISBON TREATY
AND BUILD ANOTHER EUROPE
The Lisbon Treaty concentrates all the impasses of capitalism of our time. It requires free competition and
undistorted over social rights won by the working class and democratic struggles of the last centuries. He
encourage free trade at the expense of the environment and social justice. It maintains the authoritarian drift
the European Union in concentrating power in the hands of unelected institutions. It is necessary to ff was ranchir
Lisbon Treaty to address the social emergency, solving ecological catastrophe, solve the crisis
democratic and build another Europe.
Act now
Questioning of the Pact for the Euro + and creating a social development fund, solidarity and ecology
European
Action for Change Impacts sustainable ent
Political and diplomatic battle for a new European treaty
Restatement and the ECB missions
Just as we want a Sixth Republic rid of presidentialism and refounded on fundamental
human and social, we want a Europe ff ranchie of the Lisbon Treaty, which respects the sovereignty of peoples
and support of social and environmental development policies. The Lisbon Treaty, imposed by legislation
after the rejection to almost 55% of French men and women of the European Constitutional Treaty, is unlawful. Us
refuse all covenants and austerity plans that contribute to amplify the economic recession and social regression
on behalf of the liberal logic of submission to financial markets. We want to put an end to the
liberalization of public services promoted by European directives, and will commit the code overhaul
procurement submitting public action with the rules of free and undistorted competition.
We need a secular Europe, independent, peace and international solidarity. A Europe that acts
to put an end to imperialist and neocolonial interference. A Europe that is committed to respecting the rights of
peoples, especially those of the Palestinian people.
Building on the struggles and aspirations for change in Europe, we will engage in the development
Construction of a new treaty to be adopted by referendum in France after a great popular debate. We will act
for the adoption of a clause of social and environmental regression. France will take the initiative to States
General of the European refoundation by calling on all political and social forces available in Europe.
We will fight the Euro + Pact and the "European semester" who want to impose austerity for life to the people
and deny the sovereignty of their representatives. We will hold a referendum on the new arrangements and we
will campaign for them to be rejected.
Without waiting for that deadline, we will act to develop new European policies, freed from the grip
fi nancial markets.
According to the mandate that has been given us by the French people to set up a left policy
in our country, we will refuse to apply conflicting instructions to our commitments, particularly with
regarding deregulation of public services.
The European Central Bank
The ECB is now an obstacle to the crisis, since it systematically encourages
financial markets, austerity, the fight against in fl ation at the expense of employment and wages. His goal
single fixed by the treaties is to "maintain price stability", that is to say, in this case the value of capital
raised by pensioners. His indi ff érenciée monetary policy does not take into account the situation of each
countries in the European zone and is unable to selective business credit. One understands the reluctance of
the ECB when it comes to investing in the market for government bonds in order to ease the pressure on Greece, or
refusal to lend at zero interest to the states, that besides the Lisbon Treaty prohibited while the crisis
would impose. Statutorily independent, the ECB now escapes all democratic control and even
started in favor of the fi nancial crisis giving orders to sovereign state governments
European.
Our disobedience will spread in the Union and in the euro area. It will support for countries devastated by
the austerity measures (Greece, Portugal, Spain, etc.). Ultimately, our goal is to break the liberal bloc within the EU
and push for the negotiation of a new treaty. We must get out of pessimism and submission to technocracy
European. France, as a founding country of the European Union, has the ability to transform if
Sovereign combines action and battle of European opinion. Far from being isolated, we will emerge stronger in on a
Europe is currently dominated by ultra-liberalism and monetarism promoted long by governments
British and German. We will act to the negotiated redevelopment of public debt, the timing of

repayments, lower interest rates on and partial cancellation. We will require
moratoriums and audit under citizen control.
France will propose an overhaul of missions and statutes of the ECB, which must be put under democratic control
to enable it to lend at low rates or no, directly to States, and purchase debt securities
Public money market to promote employment, training and public services, with the objective
to meet human needs and those of the planet.
We will propose the creation of a "European Fund for social, ecological and solidarity" meeting
this requirement; a "social and ecological visa" for trade; and the abandonment of any policy
the "fl exicurité".
We will work to fi scal harmonization which will require a minimum corporate tax to prevent the
social dumping between EU member countries and set up a control of capital movements and blocking
those referred to speculation, taxing capital and financial transactions, monitoring of banks' activities
and the fight against relocations. We will establish a public banking sector to promote the development of a
new credit.
The France will veto the draft Grand Transatlantic Market to enshrine the subjugation of Europe by
United States.
A new common agricultural policy will be developed, based on security and recognition of the right to
Food sovereignty approximate the European farmers instead of putting them in competition, facing
Development cooperation with countries that su ff rent the most undernourished.
The France will commit to a Europe of harmonization of social and political rights. It will ask the setting
of a European minimum wage (establishing a legal minimum wage in each country and convergence process
to the top).
Public services, with new creations at the continental level, will become a pillar of the construction
European.
The powers of the European Commission will back the bene fi t of those of the European Parliament and of the Parliaments
national whose powers of initiative, of co-decision and control will be strengthened.
The France will act to a Europe of equal rights who registers for human dignity, against the
poverty, exclusion, division and discrimination.
It will also act to ensure that Europe 'fortress' policy and foreign non stigma
Community are dropped, and renegotiated Schengen agreements the bene fi t for resolute action in favor of
New policies on international migration and co-development, especially with the countries around
Mediterranean.
Equality man-woman will be a core value of the European Union, the "Directive of the European most
favored "will be established.

8. FRANCE FOR CHANGING COURSE
GLOBALIZATION
Now slavishly aligned with the United States of America, France Nicolas Sarkozy bears no vision
alternative to liberal globalization. If tomorrow the fifth world economic power took another
way, the e ff and training would be considerable over the peoples of the world. Otherwise governing France, we
also want to help change the course of globalization in which policies of cooperation and
Solidarity can in order to grow.
Act now
Withdrawal of French troops from Afghanistan
Removing NATO France
Recognition of the State of Palestine by France and the EU
Action for Change Impacts sustainable ent
UN reforms and establishing a new hierarchy of international standards, based on the rule of
social and environmental standards
Creation of an international Climate Justice Tribunal under the aegis of the UN

THE CHOICE OF COOPERATION BETWEEN PEOPLES
The France will engage in new international relations based on respect for popular sovereignty,
on mutually bene fi cooperation between peoples, on the primacy of social norms and
Environmental those of fi nance and trade.
We will cancel the debt of poor countries and put in place as at European level, a Cooperation Fund
solidarity under the aegis of the UN fi financed by a Tobin tax (or other types of capital taxation
international).
We will put an end to a foreign policy of France-based neo-colonial relations and Françafrique.
We will develop an action of cooperation with the peoples who seek to build democracy and justice
social, especially in Tunisia and Egypt, and we will rebuild a genuine policy of cooperation between the
both shores of the Mediterranean.
The France international will commit scientific cooperation and academic policies via the pooling and
sharing open access skills and resources and budgets through supporting international missions
researchers and lecturers.
We will act to monetary and fi nancial sovereignty of peoples, fair trade based on
social and environmental standards.
We will fight the IMF austerity principles of free trade and the WTO to change deeply or
to create new international institutions.
We will support the creation of an International Climate Justice Tribunal under the aegis of the UN. We will support
projects such as "Yasuni-ITT", based on the principle of shared responsibility for the common good.

POLICY IN PEACE
France's break with the liberal and Atlanticist alignment, power politics and military intervention and with
logics of power, to act for peace, settlement of conflicts and the restoration of law
International. It will act for a democratised UN, based on a renewed multilateral doctrine.
We will decide immediately the withdrawal of NATO from France and we will fight for the dissolution of the
organization. We will remind our troops engaged in the war waged by NATO in Afghanistan.
We will fight for the supremacy of international law over force, and in particular to the sovereign right of
Palestinian people to a viable and independent state within the 1967 borders, with East Jerusalem
capital and the principle of the right of return for refugees, a Palestinian state living in peaceful cally
alongside Israel in accordance with UN resolutions.
We will act to denuclearization, for the multilateral and controlled disarmament of all types of weapons in
the spirit of the Culture of peace promoted by Unesco and the UN Charter.

9. HUMAN EMANCIPATION IN HEAD
The fi ality of our project is empowerment, creating the conditions so that each and everyone can build his
Life released (e) of all principality and develop its potential. The organization of society must allow
everyone to be master of oneself and of its existence by public policies that put in their heart issues
culture, art, knowledge, creativity, control and development of its body.
Act now
Repeal of the 2003 law on unemployment insurance of the entertainment and creating a system
perennial shared
Recruitment Plan in National Education
Abrogation of the LRU law and the Pact for Research
Action for Change Impacts sustainable ent
Doubling of public research budget in the legislature
1% of GDP devoted to art, culture and the creation Act against concentrations in the media and to defend
the press of opinion
Adoption of a framework law on sport

KINDERGARTEN TO UNIVERSITY, SHARING KNOWLEDGE
We will fight the competition between institutions and will return to all the measures that aim in
Covered autonomy to establish an education market. We a ffi rm the need for a national policy
education in a public service logic to a real free and equal access to knowledge throughout the
territory. We will act concretely for the production of knowledge and training to be released from the
market logic and fi nancial profitability and allow the establishment of a common school culture
all the ambitious appropriation of knowledge.
We will build a liberating school which allows for all the elevation of the level of acquired knowledge and
recognized quali fi cations. To do this, we allongerons school time: the right to education from 2 years, tuition
mandatory 3-18 years.
To combat the outbreak, we will rebuild a school for all students and all levels
common knowledge and prepares students - through appropriate pedagogies to everyone - to stay in school
up to 18 years and as much as possible beyond high school. We look back escalation between levels of studies, while
retaining part of the disciplines.
We rede fi nirons programs, and more generally schools, taking as reference point the student has only
school to learn. The tutoring will be provided by the public service of national education.
We will support the revival of education research, the development of initial and continuing training, and
create educational exchanges time in institutions.
We will launch a plan to fight against social inequalities in school. We will set up observatories
bringing inequalities in the territories of elected officials, parents, teachers, all staff
National Education and students from the college and associated personalities. Representatives of
Personal constitute 50% of these observatories. We will support projects of the school communities
create the conditions for a life settlement contributing to student success. We will restore a new
School segmentation with more resources for institutions that are most in need.
LR law U (Freedoms and Responsibilities of Universities)
Adopted in August 2007, it organizes university autonomy, with increased powers of their
President (now elected by the single board of directors, where the presence of the economic world is reinforced
and becomes the only non Advisory Board) including on a ff ectations and management, and disengagement
Solid state who will complete a two-tier system, one of the "big poles" invested by
fi nancing private and small universities, set facing the need to find sources of
funding, will notably increase the registration fees and eliminate unprofitable spinnerets. It
builds upstream on the Hetzel report 2006: comparisons with the private, political "visibility" and
alignment with Shanghai ranking criteria (which do not include CNRS production:
50% of French research!).
We will end the job cuts and engage a recruitment plan in Education in
Statute of the State Public Service restoring, including all deleted items. We will develop the
Pre-recruitment of teachers so that the profession remains accessible to all social classes, regardless of the
recruitment level. We will restore the positions of psychologists and guidance counselors to proceed

recruitment level. We will restore the positions of psychologists and guidance counselors to proceed
recruitments for all young people have access to public service orientation. The Networks of specialized aid to
ffi culty students di (Rased) will be restored to their means.
The state investment in vocational education will be increased by 50% for the lessons
technical, professional and general are of equal quality.
We will guarantee the right to equal quali fi cation for those who followed the same formation: part of defense
National diplomas through the restoration of CNESER missions, validation of all grades in
collective agreements.
For higher education and research, we quickly engage the reconstruction of public service in
its priority tasks for equal access to knowledge for all young people, regardless of where they live, the
income and socio-cultural environment of their family and to welcoming foreign students who wish to
a non-market vision of contribution to development and cooperation between peoples. We want to expand
the whole of society the possibilities of access to the most sophisticated forms of scientific knowledge and that allow any (e)
student (s) to go to the end of its ability, with the permanent concern of the validation of courses and learning. Because
that "the electricity was not discovered by seeking to improve the candle," the commodification of knowledge advocated by
Lisbon Strategy will be fought and cooperation between utilities higher education
European level will be defended and expanded. The France will act to exempt public services and research
Higher education in WTO negotiating field. We will repeal the LRU law and the "Pact
research ". The conference of university presidents will no longer replace the democratic bodies in
the definition of university policies. We will delete the Research Evaluation Agency and
Higher Education (AERES), which considers scientific production than on criteria of di ff usion which at the final, are
commercial nature and does not allow to judge the quality of an article, or that of the support recipient.
Instead of this system and liberalized autocracy, we will work on a new law that will build on the
Audience research work together from the beginning of the mandate, we démocratiserons the boards
universities and research organizations. All staff, researchers and enseignantschercheurs can intervene before decisions.
The CNRS, Inserm like, will be reinstated in their different disciplines and their vocation as public poles of
Research at the service of all the sciences and in their forecasting and assessment missions; their bodies
find the fullness of orientation missions of basic research. Personal Search
Public will have their intellectual independence guaranteed.
We will guarantee the right e ff ective of all faculty members to carry out a research activity. A new
PhD student status will be developed in close collaboration with the organizations and associations that group. The
international cooperation missions will be an integral part of the services of lecturers.
The work of researchers and scientists will be evaluated by their peers, based on their research work
and not on publications of articles in journals screened. This assessment will be made of the bodies
mostly with the guarantee of elected representation of the range of disciplines and all currents
thought. The right of appeal will be e ff ective. The "labellisations" tools of discrimination, such as "initiatives
excellence "(Idex) or" laboratories of excellence "(Labex), will be abandoned.
In the field of research also RGPP will be stopped and a catch-up in terms of employment will be
Place the bene fi t exclusive holder of permanent employment. The principle of career progression for each and
each will be restored; we will abandon bonuses "merit". The e ff ort public budget for education
greater will be increased to 12,000 euros per year per student (e). We will double the state budget for research
legislature. Thus, public means of research will be guaranteed; the contribution of private contributions on the basis of
principles of general interest will be possible, never replace the fi nancing public budget. The foundations,
Securing vectors precarious and opaque fi nancing, will be abandoned.
The state of culture in France
The culture in France is sadly representative of the general state of the Public Service under the RGPP:
precariousness of non-permanent staff, budget cuts and phagocytosis of credit by institutions
illegitimate (fortunately the ephemeral Council of artistic creation), sales (stables of the imperial palace of the Rhine
Strasbourg) or forced conversion (National Archives, designed to accommodate the house's history
France) edi fi ces of great historical importance; partnerships increasingly expanded with the private and
multinationals, as in the case of digitization funding from the National Library of France by
Google ...
Fi nancing of research will be redirected to allow stable and recurrent funding of laboratories
and teams of up to 70% less. Subsidies "on project", which are those mainly allocated
today by the National Research Agency, will become complementary. The NAV will be transformed into FPSE
(State Fund support for emerging projects) and on the projects carried out exclusively "white", emerging,
not already covered elsewhere.

Flourish BY ARTS, CULTURE, CULTURAL PRACTICES
We put culture at the heart of the Left Front's political project, because it is the very condition of the action
politics, democracy. Our choice of civilization rests on the ability of human beings to think, act,
move. The confrontation arts, science, reflection allows citizens to become informed, demanding and
opened.
Breaking with the right cultural project and the case of the public service culture involves opening among the people
a broad democratic debate in order to rebuild a public service of art, culture and information.
We will site the overhaul of the public service of art and culture with an orientation law and
budget programming, which rea ffi rm the public and national responsibility of the state and build a
shared competence between the state and local authorities. We will aim to bring the e ff ort public 1
% Of GDP in a legislature. We will put a sudden stop to the process of commodification of public service
culture and cancel immediately, in this sector too, the RGPP. A broad public debate, national, decentralized and
open to all cultural actors as to all citizens, will at once on the meaning of this policy
cultural and ways for its implementation. In this e ff ect, we will organize regional conferences
involving the State, local authorities, professionals and citizens.
We rea ffi rmerons the close link between support for the creation and the social and citizen ownership of works and
cultural and artistic practices. This requires the revival of arts education in schools and education
People in the city and the company.
Given the influence of cultural industries across all fields of activities of artistic, literary and media,
we will implement regulations that are necessary and will, in all circumstances, the public interest prevail, in order
ranchir a ff of our economy culture of submission to money. We will encourage the development of
the social and solidarity economy.
Ffi rmerons us the centrality of cultural and artistic work in public policies in terms of employment,
social rights, status and remuneration. Intermittent regime of the 2003 reform will be renegotiated with
professional organizations, to establish a lasting and mutual protection system. More
generally, the fight against insecurity in di ff erent artistic professions, cultural and communication
will resolutely company. We will repeal the Hadopi law will create a public platform for downloading, and
engage a broad consultation to ensure respect for human rights, moral and compensation, artists,
writers and performers thanks to a contribution of up to ISPs, telecommunications operators
and the advertising market.
We will propose a law against concentrations in the press, media and broadcasting, for release
logical fi nancial and diktat of audience ratings, in order to enable them to fulfill their missions in the service of
pluralism of information and culture. We will create a National Media Council composed of elected officials,
representatives of professionals and users, responsible for ensuring compliance of public and national responsibility,
and encourage the creation of cooperatives Press. We refonderons public and media will guarantee Pole
the existence of community media and the press of opinion.
We will act to give the European Union a genuine cultural policy with corresponding means,
to promote dialogue between cultures and strengthen exchanges between artists and cultural actors of States
the Union. We will continue and develop the struggle for cultural exception and diversity.
We refonderons Cultural Activities France, devastated by five years of budget cuts, to
Closures French Cultural Centres and the French Alliance sites, serving the creation and sharing it,
as part of a globality of dialogue and exchange. We will act for the defense and development of the
French language.
Artistic creation, cultural action, popular education, but also the free flow of information and
ideas, production and di ff usion of knowledge and skills and their appropriation by the people, are
major conditions of a progressive transformation of our society. For there can be no emancipation
politics without cultural emancipation.

WELL IN HIS BODY, LONG LIVE SPORT!
We shall ensure the access of each and everyone in the sport of their choice throughout life and give
the sports movement the means to fulfill its public service missions.
We will ensure complementarity between physical education and sport in schools, sports associations and sport
business.
We defend an organization of sport in France which guarantees the bonds of solidarity and cooperation between
Sport for all and elite sport, amateur and professional sectors through the pooling of resources
fi nancial, material and human resources in the federal system.
We will report within sport as a public service mission relied on the four pillars of the model

French sports:
compulsory physical education from kindergarten to the university, which will be provided by teachers
specialty: its duration will go from 3:00 to 5:00 week.
a true sports ministry which we will restore the resources that it needs, with services
and its decentralized public institutions performing their duties on the whole territory. We will restore the
unless a regional public education and sports center (Creps) by region and bear the budget for this department
1% of the national budget.
local authorities, which we will maintain the sports authority and funding crossover facilities
sports. We will engage with them a national emergency plan for the construction and renovation of facilities
sports.
sports federations and the CNOSF, which we will give the means to ensure their public service missions
and democratic functioning, particularly through the adoption of a statute of the voluntary women's access
with managerial responsibilities.
We will launch a national plan for access to all sporting activities for everyone relying on support
Active: families through support provided by CAF; to the female practice and mixed practices; diversity
sports practices; the "sports / health"; accessibility for disabled people and to sports associations
business.
We will propose the adoption of a framework law on sport rea ffi rming its uniqueness, defining the principles of action
Public and recognizing the role of each community and the sports movement in this action. In this spirit,
we will create with the sports movement a national conference bringing together all the sports social partners
economic and sport and we will establish consultation bodies of reflection and ongoing evaluation
each level of the territory. We will refuse all forms of de fi scalisation and social contributions Off
the income of professional sportsmen.
We will repeal the law on opening the market for sports paris online and we will increase significantly the
"Bu ff taxes and" rights of di ff usion sporting events on television. We changed the law on erons
TV coverage for that female sporting events of major importance are treated
Just as male sports events. In general, we will implement a
Specifications for information and media organizations, in order to demand respect of a holder of a sports
ethics and educational values, and condemning all forms of cheating, doping, violence, corruption and
discrimination (racism, homophobia, xenophobia, sexism).
The France will for a sport vector of peace and international solidarity, notably during major
national and international events and those of Olympism. It will act for the free movement of athletes
in the world, apart from political pressure, and the elimination of all traf fi c world of young athletes.
It will strengthen international cooperation for the development of sport in developing countries.

THE RIGHT TO THE CITY
We want to make the city a common space of living together in which each one can accomplish
personal projects, family or social organization through the shared living spaces. The construction of
national and decentralized public housing service, housing and city rea ffi rm the major role of heritage
public rental, to sustain and guarantee the right to housing for everyone, everywhere and at all times of life.
We will develop a comprehensive land development policy outside the scope of the housing policy in
which the right to the city should not be reduced. Employment policy, education, public health, transportation,
Culture and Sport will also contribute to making the city a space of personal and family development. This
are essential conditions for building balanced neighborhoods that are not only residential and
dormitories, but real life neighborhoods, with housing, economic activity, employment, equipment
public and private local, places of leisure and culture.
To build this shared city, we will end to targeted policies (zoning of deprived areas,
stacked on each other, stigmatizing treatment target audiences). The Department of the City will be deleted, and
ordinary policies reoriented to access right to the city for all, become the priority. This will
ensure social mix and to fight against ghettoization. Urban policy and housing will compete
this objective for a new conception of the city, dense, open, human, ecological (respectful
Environmental and having breathing places), a city promoting cohesion between people and live
together.
These policies must be debated in communities to enable the involvement of residents,
associations and politicians who only guarantee the quality of projects that can combat spatial segregation and
ghettoization, and a ffi rm the mix.

CONCLUSION
The crazy world that we have before us is the result of the increased domination of the Financial Capital of the world,
monstrous product of two decades of neoliberal policies that laid the seeds of a serious decline of civilization.
This has been made possible by the decline of democracy: authoritarian institutions,
mass abstention census politics, media uniformity, shrinking the dogmas of political debate
"group think" unelected institutions that prevail neoliberal standards on the will of the people ...
"The best fortress of tyrants, is the inertia of the people. "The old formula of Machiavelli has lost nothing
their news. To shake off the tyranny of the markets, it su ffi t so that the people starts to move. It
begins with each of us.

GLOSSARY

Agencies égionales sant é r (S AR): responsible since 2010 for health policy dan s their settlement area
and replacing the Regional Hospital Agencies (ARH), the DDASS and DRASS, work in the ARS
facts to the case of the hospital by the indiscriminate requirement of a balanced budget and closing services deemed
profitable.
C om it és European group: established by a 1994 directive, are information bodies and
consultation introduced in European scale undertakings to group employee representatives
di ff erent European countries where they operate.
C ycle Doha: WTO launched in November 2001 to obtain a reciprocal lowering of customs duties
and export subsidies between developed and developing countries, this round is blocked for
Nothing in particular because of disagreement over the US and European support for their farmers. His conclusion
involve the risk of maintaining developing countries in their vocation agricultural countries, slowing the
development of their other industries while agriculture in developed countries would be extinguished. But it's more
its largely liberal logic (consumption, longer transport time and energy waste, dumping)
which is questionable.
Social and econom Solidair ie e (ESS): it forms a third sector (alongside the private and public sectors), founded
not the bene fi t but on a fi ality and social service to the community or its members, with a functioning
democratic and self-managed. In fall cooperatives, mutual societies and associations such as AMAP (for
Maintaining a peasant agriculture).
Ether ablissem public ent in character and com era indust rial maple cial (Epic): it is legally a public person
managing a public service activity, such as SNCF, CEA, INA. Several very important Epic became
limited companies, on behalf of the Liberal dogma that the state status of a business advantage by violating
free and undistorted competition: La Poste and (in March 2010), EDF (November 2004), Gaz de France (August 2004)
France Telecom (July 1996) ... In this case, the state is no longer the majority shareholder.
Grand Exchange ransat lant ic t: uni fi ed market proposed free trade abolishing trade barriers and
Regulatory between the European Union and the United States in 2015 and setting up an institution
Joint Parliamentary pursued after several European resolutions that have never given rise to any
public debate.
Hadopi law: High Authority for the di ff usion works and protection of rights on the Internet. French law intended
suppress Internet sharing fi les subject to copyright.
LBO: abbreviation of the English term that designates a leveraged buyout technique of buying a business
with borrowed capital (bene fi ting from e ff and leverage, that is to say that a small initial contribution su ffi t
borrow a lot of money), or bleeding promptly repaid by selling the company in pieces
purchased.
Maille law: adopted 10 August 2009, it provides for the extension of work on Sundays and therefore modifies the article L3132-3
Labour Code providing for the Sunday rest, especially in tourist areas and urban units of more than one
million. According to the legislation, this extension is done on a voluntary basis, but the workers' non
volunteers "necessarily will feel the backlash sooner or later, being in competition of fact.
Mobilizate ion for housin read cont ent and you re exclusion (MO LLE) Act, adopted March 25, 2009, this "
Boutin law "particularly promotes social home ownership at the expense of social housing. It excludes access
social housing approximately 10% of families by lowering income ceilings. Contretemps source, it is a
encouragement of debt in times of crisis and in times of buying real estate bubble. It also facilitates
Evictions (Articles 57 and 61). A provision of the bill, aimed at integrating social homeownership in
calculating the 20% social housing SRU * law, was fortunately retoquée. It also launches experimentation
a "temporary residence contract" (art. 101), by which the owner of a vacant home can
save a guard, escape the tax on vacant housing squats and avoid renting to tenants
precarious status.
Pact for the Euro + e and mecanism European e st ed Abilit: adopted in March 2011, the Pact for the Euro + fixed the
EU states a balanced budget target and lower labor costs / Search the flexibility - that is to say,
respectively austerity and insecurity - while providing that the European Commission aims and validates
di ff erent national budgets. So the abandonment of popular sovereignty for the bene fi t of liberal policies. The
MES, replacing by 2013 the European Financial Stability Fund will be one of the armed wings by requiring
States destructive debt restructuring in exchange for "solidarity" Community.
Pact for e r esearch: results in the program law for research of 2006 he created especially Poles
research and higher education (PRES, which are addressed today much of the so-called "
initiatives of excellence ") where it is possible to recruit staff under private law, potentially precarious, and where
cooperation with enterprises and private foundations is sought. All this under the law of competition between
research institutions and contracting means, organized by the National Research Agency
(ANR).
P RSP teacher ecrut ent s: measures put in place at various times in various forms consisting of

remunerate students in exchange for a commitment to prepare teachers contest. This circulation
implemented in periods of shortage of teachers has often enabled the continuation of studies and access to business
teaching young people from the popular classes.
R e eForm 2010 ivit collect ed t gold errit iales: developed to reduce government spending
local, reform of this scale limits the community response capabilities by calling into question their
skills, establishes a territorial councilor to sit on both the council and the regional council at the expense
democratic relationship with its constituents and creates a territorial inequality and much confusion since the territories
obey the statutes di ff erent.
Ed Corporation of am anagem ent land and fl ablissem ent r ur al (Safer): they operate on the land market
in order to master it, the pre-emption of land for sale and the handover to farmers, and normally
limit the phenomenon of concentration and land speculation.
Solidar ity and urban renouvellem ent law (SR U): adopted by the left in 2000, it contains in particular
Article 55 the obligation for municipalities integrated in urban areas with over 50,000 inhabitants
owning 20% ​​of social housing; but organized beyond the sustainable development of transport and
urbanism. A ff aiblie the right (provisions for "catching up" of 20% on other cities
via intermunicipal) it is violated every day in rich ghettos Neuilly-sur-Seine (3.6%
social housing in 2010), due to weak or non-compliance fines.
Yasuni-ITT (project) initiative launched by Ecuador in order to obtain a fi nancial compensation in exchange for oil nonexploitation parts of the Amazon rainforest, the world's lung, and balancing the demands of
development and the fight against the greenhouse e ff ect and local biodiversity.
