PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION April 22, 2012

THE CHANGE

IT IS NOW
MY COMMITMENTS FOR FRANCE 60

***

Dear,
22 April and 6 May next, by your vote,
you choose the path that our country will borrow for five years.
In everyday life, the crisis is felt acutely.
Our country is facing record unemployment and
is sinking into recession as much as in austerity. The industry has been abandoned for too long and our farmers can no longer live
their work. Any increases: the care and mutual,
housing and transport, gas and electricity.
The school and the hospital is damaged, public officials
stigmatized. Everywhere, insecurity and gaining ground
Justice loses ways. Our youth is sacrificed and will face if nothing is done, a degraded environment, unfunded pensions, a
considerable debt.

1

In this situation, there are leaders. There's the
finance, of course, who took control on the economy, society and even our lives. There policies
unfair and inefficient conducted for ten years. There is
economic and moral failures of the quinquennium
ending.
My duty is to enable the change. A
real change. I'm running for president to restore confidence to the French and
to restart progress.
What is at stake is the sovereignty of the
Republic facing the markets. That's why I want
France straighten, straighten its finances and its
economy.
The recovery is essential, but it
be possible only in righteousness. Taxation, education, housing, health, access to energy, security,
utilities, new rights, culture of the soul
France, is equality.
I want to restore confidence in the future and find the Republican promise, and first
for our youth. Allowing each generation to live better than the last. In encounter

2

ing the impartial State and enforcing morality
Public. By holding high the values ​​of France
in the world.
I prepared myself for this mission throughout
a life devoted to the public good. I know some
the size and hardness. I measure the ardor it
requires, as far as the sacrifices it imposes. Yes,
I'm ready to lead our nation to redress the
France and the French together.
This change, I will build with you. The
employees and contractors, elected officials and
social partners, associations and citizens
must be mobilized to the public good. I will strengthen Parliament. I'll come back to justice
means to do its job independently. I will engage a new act of decentralization. I will trust the forces of the country.
A great debate will take place in the country. For
give it meaning, I wanted to make specific proposals that I submit. They are
my commitments. I will keep.

3

SUMMARY

***

I want to straighten France ........................... p.6
I want to restore justice ............................. p.14
I want to give hope to new
................................................. generations . p.23
I want a copy Republic
and France who make its voice heard ...... p.31
Numbers ................................................ ... p.40

4

5

I want to revive production, employment and
growth.
1

I will create a Public Investment Bank. Through its regional funds, I favoriserai SME development, support for
promising niches and ecological conversion and
energy industry. I will allow to
regions, pivots of economic animation,
to acquire stakes in strategic companies for development
Local and competitiveness of France. A part
funding will be directed towards the economy
social solidarity.

2

I will make SMEs a priority. I will mobilize the savings of French, creating a booklet
Savings industry whose product is entirely dedicated to SME financing and
innovative businesses. For this, I will double
the ceiling of the booklet sustainable development,
the bearing 6 000-12 000. SMEs,
TPE, artisans and traders will,
in each region, a single contact. The
their research tax credit will be made more
simpler and more accessible. I will ensure that the
their public procurement is well open in
full independence and transparency.

I WANT

RAISE THE FRANCE

3

7

3

I favoriserai production and employment
France by directing funding, aid
public and tax breaks to companies that invest in our territory, which
it will locate their activities and attacks that will be exported. To this end, I modulerai the
Local business taxation based on
investments. In parallel, I will engage with a large French companies
relocation moving their factories
in the context of a specific contract. I instaurerai, for companies that are relocating,
repayment of public aid received.
A distinction will be made between profits
reinvested and those distributed to shareholders.
I will put up three different tax rates on corporations: 35% for large,
30% for small and medium-sized, 15% for
very small.

4

I will support the development of new
technologies and the digital economy, lever
essential for new growth, and I will organize with local authorities and industry
full coverage of France in very high
rate within ten years.

5

I will preserve the public enterprise status
majority owned by the state (EDF, SNCF,
8

The post office...). I ask that is adopted, within the EU, a directive on the protection of public services. I
will protect consumers to restore
French confidence in the economy.

I want to defend French agriculture and
support rurality.
6

I will defend an ambitious European budget
for the future of agriculture in its diversity,
especially farming, as part of the revision of the common agricultural policy. I will encourage the promotion of new models
production and organic farming. I
give producers the means to organize to rebalance power relations
within sectors facing global retailers. I
will guarantee the presence of local public services
in rural areas. I will assure protection
our maritime economy and come back to the
Fishing ways of modernization. I'll do
our country the European leader in energy
Marine renewable.

9

I want to banks serving
the economy.
7

8

I will divide the activities of banks that are
Useful for investment and employment, their
speculative operations. I forbid banks
French to practice in tax havens.
It will put an end to toxic financial products
enrich speculators and threaten the economy. I will delete the stock options except
for start-ups, and I encadrerai
bonuses. I taxerai bank profits
increasing their tax by 15%. I
propose the establishment of a tax on all
financial transactions as well as an agency
European public rating.
I will guarantee people's savings with a return on Livret A and above inflation
taking into account the evolution of growth.
To lower bank charges, a law will cap
the cost of services charged by banks.
To fight against excessive debt, credit
consumption will be supervised.

10

I want to straighten our public finances.
9

The public deficit will be reduced to 3% of the product
GDP in 2013. I will restore the balance
budget at the end of term. To achieve this
goal, I will come back on the tax gifts and
multiple "tax loopholes" for granted
Ten years to the wealthier and more households
big business. This reform of justice
will reach 29 billion euros
additional revenue.

10

A halt be brought to the procedure
general revision of public policies and
the mechanical application of the non-replacement
of staff on two. From 2012, I will open
a consultation round with organizations
Union of Public Employees on all
topics: salary prospects; fight against
insecurity; Modes of jobs nominations
senior Public Service; career development.

11

green nologies and rail freight transport. And I with our militerai
partners for a Europe of energy.
13

I want to redirect the construc tion
European.
11

I will propose to our partners a responsibility pact, governance and growth
to exit the crisis and the austerity spiral
makes it worse. I renégocierai the European Treaty
resulting from the agreement of 9 December 2011 by focusing on growth and employment, and reorienting the role of the European Central Bank
in that direction. I propose to create
Eurobonds. I will defend an association
full of national parliaments and
European those decisions. Fifty years after
the Elysée Treaty, I will propose to our partners
the development of a new Franco-German treaty.

12

I will defend a European budget (2014-2020)
serving major future projects. I will support the creation of new financial tools
to launch innovative industrial programs, especially in the areas of tech-

12

I also propose a new trade policy to obstruct any
form of unfair competition and to set
strict rules regarding social reciprocity
and environmental. A contribution climaténergie the borders of Europe will complement that strategy. I will act, under the
G20, for a more balanced parity of the euro
vis-à-vis the US dollar and the Chinese yuan
by proposing a new international monetary order.

13

I want to start a major tax reform.
14

The contribution of each will be made more
Fair by a major reform to
the eventual merger of income tax and
CSG through a simplified sample
Income (PSR). A portion of this tax will
allocated to social security organizations.
Capital income will be taxed as
those of labor.

15

I will contribute the most fortunate of the French national effort by creating a slice
additional 45% for income above 150,000 euros per unit. Furthermore, no
be able to take advantage of "tax niches"
beyond a sum of EUR 10 000 per year tax cut.

16

I will keep all the resources allocated
family policy. I will increase 25%
the school year allowance from next
September. I will make the cheapest family quotient
by lowering the ceiling for the households
wealthier, which will cover less than 5% of
tax households.

17

I will return to the tax relief on
fortune established in 2011 by the right, in re-

I WANT

RESTORING JUSTICE

4

15

raising of the biggest estates tax rate. The allowance will be on succession
reduced to 100,000 euros per child and the exemption for surviving spouses will
retained. I will strengthen the means to fight
against tax fraud.

I want to reconnect with our excellent
health system and strengthen the hospital
public.
19

I réformerai pricing to end
the assimilation of the hospital with private institutions. I take it as a public service and not a business. For
fight against the medical deserts, I favoriserai a better distribution of physicians
the creation of community health centers in
each territory. I will fix a maximum period
half an hour to access emergency care. I will improve the incorporation of the
public health, particularly by increasing the
share of fixed remuneration of doctors
generalists.

20

I sécuriserai access to care for all
French by framing excess fees, encouraging lower prices
medicines and removing the entry fee
in the State medical device.

I want to negotiate a new reform
pensions.
18

I will ensure that all those 60 years
and which will have contributed all of their annuities find the right to retire to
full rate at that age: this principle will be
implemented immediately. Negotiation
Global will commit as of summer 2012 with the social partners to define, within a framework
sustainably balanced financial, legal age
retirement, taking account of the arduous nature, the amount of pensions and evolution
revenue essential to the sustainability of
our solidarity pension system. I will engage
also a reform of dependence to better accompany the loss of autonomy.

16

17

21

I propose that each adult in
advanced or terminal phase of a terminal illness, causing physical suffering
or unbearable psychological and can not be
soothed, could ask, in conditions
precise and strict, to benefit from medical assistance to end his life in the
dignity.

with low incomes and resources. I will carry on
25% construction requirements
social housing and I mixed favoriserai
social imposing a rule of thirds
built: one third of rental social housing
rent moderate, one third of housing in social access, third free housing.
23

I will freely available to local authorities the state lands that are
available to allow them to construct
new housing within five years.

I want to build more housing.
22

In areas where prices are excessive, I
propose to regulate by law the amounts
rents during the first rental or
relocation. I will put in place for young people
a surety device. I will work for
that were built during the five year period
2.5 million of intermediate housing, social
and students, or 300,000 more than in the
previous five years, including 150,000 highly social housing, thanks to the doubling of
booklet ceiling A. I will strengthen the SRU law in
multiplying by five the sanctions on
Public refusing to allow households

18

I want to uphold justice at work.
24

I will fight against precariousness most striking
all young people, women and the employees
less qualified: to that end, I will increase the
unemployment contributions on companies
abuse precarious jobs. I will put
place a social rating system forcing more than 500 employees of businesses
to annually certify the management of their
human resources in the light of criteria
job quality and working conditions.
19

25

I will defend equal professional careers and remuneration between women
and men. A law will sanction companies that do not respect this rule, including the removal of exemptions
social contributions. A ministry Rights
Women ensure in particular its application
effective.

26

I lay with public company executives a maximum deviation of remuneration
1 to 20.

28

I relancerai transport policy for
fight against the territorial divide which excludes
part of the population from access to jobs and
to public services. My priority will be to provide, both in Ile-de-France than in other
regions, a response to the quality of service
trains daily and the servicing of landlocked areas, and the development of
multimodal platforms.

29

I will encourage a new model of development overseas, including an investment program and a priority for employment and training of young people. I
will fight uncompromisingly against monopolies
and abusive margins to reduce the cost of living.
I will create a Ministry of Overseas attached
the Prime Minister and a city of Overseas
Ile-de-France.

I want to reinstate justice in all our
territories in France as overseas territories.
27

I will launch a new generation of urban renewal operations, I will complete them by the actions of social cohesion related
with communities and associations, and I
will maintain public services in our suburbs. I will increase the means, including
School, in areas that are most in need and I will restore the regular presence of
Police from citizens.
20

I want to fight uncompromisingly against all
discrimination and open new rights.
30

I will fight against "racial profiling" in
identity checks through a procedure respectful of citizens and against any discrimination in hiring and housing. I constantly fight racism and antisemitism.

21

31

I will open the right to marriage and adoption to
sex couples.

32

I will guarantee the existence of a disability component
in each act. And I will strengthen sanctions
in case of non-compliance with 6% of workers
disabilities in businesses, services
public and local authorities.

I WANT TO RESTORE HOPE
THE NEW GENERATIONS

22

I want to fight unemployment, which hits
especially youth and seniors.
33

I will propose a generation contract
allow for the hiring by businesses,
permanent contract, young people, accompanied by a more experienced employee,
which will thus be maintained in employment up
his retirement. This "mentoring" will preserve know-how and integrate
sustainable youth in professional life.

34

I will create 150,000 jobs of the future to facilitate the insertion of young people in employment and
the work of associations, primarily in
the neighborhoods. I will return to the
tax exemption and fee exemptions
Social overtime except
for very small businesses.

35

I will put in place, in consultation with
the social partners, securing
career paths for each
employee can be maintained in the company
or employment and access to vocational training. Funding for the training will
focused on the most vulnerable audiences,
less educated and the unemployed. I will strengthen
24

the means of employment center. To discourage
stock layoffs, we renchérirons
the cost of redundancies for
Companies that pay dividends or
redeem their shares and we will give
workers and employees who are victims
the ability to enter the high court
instance in cases manifestly contrary
the interest of the company.

I want to put education and youth
at the heart of public action.
36

In five years I will create 60,000 additional jobs in education. They cover all
trades. I will set up a pre-recruitment of teachers by the end of their
studies. For I will restore training
Initial worthy of the name.

37

I will ensure that children under
three years can be accommodated in kindergarten. I will give priority to the acquisition of
basic skills and a common base
skills and knowledge. Us
25

transform, with teachers, teaching methods. The more students
difficulty benefit from support
customized to that at the end of five years,
the number of young people leaving school without a qualification system is halved. I
valoriserai and will strengthen the vocational and technological education courses. I want
fight against the precariousness of youth. I will offer
every young déscolarisé of 16-18 years a
training solution, learning or
civic service.
38

39

In the allocation of new staff,
my priority will go to the nursery and primary schools because that is where the first difficulties
occur and that school failure is formed,
as well as areas in difficulty. In the interest
of our children, I will see school timetables,
which have no equivalent in Europe.
I réformerai the first cycles of higher education, by opening up pathways to
University to avoid specialization too
Early students, strengthening bridges between all configurations of the upper, especially between universities and
schools. I réformerai the LRU law to ensure
a real school autonomy, with
26

resources and a more collegial and democratic governance. I will create a study allowance and training conditionally
resources in the context of a course
autonomy. I encadrerai internships to prevent abuse. I will give an impulse
exchanges between universities and French
Foreign. I abrogerai circular on foreign students. I will simplify the organization
funding research, including
for researchers and enseignantschercheurs can focus on their real tasks. I accélérerai implementation
Investments for the future and I will ensure, in
promoting cooperation and set
network, that does not constitute
academic and scientific deserts.
40

I will guarantee for all young people, valid or
no, the possibility of practicing sport in
a club or association. I will strengthen the
solidarity of the professional sector to the economy amateur sector. I will use on
the sports movement to organize in France
major international competitions.

27

responsible. It will get him out of
energy insecurity 8 million French.
43

I want to make France the nation
environmental excellence.
41

42

I will preserve the independence of France
while diversifying our energy sources.
I will engage reducing the share of nuclear
in the production of electricity from 75% to 50%
2025, guaranteeing safety
maximum facilities and continuing the
modernization of our nuclear industry. I
favoriserai the ramp-up of renewable energy by supporting the creation and
the development of industrial clusters in
this sector. The France will respect its international commitments to reduce
emissions of greenhouse gases. In this
context, I shut the Fessenheim plant
and I will pursue the completion of construction
Flamanville (EPR).
I will adopt a new progressive pricing of water, electricity and gas
to ensure universal access to these goods
essential and encourage consumption
28

I will launch a vast plan to 1 million units per year to benefit from
thermal insulation quality. Will thus
created tens of thousands of jobs. The
Heating savings that will result
will restore purchasing power to households.

I want to support access to culture and
artistic creation.
44

I will launch a national arts education plan. I will support the creation and dissemination
which are the lever universal access to culture.
I will set up between the State and local authorities
contract to equip the territory of a
Cultural mesh better coordinated and more effective. I will vote on a framework law on the
live show and I will take of the site
National Music Centre, to make
a tool of cultural diversity. I
return to a VAT rate of 5.5% for the book

29

and ticketing, and I will fight for survival
independent bookstores.
45

I will replace the Hadopi law by a great law
signing the act 2 of the French cultural exception, which will reconcile the rights of
and access to creative works via the Internet
easy and secure. The fight against commercial counterfeiting will be increased upstream to
enforce copyright and develop
online offers. Authors will be paid based on the number of access to their
works with funding based on
economic operators who benefit from the
digital distribution of works.

30

I WANT ONE REPUBLIC
COPY AND FRANCE
THAT TO DO ITS VOICE HEARD

I want to defend and promote secularism.
46

48

I will propose to include the basic principles of the 1905 law on secularism in
Constitution by inserting Article 1 a
second paragraph: "The Republic
ensures freedom of conscience, guarantees free
exercise of religion and respects the separation of
Church and State, in accordance with the first title
of the 1905 Act, subject to the special rules applicable in Alsace and Moselle. "
49

I will wear the ineligibility period of elected
convicted of corruption to ten years.

50

I will grant the right to vote in local elections
foreigners legally residing in France
for five years. I will lead a relentless fight against illegal immigration and the dies
clandestine work. I sécuriserai legal immigration. The adjustments will be carried
case by case on the basis of objective criteria.

51

The designation of officials chains
public television and radio will depend
an independent authority and not the
head of state or government. I will preserve the independence of the AFP and I will strengthen the
Law on protection of sources.

I want to be the next presidency
the impartiality of the state, the integrity
elected officials and the respect of against-powers.
47

I réformerai the penal status of the head of state. I
will burn 30% compensation of the President
of the Republic and ministers. The elderly
presidents no longer serve
the Constitutional Council.

32

I will increase the powers of initiative and
control of Parliament, including appointments to the highest state positions to
making them blameless. I will vote a law
on the non-accumulation of. I will strengthen the
parity between women and men by increasing the financial sanctions against parties
policies that do not respect it. I will introduce a proportionate share of the Assembly
National.

33

I want to give the police and justice
ways to protect us.
52

53

I will implement a new security
Nearby provided by the police in our neighborhoods and the gendarmerie in rural areas.
I will create priority security areas where
will focus more resources. I
will double the number of closed educational centers for minors have been sentenced
captioned 80 during the five years. I
will create each year 1 000 additional posts for justice, the police and gendarmerie.
I will defend the independence of the judiciary and
all magistrates: the rules of appointment
and career development will be reviewed
this effect ; I réformerai the Higher Council
the judiciary. I forbid interventions
Government in the individual files. I
flat defer to criminal proceedings for
make effective the principles
fundamentals of the rule of law. Access to
local justice for all disputes
on essential aspects of daily life
the French will be easier. The sentences handed down
will all be effectively executed and prisons will be consistent with our principles of dignity.

34

I want to give a new impetus to our
democracy.
54

I will engage a new stage of decentralization by involving local officials. I will vote
a law on strengthening democracy and
Local Freedoms. In particular, it will provide
the repeal of territorial adviser and clarification of skills. A confidence pact
and solidarity will be concluded between the State and the
ensuring local level
allocations at current levels. I réformerai the
local tax by giving more autonomy to
municipalities, departments and regions,
in exchange for greater accountability. A true equalization will be set
artwork.

55

Any legislation on the distribution partners
Social will be preceded by a consultation
with them. I will amend the constitution to
it recognizes and guarantees the new

35

form of social democracy. From summer 2012, I
will gather a large economic conference
and social priorities which will be before the five year period. I will allow the presence of employee representatives on boards of directors and compensation committees
of large companies.
56

security, in which France will keep its
office and veto.
58

I will develop the relationship of France with
countries on the southern shore of the Mediterranean on the
based on an economic project, democratic and
cultural. I will break with the "Franco" in
offering a relationship based on equality,
trust and solidarity. I relancerai the Francophonie. I will take the necessary measures
established to support our compatriots
outside France, particularly in education, depending on their income.

59

I will engage an immediate withdrawal of our troops
Afghanistan: there will be no French troops in this country at the end of 2012. I
take initiatives to promote, by
new negotiations, peace and security
between Israel and Palestine. I will support the international recognition of the Palestinian State.

60


Je maintiendrai une ambition nationale élevée
pour notre outil de défense, et je serai très vigilant dans l’action contre le terrorisme. Je fixerai
un cap à nos forces armées, en conservant les
deux composantes de notre dissuasion nucléaire,
et en resserrant les liens entre l’armée et la na-

Je ferai ratifier la Charte européenne des langues régionales ou minoritaires.

Je veux porter haut la voix et les valeurs de
la France dans le monde.
57

Je soutiendrai la mise en place d’une Organisation mondiale de l’environnement et d’une
véritable gouvernance de la mondialisation
autour du G20, des organisations régionales et
des Nations unies. Je resserrerai nos liens avec
les grands pays émergents (Chine, Inde, Brésil…). J’agirai pour une aide accrue aux pays en
développement et pour un renouveau du multilatéralisme. Je plaiderai pour une réforme de
l’ONU, notamment l’élargissement du Conseil de

36

37

tion. Je veillerai à ce que les armées disposent
des moyens de leur mission et d’une organisation performante. Je relancerai une politique industrielle de défense ambitieuse. Je m’attacherai à ce que l’Otan retrouve sa vocation initiale :
la préparation de la sécurité collective.

***

Madame, Monsieur,
Socialiste, je veux porter l’espoir
pour tous les Français.
Républicain, je veux
rassembler toute la France.
Avec vous, je serai le président
du changement.
Le changement, c’est maintenant.

38

39

les chiffres

Mon projet se fonde sur des hypothèses de croissance
de notre économie, à la fois prudentes et réalistes. La
croissance, très dégradée par la politique menée ces
dernières années, pourra atteindre de 2 à 2,5% en fin
de mandat.

Hypothèse
de
croissance

2012

2013

2014

2015

2016

2017

0,5%

1,7%

2%

2-2,5%

2-2,5%

2-2,5%

Pour maîtriser et diminuer l’endettement de la France, que
la droite a doublé en dix ans, je ramènerai les finances
publiques à l’équilibre, en respectant l’engagement de
3% de déficit par rapport au PIB en 2013.
2012

2013

2014

2015

2016

2017

Objectif de
baisse du
déficit

- 4,5%

- 3%

- 2,3%

- 1,6%

- 0,8%

+ 0%

Objectif de
désendettement

88,7%

88,6%

87,6%

85,8%

83,4%

80,2%

La dépense publique sera maîtrisée. Les prélèvements
obligatoires seront inférieurs à 47%, chiffre comparable
à celui affiché par la majorité sortante.

40

2012

2013

2014

2015

2016

2017

évaluation de
la dépense
publique

56,5%

56,3%

55,8%

55,3%

54,6%

53,9%

évaluation
du taux de
prélèvements
obligatoires

45,1%

46,5%

46,6%

46,8%

46,8%

46,9%

En dix ans la droite a accordé aux ménages les plus
aisés et aux grandes entreprises plus de 50 milliards
d’euros de cadeaux fiscaux qui ont creusé la dette et
accru les inégalités sans aucun bénéfice pour la croissance et l’emploi. Pour rétablir les finances publiques,
j’en annulerai 29 milliards, équitablement répartis entre
les ménages et les entreprises.
Pour mettre en œuvre mes priorités, j’engagerai des
mesures nouvelles pour un montant de 20 milliards
d’euros à l’horizon de l’année 2017. Ces politiques
seront équilibrées par des réductions de dépenses
ou par un financement spécifique. Par exemple, 5 milliards
d’euros seront consacrés au soutien à l’industrie et
aux PME, mais les avantages fiscaux accordés actuellement aux très grandes entreprises et au secteur
financier diminueront. 5 milliards d’euros seront destinés à soutenir l’emploi des jeunes et à lutter contre
le chômage, mais les dépenses encourageant les
entreprises à augmenter le recours aux heures supplémentaires seront supprimées. Je maîtriserai les
dépenses de l’État : toute nouvelle dépense sera financée par des économies et le nombre total des fonctionnaires de l’État n’augmentera pas.
Par cette stratégie globale, nous redresserons la France
avec sérieux et ambition.
41

ALORS, OÙ EN SOMMES-NOUS MAINTENANT ? ON
NOUS DIT QUE PLUS RIEN N’EST POSSIBLE. ON NOUS
DIT QU’ON NE PEUT RIEN FACE À LA DETTE, FACE AUX
MARCHÉS FINANCIERS, FACE AU RESTE DU MONDE. ON
NOUS DIT QUE NOS ENFANTS AURONT UNE VIE MOINS
FACILE QUE LEURS PARENTS. ON NOUS DIT QU’ON N’A
PLUS D’AUTRE CHOIX QUE DE SUBIR. ALORS QUE C’EST
JUSTEMENT POUR TOUTES CES RAISONS QUE C’EST

QU’IL FAUT RELEVER LA TÊTE, C’EST MAINTENANT
QU’IL FAUT FAIRE LES BONS CHOIX, C’EST MAINTENANT QU’IL FAUT REPRENDRE CONFIANCE EN NOUS,

LES CHANCES DE RÉUSSIR, C’EST MAINTENANT QUE
NOUS AVONS UNE CHANCE À SAISIR.

PGE 94160

w

C’EST MAINTENANT QU’IL FAUT SE DONNER TOUTES

Ne pas jeter sur la voie publique.

MAINTENANT QU’IL FAUT AGIR. C’EST MAINTENANT

LE CHANGEMENT

C’EST MAINTENANT

francoishollande.fr

827545_livret FH final V6_NEW BENDAY.indd 44

30/01/12 20:13


