MY PROJECT

FOR FRANCE
AND FRENCH

© istockphoto.com

ORGANIZE ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL RECOVERY

PURCHASING POWER

ECONOMIC RECOVERY
 All salaries up to € 1,500
get increased
200 € net. This will be
including funded the establishment
a Social Contribution
to imports of 3% on the value
imported goods.
 Gas prices, electricity
and the train will be immediately
lowered by 5%.

 The TIPP (fuel tax) will be lowered
20%, thereby reducing by 12% the price
pump. This measure will be funded by a tax
major oil and gas companies.

Annual tion at least equal to that
inflation.
 To protect consumers, the rates on credits

consumption and credits
Real will be supervised by
law, as well as the wear rate for
prevent credit agencies
lend at exorbitant rates.

© Lena Bernatsky - Fotolia.com

 The minimum old age, renamed "Solidarity allowance
Elderly "must be
reserved in priority to French and be a revalorisa-

 The revaluation of pensions
will be performed, as well as pensions
reversion paid to the spouse of the deceased,
and currently set at € 18,720 per year, will
enhanced to € 30,000. The index point will be upgraded
for small salaries in the public service.

EURO

FIND OUR MONETARY FREEDOM
 For 10 years, the euro single currency, has kept any of his promises. Bankruptcy
is clear: price explosion, unemployment, relocation, debt. France must prepare,
with its European partners, the evolution of the euro, which would become a common currency coexisting
with the franc, which would be restored. This device, offered French in a referendum,
would oxygenate our economy and return to the path of prosperity.
 France is already in debt
€ 60 billion to bail
Greece, Ireland and Portugal.
She just commit to 143 billion
euros in the ESM (European Stability Mechanism).
 Staying in the euro, is to
condemned to "slow death"

in the words of an economist.
Indeed, there are only two ways to
regain competitiveness: either lower
wages and deconstruct the system
social protection, the choice of
WSPU; either act on our currency
denying the dramatic austerity plans
social, it is the choice of Marine Le Pen.

2

 It will be necessary to adopt
speculative movements of capital controls.
Depository banks will be subject to a
partial nationalization as long
as necessary to clean up banking practices and secure savings
the French.

© istockphoto.com

ORGANIZE ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL RECOVERY

EMPLOYMENT

BUSINESS SUPPORT AND SHOPS:
ECONOMIC PATRIOTISM
 A smart protection
Borders will be implemented to fight
against unfair competition from countries with very
low cost of labor and relocations
which are the consequence.

 Small businesses will
defended against the great
Distribution: an action will be initiated
by the State at the central
purchase to restore balance
between the independent trade
and retail. Links
exclusivity between central purchasing and
large distributors will be banned.

 An administration dedicated exclusively to TPE /
SMEs will be created to simplify the bureaucracy which are
our entrepreneurs victims.
 Learning from 14 years
will be restored.

© istockphoto.com

 Priority will be given
in the context of political
land use
rurality and the maintenance and
the development of small
Trade in rural areas.

 The state and administrations will
the obligation to obtain supplies from
French companies (great law
"Buy French").

DEBT

SE RELEASE OF FINANCIAL MARKETS
 The monopoly
banks will be deleted
in déprivatisant money
public. The Bank of France
will be able to lend to the Treasury
without public interests.
In 40 years, France paid
1400 Interest billion euros
while financial markets
we have 1 700 000 000 000
euros of debt.

 The lifestyle of Power will be greatly reduced: the
sumptuary expenditure, excessive allowances of elected
and unjustified advantages will be removed. Similarly,
grants to organizations and associations not under
the general interest will be challenged.
 A proactive action plan will be implemented to identify
and drastically reduce unnecessary and harmful spending on
country: social and tax evasion, inefficient tax loopholes (such as the so-called recess
"Cope" to the benefit of large groups), decentralization costs, weight
of uncontrolled immigration on social budgets.

3

© Ch.Allg - Fotolia.com

ORGANIZE ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL RECOVERY

RETIREMENT

ADJUSTMENT OF PENSIONS
AND MANAGEMENT OF DEPENDENCE
 The pension system
Distribution will be made permanent
through a realistic policy
and ambitious. Find the
Full employment is the first
requirement, which presupposes
complete break with politics
the WSPU. France must
rearm the face of globalization.
Much natalist policy
will be preferred over immigration
costly and destabilizing. There
solidarity between generations, which
is the foundation of our system of
pensions, assumes new
many generations, who will
Tomorrow the strength of France.
 A fifth branch
General Security Plan
Social dedicated to addiction
will be created, of permitting
taking charge of the collective
dependency, without the system
not based on mechanisms
insurance-private. This fifth
branch will be entrusted with the responsibility
of all financial resources
and human being implemented
by departments (allowance
personal autonomy) and
health facilities. It will
main mission is to improve
management of the conditions of the

 Full retirement annuities will be restored 40
and the legal age of retirement will be reduced to
60 years. The current plate (labor income) is too
narrow and weighing on competitiveness. It should therefore
expand the tax base to capital income to finance
all services falling under the principle of
national solidarity. The imbalance of the pension system
is also linked to a temporary demographic imbalance.
In this exceptional situation, assignment to the branch
old age a portion of the proceeds from customs duties
social and environmental factors that will be set up,
would regain balance.
 The right to minimum pension (ASPA, amounting
Monthly € 750) for foreigners not having
worked or paid contributions in France for at least ten
years will be deleted.

loss of autonomy and accommodation
in nursing home. It
will also be responsible for evaluating
scientific purposes related to
dependence, to adapt policies
Public and lifestyles and
to organize training in management
the addiction. In the short term, the rest
for dependents will
declined to allow all to live
in dignity. Further analysis
the dependence-related needs
all areas (health and medicine,
urban planning, architecture, ergonomics,
equipment, access to public services,
etc.) will be held in parallel

4

to be able in the medium term,
adjust policies to changing
demographic.
 All the professionals
concerned and caregivers
dependent persons
may benefit from training
specific.
 The public offer of houses
Retirement will be maintained and
developed, whereas currently the
private sector is playing an increasingly
largest practicing price
increasingly prohibitive.

© Olivier DIRSON - Fotolia.com

ORGANIZE ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL RECOVERY

TAXATION

ESCALATION AND TAX JUSTICE
 The housing tax, opaque, will
integrated with the income tax,
just, in the form of a tax
Additional which will also gradually
the income tax.
 The priority will be to make it more
progressive, without weighing, tax
the personal income
by creating new units
intermediaries. The slice
top of the Tax
Revenue will be increased to 46%. So,
the middle classes pay
less the income tax, but
very rich households pay the
more. The taxation of dividends
will be reviewed to ensure that the revenue
capital are not favored by
compared to labor income.

 A single progressive tax on
Heritage will be created, the result of the merger
between property tax and tax on
wealth (ISF) on a renewed foundation
ensuring tax justice. This will
remove the current property tax based
on unjust bases dating from 1970. The ISF
will be integrated into this unique and tax
a surcharge equal to meeting the
same rate as today.
 The staples
continue to benefit from the reduced rate
VAT at 5.5%. But VAT can be made
more gradual, so as to disengage from
new recipes and to meet the objective
priority of tax justice. VAT rate
plus will be created for luxury goods
(sedans, jewelry and luxury cosmetics between
other examples).

BUSINESS TAXATION
 Three tax rates on companies
be created: 15%, 25% and 34%.
The lowest rates will favor
individual entrepreneurs and SMEs.
The revenue generated would be distributed
as follows: 2/3 of the budget
State and 1/3 for the Community budget.
 Regarding taxation
businesses, the merger of IS and

the Economic Contribution
Territorial (CET) will be set
artwork. Indeed, the tax burden
is no longer controlled between tax
(CIT) levied by the State and
THIS which funds local authorities
(and which decomposes itself between the
Land tax on companies
and the contribution of value added).

5

 The amortization fund
Trade will be deductible to the acquisition
and the sale of taxable capital gain.
 The individual entrepreneurs have the same treatment as corporations
(three progressive tax rates on
companies).

DR

RESTORING THE STATE AUTHORITY

IMMIGRATION

REVERSE !
 The national priority is applied
all French, regardless
their origin. Businesses
will be encouraged to hire priority,
equal skills, people
having French nationality. The
 Any person who enters or remains
Authorities also respect
France illegally will be deported.
this principle, and the list of jobs
called "sovereignty" will be broadened,
 The clandestine demonstrations of support
particularly in sovereign sectors
will be banned. The possibility in the right
where professions are reserved for
French, regularize illegal immigrants
people with French nationality.
will be deleted. The suction pump
Foreigners who work and
illegal immigration will be deleted, as
contribute benefit from normal fruit
the state medical aid, reserved for illegal migrants and
their contributions.
which allows them to free treatment in France.
 Legal immigration will be reduced
200 000 entries a year to 10 000 entries
per year by focusing on talents that will
the radiation of our country, and innovation.

 Remove the soil and law
in-depth reform of the Code of
French nationality. Naturalization
wins and will be subject to conditions
Strict peaceful presence and extended
the territory in lawful status,
mastery of the French language and
proof of assimilation. More generally,
dual nationality will no longer be allowed
except in cases of dual nationality
with another European country.
 The legal aliens
which are not will work
incentive to return home
after a year of inactivity and
their their pension contributions

will be returned as
capital. In terms of social housing,
equal status, housing will first
offered to persons having the nationality
French. Child benefit
reserved for families where one parent
less is French or European.

of origin through bilateral agreements
signed with countries of origin
the most represented nationals
French statistics of crime.
In all cases, recovery of
expulsion to their country of origin
foreigners convicted criminally.

 The French anti-racism as
motivation of a crime or offense will
considered as a circumstance
particularly aggravating and weigh down
So the sentence.

 A cooperation policy
Enhanced will be implemented,
especially with African countries.
Development aid will
subject to close cooperation
with the French authorities, in relation
migration flows and procedures
deportation of illegal migrants to their
country.

 Imprisonment
pronounced against foreigners
will be executed in their country

6

© LD

RESTORING THE STATE AUTHORITY

SECURITY

ZERO TOLERANCE
 A zero tolerance policy will be introduced
throughout the national territory.
 The organized attacks on forces
order, emergency or fire department will
severely repressed. The crime networks,
of "big brothers" and bullies will be dismantled.
A police pressure will be exerted on the basins
crime to "take the field" and true
political information, today reserved for
countering terrorism, will be developed.

 The status of firefighters
will be guaranteed that it is threatened by
the government and the European Union.
 The death penalty will be restored or
the life imprisonment
real will be introduced. The alternative

between these two possibilities to strengthen
our criminal arsenal will be offered to
French referendum. Reclusion
life would be final and
irreversible, the criminal would be without
opportunity to get out one day in prison.

© Fotolia.com

 The sanctions will be strengthened against repeat offenders. More than any social benefits
(aid, housing, RSA, etc.) will
paid or repeat offenders
litigants a criminal sentence of one
year imprisonment or more.

 In five years, the police force
and gendarmerie removed from
2005 will be restored.
Moreover, the material resources
police and gendarmerie (weapons,
vehicles, telecommunications, ...) will
improved. It should stop
closing gendarmerie
and police stations and
restore the dissolved EGM and CRS units.

SECULARITY

THE REPUBLIC
AND AN ENTIRE
 In the Constitution, the principle
Next will be written: "The Republic
does not recognize any community. "
 Any funding by communities
local places of worship or activities

 The positive discrimination in recruitment
or receiving trainees, students or
apprentices will be prohibited in the function
Public, private companies and schools
and educational institutions financed at least
in part by public money.

worship will be banned. The 1905 law
will be strongly applied. The faithful
will build their places of worship with
their own money, whatever religion
concerned. To minimize any infiltration
a politico-religious ideology, it

7

is not possible to appeal
with money from foreign countries.
 The conspicuous religious symbols
will be banned for agents as
for public service users.

© istockphoto.com

RESTORING THE STATE AUTHORITY

JUSTICE

INDEPENDENCE AND FIRM
 The prison sentences provided
the Penal Code and imposed
the courts will
effectively enforced. The
Rebates will be automatic penalty
deleted.

 The number of judges will
revised upwards to make the
Justice faster, and therefore more
right. France must target ratio
20 judges per 100 000 inhabitants in
2017, against 12 per 100,000 today.
 A vast prison plan will be adopted
to create, as soon as
time, 40,000 new spaces
jail. This is a good measure
Directors, a humanitarian imperative,
but also a prerequisite for any policy
enforcement of sentences. With 40 000
additional prison places, France
will place the European average.

 The independence and neutrality
the judiciary will be guaranteed
by deleting the right to be
syndicated to engage politically,
to be a candidate, write or testify
about any case which
related to their function. It is, in fact,
intolerable that a magistrate can
tell his investigation. She does him
not belong; it belongs first
the suffering of the victims and then
the person questioned.
 To ensure strong and effective treatment of delinquency
juvenile, criminal responsibility

 A real place will
given to the victim
in the process
judiciary. This one
is too often denied,
despised and forgotten.

will be increased for all minors over
13 years, the treatment of files
on will be accelerated and aids
social parents to children repeat offenders will be deleted, subject
the proof of their deficiency.
 The criminal courts nearby will be created on the model
of the Courts.
 A Assize Court jury, after
a real trial, decide to grant
or not parole for
sentenced to life imprisonment
Criminal accompanied by safety period.

DEMOCRACY AND PUBLIC MORALS

RESPECT AND SERVE THE FRENCH
 The referendum
initiative
People will
in line
Constitution and
conditions
its organization
will be reduced to
to allow
actual exercise of
direct democracy.

 The president of
Republic, a period of 7 years, will
not renewable. The electioneering has become
a real wound to our country. The Head
the State must act solely for the French and
not for re-election.
 The referendum is the only way
amend the Constitution. Only the people
will be able to undo what the people did.
 The proportional voting system will
applied to all elections, national

8

or local, direct or indirect, to ensure
representation of all political
chosen by voters, particularly within
the National Assembly. Multiple office
Executives will not be possible.
 Local governments overseas will have their status changed and ringfenced
in the Constitution.
 In order to ensure the freedom of the press,
large groups dependent orders
will no longer hold public media.

© Christian Schwier - Fotolia.com

 The justice budget
will be revalued by
25% in five years:
it is imperative to give
how to Justice
its missions.

© Microcosmos - Fotolia.com

RESTORING THE STATE AUTHORITY

PUBLIC SERVICES

ACCESSIBLE FOR ALL AND EVERYWHERE
 An effort of organization and efficiency will
led to modernize and streamline the operation
merchant utilities.
 A renegotiation of EU treaties
issue of public services will end the dogma of "
free and undistorted competition ", especially as regards
rail transport and postal services.
 As part of the policy in favor of power
purchase, illicit agreements between private operators will
criminally sanctioned.
 The "all TGV" can not alone take the place of politics
rail. So that the rail network covers the entire territory
national and many regional lines will be renovated or restored.

 The organization and budget departments will
streamlined. A single Inspectorate General,
with extensive autonomy status, will be created
to control administrations.
 The public service will be modernized
the widespread use of the Internet and
new technologies.
 Gage independence, the status of the function
Public will be preserved, and the rules will
determined to eradicate conflicts of interest to
the highest levels of the administration. In the
part of the training of officials, the focus
will be on the direction of the state and patriotism.

© porschelegend - Fotolia.com

 The office nearby station will be restored and
Post regain its status as a public institution.

PUBLIC FUNCTION

DEFENCE

MEANS OF FREEDOM
 An effective maritime force will
 The defense effort gradually return
restored to preserve resources over five years to 2% of GDP, which is necessary for
natural national treasure that is
sustainability of programs, modernization of
our 11 million km2 of maritime space.
hardware and retention.
 The participation of France
the integrated command
NATO will be denounced. Our
strategy will be refocused to
preserve the independence of
France, which must ensure by
her own interests and guarantee
safety.
 Our concept of deterrence
be reaffirmed and nuclear
specified. It must remain the foundation
of our defense strategy and
ultimate guarantee of security and
national independence.

 A National Guard
50,000 men reservists
and women will be constituted on
the whole territory (overseas
included) and in a mobilisable
short notice.

VETERANS

 The industrial sectors
Defence will
reconstituted in cooperation
with cer tain by partners
European. Such an effort will
beneficial for the economy
and many companies
sector.

 The France will demonstrate his gratitude to the returnees as well as
harkis and their families, recalling the
services that they have rendered to our country and
by permanently setting the compensation due.

9

 The veterans' pensions
will be revalued by allocating credits
available due to the decline
beneficiaries (22% over 5 years).

 November 11 will be maintained as
date of commemoration of the Great
War.

© nyul - Fotolia.com

THE FUTURE OF THE NATION

HEALTH

ACCESS TO CARE EVERYWHERE
FRENCH FOR ALL
 Access to health care throughout the country will be a
political priority by ensuring the presence of centers
multidisciplinary hospital or physician in each
population base, desertification being a drama
for rurality.
 A new drug policy will
implementation for outputting logical
purely accounting. The actual effectiveness of
drugs will be considered much more
discernment. Some delisted drugs
will again be reimbursed by the Security
Social at the normal rate.
 A procedure for sale
Details of prescribed drugs
and reimbursed by Security
Social will be introduced to limit
waste.
 size health structures
average will be privileged by
from the very small structures
often ineffective and inaccessible for Megastructures
people living in rural areas.
 The patients will be more
involved through associations
represent them in decision

 The social fraud will be fought
by securing Vitale cards
by the creation of the Vitale card
biometric and disabling
Vitale supernumerary cards
and fraudulent. The communities
Land will be required to
contribute fully to the fight against
fraud by communicating all
the information they have.
All social aids
fraudsters are repeat offenders
deleted.

decision affecting them: their
In particular role must be recognized
within the Transparency Committee
the High Health Authority (HAS)
 As to Alzheimer's disease,
a major research effort and
better cooperation between research
private and public research will be
priorities. The savings
through the removal of Aid
medical state will be affected
monitoring and coaching
patients and their families.
Anti-Alzheimer's drugs,

10

even imperfect, will not be
delisted.
 The hospital board and work
in hospitals will be reorganized
to permit the development of
nursing homes that will take into
load "small emergency" to
unclutter the emergency services.
 The supervision of the Ministry in
for Health Agencies on
regional health will be strengthened,
to ensure consistency of the
health policy throughout the
country.

© Fotolia.com

THE FUTURE OF THE NATION

FAMILY

FAMILY SUPPORT
AND natalist policy
 A parental income, equivalent to 80% of the SMIC, will
created to allow mothers or fathers
actually have the ability to choose between
gainful employment or devote themselves to
full-time education of their children. This income
would be accessible for 3 years from second child with a
the possibility of renewal for a period of 4 years for the 3rd
child. Enjoying a real legal and social status,
recipients of parental income will therefore have rights
correspondents (social protection, retirement, increased access to
vocational training, etc.).
 The family allowances, reserved for families
at least one parent is French, will be revalued
and indexed to the cost of living. They meet for
to hedge a significant portion of the real cost of
the dependent child.
 An SRU is adopted
to impose in all
the creation of common spaces
Additional crib.
 The retirement age will be lowered
for mothers with elevated
three children having high
a disabled child.
 Family poverty
French parent will
fought by accompanying
in their search for housing and
mobilizing large companies
their conditions of work (flexibility
hours, etc.).
 The free choice for women
must also not be that of
not abortion: better prevention

and information are essential, a
Empowering parents
necessary, the possibility of adoption
Prenatal should be offered a
improving family benefits
for many families must be
introduced.
 The child will be protected and defended
against violence: the law of July 1949
on publications intended for young people
and renewed action and encouraged the
family associations must allow
better protection of children
against all forms of violence,
including pornography and violence
moral violence via the Internet. Any act
abuse, violence, let alone
pedophilia against children must be
severely punished.

11

 irreplaceable Institution,
the family is the cell
base of society.
The family must be based
exclusively on the union of a
man and a woman
to accommodate children
born of a father and a mother.
We therefore oppose
any request for creation
a sex marriage and / or
for adoption by couples
homosexuals. However, life
Common sparking interest
Common hardware, PACS
provides sufficient solution
and will not be challenged.

HANDICAP
 The criteria for assessing the
disability and dependence will
simplified and clarified.
 The Allowance for disabled adults (AAH)
will be revalued.
 Reception centers for children
disabled will be developed while
enabling them with home care
using specialized staff as
as possible.
 The mistreatment of persons
disabilities will be actively resisted.
This taboo must be finally broken.
 Regional institutions
Education will be built.

© pressmaster - Fotolia.com

THE FUTURE OF THE NATION

SCHOOL

TRANSMISSION OF KNOWLEDGE,
Meritocracy AND DISCIPLINE
 It will put an end to the adventure "pédagogiste": the
phonics will be mandatory in PC history
France regain its place at the heart of teaching and will
learned chronologically throughout schooling.
Learning the French geography and compulsory
taught on maps.

 From kindergarten, and more
still in elementary school,
the school will be refocused on
the transmission of knowledge
basic reading, writing,
count.
 Phasing during the five-year college
one who has been a terrible failure.

 The technical and manual industries,
often offering real prospects
professional, will be promoted.

 The discipline will be restored to
school. The authority of teachers and
respect due to them will be rehabilitated.
 Learning to 14 years will
restored.

© Demid - Fotolia.com

 Le baccalauréat sera maintenu et
revalorisé afin qu’il retrouve son caractère

sélectif : refus de tout contrôle continu,
seul l’examen national permet l’égalité.

CULTURE

PROTECTION DU PATRIMOINE
ET FIN DU COPINAGE
 Les cessions du patrimoine national seront
désormais interdites afin d'éviter la grande
braderie des biens appartenant au peuple.
Des contrats d'usufruit de 30 ans renouvelables
pourront être conclus.
 Notre patrimoine et notre culture
seront valorisés : la défense du patrimoine
sera remise au premier plan, qu’il s’agisse des
monuments historiques ou du patrimoine rural
(églises ou autres), faisant l’objet d’un plan
d’urgence. Le mécénat, comme le marché de
l’art, sera encouragé par des mesures fiscales.

 Le budget du ministère de la Culture
privilégie trop Paris et ses stériles
copinages par rapport à la province. Il faudra
inverser ce rapport. Les initiatives artistiques
amateures devront être mieux prises en compte.

INTERNET
 La liberté des Français et le respect de leur vie privée doivent être garantis
et renforcés dans ce domaine. Une licence globale sera instaurée pour les
échanges privés sur Internet, qui doivent rester libres. Les dispositions
liberticites (HADOPI, LOPPSI 2, Traité ACTA) seront modifiées ou abrogées.
La lutte contre la pédocriminalité sera une priorité.

12

© Dudarev Mikhail - Fotolia.com

ASSURER L’AVENIR DE LA NATION

AGRICULTURE & RURALITÉ

POUR UNE POLITIQUE RURALE VOLONTAIRE
 La ruralité constitue un atout qui doit
être protégé. La désertification des zones
rurales sera combattue, notamment
par le rétablissement de services publics
de proximité et la généralisation de l’Internet
haut débit sur tout le territoire national.
 La France abandonnera la PAC au
bénéfice de la PAF (Politique agricole
française) permettant un développement
stratégique plus justement réparti entre petites
et grosses structures agricoles.
 Les retraites agricoles seront
revalorisées, spécialement pour le
conjoint survivant. La retraite agricole
minimum sera fixée à 85 % du SMIC.
 Actuellement, la France contribue de 20 milliards
d’euros à l’Union européenne et n’en « récupère »
que 13 milliards dans le cadre de la PAC. La France
adoptera une politique agricole nationale
ambitieuse financée par la réduction de sa
contribution globale au budget européen, dans le
cadre de la renégociation des traités européens
qui sera entreprise dès 2012.
 L’agriculture française bénéficiera d’une loi
« Achetons français » qui obligera les administrations
d’État et les administrations des collectivités territoriales,
ainsi que les cantines et restaurants d’entreprise, à se
fournir prioritairement en denrées alimentaires produites
en France.
 Pour garantir la sécurité alimentaire, les
importations vers l’Europe seront soumises aux
mêmes contraintes phytosanitaires que celles
imposées à nos paysans producteurs. Cette exigence
sera imposée par l’intermédiaire des droits de douane.

Informations et actualités sur www.ruralite2012.fr

PÊCHE
 La pêche professionnelle est vitale pour l’équilibre
de notre littoral. Une gestion responsable des ressources
halieutiques est tout à fait compatible avec la préservation
de notre flotte de pêche.
 La modernisation des navires et l’amélioration des
techniques de capture seront encouragées, au lieu
d’envoyer à la casse des centaines d’unités, laissant ainsi le
secteur aux mains des multinationales de l’agroalimentaire
et de la distribution.
 La Politique commune de la pêche telle qu’actuellement
négociée avec l’Union européenne est préjudiciable à la pêche
française. Le système des quotas en vigueur, adossé à une
conception libérale du partage des ressources, ne permet pas
un suivi adéquat des stocks disponibles, car il est appliqué à
des zones trop vastes et manque totalement de souplesse.
Un système basé sur la saisonnalité et la sélection
des modes de capture sera instauré. Plus simple à
mettre en œuvre et à faire évoluer, il sera surtout
moins contraignant pour les marins-pêcheurs.
 Notre Zone économique exclusive (ZEE) sera
entièrement gérée au niveau national.
 Des accords bilatéraux avec les pays concernés
seront négociés s’agissant des zones de pêche situées
hors de notre ZEE et sur lesquelles les équipages français
sont traditionnellement présents.

CHASSE
 Pour mettre fi n au diktat des technocrates
européens, la France décidera des dates d’ouverture
et de fermeture de la chasse. À l’inverse de la politique
actuelle, les chasseurs et les fédérations de chasse, qui jouent
un rôle essentiel dans la préservation de notre écosystème,
seront soutenus par les pouvoirs publics.

13

© Leiftryn - Fotolia.com

ASSURER L’AVENIR DE LA NATION

ÉCOLOGIE

PRODUIRE AU PLUS PRÈS,
RETRAITER SUR PLACE
 La relocalisation des
forces de production des
entreprises, dans le cadre
de la réindustrialisation de
la France, permettra une
production au plus près des
systèmes de distribution
et des consommateurs.
Les protections raisonnées aux
frontières nationales (droits de
douane et contingentements)
seront déterminées selon le niveau
de protection sociale des pays
exportateurs, mais aussi selon
la qualité écologique de leur
production.

 Une politique énergétique écologique sera mise en œuvre. La
question écologique ne peut ignorer celle
de la politique énergétique que compte
mener la France.
En dehors de l’énergie hydraulique,
les énergies dites « vertes » ne sont
aujourd’hui pas réalistes en l’état : à titre
d’exemple, pour produire l’électricité
nécessaire à la France, il faudrait installer 275 000 éoliennes, ou 5 milliards
de mètres carrés de panneaux photovoltaïques (un département moyen), ou
encore consacrer la moitié des terres
cultivables françaises aux biocarburants
afin de remplacer notre consommation en
carburants fossiles. Nous soutiendrons la
recherche afin de faire de ces technolo-

 La protection animale est une exigence : la législation
concernant l’élevage en batterie sera revue afin d’offrir
un espace vital décent aux animaux. Les éleveurs seront
aidés pour mettre leurs installations en conformité avec les
nouvelles normes.
 L’interdiction de l’abattage des animaux destinés à
la consommation sans étourdissement préalable, qui
s’impose pourtant à la France, sera respectée.
La législation concernant les expérimentations sur des
animaux sera durcie, notamment pour les cas où la recherche
permet de les éviter.
Les programmes de lutte contre l’abandon d’animaux de
compagnie seront soutenus par l’octroi par l’État de plages
de publicité gratuites sur le service public audiovisuel, et un
appui accru aux associations engagées dans ce combat.

gies un recours possible et viable dans le
cadre d’utilisations locales (particuliers,
communes ou entreprises). L’objectif est
ici de couvrir à terme 10 à 15 % de nos
besoins énergétiques. Les recherches
dans le domaine de l’hydrogène doivent
être valorisées et nous soutiendrons le
programme ITER à Cadarache.
 Afin de garantir la primauté de la
sécurité alimentaire, il faut assurer
l’indépendance effective de l’Agence
française de sécurité sanitaire des
aliments, en éliminant toutes les
possibilités de conflits d’intérêt. Une
liberté d’appréciation devra aussi être protégée vis-à-vis des organismes européens
et internationaux dont l’indépendance n’est
pas toujours garantie.

14

 Maintenir l’indépendance énergétique de la France et ses bonnes
performances en matière d’émission de CO2 impose de conserver
l’énergie nucléaire à moyen terme.
Cela suppose d’investir dans la recherche,
en particulier sur les dispositifs de sûreté
du nucléaire et sur le rendement des nouveaux réacteurs destinés à remplacer
ceux en fin de vie. Parce que le risque
nucléaire ne peut pas être réduit à zéro,
à long terme il est souhaitable de pouvoir
sortir du nucléaire. Pour réduire la part
du nucléaire, la recherche sera valorisée
dans les énergies renouvelables et dans
les nouvelles sources d’énergie que la
science permettra de créer.

© creol974 - Fotolia.com

ASSURER L’AVENIR DE LA NATION

OUTRE-MER

VISION STRATÉGIQUE ET ÉGALITÉ
ENTRE LES CITOYENS
 L’outre-mer français est une composante essentielle de
notre présence dans le monde. Elle permet à notre pays et
à ses 11 millions de km2 de zone économique exclusive d’être la
deuxième puissance maritime mondiale. Nous tirons de ces parties
de France disséminées dans chaque coin du monde notre fierté,
notre richesse et un incroyable vivier de talents et de forces vives.

 Pour faciliter les déplacements entre la
métropole et l’outre-mer, le principe de
continuité territoriale dont l’État est
le garant doit être assuré. Les tarifs
des compagnies aériennes seront négociés
par l’État pour éviter les prix prohibitifs,
notamment lors des vacances scolaires.

 L’égalité entre les Français
de métropole et d’outre-mer
s’agissant de l’accès aux services
publics, notamment numériques, doit
être une réalité. Un effort particulier devra
être fait sur les offres internet encore
trop élevées.

© illustrez-vous - Fotolia.com

 L’exploitation des richesses
de notre sous-sol sera favorisée,
qu’elle soit pétrolière ou aurifère en
Guyane ou encore liée au nickel en
Nouvelle-Calédonie. Des financements
publics assureront les développements
portuaires et routiers.

 La France doit avoir une vision
stratégique pour l’outre-mer
en effectuant les investissements
nécessaires pour tirer pleinement profit
de « l’or bleu » qui représente une
richesse et un potentiel immenses.

TRAITÉS EUROPÉENS

POUR UNE EUROPE DES NATIONS LIBRES
 Dans le cadre de
l’article 50 du Traité de
l’Union européenne, une
renégociation des traités
sera initiée afin de rompre
avec la construction
européenne dogmatique en
total échec. Il faut désormais
jeter les bases d’une Europe
respectueuse des souverainetés
populaires, des identités
nationales, des langues et des
cultures, et qui soit réellement
au service des peuples par des
actions concrètes.

 La France devra retrouver
la maîtrise de ses frontières,
de préférence au sein d’une
association libre d’États européens
partageant la même vision et les
mêmes intérêts sur des sujets tels que
l’immigration ou les règles devant régir
les échanges extérieurs et la circulation
des capitaux.
 La France devra retrouver la
maîtrise de sa monnaie et de sa
politique monétaire.
 Une politique de grands projets
européens innovants sera mise en
œuvre, au service des peuples,

15

bâtie à partir de partenariats
volontaires, comme l’ont été Ariane
ou Airbus décidés, faut-il le rappeler, en
dehors des institutions communautaires.
 Il sera proposer la mise en place
d’une Union paneuropéenne (des
États souverains) incluant la Russie
et la Suisse et respectant le statut
de neutralité, le droit national, la
fiscalité nationale… La Turquie
ne sera pas associée à ce projet.
 Tous les partenariats économiques
avec les pays du Maghreb seront
renégociés sur la base d’un arrêt de
leurs flux migratoires vers la France.

12 ENGAGEMENTS
DE MARINE LE PEN

OUI
!
la France
ÉLÉCTION PRÉSIDENTIELLE - 22 AVRIL ET 6 MAI 2012

01 41 20 26 26
www.marinelepen2012.fr
Affiche OUI OK HD.indd 1

08/03/12 16:02

Imprimé par RCS Paris B 400 363 198

Retrouvez le programme
complet et chiffré
de Marine Le Pen
sur Internet :
marinelepen2012.fr
La jeunesse soutient Marine Le Pen :
jeunesavecmarine.fr

✂

1

Revaloriser les salaires les plus modestes et
les pensions de retraite pour améliorer le pouvoir
d’achat. Instaurer une véritable justice fiscale par la
simplification et la progressivité des impôts.

2
3
4

Stopper l’immigration et instaurer la priorité
nationale pour l’emploi, le logement et les aides sociales.

5

Rétablir de véritables services publics
sur tout le territoire national en assurant notamment
un accès pour tous à des soins de qualité.

6
7
8
9
10
11
12

Assurer la sécurité des Français
par l’application de la tolérance zéro.
Restaurer la morale publique et redonner la parole
au peuple français par le recours au référendum
pour les choix politiques importants.

Aider les familles par l’instauration
d’un revenu parental.
Réorienter l’école dans son rôle de transmission
des savoirs. Rétablir l’autorité et la méritocratie.
Réindustrialiser la France par des
protections raisonnables aux frontières.
Se libérer de la tutelle des marchés financiers
pour sortir de la spirale de la dette.
Renégocier les traités européens
pour retrouver la souveraineté nationale.
Imposer la laïcité républicaine
face aux revendications politico-religieuses.
Retrouver l’indépendance diplomatique
et militaire de la France.

REJOIGNEZ-NOUS !

COUPON À RENVOYER À

:

CMLP 2012 - 78, rue des Suisses - 92000 Nanterre - 01 41 20 26 26

Nom ……………………………………………………………… Prénom ………………………………………………………………………
Adresse ………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
Ville

………………………………………

…………………………………………………………………………………………

Tél. ………………………………………………… Mail ……………………………………… @ ………………………………………………

❑ je soutiens l’action de Marine Le Pen
❑ je souhaite adhérer au Comité de soutien de Marine Le Pen
❑ je souhaite rencontrer un représentant local de Marine Le Pen


