The presidential Eva Joly Project

Committed to the service of the common good for years,
in the fight against corruption and tax havens,
outraged by the injustices and social inequalities,
I entered politics, he three years ago,
with Europe Ecologie.
I was not born environmentalist, I
it became, like many of you, realizing that our risk
development mode and
Life poses to the planet. Us
are the victims today
our irresponsibility. I am
convinced that the transformation

Ecological tion is the answer
the challenges we face: to build a world
fairer, development mode that leaves no one in
wayside, that ends
the divide between North and South.

the environmental movement.
Make the world more beautiful and
fairer are the two
sides of the same impulse.
The ecological emergency is inseparable from the struggle against inequality and lobbies.
As for France and Europe,
they are bound up: the people
have everything to gain to cooperate,
unite and create together. I know
in my flesh enrichment
that causes the encounter between
cultures.
The policy has led me to discuss with thousands of French, in neighborhoods and
countryside, small towns and
large cities in
all circles. I saw France
inventing the future everyday,
with courage and hope.

I have not dreamed all my life
to be a candidate in the presidential election, I am today.
This is a strong commitment.

Thanks to this energy, ecological transformation can output
our country of the systemic crisis
we are experiencing.

I draw on my experience the
beliefs that are similar to those

Ecologists, we take
this measure as it is.

"The ecological transformation
our country can come out of the crisis
Systemic we are experiencing. "

4

We heard the anguish
multiple of French and
French. Anxieties about
the economic future of our
countries face rapidly rising
unemployment and job insecurity, and in front of insecurities
daily; concerns for
the future of our children.
The French and French
face a huge
dismay changes
the world and attacks on
the environment here at our door, as on a global scale.
We feel up unprecedented threats to our health.
We are disturbed by
climatic upheavals fear and aggravation.

to write the happiest page
our history. I like Europe.
I want strong and active. I hope that his voice is again
respected and contributes to
resolve the imbalances
world. However, it is now
disowned by some of our compatriots, divided on large
issues that will determine our

"We must sweep fatalism
and despair:
Ecology is the solution. "
future. Europe is in bad shape.
I want it to become a political power and democratic space.
***

The French and the French are
in disorientation. That order, does one apply? There
Political she still has some
control over events, face
the dehumanized forces
finance? How to accept the
violence inequality, slips and abuse, immorality
triumphant? I can still hear
indignation at so many bad blows in our
country, the Republican Ethics - and
simply to democracy.
With you, I am warning of the dangers hanging over Europe, our precious Europe. It us
brought more than sixty years
Peace - the most expensive of all the common property. She allowed

In response to these anxieties and
these threats in response to pessimism, we are to meet the
head. It is good to be indignant, he
must especially sweeping and fatalism
despair.
We want to open the door
the future because we have the conviction ecology, this is the solution.
Political ecology is not a
magical approach. It is neither
incantatory or without effort. It
does not offer "an output
crisis "announced in the wings ...
like the mythical "return to
growth. "
5

We are not in a crisis
passenger, we live a step
the exhaustion of a system.
What is needed therefore to France
is more than a political change is even more than an alternative: he needs a project
this century. We propose a new course for the company that is
ours: a policy of civilization to found a society where
becomes possible to live better
face four major challenges:
the
resources
Natural
are exhausted by dint of looting and
waste. They will be rare
and expensive. We will make the choice
economic models and
friendly behavior, sober, again in agreement with
nature, ensuring better
to general conditions of survival

"The environmentalists project
is a reconciliation project. "
Future rations. Conversion
will shape ecological in the sense
a stronger economy, more
job-rich, containing
new industrial activities,
more concerned with agriculture
our food sovereignty and
our health, urbanization
controlled, balanced energy situation, preparing to
turn the fuel page
fossils and having committed the exit
and succession nuclear;

- The environmental damage
and health will be increasingly
less tolerated. We can
build together such
diversified and decentralized, the
lifestyles that are carriers
precautionary and harmony, which
reduce our footprint on the
planet and the atmosphere, mitigating the risks to
we and our children;
- Inequalities and discrimination do
cease to grow. Do
equality a reality!
Share powers by building a Sixth Republic
where the powers are decentralized, and citizens will have a
effective power. This new balance will not harm the assertion
a federal state, firm and fair,
strong enough, in particular,
to ensure sustainability
our public finances;
- If globalization follows its
unbridled course, the fracture will bring heavy conflicts. These suggest probable events famines, wars,
the intensification of currents
migration. I want to take the
France and Europe towards active solidarity, particularly with the
South poles apart perversions of Françafrique.
I want to work for the
demilitarization, including nuclear, and governance
stronger multilateral, backing
6

the United Nations. And we will act for the next Earth Summit Rio + 20 is a
success.

emerges a possible output
crisis. Finally reconcile the French and French with the future
by ecological transition
prepares tomorrow's world.

***
The project I wear, that of
environmentalists, is a reconciliation project. After five years of division, fragmentation
society, it is time to reconcile. Reconcile French
and French among themselves, refusing all against the policies of
all. Reconcile France with
nature and the environment. Reconcile France with Europe,
because it is at this level that

The mutation that promises it
We must drive it and not
the subject. Let's make the
upheavals that link to
the horizon become opportunities.
Helping with ambition
reasonable and fierce determination, building society
Future I traces the contours here, with you.

Eva Joly

7

Protecting the planet
building the future
The fight against corruption,
lift banking secrecy, tackling tax havens
Neither nuclear nor greenhouse effect:
commit the energy transition
Preserving nature and landscapes
An ecological emergency law
for Environmental Excellence

Improve our everyday
with ecological transition
Create one million of proximity and quality jobs
Guarantee a decent income,
reduce bills, restore purchasing power
A peasant agriculture for good nutrition
Health: prevention first
A roof, it is a right
A simpler tax system fairer, greener

A federal Europe,
a fairer world
A policy for Europe out of the crisis
To end the North-South divide and Francafrique
An open and cosmopolitan France

A copy Republic
Guaranteeing public freedoms
A Sixth Republic
Employees, users, NGOs: fifth citizen power

A republic of equality
Focus on neighborhoods
One school of emancipation and social promotion
The creation: a common good
for a living democracy
The gender equality running
Give a future to the youth
A "Pact for Gender Equality"

s
n
o
e
g
Prote
,
e
t
è
n
the pla
s
n
o
s
i
u
constr
r
i
n
e
v
There

Fight against
Corruption,
lift banking secrecy,
address
tax havens

Grabbing wealth
often synonymous with that of resources. The same causes produce the same effects. This is
when that natural resources are diverted to
some of the global balances are threatened.

Planetary tice depriving countries
South of the possibility of real development. My fight for the lifting of banking secrecy against tax havens,
the end of corruption are
environmentalists fighting since
many years.

Replace the finance in its place,
is to give a new course
to our planet by releasing
resources for ecological transition and ending with unjustly

They conducted in local communities, we will conduct the
France, Europe and the
world.

12

1 To end banking secrecy and tax evasion, all
Financial institutions operating in France and open a
account to a French or French, anywhere in the
world, must inform the tax authorities. A similar provision was enacted in the US, which will apply from 2013
American citizens.
2 Only banks that no longer operate in tax havens
retain their banking license. This license, granted by the State,
gives the right to sell banking services.

3 France will weigh its weight for the establishment of a true
tax on financial transactions within the European Union,
starting with the euro area.
4 Banks have a state guarantee for deposits
savers up to 100 000 euros per person. The guarantee
Public will be reserved for banks not engaged in activities
speculative financial markets, so that taxpayers are not insurers of financial activities high
risk.
To put finance at the service of the real economy, a pole
public investment will be formed around the Caisse des Dépôts and OSEO. It will finance the transition projects
ecological, particularly those of small businesses and the economy
social solidarity, through the deployment of a Green booklet.

13

Neither nuclear,
or greenhouse:
pledge
the energy transition
We have to be put away
nuclear and climate risks.
Despite accumulating evidence of climate disruption, France has turned away
the climate emergency only
taking no further initiative
European and international
wingspan.
Despite Tchernoybyl and Fukushima, our political class persists in his blindness visà-vis the nuclear, even
that myths are collapsing:

the myths of safe nuclear power,
energy independence, the
cheap nuclear power. To protect French and French to higher prices
nuclear power, oil
or gas, they must be allowed
reduce consumption
energy, as in the home
in transport. We must engage our country on the path of a mix
100% renewable energy,
by leveraging what elected officials
Environmentalists are already on the ground, and making territories
and SMEs spearheaded the
energetic transition.
14

1 Reduce by 30% the gas emissions by 2020 greenhouse
compared to 1990 to limit global warming under
2 ° C. Engage all territories and sectors of acitivities, starting with agriculture, anticipate and adapt now to
climate change.
2 Organize the nuclear exit in 20 years. Create a pole
Industrial excellence in waste management and decommissioning of plants, so to maintain jobs in the
industry.
3 Make France an industrial leader in renewable energy, producing 40% of our energy from renewable sources by 2020 (excluding fuel).
Renovate 4 million units per year by 2020, at "
low power consumption ", beginning with those in
which live eight million people in precarious situations
energy. Public buildings will be renovated by 2030. It
plan will create 400,000 jobs by 2020 in the construction sector.
5 Investing four billion euros a year in alternative transport to the car and the truck, starting with improving
the quality and supply of trains on the local rail network, and by developing
rail freight.

I will never forget the look of these mothers, encountered
during my trip to Fukushima, who sent their children
off to protect them. The nuclear trap closed
on them: they have nowhere to go and know only too
that means stay. Contamination is everywhere but remains
invisible. Does one have the right to take that risk?

15

Preserving nature
and landscapes
Nature, rivers, coastline
and forests are burdened with
pollution of all kinds.
Yet it is of that nature
we depend: medicines, foods, materials
construction ... 40% of the economy
World based on services
provided by nature. Reconcile
humanity with the environment, with nature, is at the heart
the approach of environmentalists.
It's time to think about a new development model
in which biodiversity and economy but would not oppose

mutually reinforcing
to complete. It's time
France to ensure the preservation of remarkable and ordinary natural areas, renovate
its maritime policy, revive
ecological forest management.
In addition to the introduction of cross-compliance of public aid, these new practices
find their translation into
the Charter of the Environment
by the introduction of a new
principle: the principle of "no
regression ".

16

1 Launch a national education plan for the preservation of nature for the systematic teaching of natural sciences to all
levels, from primary school to vocational training. Upon
September 2012, every primary child will benefit from an animation
or a natural outlet through an enhanced partnership between the state
and environmental protection associations.
2 Implement a major project in kind of discount
territory: enforceability of green and blue frames, renaturation
of major rivers (Rhone, Loire, Seine and Rhine), restoring
permeability of large linear infrastructure to biological flow.
3
Organize a National Conference coastal protection, estuaries and mountains, which should lead to the strengthening of the current devices. This will especially limit
artificialisation, preserve natural and agricultural areas, strengthen monitoring and prevention of pollution of agricultural origin
in estuaries and bays.
4 Promote the French forest in its ecological functions,
landscape, social and economic. To do this, the National Forestry Office broke with its commercialism and will see its tasks
guarantees public service.
5 Defining a new status of the animal: the law will be amended to
act against animal trafficking and for the well-being of these
last, whether domestic or not, in all policies
Sector: transportation, breeding, slaughter, pet shops, circuses, etc. There
hunting legislation will evolve to introduce respect for animals
and healthy species populations.

One of my most beautiful encounters with nature, I owe
Alain Bougrain-Dubourg. We visited a care center
Bird, which works through the unfailing commitment
volunteers. He introduced me to this magnificent bird,
Milan Royal, victim of intensive farming. He spoke to me
warmly status of the animal, wild or not,
and asked me to work to end the abuse.
Today it is one of my commitments.

17

An emergency law
ecological
for excellence
Environmental
The Grenelle Environment
is good for democracy because it
put the environmental issue at
heart of political debate. But he
was betrayed by the project implementation
construction or major infrastructure: Planning 1000
km of new roads, large
West bypass Strasbourg airport building
Notre Dame des Landes ... Nicolas Sarkozy summed himself

his
balance sheet
environmental.
"The environment, it starts
to do well. " We must resume
march stopped by the government in 2012 and provide
Parliament an emergency law
who will hand the ecological France
on the rails of environmental excellence. It must in particular include the following measures.

18

1 A goal "Triple Zero": zero GMO zero gas shale zero
Additional highways (including large workarounds
agglomerations).
2 A moratorium on all major pharaonic projects.
Evaluations will revisit them or abandon them,
starting with the airport Notre-Dame-des-Landes.
3 The goal of net zero artificial territory by 2025.
An observatory of land consumption publish each year
the figures for the artificial, and a specific tax will be created.
4 The development of a new policy of the sea. This
Social policy will protect marine, maritime security,
the creation of a European coast guard corps, promotion of new vessels safer and more energy efficient, or the promotion of cabotage. On the other hand, to restore fish stocks, the "territorial contracts sustainable fishing" will be launched with
with the fishermen, a public label "sustainable fishing" will be created, and
sustainable aquaculture will be supported.
5 The recast of the legislation on waste, with a gradual closure plan incinerators, as the rise of alternative pathways. Monitoring of construction waste will be
implemented to ensure sorting and recycling.

Face globalization is diificile for SMEs. Above all
in a Jacobean country. SELECTIS boss, I met
Clermont-Ferrand, in fact bitter experience. He invented the
"Mobile sorting" of building waste to intervene where this
ecological chain does not exist. Despite its dynamism,
the company may disappear: Waste oligopoly prefer
to discharge any waste, sorted or not, even
a mockery of the Grenelle law.

19

to
l
IMPROVE
EVERYDAY
OUR
WITH THE
TRANSITION
GREEN

CREATE
1 MILLION JOBS
PROXIMITY
AND QUALITY
The future is the ecological transition. Renewable energy, efficient buildings on the heat level,
vehicle and equipment
low consumption, family farming and fishing
sustainable. France must not
miss the new green industrial revolution.
The future is also live
best: nurseries, aid to dependent persons, fight against
poor housing affecting
First single parents. The lifeblood of this
transition, creator of one million
of jobs for 2020 are

small and medium enterprises, innovative and grounded
in their territory. These are the
players in the social economy
solidarity. This is the relocation of
the economy.
Beyond job creation,
it is also to ensure their quality. This calls for the fight against
new discomforts at work,
the protection of employees against
exposure to carcinogens or stress. In particular, it will be the scandal
of asbestos victims forced to repay part of
their allowances.

22

1 A "Pact for SMEs" reorient support towards innovation
SMEs modulate public support to encourage companies
contribute to the ecological transition, and will give them priority access to public markets through the development of a "Small Business Act" in
the French.
2 The State will take a national commitment to the social economy
and solidarity (ESS). ESS will have a framework law and ethical Regional Funds. The law will be reformed to require shareholders
who close a site to put it on sale to promote recovery
activity, with priority for employees.
3 Training is at the heart of ecological transition. Ultimately, each and everyone will benefit, after 16 years, a credit of eight years
training throughout life.
4 A national conference on the reduction of working time
will be organized in the early months of the mandate. Two priority actions will be proposed: eliminating exemptions
overtime; the retirement at age 60, without
discount and the opportunity for people who have exercised trades
painful to leave before that age.
5 An action plan against suffering at work will be launched.
It will strengthen democracy at work and the power of institutions
staff representative, will create a national public service
occupational health and ensure full compensation for injuries
and occupational diseases. Donor companies
order and the parent companies will be responsible for the economic, social and environmental damage of their subcontractors
and their subsidiaries, in France and abroad. The civil, criminal
and commercial will be modified accordingly.

In Vénissieux, I met employees who, through their
motivation, saved their Bosch factory by passing
the manufacture of auto parts to that of panels
solar. Employee involvement in the strategic choices
ecological transformation is a formidable lever.
When it is finance that bonus, the short term,
while factories close.

23

GUARANTEE
DECENT INCOME
REDUCE THE BILLS
GIVING BACK
PURCHASING POWER
Housing, energy, automobile: these costs weigh
increasingly heavy in the household budget. My proposals strive to meet
to this deterioration of purchasing power: coaching
rents, thermal renovation of
housing development
alternative transport to the car
individual. The French and
French beneficiaries will save the equivalent of one month

salary. The transition from a "throwaway society" to a "company
sustainable "will also
the fight against organized waste, the image of these products
fail just after
end of their warranty. It is not
the choice of environmentalists: the future
is the sustainability, the future is
solidarity. A modern society can not condemn
of its population in poverty and insecurity.

24

1 A progressive pricing of electricity, gas and water
to guarantee everyone access to basic goods, promote
economies while discouraging waste.
2 A national strategy against waste: extending the bonus-malus system for household products, lengthening
product warranty, support to the repair industry, etc.
3 The fight against over-indebtedness, with the ban on advertising for consumer credit, the rate caps
practiced, and the possibility for a person to declare bankruptcy.
4 The 50% increase of all social minima during
five years, starting with the Allowance for disabled adults.
5 The removal of all devices inciting precarious employment and involuntary part-time, mainly affecting
women. A company that employs a few hours per employee
week will increase every hour worked in a wage premium.

I remember the mother, who was kind enough
having me in his apartment in Villiers-le-Bel.
She spends more heat than its social housing
to pay his rent, and still owes € 3,000 EDF!
A modern society can not order a party
of its population to such precariousness.

25

health
preventing first
Cancer, diabetes, cardiovascular disease ... The explosion of
number of chronic diseases
is linked to various degradation of our environment and
our living conditions. It's here
Fourth ecological crisis,
the climate, energy and
the biodiversity. Junk food, and intensive use of pesticides
endocrine disruptors,
air pollution in large
cities, electromagnetic pollution, stress and psychological suffering: environmental factors

mental facing our
health are becoming heavier.
It is time to put in place
a health policy addressing these
new risks, and hold
fight deal with epidemics
such as AIDS. The logic
Prevention must come first. This is
a true paradigm shift for our country currently before the industry
drug that consumes
far more than its neighbors
and often buy a lot
more expensive.

26

1 1% of the health budget is dedicated to the prevention policy and a National Institute of Environmental Health Research will be created.
2 The legal threshold of exposure to electromagnetic pollution
will be reduced and local action plans set up to fight against
air pollution.
3 The logic of pricing of medicines and placing on the
market relies less on the therapeutic benefit as the economic interest of laboratories. It is out of the confusion
technical expertise and industrial interests of the drug,
by transparency, that France will reduce its consumption of
drugs and will lower prices.
4 To ensure access to care primary care throughout the
Land, "health houses and Autonomy" will be created,
bringing together physicians and care professionals and having Service
education for health and environmental health.
5 Unlike a mental health policy that equates psychiatry and repression, non-stigmatizing prevention will be developed as alternatives to hospitalization and policy
sector. The Act of July 5, 2011, which established home care without consent, will be repealed.

While visiting a vineyard in Alsace
I met Patrick. It has been exposed in the last few years
to a high dose of pesticides. In addition to the health concerns that have
followed, he unleashed, 35 years old, a Parkinson. Patrick is
a fighter: since he moved in bio and puts its expertise
for the benefit of other farmers. It definitely me
convinced that prevention is the future of our health.

27

A ROOF
THIS IS A RIGHT
Our cities are constantly
grow. They encroach on
agricultural land and require us
to spend hours in
transport. It is time to
implement the dense and green city, regulate the land,
preserve greenspace.
At the same time, the right
Housing is still not
insured. Housing, yet it is
a constitutional right. This is
because housing is not
a well as another that

public power is intended to
intervene to regulate the market.
Against poor housing, and
everyone to live with dignity, our
goals are clear. We must renovate all units, in 40 years,
to end definitively in fuel poverty
eight million suffer
French and French. It is necessary
also supervise and build. In
emergency, we must act to
all those who do not have
roof.

28

1 Ask a moratorium of 3 years on rent increases,
time to put in place a "rent mirror", as
Germany. During an initial rent, the rent will be in line with
prevailing prices in the neighborhood. During a change of tenant,
the evolution of the rent can not exceed that of the neighborhood. This system
lead to lower rents to 20% areas where the market has
packed, as in Paris.
2 The next five years should start with a simple decree banning evictions without alternative housing.
Owners will have a guarantee against unpaid rent.
3 Building 500,000 homes each year, low energy consumption, including 160,000 social housing really.
We will strengthen the demands and sanctions of the SRU from
25% of social housing in municipalities, and even 30%
in Île-de-France. The prefect will supersede the mayors illegally and
réquisitionnera land, buildings and homes abandoned
in the cities, to turn them into housing. Furthermore, the tax on
vacant housing will be increased and applied to offices.
4 Adopt a land law to curb urban sprawl and
ensure social and functional mix: the objective is to enhance the natural, agricultural and wooded, linked territories
balanced between urban housing, and leisure activities. To do this, the
housing policies and urban planning will no longer conducted
each commune but at the scale of cities.
5 Encourage cooperatives inhabitants, and all projects
which draw a non-speculative housing or reappropriation of
City by the locals.

29

AGRICULTURE
FARMER
GOOD
FOOD
In half a century, lobbies
the food made
our too greasy food,
too salty, too sweet. Children, bludgeoned by advertising,
are becoming earlier of
habits of "junk food".
For their part, women farmers
and farmers become
sick of pesticides, and those
and those who want to start
in the struggle to agroecology
find land. Under the pretext
to "feed the world", Europe

prevents food crops
grow in countries
South. At the same time, imports accelerate deforestation and climate crisis. He is
time for France to adopt
a new agricultural model and
defend a European Policy
Common Agricultural allowing
access to healthy food
and diverse, accessible to all
and all produced by farmers
more numerous, fairly
paid, and working in a
preserved environment.

30

1 A healthy diet requires the development of agriculture
biological, as part of the general conversion to agro-ecology. On the model of the SRU law, communities will be encouraged to
convert at least 20% of their agricultural land to
organic farming by the end of the quinquennium. The aim must
be to allow, in a first step, a 100% organic feed
in canteens of our children to nurseries and kindergartens by the end of the quinquennium.
2 A national plan for the prevention of obesity will be developed: the
quality thresholds for the food industry will be strengthened, advertising
framed. A permanent campaign of information and awareness for a balanced diet and physical activity will be undertaken.
3 The objective of 50% reduction of pesticides by 2018, resulting from the Grenelle Environment Forum, will become a priority. But it can be
than one step. The horizon that must be fixed, for and with
farmers is the output of pesticides in a generation.
4 To conduct a real policy agricultural territorial development
for employment, the environment, quality production
and short circuits, land reform must be initiated. There
Priority will be given to no longer expand and hyper-industrialization. The artificial farmland will be fiscally discouraged.
5 France will within the WTO the inalienable right of
peoples to produce their own food, for protection
effective against the "dumping" export many industrialized and emerging countries, and against the privatization of seeds. It will promote international regulation to protect farmers and consumers from speculation and price volatility.

31

a tax
more simple
more fair
greener
Our tax system is unfair:
through niches and gifts
tax, most people
rich pay in proportion to
income, less taxes
the middle classes, and
large companies less taxes than SMEs. In the same
time, the state continues to spend
billions to subsidize

pollution and still do not apply the polluter pays principle, which nevertheless remains a
powerful lever of the ecological transformation of the economy. There
France is one of today
poor students of Europe
for ecological taxation.
It must become tomorrow the reference on these issues.

32

1 Establishment of a climate-energy contribution. 50% of its
proceeds will be used to finance green public investments (public transport, local utility control
energy, etc.). The rest will be distributed in the form of "green check"
the French and the French the least favored.
2 Introduction of bioconditionnalité public aid: no grant can only be paid for opposing projects
environmental goals. Considered public spending
harmful to the environment will be phased (VAT exemption on kerosene, reduced rate VAT on
pesticides, etc.).
3 Establish a tax on individual income factor
of gender equality, replacing the family quotient by
a flat tax credit, for more solidarity while preserving the middle class, and withholding.
Fusion 4 of the income tax and the CSG. Introduction of two
new tranches: a tax rate of 60% beyond
100 000 euros, and 70% beyond 500 000 euros.
5 To limit the "tax optimization", establishing a tax
the floor for multinational companies under French law to
up to 17% of gross profit.

33

to
l
e
p
o
r
had a
e
l
to
r
é
Fed
e
d
n
o
m
a
e
t
s
u
j
s
pleased

A europe
political
to go out
crisis
Europe is the political horizon
Essentially, the relevant level
for action. The European Union
however, must change course
and strengthen its political integration. 50 years after the establishment of the common market, political Europe must finally emerge
to rebuild the sovereignty
Citizens face the markets. In
the time and interdependence

globalization, it must be
remedy to political impotence.
But the future can not be the
European governments who
failed. The war nationalistic ego encouraged fiscal and social competition rather than
harmonization, it has weakened the
collective response to the crisis, she
prevented adapting Europe
the green new deal.

36

1 France will propose to launch a new constituent process to give Europe a dignified Constitution
that name - ie a short text and understandable by all and
all, recalling the values ​​and projects that unite Europeans,
advancing Europe towards federalism. This text will derive its legitimacy from its ratification by a European referendum.
2 The European issues will be extracted from the Business area
Foreign. One function of Deputy Prime Minister for
European issues will be created, with a cross authority. The parliamentary control on European issues will be strengthened.
3 The Stability Pact, became a "austerity pact" which plunges us into the crisis, will be replaced by a Development Pact
Ecological and Social. It will include financial targets, social
and environmental, and large investment plan in the
ecological transition, with the support of the ECB. It will include in particular the establishment of a European Community of renewable energy.
4 France will defend the partial pooling of public debt of States through Eurobonds, in order to counter speculation in financial markets and ensure solidarity between
Europeans. It will engage with Member States of the Union
wish to harmonize corporate tax and capital
to avoid the tax relocations.
5 France will support the establishment of a social preference
and environmental border of Europe: incoming goods in the common market will have to comply with environmental standards and international social standards of the Organization
International Labour.

After the war, Dany Cohn-Bendit's parents,
German Jewish refugees in France, could never have
imagine the Rhine no longer a border.
He always tells the European dream from its history.
He draws the contours of the new Europe.
He lives in his flesh Europe.

37

finish with
the north-south divide
and françafrique
After the failure of the Copenhagen Summit, France began
back in negotiations
international climate:
Rio +20 Summit to be
during a determined commitment for the adoption of binding environmental wide rules
International.
In parallel,
alignment of France on
US policy and the erratic nature of its policy
Foreign changed image
of our country in the world:
France must become an actor
major peace and co

International operation, and not a "
sub-policeman "in its areas
influence, or in black Africa
the Maghreb.
There will be no political Europe
without a defense Europe
assumed, with means corresponding to its needs. This is
why the French defense
will be reorganized by basing
in a European defense force, the principle of disarmament and progressive output, controlled nuclear
military.

38

1 Official development assistance should reach 1% of GDP by
the end of five years, and a law on solidarity and cooperation will
proposed for control purposes and effectiveness of aid.
2 France will defend a new governance architecture
World with the reform of the UN Security Council - end
the right of veto, European headquarters - and the creation of a World Environment Organisation whose binding standards
will exceed those of the World Trade Organization.
3 France withdraw its troops from Afghanistan by the end of 2012 and
undertake a reconstruction plan and war reparation in
part of a regional conference. She dismantle its military bases
abroad and will support the recognition of the State of Palestine.
4 Foreign Affairs will leave the preserve of the President of the Republic in favor of Parliament. This will be in particular the dissolution of the African cell of the Elysee.
5 To improve international security, France has to make
ambitious diplomatic and technological proposals to move towards the goal of a nuclear-free world. To initiate a
virtuous circle of multilateral disarmament, it must stop
modernization of its nuclear weapons programs
and its vectors. France also rise the defense secrecy
on nuclear tests in Algeria and Polynesia and their impact on people and the environment. The compensation law
victims of French nuclear testing will become effective.

Under the pretext of cooperation with Senegal, Europe has delivered
the fish stock of this country to its industrial. A drama
environmental and human: young Senegalese fishermen
are forced into exile. They go to sea aboard their canoes
and too often lose out life. I will never forget my meeting
Dakar with their mothers, their sadness and their willingness to
develop a local economy and jobs for their children.

39

FRANCE AN OPEN
COSMOPOLITAN &

At each election,
the attempt to exalt the feeling
National on the back from abroad
to make it the scapegoat
social anger returns. This perversion is paid to today
State summit by Minister
of Interior spokesman
President of the Republic, in
a race to the far right.
The government's obsession

numerical targets for expulsion,
the reduction of immigration
regular and the number of naturalizations has to stop. Respect
Foreign rights is a
barometer of our democratic health. To this end, France
must reconnect with his aspiration,
that of the country of human rights,
that of a land of welcome, mobility and mutual enrichment.

40

1 Migration issues will be more dependent on
Ministry of Interior. The Departments of Justice, Business
Foreign, Employment and Social Affairs will have overall jurisdiction over matters of asylum, immigration and naturalization. The rights to family life, to privacy and medical care
will be fully respected as provided general principles of French law and international conventions ratified by
our country.
2 shall be terminated at the arbitrariness of the regularization of undocumented by the use of objective criteria such as the presence on the
territory for more than 5 years, schooling of a child or the
Having a job.
3 Detention Center will no longer be the rule,
except. It will take place only in case of threat to public order
or strong suspicion of hit and run. Children, pregnant women, and
vulnerable persons shall in no case be assigned. The
powers of intervention and control groups in the centers
retention will be expanded.
4 The many financial and administrative obstacles imposed
for foreign students will be raised. Their first professional experiences in France will be favored.
5 The right to vote will be granted to non-EU foreign resident since 5 years in France.
The list of jobs that will be reduced next Foreign excluded
the recommendations of the High Authority.

In 1967, France welcomed me with open arms.
I became French right after my wedding.
I was able to study, work. A student who arrives today
the Guéant circular puts it at the door. A woman who marries
a French today will not be five years before French
at least. I wish that France gives to each and every one
she gave me the chance.

41

e
u
q
i
l
b
u
p
é
r
e
n
u
e
r
i
to
l
p
exam

guarantee
freedoms
Public
The state's duty is to defend
society against all forms
crime, be it
damage to persons and
property, financial crime
and abuse of corporate assets, or
this corruption that undermines
institutions of the Republic.
An effective security policy
called independence of justice. Protect society it is also
identify factors of inse-

rity to better fight them.
Today, the state does not fulfill
its missions: he abandoned the
field of prevention, deterrence and rehabilitation for
that of repression alone, hiding under an ineffective
political figure denounce the police themselves. TO
time of sharing and cooperation, he took the path of
with Hadopi censorship.

What a beautiful meeting that Richard Stallman,
the inventor of the General Public License.
An intriguing man with long hair who starts to walk naked
better talk to you!
A fascinating man, too, who knows so well explain why
sharing this wonderful tool that is the internet must be protected
censorship as commodification.

44

1 The repeal of the Hadopi law and the legalization of shares not
Merchant will be organizing at the same time supporting the creation. A contribution of around one billion euros,
with the participation of users at the height of their means
and Internet service providers, will be introduced to support the
creation. At the exact opposite of ACTA, the use of open standards and
free software will be generalized, and the promotion of innovation
open.
2 The Judicial Council is the guarantor of the independence of judges and prosecutors. It will make
Proposals for appointments of judges to the Court
of Cassation, to those of the first President of Court of Appeal and
President of High Court. All other judges
shall be appointed on its assent. He will rule as consulting
discipline of judges.
3 The minimum sentences, preventive detention laws and LOPPSI
1 and 2 will be repealed. The penal code will be cleaned repressive laws referred to media. The missions and the means of protection
Youth justice will be reinforced, as the order
1945 on juvenile justice. The police will be decentralized and
reterritorialisée, to make it closer to the citizen, while strengthening the central offices of fight against serious crime.
4 The legislative, regulatory and financial legal poles and police officers to track financial crime,
Environmental and organized crime will be strengthened. To dry trafficking networks, the use of cannabis be legalized
and supervision, and trade will be regulated.
5 To fight against conflicts of interest, transparency will be ensured
Compensation and declarations of interest of elected ministers
and cabinet members, judges, management positions in the state
and public sector enterprises, and experts consulted by
state agencies. The rules for preventing conflicts of interest
the passage in the public to the private sector will be strengthened. The sentence
for elected officials convicted of corruption will be extended to 10 years
ineligibility.

45

a
Sixth Republic
Our society suffers from a deficit
Democratic: Much
of the population no longer feels
represented and turn from the
democratic life. The values ​​of
the Republic are flouted by
those who govern us, the
Citizens have
confidence in their institutions. The Republic owes them
be made, and the public interest
defended against the lobbies. There

Republic for everyone,
it is also that which respects
rights of peoples that make up
France, and ensures fair development of the territories.
It intends to end
privileges - like making
Today the President of the
Republic a "injusticiable" -
strengthen the role of citizens and
citizens and recognize that the
civil society.

On February 6, 1999 was open the first instruction
fictitious jobs for the city of Paris. Two years
later the chief of staff of Jacques Chirac was set
Review. This did not prevent the re-election of a President,
including the questioning in a case combining public interest
and private interests was no longer in doubt. For several
years, as the evidence was emerging, Jacques Chirac
manage to escape justice, enjoying a criminal statute
protecting its function. A true impunity. For twenty
years in French and international level, I did
never resigned to what our institutions falter at this point,
giving the impression to always protect ourselves.

46

1 The establishment of a true parliamentary system as in
other countries of the European Union: The President shall be the guarantor of the common good and the long term, leaving his entire
up to his or her prime minister and a parliament with powers of initiative and revalued investigation. It will not be a member by right
the Constitutional Council, whose mode of appointment of members
will be extensively renovated. Will be terminated in the presidential impunity.
2 A democratic representation in the company's image: generalization of proportional in all elections, effective parity, unique mandate and limiting the accumulation of mandates over time,
recognition of the white vote.
3 The Economic, Social and Environmental renovated
turned into "long-term Room", will submit to Parliament legislative proposals related to the long term and seek
reconsideration of the law passed by Parliament.
4 A new organization of France on a federal model
differentiated with enhanced regionalization grant to the Region
normative skills and broad fiscal autonomy, financial equalization is ensured by the State under the control of a Senate
renovated. Regional languages ​​are officially recognized.
5 A reform of the CSA and the mode of appointment of officers of
Public audiovisual guaranteeing pluralism of audiovisual media and gender bodies. To ensure the independence of the
press and media, any company holding more than a certain
threshold of the share capital of a company in the sector will be excluded from the right
meet in a public contract.

47

Employees, users, ONGplus
a fifth
able
citizen
Contaminated blood, asbestos, Mediator ... Scandals follow and
the State can not withstand the pressure
lobbies of junk food, the
tobacco, sugar, alcohol,
drug.
More independent expertise and capacity
the company's capacity for action
Civil will change
the situation. Pressurized (pressed)

by finance, employees only
may decide on more
the future of their business, on
work organization. It is necessary
say stop by the construction of a
fifth citizen power. The
consumers and consumers, employees, the-using
must be in capacity to question, evaluate, control
and change decisions
economic and public actors.

48

1 Establish a right to take legal action to a group of citizens (class
share) in the image of what exists in particular in Canada or in several European countries.
2 Strengthening the role of within-using institutions and
companies that play a leading role in transport,
energy or health (SNCF, CEA, EDF, health agencies ...)
3 Promote a social democracy worthy of the name. As in Germany, the representatives of the employees must be involved
strategic decisions, with 50% of the seats in the councils
of Directors.
4 Establish a structured and open environmental dialogue, for the long term and allowing a balanced negotiation between
actors of civil society. Including the State, NGOs, employees, the employeurEs, local authorities and even parliamentarians, it will
to move from co-development to co-decision.
5 Develop a status of 'whistleblower' and establish
a High Authority of independent and pluralistic expertise.

It was at Dunkirk I made a meeting,
with asbestos victims. Victims who bury
their friends. Victims which the state seeks to repay
a portion of their benefits! I also saw determination,
as it takes to bring this long and painful struggle against
unscrupulous businesses. This fight, I do mine.

49

e
u
q
i
l
b
u
p
é
r
e
n
u
é
t
i
l
to
g
Ct

priority
neighborhoods
Top
The districts are not only
the forgotten of this presidency,
they have also been stigmatized and
despised. The Suburb Hope Plan
was a great bluff. But
inhabitants in the districts
are not resigned. All the
days, individually or in
associations, they mobilize
to maintain social ties. He is
time to put the people
in the heart of urban policy,
to release the energy of neighborhoods,
investing in human. He is

time to trust the inhabitants. With citizens
that we must build the solutions.
It starts by giving them a right of objection within
controlled demolition operations
by the National Urban Renewal Agency. You also need
aware that it is those who
the least that should be given
the most. Sanctuariser services
public in neighborhoods is a
absolute necessity.

52

A one euro in concrete, one euro for humans. The effort in
urban renewal should be maintained. But for every euro
the National Urban Renewal Agency, one euro will be donated to
its "equivalent to humans", the National Agency for cohesion
social and equal opportunities: education, training, employment, business
economic, health, etc.
2 To open up the neighborhoods, the supply of transport will be increased and secure. The inter-neighborhood shuttles and taxis will
developed.
3 Aid granted to companies to settle in
neighborhoods will be modulated according to their impact
social, as does the European Union. The state financially and technically encourage entrepreneurship by the inhabitants, cooperatives, the social economy, associations.
4 Rebuild the school map on the principle of co-education
Maximum social: it will combine in the same urban area
central and peripheral neighborhoods. The teachers allocation system will be changed so that no teacher with less
five years of operation is called against his will
sensitive areas. The teachers in sensitive areas will benefit from reduced hourly costs to students for
spend more time in training.
5 The system of identity checks will be reformed. These latter
will be conditioned to the issuance of a receipt.

It's in Villiers-le-bel I met a representative
collective "Stop the ethnic profiling", which fights
for the issuance of a receipt at each control.
Their dynamism, their rejection of fatalism and maturity
gait seduced me. As they have told me
themselves, the receipt will not change anything. But it is a
winnable fight, and a beautiful stone in the garden
all discrimination.

53

school
EMANCIPATION
AND SOCIAL PROMOTION
For environmentalists, education must be at the center of life
social;
it relates school
such as families and wider society as a whole, that
Whether the relationship between generations, stereotyped roles for girls and boys to
the attitude towards the media link
now and associations. Today the school operates in France on principles of selection and exclusion:
some children do not even have
access to school lunch! He
must be given the task of for-

sea ​​together all young people
fundamentals of a global citizenship through a cooperative learning that involves
a reorganization of National Education. There must be an
stop the abolition of posts
and ensuring that teachers
absent are replaced. He
must restore confidence in
the educational community
(students, teachers, parents and
personal) so they work
together for the success of each and everyone.

54

1 Create Fundamental School, gathering the teachings
primary and secondary schooling for children 6-16 years without
breakage or selection. The teaching will be organized in teaching units on a human scale.
2 Redo the initial training of teachers with two years
alternating movements involving teaching and education
popular. Recruit 20,000 additional teachers and educational managers.
3 Edit the teacher deployment system to allow the formation of stable teams, with an organizational autonomy within the framework of a national specifications.
4 Encourage and support educational innovations,
to mobilize students to implement cooperative practices, to include the school in its environment and to promote
arts and cultural activities.
5 Replace the hegemony notes new systems
evaluation (collective evaluations, credits) to value the achievements, customize courses, and ensure the well-being
students. Early identification of students as well as national assessments to put people, schools and institutions compete will be deleted. Teachers build assessment tools for their teaching from a
national specifications.

This is in Epinay sur Seine that I was supporting parents
who occupied the school for their children.
Their demand: the absent teachers are replaced!
A mother took the floor to express his dismay. It
certainly was not accustomed to speak in
public, but she found the words and touched me.
You have to trust in the educational community for
School is a place of fulfillment. A society that sacrifices
the education of its children is a society in distress.

55

The creation :
a common good
for
Living Democracy
Culture and scientific knowledge are common property.
They allow citizens and
citizens to create, to give
meaning to their lives, to emancipate
consumption frenzy,
to hybridise, to collectively invent the society in which they
register. We must give back to
skills relevant ministries that enable them to

carry out their missions,
transparently and in a manner
Collegiate. Thus, whether for
support for cultural projects
research, the state and communities must be consistent,
with particular attention
to diversity, to small projects,
places and practices emerging in the territories.

56

1
Will be organized in each region of the States General of
Cultural Rights to develop with all the actresses and all
actors, cultural policies and establish a true culture
transparency. This will be the place of a formal debate for a deep reform of the cultural and artistic employment taking particular
into account the indirectly productive work time. This measure
part art acts as a common necessities.
2 A culture accessible to all through construction, with
actresses and actors, a new taxation of art and
culture, which promotes the circulation of cultural goods "arthouse"
starting with applying the super-reduced rate of VAT to works
written, literary, artistic and philosophical.
3 Arts education and popular education must become an essential pillar of public policies on the whole territory. We will launch regional conferences that are dedicated to it,
with all the local authorities and associations to
defining and coordinating arts education in the school system
as outside school and throughout life.
4 To restore the scientific independence, logic
All-project and the heightened competition will be abandoned.
The means of the National Research Agency and the general
Debt financing will be gradually transformed into
recurring and stable public positions, starting with 5000
positions from 2012.
5 To restore democracy and collegiality in the heart of higher education, university reform will be replaced by a law drafted with the participation of all stakeholders. The
colleges Universities will approach within structures
federal and democratic ensuring balanced territorial coverage.

57

A SHIELD
PUBLIC SERVICES
TO ENSURE
SOCIAL COHESION
The French social contract is characterized by public services
quality ensuring equality of
the whole territory. Equal access to education,
justice, health, employment,
water, energy and transport is essential for
our company ensures cohesion.
More than ever, France must

develop a "service shield
public "to prepare its future. This proximity shield
intended to be established as a priority
in sensitive urban areas
and neglected rural areas.
It will restructure spending
public by challenging
policies that broke our
equal vectors.

58

1 The non-replacement of staff on rule two
will be repealed. To correct the errors of the RGPP, a new
human resources policy will be defined based on the absorption
precariousness, on objective, respectful people,
ensuring the training and career development within functions
public, while ensuring the efficiency of operating expenses. It will put an end to systematic outsourcing practices.
2 To ensure access to health care, medical franchises will
deleted. A moratorium will be placed on the DRG's and
will be closed the public-private convergence in the hospital.
3 Water is a common good whose management has too often been left to multinationals. The state will financially support and
technically communities wishing to regain Régie
Public water management on their territory.
4 The State commit creating 400,000 childcare places for
young children during the five years to provide a solution
all. It will ensure the establishment of a local public service
early childhood and the promotion of associations and solidarity sector,
a frame rate suited and trained personnel.
5 The public employment service will be strengthened and refocused on its
personalized support mission unemployed workers in search of employment and training. A goal :
halve the number of unemployed workers followed by
each counselor.

Councillors employment center I met in Nantes
suffer their working conditions. What pride when,
instead of opening the doors to employment and training, we have
the time control? When we see a parade of people
which are nothing more than records? I saw the same suffering
among staff of the Trousseau hospital and all services
Public dismantled by an unjust and blind policy.

59

Equality
Gender
working
Equality between women and
men remains largely unfinished, despite legislation, public programs and campaigns
awareness. Salaries for
Women are always lower
27% those of men, reflecting different careers by gender and
continuing discrimination:
80% of jobs are precarious
occupied by women, and
glass ceiling remains a

reality. The access of women and
girls to contraception and voluntary termination
pregnancy remains uncertain.
More than one in ten women
victim of domestic violence.
To defend and enforce
the rights acquired as the new rights, a Ministry
Equality between women and
men will be created. Its priorities will be.

60

1 The law on equal pay is not applied. To ensure its
respect, no public aid will be granted to businesses
which do not ensure effective equal pay neither grant nor
exemption or public market.
2 In addition to maternity leave, parental leave will be turned into a time-credit divided equally between the parents
and usable in the early years of the child.
3 Access to contraception for young girls will be facilitated by
expanding the Pass contraception throughout the country.
During the five years, all contraceptives will be made
Free for young people, and reimbursed 100% by Social Security
for other insured. The abortion centers
closed will be reopened and abortion also refunded 100%.
4 The number of emergency housing for women victims
violence will be increased as part of a framework law against violence against women. The reorganization of the material conditions of existence should no longer be an obstacle to the choice to change their lives.
5 An education and training plan will be launched in order to fight against
gender stereotypes and promote the empowerment of each
and everyone.

In November I went to Les Halles in Paris
to support women's room Novotel Hotel
who are on strike to protest their conditions
of work. They symbolize for me the precariousness
in which women are too often confined,
victims of involuntary part-time. Coming out of the shadows
to demand change, they also symbolize
women's struggle, a never-ending struggle.

61

A future
Youth
Faced with the social emergency in which they find themselves
(mass unemployment, growing precariousness, difficulty finding a
housing and access to health care
or culture), many
young people doubt their future
but aspire to autonomy
take their lives. This is
to respond to this emergency as well as their concerns
in the long term, that will

developed the basis for a law
autonomy for young people,
around the principle: "a young,
a project, an income ". Each
and everyone should have the means
to build his career and his
own life. Each and everyone has
right to a second chance, especially the 150,000 young
coming out of the school system each year without qualifications.

62

1 "A young, a project, an income". No young unsolved:
by the concerted action of the State and the Regions, each youth will fit
a project - vocational training, education, rehabilitation services
civic, European mobility, etc. It will benefit for that of income
autonomy, either in the form of a renewed study allowance, or
by access to a minimum income of insertion of 600 euros.
2 To improve access to higher education, the registration fee will be reduced (with the objective of free higher education). Pedagogy at the entrance to the University will be strengthened,
with a host system and adapted course and advantage
multidisciplinary.
3 The State will support the development of eco-campus renovations and 70 000 50 000 new eco-designed rooms, Development
the organic and fair food, access to sports and cultural activities, etc.
4 courses will be regulated (labor law, social protection)
and remuneration of trainees increased to minimum of 50%
SMIC. This breakthrough will help to end the precarious
youth employment, and to redo the course and alternating a step
to stable employment.
5 The ERASMUS generation will be extended, promoting international youth mobility during training as well as guidance.
The objective of 30% of an age group who spent at least six
months abroad will be fixed

There are many such students who told me rent
shame they have to bear. I remember one
among them, met in Grenoble, who paid 600 euros
for a studio. Sentenced to work more and more,
his parents did not have the means to support the
financially, he jeopardized his studies.
This condemns our country to injustice.

63

A
Pact
Equality
Restoring full citizenship to all those who feel
excluded in their own country
Because of their origin, gender,
their sex, age,
disability, their home is
condition of living together. There
fight against discrimination and
the struggle for social justice

are linked. The Right seeks to create
a dividing society, organized in communities erect
against one another and where there
the law of the strongest. Conversely, the
France needs a Pact
equality, to promote real equality.

64

1 To support the High Authority of the fight against discrimination,
restored, will set up a discrimination measurement tool.
The latter, strictly controlled, will result in an annual report presented
to Parliament
2 The European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages
be ratified and equal treatment and access to public aid
will be guaranteed.
3 Marriage and all rights attached will be open to
same-sex couples, and the rights of PACS will be aligned with those
marriage. Access for everyone to the adoption and techniques
of assisted reproduction will be guaranteed, and status of co-parent
will be created.
4 Access of disabled children into the school system must be
Guaranteed. Integration of the disabled, accessibility
places: the existing laws will be applied without exceptions.

5 A catch-up plan of the gap widened with the overseas territories
allow a fair distribution of resources and the guarantee of
territorial continuity.

65

Ecology is good
Employment
The urgency of protection
the planet is not a constraint, it is a lever to
invent tomorrow's economy.
Investing in the green economy
is massively creating jobs can not be outsourced, as it
not isolated from its housing
China. Investing in energy savings in energy
renewable like wood,
processing of waste,
wind or solar is create
jobs at home rather
that import gas and oil. By developing energy
France will save the green gradually over 50
billion of imports
energy.
50
billion
euros that will create
jobs, develop
relocated economic circuits. Finally the green economy is
less capital and more work. The organic farming
example is 20% to 30%
labor intensive work of that
conventional farming.
These virtuous circles walk
and they could also create
France nearly 500 000 jobs.
Our country must not fail
this opportunity and miss the train
industrial revolution of the new

eco-industrial. Because we do not emerge from the crisis with the glasses
the past.
Ecology is not only
protecting the planet is
also a better quality of
life for its inhabitants and its inhabitants. Quality of life
including through access passes
all and all the housing,
better services for small
children and their parents, and
best accompaniment
dependence for our elders.
Meet those social needs
it is also creating jobs. 100
000 units built, it is
200,000 jobs created (correct at first). 400,000 spaces
kindergartens to offer a solution
child care to all parents is
nearly 100 000 jobs. Do not
let the poor families face
dependence of people
very elderly is to create 200 000
jobs.
This economy of live better
oriented human is as much non-relocatable jobs
which are not subject to international competition.
Take care of us, take
care of the planet. All the world
win it.

66

Yes desirable
is possible !
The proposals outline a
France fairer economy
more solid and protects the planet, a more open society
and reconciled. But these commitments are valid only if they can
be funded. That is why I
held in the month of October to encrypt my main proposals and present what would be my first budget for the
France.
The main principles that guide my actions are:
Not austerity but
sustainable reduction
public deficit
The sovereign debt crisis
should not lead to a policy
austerity. This policy, it is
seen in Greece, Spain or
Portugal is disastrous on
human and against-productive
economically. Her we
takes in a crisis yet
deeper. However, we do
can pretend that the public debt does not exist. Must therefore
defining a balanced way and
right. (and the audit?)
My commitment is to reduce
measured way but credible deficit, a point of GDP

per year, or about 20 billion
euros per year. Without touching the
French social model.
A policy based on
lucid growth assumptions
To the right and left, you can expect the magical return to growth. In 2007, Nicolas Sarkozy
would tear with the teeth.
We saw the result. The forecasts
Government officials during
long relied more
on political calculations than on
an economic reality. Lucidity is to assume that
time of strong growth
behind us. Now we must organize ourselves to live
in a world of low growth. This means: innovate and
share.
30 billion in revenue
New to reduce
deficit and preserve our
Social Model
Reduce the public deficit (State
Social Security) 1 point
GDP per year amounts to decreasing
this deficit of about 20 billion. Furthermore, the low growth means lower tax receipts and larger
social spending. The additional cost
for the state is estimated to be at least
10 milliards.et middle class. This is the path to both
fair and responsible that I you
offers

67

The presidential Eva Joly Project

68
