ITALY
RIGHT
program

24 to 25 February

partitodemocratico.it
bersani2013.it

We, citizens from Democrats and progressives, we recognize in the Constitution of the Republic, in a
social project of peace, freedom, equality, secularism, justice, progress and solidarity.
We want to contribute to change Italy, the rebuilding of its institutions, a strong commitment
of our country for a federal and democratic. We believe in the value of work, in the spirit
solidarity and the recognition of merit. We want to defeat all forms of populism.
In the name of these values ​​inspired by the common good of Italy and to achieve these goals we have promoted
primary elections that December 2, 2012 indicated the secretary of the Democratic Party Pier Luigi
Bersani as the candidate of Democrats and progressives to lead the government of our country.
We nominate as an alternative to long-term political and civic Berlusconi, responsible for having
left a pile of rubble in the country and a social severely deteriorated. The repeated scandals
They have upset the social conscience of the country and increased the detachment of citizens from politics. Yes
rightly he asks a profound renewal, not a facade. It's not just a generational thing, but
we need a moral revolution and civic must penetrate deep into the politics and parties.
This is the real renewal that requires the full implementation of art. 49 of the Constitution that calls
the legal regulation of political parties.
Today we are the agents of change and we feel the responsibility. Politics is not all the same.
We want our representatives are chosen for their skills and for their honesty. We ask that
Parliamentary candidates to respect the commitments contained in the Charter of Intent and the Code of Ethics that follow.

The next legislature will face three tasks decisive. Drive the economy out of crisis. Give back
authority, efficiency and prestige to the institutions and politics, starting from the principles of the Constitution.
Revive unity and political integration of the European Union.
We do not believe the lies of easy promises, those sold in the disastrous decade of the right.
We believe, however, in a revival of confidence, starting with young people and women. The problems are
huge and the time to attack and shortens. The choices to be made are not simple nor obvious. But the
hope that moves us all live in the belief that you can change and combine reliability,
equality and rigor in choices.
Our place is in Europe. We will place more and more firmly Italy in the heart of Europe from
think back on a democratic basis.
In the "home" we have to bridge the rift that has been dug between citizens and politics. Here, words are not enough.
Serve the behaviors, actions, consistencies. We will ensure that good political and civic levied
proceed side by side. The goal is to reconstruct the collective heritage that right and populism are
falling apart: the quality of democracy, the rule of law, citizenship, participation. The reality is that
never like today no one is saved alone. And no one can really be comfortable if others continue to stay
evil: this is the basic principle of our project, both in the moral sphere and the civil and in the economy
and social.
We want the fate of Italy is the son of the best European civilization and we want to feel close to those who
the world is fighting for the freedom and emancipation of every human being. Today, in a world in turmoil,
peace, cooperation, acceptance must inspire new political action. In the consciousness of women and
Men like the diplomacy of states.
With this vision of us, Democrats and progressives, we nominate runs Italy.

Europe
The image and credibility of Italy in the world have been damaged by the gloomy season Berlusconi. Continue
in the recovery of the full role and prestige of competing in our country is a civic duty and political will
lets look to the future with the conviction that we can fully express the great European tradition
Italy until its landfall Federal, as postulated by prophetic vision of Alcide De Gasperi, Luigi Einaudi and Altiero
Spinelli. The crisis did not come out with the fallout nell'euroscetticismo, but with more Europe. Through, therefore, the government
Euro and its stabilization; by underlining that there can be no wealth without work; through
the real capacity to bring finance under control, because business can not be conducted without rules: are
these are the terms of a modern European vision and solidarity that justifies a rational and measured transfer of sovereignty
National.
The crisis that is rocking the world threatens Europe and its achievements of civilization. But we are in Europe, in the sense
that there is the only chance to save Italy: the fate of political integration largely coincide with our
fate. There is no future for Italy if not in the recovery and relaunch the European project. The next majority
He will have to be clear about this compass: nothing without Europe.
To do that we will act in two directions. First, strengthening the platform of European progressives. If austerity
and the balance of public accounts, while necessary, become a dogma and a goal in itself - without any attention to
employment, investment, research and education - end up denying themselves. Now you need to correct the course,
accelerating political integration, economic and fiscal condition of a true defense of the Euro and reorganization
of our social model. Second, you have to bring to fulfillment the promises betrayed the single currency and
integrate the largest economic area in the world in a model of civilization that no other nation or continent is
can process.
Saving Europe in the midst of the crisis means sharing government emergency financial proposals according to
concrete that we have long been advanced along with the European progressives. These proposals result in a perspective
coordination of economic and fiscal policies. So new common institutions, with a legitimation
popular and straightforward. To this end, progressives must promote a constitutional pact with the main families
European policies. Even for Europe, in fact, the next will be a Constituent Assembly where the national plan
and the mainland will be permanently intertwined. A legislature in which the ideal horizon of the United States
Europe will have to start buying concreteness in a new institutional architecture of the eurozone.
Here lives the deeper reason that drives us to find grounds of cooperation with the forces of the liberal center. For
This democrats and progressives are committed to promote an agreement of legislature with these forces, on the basis
their inspiration constitutional and pro-European and a shared responsibility in front of the historical transition, one
and exceptional, that Italy and Europe will face in the coming years. Place the project in the Italian government
heart of the European challenge is to build an alternative project to the regressions nationalist, anti-European and populist,
always incompatible with the roots of a democratic, open, inclusive.

Democracy

Job

We must defeat the ideology of the end of politics and the prodigious virtue of a man in command. It's a
road that Italy has already covered, and always with disastrous results. For us populism is the main opponent of a
policy genuinely popular. In recent years it has been powered by a financial liberalism that has left
the lower classes at the mercy of an unregulated market. The populist right has promised an illusory protection
effects of liberalism raising financial barriers cultural, territorial and sometimes xenophobic.
The only real answer to populism is democratic participation. The crisis of democracy can not be fought with "less"
but with "more" democracy. More respect for the rules, a clear separation of powers, a true parity democracy and
the correct and full application of the Constitution, which remains among the most beautiful and advanced in the world. We believe
that his project to transform the civil, economic and social life and is much still to be implemented.
Autonomy, accountability and freedom of women are a lever for growth and a democratic response to the crisis.
There is a close link between sexism and offense to the dignity of women embodied in these years by Berlusconi
and the deterioration of democratic institutions. The recognition of female subjectivity and the implementation of the principle
equal democracy are today essential conditions for the country's reconstruction.
We want to give signals to Italy net honest look in the institutions as an ally against the violent, the corrupt and anyone
appropriating common resources jeopardizing the future of others. For us, this would be equivalent to the uncompromising defense of
rule of law, in a determined fight against tax evasion, the contrast of severe crimes against the environment, the strengthening
legislation against corruption and more concrete support with the investigators and administrators engaged
against mafias and crime, real lead in the wings for the entire country. We want to fight all the gangs, both repressing
the criminal action that the immense economic strength. The presence of the mafia capital, more so at a time of
crisis, is a devastating element for any prospect of relaunching the country. It should be severed all ties or suspicion of complicity
some politicians. Strict implementation of the code of ethics approved by the Anti-Mafia Commission is to
we restrain the candidates at all levels.
On the reform of the institutional framework, we support a streamlined and strengthened parliamentary system, with a role
incisive government and the protection of the balance function assigned to the President of the Republic. Reformulate
federalism responsible and well-ordered that face autonomies a strength and buoyancy democratic
unity of the country. Are also essential stringent rules governing conflicts of interest, anti-trust and freedom
information. We will create a path to reform that ensures solidity and certainty of timing function
constituent of the next legislature.
Last but not the least of priorities, the political authority must recover, promote renewal, reduce
its costs and its intrusiveness in areas that do not compete. For example, through a thorough reform of the services
Local public must have attention to affect a power system that feeds very consolidated and encourages
costs perverse policy. It needs a sober policy because if Italians must save, their leaders must
do more. At every institutional level they are not acceptable remuneration above the European average. But even this
it is not enough. It must be approved a reform of the parties, that the reduction of public funding affianchi a law
implementation of Article 49 of the Constitution, ensuring democracy and the parties, which need to reform
being an instrument of the citizens and not place mat of special interests.
We must act on the simplification and lightening of the institutional and administrative system. Need plans
Industrial for each individual public administration in order to produce efficiency and savings. Recognizing the limit
politics and the parties also means opening up the field to the demands commitment and mobilization that mature in
society and the skills that are affirmed. Everything must be put in place starting with the appointments in agencies,
public companies and regulatory agencies and by renewed selection criteria in the functions of government.

Our vision takes on the job as a parameter for all policies. The heart of our project is the dignity of
worker to put the focus of democracy, in Italy and in Europe. This is also the prerequisite for recognizing the
new nature of social conflict. Fulcrum of the conflict is no longer just the classic antagonism between the company and workers,
but the complex world producers, ie people who think, work and do business. This is because
Also here, in this wider dimension, they are creating new forms of exploitation. The all, once again,
to ensure profits and luxuries to financial returns. We must therefore build broader alliances. The battle for
dignity and autonomy of the work, in fact, now encompassing the precarious worker as unionized workers, the small
contractor or craftsman not least of the public employee, the young professional like underpaid teacher
or university researcher.
The first step is a deep redesign of the tax system that reduces the burden on labor and on the enterprise,
drawing on the income of large financial assets and real estate. The next one is to counter the instability,
reversing the choices of the right in the last decade and in particular the idea of ​​a downward competitiveness of our
productive apparatus, as if, orphaned the old practice that devalued the currency, the answer could be
the depreciation and devaluation of work. The third step is to break the vicious spiral of low productivity and
compression of wages and rights, helping productions to compete on the quality and innovation, points
historically vulnerable our system. Fourth step is to put in place fiscal policies to support employment
female, even now one of the most negative differential for our economy, particularly in the South. It serves a
great plan to increase and improve women's employment, tackle disparities in incomes and careers,
eradicating prejudices on women in the workforce and professions. For this purpose it is indispensable
lighten the load distribution of work and care in the family, supporting welfare reform, policies
Conciliation and sharing and launching a special program for the dissemination of nurseries. Thanks to
such policies will be able to concretely support families and encourage a recovery in the birth rate. In short
about not serve other words: you have to make the employment rate for women and youth the first meter
the effectiveness of our business strategies.
Finally, work is today Italy interchange between social issue and democratic issue. Founded on work and on a
greater democracy at work rebuilding the country is not only an economic choice, but the crucial investment
the quality of our democracy. We need a law on representation that allows the effective exercise of
democracy for workers. We can not allow either for a continuation of the arbitrary conduct of companies
discriminate against workers, or that there is a union representation which is free from the vote of workers on contracts.

Equality
Italy has become over the years one of the most unequal countries in the western world. The crisis itself has its origin in the United
US and Europe to an unprecedented increase in inequalities. It therefore exists, for some time now, a
huge problem of redistribution that involves the relationship between rent and labor, undermining the foundations of the welfare state.
On the other front, the financial wealth and real estate has become more and more elusive, as it is able to escape
every tax lien and supportive. There is no escape from the crisis if one who has more is not required to give more. It is the crisis itself
to teach us that social justice is not thinkable as derivative of economic growth, but it is its
assumption. This means that the economic recovery requires policies to combat poverty, even in a country like
ours where the phenomenon is taking on new forms and dimensions distressing. The "new poor", on the other, continue
to assist the scandal of annuities or emoluments grew to indecent levels, to wealth and property that immoderate
subtract any bond of solidarity. To all this we must finally put a stop.
We talk about equality now means looking through the eyes of "the past". Of those who are struggling to live
twice: because I started from behind or from far away or because they are people with disabilities.
If we look at the younger generation, the issue of equality is presented primarily as a choice
and equal conditions of access to education, to work, to free and full affirmation of their personality.
Overcoming gender inequality is essential for rebuilding the country on modern basis and fair. Not by chance,
Once again, the strongest symbol of a civic and moral rescue came from the women's movement. On this
plan policy, the Parliament and the government must take the parity democracy as a goal of democracy
tout court.
No discourse on equality stands unless the South gets back to the center of the agenda. Italy has grown
when South and North have chosen to move forward together. Conversely when the gap has widened, Italy has all
distanced from Europe. To claim, as the right has done for years, that the North could do it alone has proved a
serious mistake, which has impoverished the South and the North together. Quite another to fight waste and inefficiency with a
new national strategy of intervention. The point is to do it together with the sense of responsibility of many administrations and
Southern movements, to correct the mistakes of old regionalism and localism patronage and to promote legality,
good citizenship and work.
Even the social and economic policies focused on the protection of the weak and the promotion of a system of equal
opportunities require that merit becomes the compass of a positive competition in the field of liability and
every citizen is called to respond to the fiscal duties in relation to its assets with firmness and severity.
Finally, the chapter of equality is closely bound up with the question of civil and criminal justice at the service of
citizen. On this level, it goes without saying that the years of right-wing government have barred any chink in a
reform intervention. Let's say you are busy little the rule of law and much of the right to only one
it was believed that the owner of the State. But so to pay twice were the most vulnerable citizens: those who
really needs a civil and criminal justice swift, impartial, efficient. In the next legislature will have the theme
It is approached from the point of view of the dignity and rights of all and no longer in search of impunity of the powerful.

Freedom
For us freedom it is the first real opportunity for the younger generation to build their own life project and
realize their vocations. Our project will not be rhetorically for young people, but will have to be especially
young. Those same today, although rich in talent and energy, the streets are barricaded and are systematically excluded.
The theme of merit can not be opposed to the equality of opportunities. Freedom of life projects
and promotion of merit are prerequisites for a more open and equal. Through the introduction of measures
more incisive, this must apply in the professions, schools and universities, public
and private enterprise. In the years of Berlusconi's call to freedom it was used in defense of privileges and
private benefits. We want to liberate the energies of creativity and individual merit against corporate closures
nepotistic and Italian society.
We consider essential respect for freedom and the responsibility of women. It must go beyond the aspects
legally unsustainable law 40 relating to assisted procreation and ensure full implementation of the law
194 on the voluntary interruption of pregnancy.
On topics relating to the life and death of people, politics must cultivate a sense of his own limitations and the legislature
It must always act on the basis of a principle of caution and secular law. To avoid the failure of a dangerous
"Bipolarity of ethics" that the right has pursued in recent years, it is appropriate to take as a reference the Principles carved
in the first part of our Constitution and, from those, go in search of equilibrium points shared,
without prejudice to the freedom of conscience and the inviolability of the person's dignity.

Know
The dignity of work and the fight against inequalities intersect the defined policies for education and research.
There is no future for Italy without a contrast to the dramatic fall in the demand for education in recent
years. It is something that is reflected in the abandonment school, the drop in enrollment in our universities,
distrust of researchers and the demotivation of teachers underpaid and less recognized in
its social and cultural function.
In this case more than the many programmatic indications, we should start from a principle: in the coming years,
if there is an area for which it is right that other areas to give up something, is that of research and training.
Kindergarten and compulsory at secondary and university: the challenge is the time to start a company of
long training and lifelong not leave anyone on the path of growth, upgrade, of possible
mobility requirements. Only in this way, moreover, formed the ruling classes live, and the only way the know regains its
basic charge of emancipation and self-realization.
In view of this commitment, we will ensure regeneration processes and rigor of spending, with reference to the
the preparedness of the students and the achievement of learning objectives. The school and university Italian, already
fiaccate from fifteen years of reforms inconclusive and contradictory, they have received a shot in the last season
almost lethal. Now it has to start reconstruction work itself. In the next legislature we will depart from a
special plan against school dropouts, especially in areas of strong criminal infiltration, the launch
operational measures for the right to study, from an investment on advanced research in leading sectors and higher
content innovation. All this in the context of the universal value of education, promotion of research
scientific and research base in the humanities.

Sustainable Development

Rights

Sustainable development means for us to highlight the most important card that we can play in globalization, the
of Italian know-how. If we have a chance, is that of an Italian who can do Italy. Always our strength is
It was to transform the taste, versatility, technique and creativity, often raw materials purchased abroad.
The past decade has been particularly heavy for our production system. The entrance in the Euro and the end
the competitive devaluation produced, with the competition of financial income, a fall in investment
in technological innovation and capitalization of the companies, with the increase in the export of capital. Also in
this case is time to change the score and restore the centrality production. An industrial policy "in full
ecological "is the first and most important of these choices.
We envision a project-country individuals that large areas of investment, research, innovation to which
orient the business system, industry, agriculture and services. The quality and authenticity, sustainable mobility,
energy saving and efficiency, technologies related to health, culture, art, goods of historical and
Our tradition, the Digital Agenda. It should also give more strength and perspective to our small and medium-sized enterprises
helping them to connect with each other, to capitalize, access to research and internationalization.

The principle of the inviolable dignity of the person and respect for fundamental human rights are the general framework
within which are placed all our program choices.
In particular, we feel alongside the struggle of entire peoples for the defense of human rights, starting with those
of women. We believe it is the duty of democrats and liberals affirm the indivisibility of political, civil
and social and to do so enhancing the constitutional principle of the secular state.
In our case this means a commitment to pursue contrast to all violence against women, a phenomenon
that is rooted in patterns of unacceptable relationship between the sexes, and constitutes a genuine violation
human rights.
In terms of citizenship rights Italy waits too long a law simple but essential: a child,
son of immigrants, born and raised in Italy, is an Italian national. The adoption of this standard will be symbolically
the first thing that we want to accomplish in the next term.
We will give substance to the principle law recognized by the Constitutional Court, for which a homosexual couple has
right to live their own union obtaining legal recognition. It is also urgent a law against homophobia.
We are for the respect of human life and therefore we want that the condition of the detainees is respectful of the Constitution.

Common goods

Responsibility

For us, health, education, safety, environment, they are fields where, in principle, there should be no poor nor
rich. Why are assets unavailable to the pure logic of the market and profits. Are common goods of one and all
and define the degree of civilization and democracy in the country.
The referendum of 2011 affirmed the principle of water as a non-privatized. The energy, heritage
cultural and landscape, the infrastructure of sustainable development, the network of welfare services and training, are
goods which have to live in a framework of planning, regulation and control over the quality of the performance.
For all this, we will introduce regulations that define the parameters of public management or, alternatively, the tasks
the supervisory authorities for the protection of the purposes of public services. In any case it can not fail responsibility
Public cycles and processes, which ensures universal access and sustainability in the long run.
The defense of the commons is the answer that the policy has to a community need that has returned to occur even
between us. The referendum in the spring of 2011 there were a fundamental expression. It eclipsed the idea that
privatization and the absence of rules are always the right recipe. It is not for this to return to
old statism or a suspicion prior to a regulated market. The point is to affirm the idea that these goods
affect the future of our children and therefore request a take-over by the community.
In this design the greater rationality and enhancement of the fabric of local authorities are essential, not only for
the regulatory function that are likely to play, but because the defense of democracy, participation and services
guarantee is in itself one of the most valuable assets for citizens. Overcome duplication, re-qualify costs, must therefore
accompanied by a new and rigorous investment value of local, especially in the crisis, should not be
He is seen, as did the right, as a kind of disease, but rather as a possible medicine.
In turn, the local self-government must offer spaces and opportunities to subsidiarity, to the forms of civic participation, to
protagonists of the private social and voluntary sectors.

Italy needs a government and a majority of stable and cohesive. Therefore imperative that the democratic and
Progressives have faced is the reliability and responsibility. For this reason, at the same time
which we call for a pact of government movements, associations, civic lists, personalities and citizens
share the lines of this project, we want to take together, before the country, and some explicit commitments binding.
Coalition forces, in a climate of fairness and civility of relations, you will have to commit to:
 support fairly and for the entire span of the legislative action of the prime minister chosen by the primaries;
 entrust to those who have the duty and the honor of leading the majority, the responsibility of a composition of government leaner,
subtracted to logical partition and based on the criteria of competence, credibility and renewal domestic and international;
 constrain the resolution of disputes relating to individual acts or measures relevant to a majority vote
qualified parliamentary groups convened in joint session;
 ensure institutional loyalty to international commitments and treaties signed by our country, pending verification
operational and possible renegotiation them in consistency with other governments;
 support the executive in all measures of an economic and institutional environment that you will make in the coming years
necessary to defend the single currency and move towards a political government-federal economic eurozone.
