A vote for the dignity
Nichi Vendola

03

Let's start from the good policy

06

To the Government for the ecological conversion
economy and society Italian
• First work
• economics and taxation
• finance
• agriculture
• Water common good
• renewable energy and energy efficiency
• Waste Management

07

To the government to know how to leverage
of a new development
•	training
• cultures
•
Cultural Heritage
•
publishing
•
music
•
Audiovisual
•
the system of the performing arts

19

07
10
13
14
15
16
18

19
23
24
24
25
25
26

The Government for the protection of rights
• the rights of the person
• the right to health
• the right to mobility
• the right to urban quality: smart cities
• the right to environmental quality:
parks and biodiversity
• the right to live in a free society:
legality
• the right to live in a just society
• the right of animals

27
27
29
31
33
34

To the Government for the Europe we want
•	peace
• international cooperation
• our idea of ​​Europe

40
40
42
44

02/45

35
36
38

Welcome
Left.
A vote for the dignity
Nichi Vendola

The vote, every vote, is the weapon of our peaceful democracy.
As you try more and more of distorting it as a commodity that is sold
and buy it, the vote has no other price that is not the dignity of
it carries out a free and responsible. Only thus becomes the weapon
that every citizen has to peacefully disrupt
the course of events, opening the door to change.
You change our horizon, and with the vote after the vote.
Why it is change to be, here and now, the game really
"Useful", necessary, that puts us in the game. It is too long - a
time dull and sad - we hear the words of resignation:
those who tell us that politics can not do anything but confirm the
own impotence. The broken record repeating the refrain: "compels
the crisis, tells Europe ". Words used to sterilize hope
and to train us to live fatalistically with our fears and
our loneliness. Let's face it: the crisis has not only produced
inequality, poverty, impoverishment, putting the well-protected
riches of a few. The crisis has shattered the sense of the word
"Future" and filled with fear and loneliness of our present:
This is the deepest meaning of our defeat. Of defeat
the world of work, which was taken off the dignity and value. Of defeat
cultural policy and the right to have rights, to govern themselves,
their bodies, their sexual orientation, to be able to dissolve the
knots complex and delicate concerning the birth and death. There was
removing the good infinitely precious time. The time of our
lives looking for their fulfillment in the beauty of the environment

03/45

Welcome
Left.
respected in the treatment of human relations in solidarity, in the search for a
critical knowledge that can feed us with the memory and knowledge.
I was neither the immutable laws of nature nor the alleged
objectivity and inevitability of things to groped to push us in the
impotence. It was first of all a certain policy to date
accomplice of a finance Predona and sick of its own omnipotence.
It is a policy that has names and surnames, have parties and newspapers, has
banks and televisions. Us, we seem to do so only in Italy but
we good companions in Europe, we call it by its name
true: it is the right. First, the liberal right and populist, with
Silvio Berlusconi, has deeply marked 20 years of Italian history
producing a significant social decline and our civil
country. But it is also right and proper that technocratic elite
call upon the domination of technology as a surrogate for political and
democracy. The right has first generated the crisis, then was
unable to contain it, and now is a candidate again to govern
Our lives saddened, rubandocele a second time. But the deception
It is broken. Faced with the crisis and the poor anti-crisis recipes us,
left, we want to put aside the endless emergency to open
doors and windows to change can, in Italy as in Europe.
We want to win this challenge demanding a vote that has the power of
dismantle the deception that comes to the point of denying, in the face of
crisis, the very existence of a right and a left. It is an attempt
which now it seems to have interpreters clumsy only in Italy, if it is true
that even the IMF is going back on the strategies so far
taken to combat the crisis making it clear mistakes made
by neo-liberals. You can not take the road of reform and
a new environmentally compatible economic growth reiterating those
strict policies one way and austerity that have suffocated

04/45

Welcome
Left.
any development, increased unemployment rather than against it,
wrong all the calculations of public spending cuts as health and
education with depressant effects on the economic cycle.
Our challenge lies in the idea of ​​democracy requires that before
all programs "different" about how you respond to an epochal crisis
that touches the heart head and heart of the people, on how to govern a
large and disoriented country like Italy, about how it is in Europe
who must find their mission outside of just precepts
Financial. They do not exist, except in the rhetoric of an inconclusive
national harmony, "agendas" that arise from the same self
center of a government building, which evade a comparison
real alternatives to them with ideas, ready to bet
sull'ingovernabilità the country and "cut the wings" to affirm
exist. It is the consummate technique of a tired old policy, in
which does not blow any fresh wind of change.
What we are saying with our program, the centrality
Labour and conversion that is centered on the green economy
, The European welfare state and the rule of law, on those common goods
withdrawn from the privatization and returned to citizenship, on
United States of Europe that opens the last chapter in the struggle
poverty and inequality, on the affirmation of a new
parity democracy and gender, all of this has to do with a
left able to compete with the government now, just at the point
more rugged and hard crisis that hits us. We urge a
vote Left Ecology Freedom. For fielding our idea
democracy and freedom, sculpting strongly as the first word of the
Our program of government, the same one that opens the Bill of Rights
Europe's core. The word "dignity". Welcome to left.

05/45

Welcome
Left.
Let's start from
good policy
We propose that the repayments
election are tied
expenditure only
actually incurred
for political and
citizen participation.
The need for a new
electoral law and we think
the need for a
revision of the old title
V of the Constitution that gives
sense to the challenges we
in front in times of crisis.
Good policy is one that lives through
diffuse and direct participation of the citizens, who
It gives rules and transparent controls and who also denies the
least privilege of caste because realizes
sobriety in their practices and actions as
condition of his one goal: to be the instrument for the establishment of public affairs. For
This is not good policy without parity democracy, representation of men and women. It should immediately place a ceiling on election expenses of
each order and degree that, as happens for example in
France, provides for penalties for offenders, including
the loss of the seat. The control of election expenses will be extended to at least ninety days prior to the vote. We propose, annually,
advertising budgets and reimbursement of each
Party on the sites of the various political movements and
those of the House and Senate, as well as the publication
on the same sites of all contributions exceeding

to 5,000 euro per year. By the Court of Auditors
There must be control yearly accounts
political movements, groups and MPs
those regional board. It will reward
capacity for self-financing of a movement
political while reducing that linked to the
election result. It should be immediately applied
the termination of funding for those parties and
movements that do not carry more political activity.
One of the limitations to the use of electoral reimbursements,
along with those relating to staff costs and
the ordinary, will cover a total ban
of their use for investment type
financial and real estate, even in the case of purchase of the party headquarters. It will operate a reduction
tax benefits for companies that want
finance policy and encourage funding
by individuals. Beside the reduction of allowances will be implemented suppression
annuities parliamentarians and councilors,
simultaneously to radical cut the budget
and the use of blue cars for proven reasons
Safety. These measures are part of the
the context of decreasing the number of deputies
and Senators, which shall not exceed in aggregate the five components than
more than nine hundred today; to overcome
provinces, transferring skills and organic
head to municipalities and regions; to the drastic reduction of
boards of directors, through the appointment
the sole director of those companies
public currently controlled by local authorities.

06/45

Welcome
Left.
To the Government for conversion
Ecological economics and
Italian company
First, work
The work is the lever
development of the person,
the access key
citizenship,
the expression lattice
democracy. A
Citizenship jobless
It is devoid of both income
of participation
production of wealth
National.
There is no escape from the crisis, not back into gear
a big country like Italy without conversion
ecological economy, without investment
education and research, no innovation and change in the pattern of specialization, without
quality of work. They take a 50 billion euro from
invest to create new jobs. In these
years instead it takes the road to the contrary, to
the environment as the work towards reducing rights
social, employment, especially youth
and women's wages. The insecurity permeates
now himself an entire social order and invests all
a generation. Especially young women on

which it acts a double exclusion: generational and
Gender. Youth unemployment is 37%
of the population and to the south is up to 50%.
We propose a Green Plan for the work
create good jobs and qualified, with public investments that stimulate private ones for
the safety of the area, school,
for energy efficiency of buildings,
for the care of our landscape and retraining
Urban cities.
A major campaign for the defense of the soil,
prevention of seismic risk, the mitigamento
the consequences of climate change are
It passes on vital issues through a strategic review and the innovative concept of the true
"Great works" that serve the modernization
of our country. Forty billion euro in
next ten years will help to put in
sixth our most precious common good: the territory in which we live. And while these interventions
will trigger the creation of tens of thousands of
new jobs, especially for young people, in every
part of Italy. Another "great work" that we propose is the "construction" of sustainable cities, for
break the devastating cycle of building expansion and loss of land (over 70 hectares per day
in the last decade), investing vice versa on
the city as a common good, the city in which social sustainability and environmental sustainability become inseparable. Passing this way that new
urban model that can grow the tree
new green jobs (bio-architects, experts
sustainable mobility, energy improvement, recovery of historical centers) and new styles
life (by urban gardens transport "sweet", spaces

07/45

Welcome
Left.
suitable for children to places animal-friendly).
Today 85% of recruitments and contracts
precarious. The supermarket of the intake forms
He has worsened the lives of people, lowered
business productivity, distanced investments in education and innovation. We propose to combat insecurity in the entrance to the
work, reducing the need for real, people
and production processes, types of contracts
possible. Who does a steady job must have a
stable contract, those who make an employment must
have a contract employee and who does the same
work should have the same hourly wage.
It should be fought radically moonlighting, form
absolute insecurity, including through restoration
fairness indexes, revealing the existence of
Employment in black.
It is estimated (ISTAT) that the underground economy
worth 275 billion euro, ie 17.5% of the
wealth (GDP) produced by the country. The illegal workers are estimated at around 2.5 million.
We propose to combat insecurity
while working through the repeal of
norm (Article 8 of Law 138 of July 2011)
which allows the exemption to contracts based on
local agreements and then determines the emptying of the national contract and the Articles of
Workers; restoring Article 18 (dismissal without just cause and with justification) and
its extension to companies under fifteen employees; a law effective against blank resignations and extent of fundamental rights to all working relationships, the right to vote, in
to strike, to the disease; a framework law
for union democracy, for the right to vote
people on union agreements and the Law on
union representation for the right of each
workers to elect their representatives.
To self-employed with VAT numbers should be increased access to credit and financing for
business projects with tax breaks for the purpose.
Who today lose your job, either temporarily
that definitively, it is protected differently
depending on the production sectors in which they work and the

type of employment contract. This inequality
not only it has not been resolved by the measures
hired by the Minister Fornero but rather they have
created a new situation for the dramatic
people, expelled from the production processes, not
They have not yet reached retirement age.
Thousands of men and women without any income
after a life spent working, defined with
unpleasant term "esodati". We propose to combat insecurity when you exit the
work by extending in a universal sense
of unemployment benefits to all types of
labor relations and tackle the problem in a structural way of applying them esodati
security conditions existing at the time
Output from work.
Precarious work determines, together with the structural shortcomings of our welfare system, forms
of real existential precariousness ends
to leave alone the people and lean on
women the full weight of the absence of social services
adequate. The Italian welfare system, in the labor law (where rights are recognized on the basis of
work carried out and funded through the payment
of contributions by workers and companies) and
partly universalistic (where the rights concerning
health, education, care are funded
by general taxation) shows a structure now inadequate in meeting the new
questions, to new and growing inequalities and
poverty, exclusion of young people, aging people.
We propose to invest on the welfare state: it
first of all it is not a cost but a condition
essential to the development and social cohesion. For
allow girls and boys autonomy and
freedom to escape the blackmail of insecurity suggest the guaranteed minimum income of 600 €.
Assuring the future of social security to the youth,
today denied, we propose a reform of the system
pension that revalue pensions; defining
Retirement ages vary according to the different
works; recognizing imputed contributions for
child care and care for people.

08/45

Welcome
Left.
The increase in female employment is able
to determine an increase in GDP of up to 7%
as claimed by the Bank of Italy.
This requires investing in infrastructure
social as nurseries, establish paternity leave mandatory two weeks, give support
tax to businesses that help sharing
of family responsibilities between women and men
by means of the flexibility of working hours,
provide incentives for employment of women and
extend maternity pay mandatory.
Because out of the crisis and a long season
economic recession is possible, first of all
with women's work.

09/45

Welcome
Left.
The economy and the IRS
In Italy they pay too much
taxes and services not
work. The imbalance
of our tax system,
as well as its chronic
inability to counter
unlawful behavior,
It must point to a reform
System providing
property tax and
reduce the tax burden
on topics today
contribute honestly.
The tax burden in our country has grown,
but also increased evasion and avoidance, factors of injustice and inefficiency because
They are subtracted treasury hundreds of billions
resources and why to pay more than 80% tax
They are the compensation of employees and pensioners. The way out is a reform of the system that
widen the tax base and reduce the pressure
tax on those who today contribute honestly. The tax burden should be reduced for the
enterprises, through a system of rewards.
The phenomenon avoidance and evasion not
It exists in any other advanced country like
Italy. The inefficiency of our system have
favored the creation of gray areas that today defended with arrogance their advantageous position.
Action is needed to make the tax levy
a right tool and the first reform should
be to make efficient methods

collection, from a technological integration of all databases that can interbreed to ascertain the actual amount of income and
asset.
The real fiscal revolution will be one that will allow the majority of Italians to pay less
taxes thanks to the resources taken from those who did not
He never paid as much as he should. To achieve this we advance structural proposals
which will significantly change the system
Italian tax.
We propose the introduction of a wealth tax on financial assets that serious, being
the real ones, homes, already affected dall'IMU.
The asset will replace totally taxes
stamp duty currently levied on current accounts and deposits under management of securities. For the purposes of
calculation of the tax base, are
made to the following categories of financial assets: bank deposits, postal savings bonds
public and private debt securities (bonds and securities companies
State), shares and other equity in corporations, investment funds. According to the data of 2010
the sum of the values ​​of these categories amounts to
2488300000000 euro. It can be estimated, as shown by the data of the Bank of Italy, that the wealth of
country is distributed in such a way that 10% of the
wealthier households owns 45% of wealth
and 50% of the poorest families holds little
less than 10%.
Our proposal exempts totally
the 50% poorest of the population, subject
at its maximum assumed the richest 10% and
identify the reduced rate for the remainder.
The assets will be exempt under 700
thousand euro. We propose to tax large estates to 1.5% and less conspicuous in two aliquots
favorable alternatives to each other: 0.15% and 0.30.
In such cases, revenue is around 20
billion euro per year, which would be reduced by about
5 billion for the abolition of stamp duty.
We want to propose a substantial rebalancing of
levy for the benefit of the lower classes.
And this can be accomplished in part by moving

10/45

Welcome
Left.
the imposition of income to shareholders and modulating the rates of direct taxes. We offer
the revision of the rates curve, with the inclusion of new bands above 150-200
thousand euro per year and lower than
median, to redistribute the tax burden. Other
measures are the introduction, like the income tax return, even of that heritage,
thereby making it faster and more effective controls on
Any discrepancy between income and assets,
clear indicator of possible evasion; the reintroduction of false accounting; the maximum threshold
cash 300 Euros; the list telematics customers
supplier for any business of any size;
the obligatory nature of the electronic payment system in all exercises and activities and professional
the consequent reduction down to zero of the costs
bank intermediation for activation
POS; ICI on property owned by the Church;
introduction of greater penalties for the second
installment of tax amnesties disappeared and an additional
tax (5-20%) on capital scudati; strengthening of law enforcement and investigation
with the Court of Auditors (the current estimate of the
corruption amounts to losses of 50 billion
€ per year); negotiation with Switzerland and
other countries of conventions that tend to bring out the
assets of resident Italians on Italian territory
(This involves a revenue estimated between 20 and 30 billion euro); broadening the tax base
IRPEF to understand the income taxed with
replacement rate; abolition of the IMU for bands
low income and lowering of rates
for other devoting entirely to the revenue
Common; abolition of additional regional and
municipalities; restoration of the VAT rate of 20% and
reintroduction of that on luxury goods to its
last level before the abolition (38%).
Families and businesses deserve from the point of view
tax increased attention. For families
It proposes the creation of a "no tax area" that
grow as a function of family responsibilities, in place
of the "no tax" currently provided by
personal income tax structure that has no relation with the

family expenses. Households that do not reach the "no tax" reference area will see
transformed the difference between declared income and
their "no tax area" in a grant. Taxation
businesses will aim to strengthen their capital structure. For this
We propose the drastic decrease in the
IRES, in particular for those who assumes, for those
invests in product innovation and process
for the startup. We propose to shift taxation on dividends and capital gains, while we
contrary to indiscriminate to reduce
so-called tax wedge. The example of the 6 billion euro given to businesses in 2006 by the Government
Prodi, who have generated neither employment nor
innovation, demonstrating that it is much more effective
the intervention aimed to reward good practices
(Such as hiring, innovation, increasing
dimensional, internalization).
The public debt originated as
deficit of the state budget accumulated
time. For decades, state expenditures were higher than revenue and the difference was
filled through the issuance of debt securities
public as BTP, CCT, CTZ, signed by both
Italian and foreign investors. You must address the roots of the debt issue, solving
the cause that generates it: the budget deficit
of the state. It is an objective that could be simply solved by increasing revenues
and limiting the outputs. To the revenue management
It can only be to increase the tax burden on the wealthy; the exits spending
It can be compressed and made more productive without
sacrificing social services. Our first actions
will be: cutting pensions gold, starting
those that exceed 50,000 Euros a year; the
reduction in military spending and the immediate
cancellation of the F 35; the limitation
outsourcing of Public Administration
(Drastic reduction of external consultants and
professional assignments); the optimization of the
health expenditure mainly through the revision of the agreements with the private health sector and the

11/45

Welcome
Left.
spending review diagnostic and pharmaceutical industries;
radically reducing the cost of politics (theme
Treaty in another part of this program).
The stock of debt can also be reduced through the sale of assets owned by the
State. Therefore, we propose a definite action
intervention through the creation of an agency
the specific model and the experience of German
Treuhandanstalt, with the task of alienating the public assets and non-strategic and non-instrumental
with the bond claws resources obtained will be
aimed at reducing the public debt.
For the past five years our country is hit by
economic recession, like the most important
world economies. This situation means that, through the reduction of the inner product
Gross, a constant and continuous impoverishment of
population, particularly acute for classes
lowest income. You have so far been adopted rules
austerity that have done nothing to further depress the economy and society.
We want to defend the euro and integration
European, to the point that we propose a process
policy leading to a European federation,
the United States of Europe. To do this we believe that
go contrasted austerity policies and that,
on the contrary, they should be encouraged forms of closer integration of fiscal policies. Austerity
tax weighs heavily on reducing the
gross domestic product which, in turn, worsens the solvency ratios of the country, increasing the confidence of investors. A proof of
this lies in the fact that only external interventions, such as
recent developments in the policy of purchasing securities
the ECB and the green light to the rescue fund were able to mitigate the distrust. After a year of close
austerity the results are there for all to see:
GDP is in sharp decline and
adjustment rests mainly on classes
underserved. We believe that addressing
actually the crisis and thus enhance the
operation of the entire eurozone would be facilitated by the following measures: to lift measures
austerity, without of course implying

the fiscal profligacy of the past; accompany
gradually weak economies on a path of
achieving sustainable fiscal socially;
require a more active role of the central bank,
as already achieved, through direct support
and unlimited government bonds of countries in difficulty, either through reform of its mandate
includes among its objectives "full employment, the
stable prices and moderate interest rates in
long term"; implement a higher-level integration of the member countries of budget
Eurozone by creating a "euro treasure"
subjected to the control of a body democratically elected by European citizens; start a constitutional process and a federal New Deal European
boosting European dimension of spending
investments.
Finally we consider restrictive continue
measure the wealth and wellbeing of the population by the gross domestic product (GDP).
We are committed to change this indicator and
introduce national product knowledge and product
National Health (PNS) as indicators of the future
a company. Health and knowledge in the field of
contemporary societies are crucial for the
their level of real well-being.

12/45

Welcome
Left.
Finance
Our proposal on
of financial system
based on the assumption content
Article 47 of our
Constitution, which reads:
"The Republic encourages
and safeguards savings in all
its forms; discipline,
coordinates and controls
the provision of credit. "
The financial scandals of Cirio and Parmalat
highlighted the structural weaknesses of the
Italian financial market, as well as misconduct of players in speculative ventures. Our proposal on the system
Financial is based on the assumption contained in Article 47 of our Constitution: "The Republic
encourages and safeguards savings in all its
shapes: regulates, coordinates and controls the exercise of credit. "Feeling that financial markets
They can be totally free and therefore not
accountable to the community is
an idea that goes against the constitutional principle
and is one of the reasons why the
crisis in which we find ourselves. The protection of the investor, particularly one that has less familiarity
with markets, it is the first point of any reform
of the system. Must curb all forms of speculation, of which especially small savers
They are the first victims. Some recent initiatives
They go in the right direction, as the positive
ban on negotiating credit default swaps (CDS) and
the positions of short selling, or not

have possession underlying. We want a
Tobin tax, in ways other than those proposed
Government Monti. Its inventor, rightly, the
He thought as a "global tax", also to avoid
the risks of "tax arbitrage", ie to move
the financial transaction in one of the countries without
Tobin tax, aiming in particular to compensate
imbalances between the north and south of the world through
the financing of investment programs
to less developed countries. Today, with the explosion
financial market transaction tax
financial has become a necessity, at least for
regional areas as vast as the European Union and to introduce this tax in every country means to put pressure on those countries not available as the United
Kingdom, the largest financial center Continental.
We believe that the rate applied to the transaction should be inversely proportional
the duration of the investment. For investments
short duration, typically speculative, the rate
It should be at the highest level, and should tend to be zero for
long-term investments.

13/45

Welcome
Left.
Agriculture
Agriculture is a
crucial area for the
achieving
total goals
EU 2020 strategy in terms
smart growth and
sustainable. In Italy the young
They can become passionate and
work in a sector long
mistreated if agriculture
and become innovative
qualified.

and first credit, the main cause
debt that is strangling our
agriculture. The real breakthrough of agriculture
Italian is called cooperation, aggregation and
integration of agricultural enterprises, traceability
of food production and ethics of
production techniques, transparency of information on pricing, promotion
short chain, protection of water resources. Within
Europe will carry through the fight for the origin labeling of food
and bring Italy in the group of countries GMO free,
thus enhancing the enormous food and wine heritage that we have through the guarantee
the absence of genetically modified organisms throughout the food industry.

For us, agriculture is an open door to the
future. The future of a healthy economy of the earth,
of new jobs and new businesses
for young people, a food quality and therefore the
health, respect and fair territory.
Already today in the Italian agri-food sector is the second economic sector for entities
value added and you can open huge spaces
If the policy, as we propose, will
implement a real strategic project aimed
agriculture. It consists first of all in a
national plan to combat the abandonment of
campaigns. The main points of the plan will
be: a total tax exemption for young people
farmers setting up in public lands
abandoned; a moratorium consumption
of agricultural land, that objective is pursued with
a national planning law fixing a roof
mandatory and decreasing consumption of the soil;
defending farmers' incomes, bureaucracy

14/45

Welcome
Left.
Water common good

weakest.
The next government of center-left will have to engage in a massive rationalization of water by encouraging water saving, the
fight against waste, re-use in the industrial and
agricultural. Will rethink cities and contexts
building in that direction, focusing on the efficient use of water resources.

The water is good
common. Back not
returns. We have to
rethink its models
management, favoring the
advertising networks and
management systems.
Those goods necessary and essential to protect and
promote a dignified life for each and every one,
water, food, air, knowledge, can not
be made available to the market, but recognized as common goods. This one does have
told those millions of people in our country
voted in a referendum against the privatization of water, an unprecedented achievement that
imposes on our country a radical rethink
of water management policies.
First reaffirm strongly that the water
It is a common good and a human right to ensure that current and future generations. The UN, with the
Resolution of 28 July 2010, said the water
a universal human right inviolable, natural and
consistent extension of the right to life, as follows:
"Declares the right to safe drinking water and to
sanitation a human right essential to the full
enjoyment of life and all human rights ".
It must also protect the water as well
town, building safeguards against
the many speculative interests that gravitate in
sector. We must rethink models of management
of water resources, promoting the publicity
networks and management systems.
In this context it is necessary to lay down the law
to the minimum quantity of access to all
social classes, thinking of forms of welfare for

15/45

Welcome
Left.
Renewables and efficiency
Energy
The energy strategy
given by the national
Monti government is born old
and it seems orphan nuclear.
Trying in every way to give
future fuels
fossil future not
They may have. The diffusion
renewable energy
electric can transform
Italy in a country free from
blackmail - political, as well as
economic - of coal and
fossil fuels.
The climate emergency and the need to ensure
energy sovereignty recall our country
a radical rethinking of energy strategy
It is given by the national government Monti, who appears
still anchored to an anachronistic model
centered on expanding the extraction of fossil fuels. Neither it offers space for
rethink on nuclear power.
We believe that we should give a clear
turnabout toward disengagement from dependence on fossil fuels. Think again
to drill for oil or for fracking (hydraulic fracturing) and try to impose new sites
coal is the exact opposite of what a
country like Italy to do. Not in our seas
we want new augers for oil and gas.
In contrast, the geological structure and geoclimatica

of our country it indicates the possibility of a future
exclusively renewable.
One option that will open new opportunities
employment, respect for the vocation of the territories,
emission reduction, cost reduction of
energy production, environmental friendliness. And to
while transforming Italy into a country free from
blackmail - political as well as economic - of coal
and fossil fuels.
It is to retrieve a wealth of knowledge
and expertise that went missing following the
misguided policies of the Berlusconi government and the
Monti government, which triggered a deep crisis in the renewable energy sector, with
tens of thousands of integrated cash in the sector and
many businesses threatened with closure.
Through policies to support solar thermal
and low enthalpy geothermal energy (exploitation of
geothermal systems with high capacity
maintenance) and also of methane cogeneration strategies will be possible in the next
five years to reduce by 50% the cost of the bill
energy for heating. The spread of
renewable energy power can transform
Italy in a country free from blackmail - political as well
and economic - of coal and fossil fuels.
We believe that it was only right to reduce the incentives for solar photovoltaic drastically limiting
plants on agricultural soils productive. But it
completely wrong to pretend to block
the shift to renewable energy with
political quota productive than ever
have been applied to other forms of energy (the
registry system).
For today and the future need for photovoltaics
focus on the generation of electricity distributed throughout the national territory, to liberalize the exchange between producers of renewable energy
and consumers, support the storage of energy
renewable, we need a policy of smart grids
Local networks from building interconnecting Italy as a great democratic beehive. So it will be possible to produce and exchange
energy in the respect of the landscape by freeing

16/45

Welcome
Left.
yoke of the bills.
Next to the PV will be encouraged
wind power with equity participation
local communities, developing possibilities of wind energy at sea in compliance with the landscape, the spread
mini and micro wind and research support of
systems without wind blades or the tropospheric.
It will also enhance the small-hydro
scale respecting the minimum flow of rivers and
the fish fauna, bringing into production all reservoirs
Existing emptying the sludge and integrating them with
PV systems with the overnight charging of the basins.
Geothermal energy is zero impact should be the goal
to be pursued for the conversion of geothermal energy
currently existing in our country. How long
It regards the production of energy from biomass agricultural waste and animal waste with the system
Biogas these will have to be on a small scale
and spread in the territory. Agricultural production must be dedicated in marginal areas for
food production and be produced using
phosphates and pesticides and contiguous to the panel. Using
wood and pruning should be itself
intended for small power stations located in places of
production of the wood itself, and include the active involvement of farmers in the forest.
You will be working to make it permanent
tax relief for those who restructures (highest) and for those
It builds (lowest) energy-efficient buildings
and safe from earthquakes. Will be sburocratizzati all energy-saving systems for
families and businesses, recognizing the condominiums
who want to improve the efficiency of their building
the possibility of acting without unanimity.
For each upgrade or new construction will
made mandatory the use of saving systems
energy by replacing all production of heat
gas with combined heat and power
electricity. All public property will
renovated, and every public investment in
renewable energy, provided that cost-saving also economically, will be subtracted from the calculation
vestments of the Stability Pact.

They should be promoted all the electrical charging of
electric vehicles, promoting mobility at lower
cost and less pollution starting from the streets
sea ​​obviously starting also from the change also of marine diesel engines
LNG (liquified natural gas).

17/45

Welcome
Left.
Waste management

the input of the crooks in the field.
Finally, it should ensure a full implementation
control, through the most modern systems
information, able to "trace" the path of the
special waste.

We want to launch a
National Strategy
prevention aimed at
reduced production and
hazard waste.
The state is latent for years in the field of waste management. This is demonstrated by the high number
problem areas in the field (just in this
way to see the commissioners and situations
Emergency on the matter), the periodic crisis of Naples
and a virtual absence of regulation and
control in the field of special waste.
It is essential to launch a national strategy of prevention aimed at reducing the
production and hazardous waste, recycling and reuse. European objectives require us a real turning point, also through the introduction of specific measures (reduction in packaging,
introduction bail for reusable containers,
etc.) that has reference to the "waste strategy
zero ". It is necessary, here, to rethink the model
development disancorando the old principle
which the welfare is anchored to the production of
goods and, therefore, to that of the waste.
The growth, today, needs to be rethought and understood so
sustainable and durable products and enhancing
goods that guarantee a life time longer.
It has also added a robust industrial planning that allows the strengthening of the supply chain
the recovery of materials, especially in the areas of
South of the country and a policy that encourages the use
materials coming from the recovery.
Secondly, it is important to take up the role
State in the definition of regulations and guidelines
Implementing guide which minimize the possibility of interpretations that allow people to favor

18/45

Welcome
Left.
To the government to know how
lever for new development
Training
In the OECD rankings on
investments and state
Health system
Training in the countries most
in the industrialized world,
Italy is the latest
positions. We are second to last,
31 th place out of 32.
The figures are dramatically clear: Italy
spent on education only 9% of the total
public spending, when the average of industrialized countries is over 13%. In the ranking
OECD on investment and the health of
system of education in most industrialized countries of the world are second to last, in 31st place on
32. The financial laws in recent years, which have
used the resources of the school to make cash, and
the counter-reform of the Gelmini, ie the largest
attempt to destruction of the training system
Public and demonization of teachers,
They led to this result.
Those who came later, the minister Profumo, has operated
in full continuity: increased resources to
private schools and cuts for public research,
blocks the university competitions and extending the rectors,
index a "concorsone" in which the securities accumulated
They have no value, residual problems

of those who worked in the school for years in total insecurity and aims to reduce the Bodies.
The system of barriers to entry, and high taxes
limited access, reduced the quality of training and the number of university graduates.
So the university today is no longer a tool
in order to improve their social status.
The same access to higher grades of education is a continuous obstacle course: doctorates without grants, contracts with zero salary, courses
postgraduate training often unnecessary, humiliating
dependence Ordinariate, total disconnection
with the world of work. We witness every day
the process of de-skilling and scant use of the ability of those entering the system
training. We are the only country in the world
industrialized does not consider financing
to public education as a cyclical tool to combat the crisis and curb the effects of
casualization of the workforce.
We propose a reform of the system of
training that aims primarily to equate
resources and investment in education Italian
to those of the European average, in line with what
It requires Europe through the European program
for research and innovation Horizon 2020.
In school we want the full-time is guaranteed for all. We imperative of reducing early school leaving in some areas of the country exceeds
20%. So it is necessary to introduce a requirement
education up to 18 years. And we need
quality public schools throughout the
domestic, operating in real autonomy. Own
for this is essential to ensure Organs
College democratic, open, that have full
recognition and right to participate in teaching and in the organizational aspects. One of the priorities

19/45

Welcome
Left.
is the program of school construction, why not
We can no longer live tragedies such as San
Julian, we can no longer think that our
children spend most of their day
inside structures crumbling, dilapidated, with barriers
architecture that restrict access to people with disabilities and without connectivity. Through the
cutting expenses for the purchase of unnecessary planes
F 35 war we can recover resources to invest in a strong program of school construction in
throughout the country to renew structures
and adapt to anti-seismic regulations, the qualities of
connectivity, laboratories and other instruments
necessary. You need new teachers. Three
generations of teachers are trapped in
shameful cage insecurity. For this we
propose a multiannual plan to release into the role of temporary workers, as long as the
rankings, covering all the places available in
schools. Today the school is strongly organic underpowered compared to the need: they are
well 81,000 places available for teachers and more than
12,000 ones for the teaching staff. It is necessary
establish clear rules of recruitment, based on
the real training needs of the students.
We need to re-introduce this full time and
the lab that Gelmini had canceled
and ensuring the presence of support teachers,
according to the need certificate. The viable solution is the contest magazine covering the needs
since the percentage of organic functional. Teacher training must be guaranteed
and mandatory throughout the work process,
through the territorial units of support pedagogical-didactic. The training, as we know,
It begins at birth and Italian families, and
particularly women burdened by the double task
labor and care, urgently need
new public nurseries, ensuring a number
of seats by at least 30% of children up to three
years. The school must form to life: we recover stolen from the hours and work for Gelmini
the unification of the cycles and high school technical-professional, investing more in materials

professionalizing. That is how the school will
exercise a prominent role in the
the company's production and training
generations. The quality of our school
It must be constantly evaluated and measured. For this
we intend to establish a process of evaluation
overall school system, so as to verify the adequacy and compliance needs
expressed by students and social changes
cultural changes. The evaluation will be entrusted to a
autonomous institution, not of direct ministerial appointment,
shall have the purpose of compensatory and support
difficulty in school situations, and use statistical methods with indicators and benchmarks to measure and quantify. The assessment will involve the
School Council and the School Committee.
But the school is also the students, while today
right to education is severely challenged by higher taxes, costs no more
Sustainable household for the purchase of books
text and school supplies, erosion of
scholarships. They must be put in place urgently
the resources necessary to ensure the scholarships,
indirect forms of income such as mobility Free
for students, and fiscal instruments such as the deductibility of expenses for the school.
Universities and research should be considered as assets
essential public, while in the course of these years
the one and the other have been systematically weakened and put under control the public institutions
dedicated to high education with funding cuts, with the depletion of the staff and the
block of turnover, with the revision of the statutes authoritarian way, with mechanisms mortifying
against precarious. Power groups have been internal
consolidated, has limited access to training
with the sharp increase in taxes, has moved the
power organs in scientific and political
democratically elected (as the Academic Senate and the Scientific Council) to organs of mere
economic management. The new rules of pseudo
evaluation introduced by the Monti government, based
the rhetoric of meritocracy and the instrument
the bibliometric index to guide

20/45

Welcome
Left.
career and studies academy, end
to give more value to the publication of magazines
have liberal positions (as in economics and in
legal matters), so mortifying thought
autonomous and independent in favor of only one.
And it thereby opens the doors of the market
the business of private training, directing
the country towards development based on work
poorly trained, underpaid and blackmail
as easily replaceable. Immediately reverse
The route is about ensuring the ability of education to all, deleting the number closed as
method of access to the university. It means refinance the entire system of the right to education, both for
scholarships, especially for students
PhD funding must be
guaranteed, for both the student residences, and part
Resources can be found by those
that have benefited so far eluded the taxman.
Must be defined the essential levels of performance,
taking the example of the best regional examples, starting with that of Puglia, guaranteeing
Mount the coverage of suitable candidates. Must
untie the possibility of obtaining of the bag
study from the university chosen, the
Funding student must be progressive
according to economic and financial conditions,
without penalizing the non-examination students, part-time workers. It should be ensured effective compliance
the constraint of the law of the ceiling of 20% of the student contribution compared to the investment fund
ordinary and must be developed all the programs
training at other European universities.
We need to restore a minimum level and some
financing university and research.
The regular financing, long-term,
It must be used for the operation of the
facilities, research, essential services for
students. Now it is necessary to eliminate
attrition, recently tightened
the spending review. The funds made available by the retirement will be used for
a 50% interest, for a special plan
for the placing on the role of part-time researchers

determined through a special program
recruitment. The almost total absence of private funding in research, particularly that
developed in-house, is a detractor
for the entire system and this results in the inability to
enterprises to absorb figures in qualifying
higher, such as doctorates. Here then
that we must encourage the creation of spin-off from
public research, simplify the start-up point
in funding projects of joint consortia public / private co-financing with a substantial
by the private and secure tax breaks
for the promotion of private investment in
quality research.
There is no doubt that the university with the "system
3 plus 2 has licealizzata locked into a net
division of knowledge that has led her to specialists and
microspecialismi, good only to secure professorships
annuities and insured to the current management system.
Instead, the university must be the establishment of
complex knowledge, must put in place strategies that do not follow the Italian labor market,
the same as in recent years has declined young
trained and qualified, but rather constitute a svecchiarlo, focusing on innovation and
creativity.
The enactment of a single text of universities and
Research can bring order into the confused framework
the current regulatory and edit appearances more
the latest counter-deleterious. Must
giving power to the democratically elected bodies,
while simultaneously broadening the base extending
the power of choice to employees with temporary contracts
term. We need to ensure transparency in
management of funds, both in the assignment that in
competitions. We aim for this to the unique role of
teaching and research, ensuring researchers employed under fixed-term contracts to compete
directly related to the allocation of funds
projects. They are finally open commissions
evaluators in all roles.
Liberalism has affected educational institutions and the whole civil service by telling the story of the business model as

21/45

Welcome
Left.
the functional and winning over all. In fact it
They are simply privatized institutions
of knowledge, both in governance as in
evaluation. And instead evaluate universities and research
It is a key point to guarantee both the right
level of services, and to improve teaching.
The ANVUR lacks the necessary independence to
a proper evaluation, as it lacks fairness
in considering the different disciplines and
openness to the world of research.
Its costs, also, so far have been exorbitant
and absolutely unjustified. The assessment must
therefore rethought, in the criteria and the scope, so that
be independent, fair, inclusive, ensuring
to the entire scientific community can
participation and making public policies
evaluation, and the result available. It will
thereby identifying and correcting criticality of
Italian university system and research, opening students to the society at large, avoiding the risk of self-reference. It must
Starting from the system as a whole, then cover the structures and finally the people in their roles
decision. It must take into account the specificities, rewarding it with few resources and with ethicality
Professional can produce good results.

22/45

Welcome
Left.
Cultures
If we want the future
It is left to chance or becomes
something they have
Fear is necessary to return
to believe in the value of
ideas. Ideas are the cause of
everything around us and
culture is their union.
In Italy there are 4,340 museums, 46,025 architectural bound, 12,375 libraries, 34,000
performance sites, 47 UNESCO sites, Italy is
the country with the largest number of protected sites by UNESCO in the world and Herculaneum is one of them. TO
Given this enormous wealth, public investment per annum for the Culture is 1.42
billion euro, equivalent to 0.19% of the state budget
(0.11% of GDP).
Public investment in culture is needed
because the market does not invest where there are
immediate margins. We owe it to ourselves and to the
generations. Investing in culture,
especially in times of economic crisis, save the
Country moral degradation and the resulting economic concerns, because culture means innovation and creativity. Innovate to increase its production,
creating wealth to redistribute. They are endless,
to think of it, the possibility of investing for
Private applications of new technologies and
cultural production. Because even businesses
They have realized that the only way to do it is
to give Italy a vocation "glocal", which face
draw on the wealth of historical, environmental, architectural, artistic, landscape, turning it into a factor of knowledge, competence

and promotion of their uniqueness in the world.
If we want the future is not left to chance or
become something to be feared is necessary
return to believe in the value of ideas. Ideas are
the cause of all that surrounds us and the culture is the
their union.
Today Italy does not consider the knowledge and knowledge
as a common good, you need to progress and
the welfare of all. Instead we need to make
so that Italians will return to breathe the beauty,
to want to be loved around the world for their
cinema, for a quality TV, for a literature
able to export knowledge and universal values.
There is an Italy that is not seen but who lives in reality
internet and the place where a possible Network
unknown number of people in dialogue, exchange
experiences facilitating knowledge and natural
preparation of human empathy.
The network allows the extension of the capacity of
women and men, and pressed for the implementation of
forms of participatory democracy, in which everyone
It is called its task of citizen
world. And politics, institutions, what can
do to develop these opportunities, ensuring
Profits for companies and good wages for workers, cultural empowerment for citizens, respect
for aesthetics, democracy.
The policy should, first of all, lighten the field by
Frequency of mass distraction, stimulating creativity and not the flat one-way communication,
multiplying the places of collective participation in
creative work, by means, for example, the co-working
(Independent work to shared environment).
Those employed in the arts and cultural are
585,000, rising to more than 1.4 million considering the whole sector of the "culture industry
and creative. "
For all these reasons, we will send the
"Ministry for creativity", deleting the Mibac
and with the incorporation of all the powers today
Sperse in a thousand streams of many ministries, for
out of the trap of mere preservation of
cultural heritage in order to promote tourism and
introduce the idea of ​​creative industry. The set,

23/45

Welcome
Left.
ie, originality, ethics, culture, aesthetics and identity
ranging favorites in every production process and
institutional. It can change, just
start it. Just remember, in fact, that 3% of European workers - about 7 million people - are
engaged in a creative or cultural.
Cultural heritage
The artistic and cultural Italians are sick
almost terminals bureaucracy and starvation bodies
public. Carelessness, lack of respect for history
ancient and modern, widespread disregard for the importance of the historical record in the passage of
time are symptoms of a country that is lost each
more day.
For this we think is necessary:
• streamline the rules for procurement
restoration, maintenance and recovery of assets
arts and culture;
• introduce legislation clear and precise
sponsorships to make attractive and
transparent calls and allow tax relief for private investors in the sector;
• make efficient tools superintendence
protection and enhancement of effective and not to
and often mere blind conservation;
• turn the logic according to which public funds are an expense and not,
Instead, investment in the future;
• enhance, bring out the precariousness and
forming countless resources to employees
sector: archivists, archaeologists, museum professionals,
young cultural managers are some of the
tens of thousands of professionalism of which
Italy needs. Or is it better to close
this country.
Publishing
The reading education can not be separated from
comparison with the new instruments and with the company of
consumption. However, you must use the new
instruments in a more conscious, avoiding
traps implicit: trivialization or approval of judgment, lack of historical perspective

and flattening values. Rethinking the relationship
between books, authors, public, publishing, distribution,
market. Each of these links in the chain has
and several great difficulties that affect the reader
disoriented in online sales, the search for
discounts, the hype, the leadership
television, the huge amount of books on the market,
the limited resources available, but never as in
these years we record strong desire to read,
listen, participate. Therefore:
• promote entrepreneurship widespread, favoring pure publishers, corporate culture and
management in order to help the emergence of new audiences for new companies
new content;
• democratize access to cultural sources,
making widespread training activities
by promoting closer cooperation, systematic and wide between the arts,
the academic and scientific institutions and the
public-private synergies;
• inspiring us to a special experiment
started in some prisons in Brazil by
President Dilma Rousseff, propose a
law perfections equivalence universal
between books and freedom. The proposal is to
reduction of four days worth for each book
read by prisoners for up to 48 each
year. Every prisoner can read a book
month of literature, philosophy or science and make
a written report to prove it
inclusive. In Italy they have set up 153 libraries of 206 prisons in which live
68 thousand prisoners. It would be an extraordinary
novelty if, even in Italy, the opportunity to
read from turning into redemption through reading just as in Brazil;
• rethink the role of libraries investing
in redevelopment projects, extension,
conversion or new construction of buildings and
Libraries to relaunch the role and centrality of culture and society. This also means
the implementation of new digital services
the public, transformation and attractiveness

24/45

Welcome
Left.
spaces dedicated, building services and
cultural relations with users also through
the web and the catalog systems integrated
network.

musical instruments for youngsters.

Music
The Italian musical heritage must be considered as a real system consists of
artists, record companies, producers, distributors,
organizers and institutions, as happens to many
years in other European countries. A music system
based on the sustainable exploitation of resources
tangible and intangible assets of the country, involving both
the artistic and cultural sphere, both the business skills and organizational subjects production.
We want to achieve:
• An articulated legislative action to strengthen and consolidate its presence and competitiveness of "Music System Italy" in the markets
domestic and foreign;
• recognize the record production as
cultural and non-luxury, putting in
EU headquarters reduction of VAT to 4% of at
example of literary productions;
• Increase the amount and quality of the spaces
for live music with incentives to encourage the construction, urban scale or
subway, adequate facilities such as
Parco della Musica in Rome, the Barbican Center
London or the Cité de la Musique in Paris;
• Establish a fund for research and development
dedicated to young talents with incentives reward for their programming on radio / TV;
• Insert in the promotion programs
Made in Italy also the musical product,
through participation in fairs, events
International etc.
• Technological innovation Music System
with financial and legislative instruments aimed at
companies wishing to invest in step
digital and innovate the cultural product;
• Integral educational programs making
one of the pillars of the music training
and creating a fund to facilitate the purchase of

The audiovisual
Today we live immersed in the world of images and the network, thus allowing our
guys around and to learn other languages,
we have to move from the notion of film to that
more European audiovisual (cinema, TV, products
cross-media).
Preliminary to any discussion on the audiovisual,
will launch a series of antitrust regulations that
will regulate the matter of conflict of interest
all economic fields, not just the audiovisual.
Our law affirm that no operator
economic, public or private, can hold
total investments exceeding 20% ​​of a
trust horizontal or vertical.
In schools of all levels will introduce
compulsory study of audiovisual languages.
The objective is to increase the number of tickets
film detached in a year, bringing in 5 years
120000000-200000000.
RAI should remain public and care to inform, educate and innovate languages ​​encouraging the
development of a truly competitive market of independent producers. It must be free from political parties,
abolishing the Gasparri law and the proposal that we
get married is to MoveOn:
• Rai is owned by the state and sources
appointment of the Board of Directors, for a maximum of five
components, are the Parliament, the Regions,
users and workers of RAI. The Board of
Directors of Rai features
a dual governance, consists of a management committee and an audit committee;
• The contribution to public service audiovisual
Rai to be paid using the UNICO
every year;
• We will encourage the programming of cinema
Italian and European generalist for each network and the transmission of films in the original language
Italian with subtitles.
The exercise is central in every film
sector policy. Cinema, and especially the

25/45

Welcome
Left.
Italian cinema, living room and the dining room is now
aggregation, the center of culture. It is, however,
modernized with a greater spread of
Digital (we are still, absurdly, only to
50% of screens digitized) 4. We aim to streamline the supply chain and to train operators
to choose the quality product on which
apply advantageous conditions. A room
town that closes impoverishes the quality of
life of our cities;
In Italy there is no free audiovisual market: ten years we only see the movie "Made in Rai"
or "made in Medusa". Antitrust perspective, also
Rai is resized and quality-oriented.
Rai is still the justification of
power of Mediaset. Without any damage
network, we want to promote fair competition
with a system of rules. To try to undermine the current oligopoly is appropriate to provide
serious investment obligations on the part of network
television. For example apply directly to
independent productions for the acquisition of
rights related to the actual exploitation of the product
audiovisual and thus enables a real capitalization of companies in the sector;
To promote the development of our country and make it
attractive we have to introduce the creative commons licenses, develop open data and the use of
open software, to attract foreign productions,
developing a market for national rights
aid producers and directors to make universal stories, in this context seek closer cooperation
within Europe, including the creation of
specific funds that favor transnational projects and co-productions. In addition we will establish the
National Center for Audiovisual (CNA) funded by a fee on purpose integral whole
sector that deals to allocate resources and build a
national system as they do today the best movie
commission on the territories, as well as to promote the
our national product.

music) waits for a national framework law. In
world of work and in cultural consumption, lack
a vision of the future adapted to the changes that
for years through the creation of art and the offer of cultural service. For this is an urgent
Framework law, applying the constitutional provisions of Article 117, establishes:
• the Fund for the Performing Arts assumes the
character of investment fund over several years;
• shared competence between State and Regions,
introducing tools for consultation
institutional (such as planning agreements and
conventions) to support state and regional
of subjects and activities;
• New indicators and parameters to remove
regulatory barriers that for over a decade,
while confirming "advantageous positions"
no longer justified subjects and activities that
fulfilled her role, prevent the generational, artistic and organizational;
• the concrete implementation of the recognition,
made by Article. 51-bis of the Decree Law
83/2012, the status of micro, small and
medium enterprise bodies of the show
live;
• protect employees of the show in the field of
contributions, wages and the seasonal nature of their work;
• restructure the governance of public funds for
the show that are now provided so
highly questionable;
• promote in every way the cooperatives and companies that aggregate talent and investment
also by extending the tax credit for investors
external to the industry.

The system of the performing arts
The system of the performing arts (theater, dance,

26/45

Welcome
Left.
Government defense
rights
The rights of the person
Italy is a country where
there is the "problem" of
homosexuals, the "problem"
of unmarried couples,
the "problem" of the end
life, the "problem" of
assisted procreation.
We want to replace the
word problem with freedom.
We want a country where
rights are whole and not
halved prejudices.
Italy's progress has grown thanks to the great
conquests of civilization and freedom. We were the country
of honor killing and midwives, until
an extraordinary women's movement revolutionized
the concept of moral and allowed you approve
laws, then confirmed by referendum victories,
which recognized the right to divorce and abortion.
We were the country of asylum segregation until Mark Levy MD and a horse
mache named Marco broke through the wall
ignorance and allowed the introduction of
Law 180, the most advanced in the world. Italy, with
those achievements, became a pioneering country

civil rights, who founded the very idea of
citizenship in our country. Then came the long
season of conservatism, opaque and self-righteous,
what every day trying to bring us back, as a sign of the explosion objection
consciousness among gynecologists and homophobic campaign
to prevent the recognition of the rights of
homosexuals. We want to live in a
country where civil rights are whole, not halved by prejudice. We are the only country in Europe
that "freedom of conscience", in particular
hypocritical of legislators, it has become the instrument of a few to prevent the freedom of others. For
us, the left, choose the primacy of secularism
and the freedom of individuals is a foundation
of their political identity and civil. The same
European Union, and not only the progressive, has
Italy often reported the need to urgently adapt its legislation. For this
consider fundamental that, like rights
social and environmental, to be introduced in Italy
Laws return us among the most advanced countries for
freedom rights. Our first proposal is
in the abolition of bad Bossi-Fini law and
subsequent laws that have worsened more
the plight of migrants, in violation of fundamental
human rights, such as the one that set up the offense
of illegal immigration. We want to abolish Cie and delete
the shameful agreements with Libya; We want it to be
written the law on the rights of asylum, thus implementing
so Article 10 of the Constitution. We want
that migrant children born in Italy to become
Italian citizens and are shorter times to
obtaining citizenship. We want
It has introduced a residence permit for search
work and to guarantee the rights of migrants
residence permit, from full exercise

27/45

Welcome
Left.
to vote in local elections. We want
a law that recognizes the culture and rights of
Roma and Sinti. Why to grow
Italy must defeat the xenophobic culture.
Has become unbearable in our country the situation of the detainees: overcrowding, lack of adequate health protection, growth
self-inflicted injuries require to bring to
constitutional principles deprivation of liberty
staff. The penalty must aim at the rehabilitation and
social reintegration, the entire judicial system must avoid that continue beyond
reasonable time of detention of prisoners
awaiting trial, largely poor and migrants,
often without financial resources to ensure adequate defenses.
We do not want new prisons but alternative measures
and effective to reduce the impact of the criminal actions. The civilization of a country is measured in the first place
the level of civilization of its prisons. In this sense
it will also be our commitment to abolish laws
"Fill the prisons", the Bossi-Fini against migrants
the Fini-Giovanardi against addicts,
both expressions of a culture that security-
than to offend the dignity of persons, obtaining
criminogenic effects. Prohibitionist culture, embodied by the Fini-Giovanardi is a useless fiction
and dangerous that only produces an illegal consumption
and uncontrolled substances. For this we
propose legislation that is respectful of
rights of choice of the people and contribute to
pursue hard criminal organizations.
We propose to extend to crimes of homophobia and
transphobia the Mancino Law, legal instrument
Italian to sanction, either legally be
morally, I hate crimes.
Even the sad story of Eluana did
highlights the need to fill a legal vacuum important: the right of every human being
their own lives. It is an indispensable
law setting with clear rules and effective
the conditions of the relationship between the patient and his
the right to receive care, to ensure really
the freedom of the individual to the last day
of its existence. The limits of the Law 40

They are continuously confirmed by the many appeals
won by couples who have recourse to the courts
for having such a fundamental principle
freedom and justice, and following an appeal by
a couple of people even the European Court of
Human Rights has rejected the law. It is therefore necessary to write a new law and right. The reform
family law in Italy dates back to 1975.
Meanwhile the company has changed and "family" have replaced "families" and the multiple
ways of relating between people. Relationships
are the basis of modern society, they should be
regulated carefully and gently. Urgent
Reform of family law should cover: the
Divorce short, a new way to regulate the parenthood, the protection of vulnerable people inside
couples. So we can finally fill
that void that hinders our relationships.
The number of couples who choose to build a
family renouncing marriage is steadily
increased: families "in fact" are a reality
important social and consolidated, not marginal. These couples are entitled to a uniform treatment to that provided by law to
married couple. Why must equate
families made to the spouses in matters of succession, the right to work, fiscal discipline and
security. Homosexual couples should have
the same rights and obligations as heterosexual couples.
The first recognition of these rights by passing '
extension of civil marriage to couples too
homosexuals. The pairs of homosexual persons
must see recognized the right all'omogenitorialità, or to bond, in law or in fact, with
one or more children, both biological and adopted children.

28/45

Welcome
Left.
The right to health
Health is a right protected
by our Constitution
for this must
guaranteed by a system
NHS public
and universalistic. US
We defend this principle
and we oppose cuts
health spending. We want
quality health care for
all, rich and poor.
Health is a right protected by our
Constitution and is a collective interest.
To this must be guaranteed by a system
NHS public and universal,
supported by general taxation. We defend
this principle and oppose spending cuts
health. We propose a reduction and reshaping of tickets according to criteria of greater equity
based on income and on the severity of the disease.
We want quality health care for all, rich and
poor, therefore we are against the proposal of
governments of the center (before and after Sacconi
Monti) to encourage the use of insurance
individual or collective to reduce public health spending. We object for two good reasons:
because in this way the right to health is not
It would be levied on all equally, and why
we do not share the alarm raised about the alleged
economic unsustainability of the national health system. The current level of health spending Italian
It remains in line with the average of major countries
Western, but below what they spend

French and German. Leading experts of welfare economics believe that public spending
does not constitute a threat to the balance of
national budget.
The linear cuts to health expenditure made in these
and planned for future years (30 billion
euro less in the period 2011-2015) have
produced greater efficiency but only reduction
services and higher costs for the individual citizen.
With the increase of the tickets, for example, already today
it is estimated that 55% of outpatient visits are
paid privately. Our goal is not
thus reducing health spending rather stabilize it, rationalize it, make it more effective, that is,
more capable of producing health. This
basic objective is achieved by acting on
three levels: determinants of health as
pollution, environment, living and working, trim
urban stress; organization of health planning; hospital network. This requires actions
going in the direction of: investing more on prevention of collective security
Food health and safety of workers; enhance services in the territory coordinating the work of family doctors with that
doctors and hospital specialists through
facilities such as health houses (propose
to realize minimum one for each district) and
strengthening mental health services and those for
women's health. The municipalities should be the
key reference point for programming, management, service delivery
health. We must also reorganize the whole
hospital network, not only through the reduction of beds that should always be compensated
by the increase in local services and in any case
It can not go beyond the provision of 3.5 places for
per thousand inhabitants, but concentrating the necessary investments and additional possibilities for
diagnosis and home treatment. How long
It regards the system of government in the health service
National aim to: overcome the corporatization of ASL that produced a prevalence
economic objectives of those health;

29/45

Welcome
Left.
clearly separate from that government spending
private health care, for example by preventing the
Double employment with public
and private and also reviewing the rules for the exercise of private activities in public facilities;
redefine the criteria for appointment of general managers
ASL and the primary to make them more transparent
and no longer subject to political power; counteract
the generalization of precarious employment relationships,
that they did not produce savings but rather motivation of operators and lower quality
performance; promote participation
operators and citizens in organizational decisions.

30/45

Welcome
Left.
The right to mobility
In the era of the global village
Italy is called upon to play
an important role in
redraw the maps
transport and mobility.
Instead precisely in this
industry suffers a deficit
structural. The sector of
transport and mobility
Sustainability is crucial in
challenge for modernization
of the country and conversion
ecological, not only for the
environmental repercussions, but for
the major impact on
quality of life of each
single person.
Transport and sustainable mobility aspects
critical of our proposal to convert
ecological. For immediate consequences in terms
emissions of climate altering and for the impact on the
quality of life of every single person, and
on that of urban land and our cities.
We value public transport means
to respond positively to the current crisis.
We start from a situation in which the sector
transport, in particular the public sector, alongside the
its historical structural deficit setbacks caused by the cuts that have occurred in recent
years, including financial laws and stability pacts that

They have virtually eliminated. In addition, the privatization of the most important transport companies
the public have come to worsen the relationship
between prices and quality, and the geographical distribution
services. Just think of Trenitalia and
cutting station, concentrated particularly in the South,
and it led to the elimination of many trains, in species
nightclubs and economic north-south and vice versa.
The challenge of sustainable mobility is played mainly in large urban areas, home to 2/3 of the question of displacements.
We need policies of sustainable urban mobility
which are carried out by investing in targeted funding
the development of mobility management policies;
refinancing the law (211/92) for transport
rapid mass; increasing movements on
urban public transport at least 30%; providing bicycles for public office,
students, companies; promoting (with a law
ordinary national) innovative services for mobility
such as taxis and buses on call, car-sharing and car-pooling, cycling and walking in urban areas; creating new lines
subway and commuter rail service;
planning of parking lots at the peripheral exchanges
cities for people and goods; pointing to a conversion of the fleet (cars and buses) from petrol
and diesel with biofuels; promoting a law
framework on transport and city times harmonizing transport with schools, businesses, offices
public with the times for women.
We need a plan to move on rails least
15% of freight traffic, and re-orient the system
incentives, almost exclusively concentrated sull'autotrasporto road, to iron,
coastal cabotage, integrated systems and intermodal. Just as we need to increase transportation
commute by restoring and increasing
resources for the regional public transport with the purchase of at least a thousand new commuter train.
We should also implement security policies
of workers and employees and of those traveling
through a painstaking maintenance
rail safety systems. We intend

31/45

Welcome
Left.
solve the old problem of lack of networks
stations in the South, starting from the Bari-Napoli
connecting north-south and vice versa with the dorsal
Adriatic, giving up the monumental works and
serious environmental impact as well as of little utility
as the Turin-Lyon and the Strait Bridge.
You will need to coordinate and harmonize the role
Italian ports, with a serious planning
ports and their functions, improving access through appropriate links with other
means of transport.
Conventional cars must give way to
cars powered by alternative energy and this
It can be a good opportunity employment
and brake to layoffs in various industries.
We need to retrieve the many skills
layoffs giving them a function to the
new labor market hybrid and electric. The future of the car Urban is represented
by means smaller and lighter instead of the current in
most large and heavy.
Road safety is a priority. The exponential growth of accidents and deaths on the roads
Italian causes damage and consequences related to
loss of loved ones and increases the social costs
resulting. To this should be promoted national campaigns are necessary to prevent, for example, the guide
while intoxicated, in close collaboration with
associations that promote these objectives and
with law enforcement.

32/45

Welcome
Left.
The right to quality
Urban: smart cities
In Italy they consume
daily over a hundred
hectares of land per day, is
increase in the phenomenon of
subsidence centers
urban, another indicator
fragility of our cities.
To transform the city and
promote innovation
you need to invest on
centrality of Smart
Cities and Smart Cities
promoting processes
participatory.
To transform our cities, making them livable in everyday life, you need to invest on
centrality of Smart Cities, like asking
for over 10 years the European Union. A city is smart
if it is administered with a systemic vision
the government of his territory and if you promote citizen participation processes starting
the idea that a city is smart if it promotes
the opportunities offered by a technology genuinely geared to serve the citizens and the city,
to improve the quality of housing and living.
It is urgent to undertake a transition
green urban development, worth the aggravation
of the situation and the uncontrollability of impacts
ecosystem.
We need to contain collective costs generated by the excessive expansion of

settlements and reduce the impact on the environment
determined by the gradual removal of soils
agricultural and natural. It is to enter resources for
retrain our daily lives, but also
a real opportunity to boost the economy
and employment. The energy upgrading of
existing buildings is the essential element of the path of urban regeneration: intervene
the built - residential and non-residential -
ensuring longer life and better performance
energy building organism. In this compound
will be more and more "intelligent" building which is
built or renovated with innovative systems not
only energy efficiency, but also of processes
design and construction involving the world
professional and entrepreneurial.
A decisive aspect for the recovery of a quality
of our cities is urban maintenance, to
from the housing, and then the networks
plant, the sewage systems, the areas
sondabili rivers, starting with those that cross the city.
One mole of routine maintenance that, if practiced, would reduce the emergency,
riqualificherebbe the territory and create many jobs. Only setting in motion
the market for redevelopment of energy
public buildings could create 30,000 new
jobs. Innovative management and integrated
Waste, rejecting the model that claims to
incinerate waste, but aiming to separate integral door to door; the consolidation
territory and innovative policies on water and goods
Common, while preserving the function and the corporate structure of public aqueducts, I am a further
element of the intelligence of the city.
They ask the common sense and respect our
future, not just Europe.

33/45

Welcome
Left.
The right to quality
environmental parks and
biodiversity

In short, they are an essential part of a Green New
Deal that meets the vocations of the territories and
the urgent need to ensure their protection. It should be stressed that the progressive loss of these values
It affects not only the balance of the ecosystem and thus the very survival of the species
human, but also an economic damage, jeopardizing agricultural activities and
activities related to tourist use.
The situation in the sector is dramatic: the total staff of 24 national parks is reduced
to only 750 units and with the decree on "spending
reviews "will undergo a further reduction of 20%.
The minimization of the appropriations will
serious effects and will cause a 'further loss
of resources, because the Parks do not have the resources
to participate in community projects in co-financing. If that were not enough, the decree
Simplifications of the Monti government has introduced
a standard that allows you to build works in areas
subject to constraint if the authorities responsible for protecting
not expressed within 45 days, with the risk of further reckless.
To prevent it from being called into question the very survival of the system of protected areas,
Real indispensable for building materials in the country Left Ecology and Freedom will propose:
• the introduction of evaluation criteria
loss of biodiversity indicators within
socio-economic factors.
• the allocation of funds and certain organic suitable for the growth and strengthening
System of Protected Areas
• conducting an evaluation of the costs
already incurred and the number of loans
disbursed and unspent.

Protected areas not
I am just a tool
formidable for
conservation of
biodiversity but also a
fly development.
Loss Parks
undermines not only
the balance of the ecosystem
but it would also damage
statement. We want
prevent it from being put into
the survival
same of the system of
protected areas for us
They are an asset
indispensable for
building material
country.
Protected areas are not only a powerful tool for the conservation of biodiversity,
landscape, but also fly to the sustainable development of local communities and rural areas, at
labor, business and works eco-friendly agriculture, in the tourist accommodation, catering,
tourism aimed at better understanding
our environmental and cultural heritage.

34/45

Welcome
Left.
The right to live in a
free society: the rule of law
The fight against the mafia and the
Corruption has become
an interpretation of
social processes and not
be just a chapter of
security policies. It
It is part of a proposed
company that offers a
Reform of the social and moral
Country.
The fight against organized crime and corruption is an essential part of a big and strong reconstruction project of social rights and public policies.
Transparency, legality, ethical rigor are the conditions that give credibility to the institutions and political forces and make it possible
a deep moral and social reform in the country.
Only in this context can be effective
different security policies. For this we
we put the first point of our program
the legality contrast to capital and assets of corrupt and mafia for reuse
social. In this sense, we collect and do
Our proposal advanced by the
Free for a strong revival of the Law and The Tower
for effective utilization for the purpose of social
confiscated property.
We feel totally inadequate the current anti-corruption law, which lack the crucial chapters
of false accounting and criminal offenses of money laundering and car
private corruption. Not to mention the penis
planned and the time limits were
the same as the previous legislation and that

They may even be more favorable
first for the corrupt.
We propose to immediately make public the registrar asset of Representatives
the institutions and the budget of the electoral lists and
candidates. The institutions should be
active part in the fight against raket, choosing to support businesses, entrepreneurs and citizens
They collaborated denouncing extortionists and loan sharks.
We propose the rewriting of Article 416 ter concerning the crime of vote trading and political mafia
for all crimes of Mafia we think the threshold
ineligibility should be committed for trial.
We consider essential to reduce the time
Payment of contracting, the contrast to the practice of the lowest bidder, the institution
Stations only specialized contracting and void
the presence of public officials.
A central role for the recovery of the sense of legality, learning and respect for the rules of the
social life, the strengthening of cohesion and
the fight against the phenomena of deviance and marginality
is undoubtedly that of public schools and places
the formation of a democratic conscience.

35/45

Welcome
Left.
The right to live in a
just society
We must abandon
the intervention logic
emergency and implement a
Reform of system that can
ensure, finally, a
justice more efficient and
fast. We want to put a stop to
justice tolerant up
impunity for the powerful,
ruthless for migrants and
marginalized.
Too many things are not in our Justice
country. The issues are well known: the length of proceedings,
excesses of custody, prison emergency,
ad personam laws. Are key issues for the
protection of citizens and the guarantees
of the person. We must abandon every logic
its intervention and emergency work immediately to reform the system, whose first
commitment consists in recovering relationship and trust
the city, closing the chapter of the imposition of laws ad personam wanted in recent years by
right sole purpose of saving Silvio Berlusconi
by processes in which it was accused. This has
led to a relentless attack not only the autonomy and independence of the judiciary, but
the entire system of guarantees and balancing
among the powers that comes from our Constitution.
We reiterate to be in favor of a more clear-cut
separation of functions and the separation
career in the judiciary, for a fundamental reason for the entire system of guarantees
Our justice. Guarantees that we also lead to

It is strongly opposed to the attempt to blame the judges responsibility for damages
direct, which would make it more difficult to exercise
of the function, and the limitation of the instruments of
inquiry, from interceptions. The right
the government has imposed, with some laws such as
Bossi-Fini law Giovanardi, a discriminant model of justice: tolerant up to impunity
for the powerful and the privileged, ruthless and racist
towards foreigners and marginalized. The frightening
condition of Italian prisons is the daughter of this
political, and security-class, which produced the
degradation of prisons, with imprisonment of
migrants in the center of deportation and persecution
addicts, with the mortification of
asylum seekers.
Eight years it is now the average length of a criminal case and the civil nearly two decades, Rates
leading to strong and fair sanctions by
EU towards our country. How to
civil, citizens and companies, Italian and international, will never be resolved in time
their disputes, leaving the country backward
in its economic structures.
A reform that can not be further delayed is
one concerning advocacy. It must adopt
a Statute marked above all ethics,
law and justice, but never to competition and
other market rules. Strengths must
be the autonomy and the formation of the figure and
the lawyer's profession. Action is necessary
Radicals in defense of office and patronage
for the poor, where there is a glaring inequalities in access to social conditions
Justice, not worthy of a civilized country. We intend to
step in to fill any glaring gaps,
distortions and contradictions of the law in Severino
the fight against corruption.
A radical change is also used in the situation
prison, now collapsing. It is still in prison today
dies, sucidi and self-inflicted injuries are
there to witness the execution phase of the
penalty is implemented in inhuman conditions. It should limit the inflow, while encouraging,

36/45

Welcome
Left.
within the limits of the law, the outflow. The fundamental rights of the individual must always be guaranteed,
even with interventions for prison construction
detention facilities are effective in ensuring
the respect for human dignity. Should we go
Cancellation of apartheid laws, the
Bossi-Fini law, the Fini-Giovanardi, the former Cirielli.
We intend to apply the logic of criminal law
minimum that inspired the best proposals
reform of the penal code, still awaiting transformation into law. To this we must strengthen the use of alternatives to detention,
It is in the last phase of treatment, in order to facilitate the reintegration into society, both outset
for less serious offenses. The same intention is to
pervade the necessary reform measures
custody, real disaster of
Our system which is to deprive the person of
fundamental rights and personal dignity itself holding the detainee for longer than is reasonable for precautionary reasons.
It should however be introduced in the Italian legal system
crime of torture, the absence to date, in many
cases of abuse and violence, from Bolzaneto
the killing of Stephen Cucchi, has guaranteed impunity to members of the security forces.

37/45

Welcome
Left.

THE PROGRAM

Document updated 05/02/2013

Welcome
Left.
Index

Welcome
Left.
The animal rights
Each animal of creation
It is provided with its own
autonomous sensitivity,
try the same suffering
human animals. The
testing on
animals and practices
vivisection, that they
regard as
inanimate objects from
manipulate at will,
I am the index of a
incapable of understanding
preserve the planet and
living. We bring here
the need for change.
Each animal is a sentient being, with a
own independent sensitivity to feel the same
Animal suffering and human needs
ethological precise and indispensable. The economic interests related to the indiscriminate use of
non-human beings and the indifference and neglect
often make this feeling sore, and harm the lives of thousands of animals. Animal testing and practice of vivisection, that
they regard as inanimate objects from
manipulate and break at will, are the index
an anthropocentric conception too far from the sense of limits and unable to keep the
and the living planet.

We will bring the need for change even in
recognition of the rights of animals, and in a
new relationship between the living. That it is mature
He is telling the experience, a practice that is growing. I'm
people, citizens, families often those
the weaker, more and more are
animals a form of company. In which
it turns out a different relationship with nature and with
the environment, proximity of solidarity, of respect
It leads to reconsider the boundaries with living species.
The change requires, also in this case
the intervention of good policy. A project and
a commitment, that has the power to establish itself as
central part of that great chapter of rights
rewrite in our country.
We will begin by education in schools, encouraging
the development of sensitivity and the contact to the
animals since childhood, accompanying the younger generation to the need for proximity to the
nature and the environment. The curriculum for the
knowledge and respect for animals to exist
time, but they did not become a concrete wealth
school education.
We intervene on illegal circuits unmasks
colossal economic interests of an increasing traffic of animals now second trade off
Law existing in the world today. Contrasteremo the
forms of zoomafia, the illegal slaughtering, illegal fishing, the racing of animals
betting: crime managed by the mob, against
animals and against all of us.
We will strive to finally tune with
Europe, in the correct and concrete application of
that part of the Lisbon Treaty, which commits
every State of the Union to take into account in the implementation of its policies, requirements "in
welfare of animals. "
We propose measures to rethink the whole
farming system today, cruel, for
not exactly healthy for animals and humans,
as the experiences of mad cow disease and
avian influenza on which we can afford
to forget.
We will work in the European sense of the adjustment

38/45

Welcome
Left.
our Civil Code and the Penal to ensure
those rights now denied to animals that we
being able to see more and more essential to the human being as interlocutors.
Animal testing will be exceeded,
by ending the practice of vivisection and investing in the most advanced scientific research and
replacement methods, as is already the case in many countries
Europe and the United States.
Will route the connection between stray dogs and
easy money and not controlled, by encouraging the
best practice public management of stray dogs, and forcing local authorities to construction
kennels and catteries as centers of social and health services open to collaboration with the associations
volunteer. We ask more investment in
prevention of sterilizations to counter
stray dogs as part of a recognition of
social relevance to the care of stray, with the aim
to promote the dissemination of new skills and
new practices ethically sustainable management
of the phenomenon.

39/45

Welcome
Left.
Government for Europe
we want
Peace
We want the mission
International
Our country is founded
nonviolent option
and cooperation.
We want to be protagonists
new tools to
service of peace between
peoples: the support
Active prevention
conflicts to mediation
political-diplomatic,
up interposition
Nonviolent civil corps
peace.
Every day we have before us the drama
war. Today Syria and Mali, Libya yesterday,
the day before yesterday the Somalia and the Balkans, while
still being acutely Iraq, Afghanistan, the Western Sahara and the ongoing conflict
Israel-Palestine. We can not remain indifferent to the tragedies of the world, but we propose a different approach, founded
nonviolent option. Were based on Article 11

of the Constitution, we want to be protagonists of
new tools for building peace among peoples:
from active support to conflict prevention
the political and diplomatic mediation, nonviolent interposition up a civil peace corps.
We will put primary emphasis on the prevention and
finding a political and diplomatic solution
the conflict, the protection of the rights of the civilian population beneficiaries of the intervention, the legality
International considering the possible use of
force only in terms of international police and
interposition, through the authorization of
Security Council. Italy's participation
initiatives authorized by the Security Council
United Nations, will be characterized by civil dimension and cooperation and diplomacy
popular and nonviolent.
We will push for the immediate return of
troops from Afghanistan before the expiry
nature of the mandate foreseen for 2014. Italy
will support efforts to strengthen the central role of civil society, the promotion of rights
human and women, cooperation from the bottom time
to create the conditions for a process of national reconciliation, and access to essential services.
We will support the drastic reduction of military spending in our country and those internationally. We want from the cancellation of the program for the construction of fighter
latest-generation Joint Strike Fighter and use the funds thus released in support of policies
welfare, good employment, ecological conversion
economy, care of the land and heritage
artistic and cultural. This debate will be developed
also at European level, in order to identify ways to slash expenses of the fund
defense and convert the war industry in support

40/45

Welcome
Left.
the ecological conversion of the economy and the promotion of full employment and good.
We are for nuclear and conventional disarmament,
through the support of an international convention on the prohibition of nuclear weapons,
the denuclearization of the doctrines of NATO.
Italy will follow the example of other NATO countries decided not to host their national territory
US tactical nuclear weapons such as those found in
Ghedi and Aviano. Italy will also have to adopt
powerful instruments for control, regulation and monitoring of the arms trade.
We believe that Europe should adopt, in the logic
Article 11 of the Italian Constitution, of
a Union force whose sole mandate over
any defensive tasks, is to operate
to support the initiatives of the United Nations and
Compliance with the Charter dell''ONU, only ever
with functions of international police, interposition, protection of civilians, and support processes
mediation and diplomatic resolution and nonviolent conflict. Relaunched a proposal
Reform of the models of global governance and for
democratization of the United Nations, through a thorough review of the operation of
Security Council and a greater role
the General Assembly in setting initiatives
relating to peace and international justice.
Italy must together with the other EU countries
promote peace processes, preventive diplomacy and non-violent conflict resolution, and support
civil peace corps, with particular attention to
Mediterranean and Middle East. Next to the proposal for the creation of a Euro-Mediterranean
for peace and international solidarity we will strive for the revival of international negotiations
for the solution of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and
for a European initiative and international mediation in the Syrian conflict.

41/45

Welcome
Left.
Cooperation
international
The fight against poverty and
social exclusion,
the commitment to conversion
ecological economy are
the projection of the Italy
across national borders, as
responsible player in Europe
and in the world. The revival
cooperation can
be an opportunity to
contribute to the building
European policy.
In a world crossed by multiple crises,
from that environment-climate that economic and financial to food, emerges
the need for a renewed commitment
in combating poverty and social exclusion,
and the ecological conversion of the economy.
At the same time it will be urgent to open a phase
of rethinking the ways and strategies
international cooperation. In this renewed
urgency is matched by the sharp fall of
contributions to the fight against poverty by countries
once defined the North, with Italy
now bringing up the rear. The cooperation was then
turned into the ancillary intervention
military and the support of Italian companies.
The issues of human rights, sovereignty,
human security in the context of cooperation
They will therefore addressed a joint analysis,
since it permeates the whole discussion on the role
governments, local communities in the development,

as well as of various forms of an approach to
development based on the respect and promotion of
Fundamental Rights, an approach that can transform the so-called Millennium Goals from destinations
almost unattainable to commitment to the promotion of fundamental rights, economic, social and
Environmental peoples. It will therefore strongly reaffirmed the overcoming of an approach to
cooperation that reduces it to look "emergency", highlighting instead the nature of "relational"
between cultures and ways of life. Cooperation should
so being an instrument of political transformation and
economy of the causes of poverty, and to strengthen the direct leadership of the people,
by building solidarity economy,
innovative models, "demercificando" cooperation and increasing investment in education, training, education, recognizing a role
key cultural exchange.
The resumption of cooperation, as well as retrain
Italy's international profile, can also be
an opportunity to help build
European policy, through greater participation of the subjects of the Italian Cooperation
management and use of these funds and the definition
strategies. The issue therefore is essentially
political, concerns the global economic model, the
exponential growth of the dynamics of inequality, and social exclusion (and not only in the most
old "third world" but also at home),
the recognition of people as subjects and
not objects of protection, the reaffirmation of rights
economic and social, a rights-based approach
human, on the protection of common goods, and goods
global public.
We will put at the center of cooperation policies an approach to development based on respect
and the promotion of fundamental rights, for a
new cooperation founded on meeting
needs and the promotion of economic,
social, cultural, environmental leadership through the supposed recipients of direct, local partnerships, decentralized cooperation and forms of
cooperation between territories and communities which make

42/45

Welcome
Left.
leverage models "Altraeconomia" solidarity finance, technology innovation, creating full
and quality employment, protection and promotion of goods
common, particularly in Africa and the Mediterranean;
We give greater prominence to our country
in European development cooperation, ensure greater participation of the parties
Italian cooperation in the management and use of
these funds and the definition of strategies;
We will separate civil cooperation from all activities
military, redirecting funds to the integration
initiatives aimed at promoting the rights of citizenship for migrants, the protection of human rights,
supporting programs through co-development
which migrants can assert their
planning and possible solutions of the causes
They are the basis of their decision to migrate;
internationally we will support fair procedures
and transparent for the renegotiation and cancellation of debt, the recognition of the priority of
rights to food, to water, to health, to home,
land in all areas relevant policies of
anti-poverty World Bank to those
Business of the World
Trade, to support innovative tools
to prevent financial speculation and
financing development, including tax
financial transactions, to the reform of the mechanisms of global governance in order to increase the
democracy and ensure greater protagonism
the company 'civil and other new global players
To ensure greater coordination of
cooperation activities, taking advantage of the important precedent of the appointment for the first
time in the history of a minister for cooperation, we will propose the creation of a figure
of high-level government for cooperation,
Agency as an operational tool
coordination and evaluation, with field offices, and
a single fund to ensure a single management cooperation funds.
We will make sure that Italy honors its
commitments of allocation of funds for the fight against
poverty, both at the level of bilateral cooperation

multilateral, since the recapitalization of
Global Fund against Aid, Malaria, TB, up to
support to the Global Fund for the Sahel proposed
UN Special Envoy for the Sahel, Romano Prodi.

43/45

Welcome
Left.
Our idea of ​​Europe
Italy must go
protagonist of
US education
with the center of Europe
fair tax policies that
contribute to redistribute
wealth and raise a
European plan for good
and full employment, for
conversion of the economy
and production cycles,
for welfare policies
and citizenship, to the
minimum income scale
Continental.
Believe in Europe, that of Altiero Spinelli,
the rights, the social model, a
continent made of states across the borders
national policy in the name of a federated
high ideal of peace, social justice and environmental sustainability.
That project of United States of Europe is now at risk
to succumb to the economic crisis and
financial, under the austerity policies imposed
a governance model between governments, in which
national interests take over
respect the obligations of solidarity. The drama of the
greek people, mobilizations crossing
the squares of the South of the continent, the contraction
unacceptable social spending, from education to
health, privatization of the bank profits
and the financial sector call us to a challenge

indispensable. The spread of financial markets
due to the gradual accumulation of debt
social and ecological for these generations and those
to come, we must oppose the revival of a
Federal political project, since the crisis rather
that the economic crisis is political. It is a crisis of vocation and of democracy: the crisis of institutions such
the European Parliament, unable to exercise
power to address to the Commission
and the European Central Bank.
Europe today reflects the cost of serious delays and
contradictions. The price of a project limited to the adoption of a common currency, the euro, the
which is not followed the construction of the foundations
political, of a truly European system of government and
production of common rules. So that model
European social result of the protest and
proposals of labor movements, movements
Social across the continent today succumbs to front
the imperative of protecting the interests of the market
and finance. Trillion Euros was spent on
rescue European banks
exposed against indebted countries such as
Greece and Spain, creating a vicious spiral of
additional debt and contraction of activity
production and the real economy. The conditions
taxes in exchange for access to aid packages
by the ECB they have also helped to plunge millions of people in the dramatic spiral of poverty and social exclusion.
This situation is the breeding ground
for xenophobic and populist ideologies, according to which
the only antidote to the crisis would be the return of identity within the borders of nation states.
In these regressions, the spread social and cultural,
It will be offset by the revival of the European constitutional process for the United States of Europe. Italy
as a founding country of the European Union must
return to be protagonist not only through
construction of an architecture of government founded
the direct participation of citizens, but also
and especially by supporting policies
fair tax, which contributes to redistribute
wealth and relaunch a European level, a Green

44/45

Welcome
Left.
New Deal, that will build the foundation for good and
full employment, to the conversion of the economy and production cycles, for welfare policies
and citizenship, to the minimum wage scale
Continental. The Fiscal Compact contrapporremo
Therefore, a pact of citizens for democracy,
social rights, the minimum wage, workers' rights, equity and justice. We will pursue this goal with the forces of the left and socialist
European, convinced that the construction of Europe
must go through a renewed leadership of the progressive forces, trade unions and
social movements. To give soul to a project
left half way, there can be limited to
operate at the level of governments, but we'll have food and participate in a bottom-up process, scale
transnational, which will also have an opportunity to speak in the next European elections
2014 to which we are committed to building
transnational lists as a first step towards a
European Parliament the strongest expression of
will, the mandate and the vote of European citizens.
• We will work with governments and the progressive forces for a renegotiation dele European Community policies, and change the whole plant
recessive matrix merkeliana;
• We will give support to a Constituent Assembly
and a process of revision of the Treaties in
which the European Parliament elected in 2014
It will have a central role. A Federal Europe
to redefine the priorities of social development
compared to fiscal austerity and budget.
The European Parliament will have legislative power
and the mandate and objectives of the Central Bank
Europe will be thoroughly reviewed and
correct. The ECB will have to support countries in crisis
acting as a lender of last resort
for securities of states and issuing Eurobonds;
• We will support the strengthening and effective implementation of measures on taxation
financial transactions, expanding the number
supporters of countries and using the revenue for
objectives of national type (welfare policies
work etc) and international (cooperation

•

•

•

45/45

development, combating climate change)
with a view to greater coordination at
European level;
We ask the renegotiation of the Pact
Stability by setting the parameters within which
define how specific production chapters
spending (welfare, ecological conversion, costs
employment, innovation, culture) and commitment
the revision of the Golden Rule in order to exclude these expenses from the Stability Pact;
We will ask the Italian government to support
the EU Council the revision of the "shame" of
readmission agreements, as European policies
civil rights, and against the rights GLBQT
discrimination;
We will support a process of Mediterranean integration, international cooperation, to
cultural exchanges and trade, free movement of people, and promotion of energy
renewable and small scale.
