ELECTION PLATFORM PARTY REVOLUTION
DEMOCRATIC














Contents

I. REFORM OF STATE AND DEMOCRATIC GOVERNANCE
NEW CONSTITUTIONAL
Austerity and Combating Corruption
Political Regime
Electoral Reform
Legislative Reform
Reform the Media
Citizen participation
New Federalism and Free Municipality
New Constitutional
II. JUSTICE AND SECURITY
III. EQUITY AND HUMAN RIGHTS
Human rights
Rights and Culture of Indigenous Peoples
Rights of the Child
Rights of Persons with Disabilities
Rights and Youth
Sexual Diversity
Gender-equity
IV. A NEW SOCIAL POLICY
A Universal Health Policy for All
Right to Food Sovereignty and Security
Universal Social Security
Housing Policy
Front Poverty Reduction
Universal Alimony Aging
Economic Support Program for People with Disabilities
Civil Protection Policy with all and for all
Independent Evaluation of Social Development
V. EDUCATION, SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY, KNOWLEDGE AND SOCIETY
CULTURE
Education
Science and Technology
Culture

SAW. ECONOMIC POLICY FOR SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT AND
EQUITABLE
Agricultural Development, Fisheries, Forestry and Food
Energy Policy
Fiscal policy
Financing for Development
Employment and Labor Policy
Corruption and Development
VII. Healthy Environment
VIII.

Globality BLOCKS AND NEW REGIONAL
National Project
An Alternative Globalization
Central America and the Latin American Community of Nations
Balanced relations with North America
Diversification of International Relations
State Foreign Policy
Responsibility for Mexicans Abroad

3


I. REFORM OF THE STATE, AND NEW DEMOCRATIC GOVERNANCE
CONSTITUTIONALITY
We intend to transform Mexico. We are convinced that not enough
improve the conditions of life and work of our people; it is essential
create a new thinking to strengthen cultural values ​​and
ethical. The current crisis was conceived not only by the lack of jobs and opportunities
but also because it has become under greed, it has been elevated to
Supreme money and it has induced the belief that you can succeed at all
Coast unscrupulous whatsoever. Therefore, from cultural reserve
still it exists in families and communities of deep Mexico, and
supported by the immense goodness in our people, we will undertake
the task to uphold and promote values ​​in the individual and the collective.
The political structures of the old regime remain even though they are
ineffective to address national problems. Obsolescence
only reproduces and extends the high levels of crime and public insecurity,
corruption, impunity, inequality, social exclusion, poverty, violence and
deterioration of the social fabric.
Therefore, we must build institutions that respond to the
new reality of Mexican society; it requires the construction of a
Truly democratic state, to balance the disparity today
some institutions have with respect to constitutional order, which
ensure effective suffrage, separation of powers, federalism, the municipality
free, the individual and social rights, human rights, power
citizen and the nation's rights over their natural resources.
Our legal framework is not responding to the needs of society
of our time. The rule of law is virtually a dead letter, the
lack of legal frameworks, their application when there are no application or
discretionary and the state's inability to procure and apply the law,
cause that citizens live in a distressing climate of public insecurity:
crime and violence infesting the country, in many regions of
country organized crime actually has control, while impunity continues
constitute a grievous insult to society.
The strategy of "war against organized crime and drug trafficking" that followed
the federal government since the beginning of the current administration has been a failure
absolute, and it contributed to excessively increase the number of dead
related to organized crime and drug trafficking, but it has also led to the
violation of human rights by the authorities and forces
4


charge of public order, and the proliferation of missing persons and
innocent civilians killed in the context of fratricidal war.
This failed strategy has been sustained despite the high cost in human lives and
ignoring the demands of society that is radically modified further
that has led to the growing interference of foreign interests and loss
national sovereignty, reaffirming the hypothesis that in Mexico we have a State
failed.
Corruption remains a heavy burden for the country in virtually all
levels of government. In various areas of public institutions
federal, state and city are constant allegations of bribery and
bribery; Among them they are bidding for public works,
acquisitions, the performance of prosecutors, police, the
customs, "expenses" election (vote buying and electoral patronage
all its manifestations), the administration of justice in its different variants and
many more. To this must be added the discretionary use of justice
political and electoral purposes.
The lack of transparency and the absence of a model of public administration
criminalizing conflict of interest and influence peddling, to eradicate the
clientelism and corporatism, which effectively implant measurement
required performance and accountability, it helps to perpetuate the problem
the corruption. This creates a permanent drain on resources and contributes to
difficulties facing economic growth, questions the State
Law and is a determining factor in the increase in crime and
public insecurity.
The political regime faces a gap between a structure and outdated and exceeded
citizens who increasingly want to exercise their rights, which
organizes and want to participate in multiple ways. If before the decision of a
people began to walk all the gear, now that formal counterweights
they became real, that the media have won
independence and power, the governors fully exercise their powers,
that civil society and its organizations have multiplied and interests are
plural, it is necessary to build institutional spaces and dynamics for
process the differences and turn them into a framework agreement in multiparty
and power sharing.
The alternation in the executive branch did not lead to the dismantling of the
patronage and corporate structure of the previous regime. Changing
institutions and their scaffolding by building a new balance
between powers, to provide a better basis for the emerging
Mexican democracy. This complex set of scales must be based on the
conviction that the rule of law is, in all circumstances,
inalienable and must regulate not only relations but also powers
5


to beyond the scope of the State. What is at issue is to prevent
excessive concentration of power, generate higher margins participation
citizen and establish a more equal and democratic relationship between
powers, favoring processing agreements by
institutional responsibility and making prevail "state vision."
That means, among other things, an end to the presidential regime
have suffered, limiting the powers today is the President of the
Republic; give new powers to Congress in shaping and
government oversight; have a close Judiciary society,
austere, reliable, in which predominates the sense of justice and not permeate the
corruption; make electoral reforms to ensure fairness and eradicate
wasteful; legislation on the mass media to be
unfold in a system that effectively regulate, to ensure the
strengthening of democracy and freedom of expression and dimension the
They are having great power; encourage greater citizen participation; create mechanisms
so that they directly exercise popular sovereignty in making
important decisions on outstanding issues of public interest; as the
popular initiative, the referendum and the referendum; ensure transparency as
daily form of social control over public affairs; and generate a vigorous
federalism underpinned by the strengthening of the free municipality and the authentic
balance of power.
Deepening democracy is to bring citizens to the decisions they
pertain directly, so it is essential to legislate new
forms of citizen participation and collectivization of decisions. The
Participatory democracy is a necessary and valuable complement to democracy
representative. In that sense, no longer fits the opacity in the exercise of power
public and policymakers, legislators and judges should function in
a glass box.
The renewed federalism should not result in the unlimited power of the
governors but, on the contrary, the distribution of power must be analogous
with what happens at the federal level and, most importantly, must be strengthened
powers of municipalities, thus rescuing the true spirit of
1917 Constitution also involves understanding that democratization
decentralize power.
To consolidate our democracy is essential that the new regime
build political will based on clear social commitment to the sectors most
disadvantaged. Democracy is not possible in inequality and injustice. By
This is done by ensuring the enforcement of civil, political, social,
economic and cultural. Therein also lies the construction of citizenship,
where social actors become protagonists of the work
public and members of society to know and assert their fullness
6


rights and struggle to widen them.
We aspire to build a real social state of law. We believe that
any process of change to consolidate requires the definition of new
relationships and balances between individuals, society and the state.
It is therefore necessary to build a new constitutionality in which
strengthen the historical lines that give us continuity and cohesion as a nation
sovereign and new foundations for establishing and orderly legislation
modern that meets the needs of the economic, social, political and
culture of our time.
PROPOSALS
Austerity and Combating Corruption
1. Establish the principle of republican austerity as the guiding principle
public service, reducing the cost of government by reducing the
salaries of senior officials and the elimination of unproductive expenditure.
2. It will cost less to keep the government people. Privileges will end
the high bureaucracy, salaries will be reduced to half of CEOs to
above. bonuses, allowances, pensions of former presidents, services were canceled
private doctors, special savings boxes, using planes, helicopters and other
sinecures.
3. To give full transparency to the management and use of public resources.
Eradicate "electioneering" and patronage character of social policies and fight
poverty.
4. Review criminal legislation to effectively punish trafficking is
influences and conflicts of interest in all spheres of government, in order
to eradicate impunity and collusion between politics and business.
5. Set the participation of society in monitoring the actions of
government by establishing citizen comptrollers.
6. Revise the Law of Transparency and Access to Public Information
redefine the criteria for reserved and confidential information. Is
necessary to standardize the principles governing the right to transparency in
country entities with the federal order. It is also necessary to incorporate the
binding nature of the decisions of federal and state agencies in the
respective laws on the subject.
7. Ensure open tender for the work and public procurement.
7


8. Update punishable offenses and penalties that entered the law and the Code
Concerning criminal offenses committed in the exercise of public functions.
Political Regime
9. Defeat the oligarchy in politics and by peaceful means to establish
in Mexico a true democracy, a government of the people and for the people.
10. the necessary legal reforms will be carried out for the President of
the Republic will submit at the beginning of the recall. At the expiration of three
years, there will be a consultation for people to decide whether or not to continue in office.
The people are sovereign: and gives a mandate, you can remove it. The village
places and people removed.
11. Open a space of confluence of social, political and economic forces,
to define and build the institutional foundations of the new political regime,
carry out the necessary reforms to establish it. Whether you opt for the
Cabinet government, semi-presidentialism or parliamentarism; in
However, the goal is to establish mechanisms to promote the creation
of coalitions and stable legislative majorities to contribute to the
democratic governance.
12. We will respect freedom of expression and religion. The government
lead criteria of dialogue, implementation of commitments, tolerance,
plurality, diversity and transparency.
13. Establish a social and democratic state of law that ensures
expansion and the full realization of human rights, commitments
State economic and social layers that benefit disadvantaged
to cease to be, as well as an electoral system that favors equity and
citizen participation.
14. Promote Political Parties Act that consolidated as bodies
public interest, accountable to society and set your limits and
obligations in the exercise of popular representation. This would also allow
narrow interference Electoral Councils and Courts in the internal life of
political parties.
15. Include in State Reform concepts of equity and justice
social, offering equal opportunities for women and men,
promote comprehensive public policies with gender perspective
require the State to comply with international agreements on the subject
signed by our country.
8


16. Complete the reform of the Federal District policy, ensuring the entity and
its citizens the same rights as the rest of the country without detriment to their
quality as the capital of the Republic and seat of the federal powers.
17. Recognize the autonomy of indigenous peoples in accordance with the
federal, state and municipal orders.
Electoral Reform
18. To ensure strict enforcement of the law on electoral offenses relating
the primary elections, campaigns and candidates and candidate spending.
19. Equitable distribution of privileges received by political parties.
20. Reducing the legal limit of financing from private sources and resources
regulate them so that they can only be contributed by the members, affiliates
or supporters of a political party.
21. The lifting of bank secrecy in relation to financial management
political parties.
22. Punishment for the electoral process to parties, candidates and
candidate stops violating fundraising and campaign expenses.
23. To ensure strict enforcement of the law regarding the prohibition of
publicizing government actions and programs of the three orders
government at election time.
22. Rephrase the allocation of proportional representation deputies to
eliminate the over-representation and under-representation.
23. Allow registration of common applications; reduce requirements for
developing partnerships and coalitions; and regulate the registration of candidates
independent.
24. To promote the necessary reforms to bring the electoral calendars
the country, in order to facilitate voter participation and reduce
substantially the waste of public resources in elections.
25. federalize procedures and local electoral authorities, under
responsibility of a single body to generate credibility, trust in
electoral processes at all levels and reduce excessive expenses
derived from existing duplication.
26. Prevent federal and state electoral advisers citizens,
9


during the two years immediately following the end of your order,
occupy elected positions and public office.
27. Reset the right to vote for political parties in the General Council
Federal Electoral Institute.
28. Promote the consolidation and strengthening the autonomy of the organs
election from the Executive, in all areas: federal, state and
municipal.
29. Establish single party affiliation in order to end the practice
party affiliation of union workers and peasants
31. Review the system of allocation of radio and television time for
find a formula to assign more fairly, they between the parties.
Legislative Reform
32. Reform the Organic Law of the Congress to allow and
favors legislative coalitions; increase the powers of the commissions
in research, monitoring and opinion; establish mechanisms for
initiatives do not freeze in fees; narrow linking these
with the different branches of government, giving them powers of planning and
evaluation of government performance, obligatory nature in the allocation of
budget; promote the professionalization of a civil service career
parliamentary advisers to ensure an efficient and capable Legislature
to continue the work of the previous legislature.
33. Strengthen the Senate in the definition and assessment
foreign policy, particularly with regard to full respect for the sovereignty
national.
34. Give the Congress of the Union powers to enact laws if,
once the legislative process has been exhausted, the Executive does not.
35. To promote a new budget law that guarantees the participation of the
Chamber of Deputies in the preparation, monitoring and modification of the budget.
It is essential to establish clear rules in the exercise of spending
public, and the creation of a Court of Auditors autonomous powers
enough to make efficient and rigorous system of accounts, and
with penalties for non-compliance.
37. To strengthen the representation of women and men, punishing simulation
géneroReforma quotas of the Media
38. media democratize. There will be competition and will be paid out
right to information. It is unacceptable that television and radio to focus on a
few hands and that, instead of reporting at length, accuracy and professionalism are
10

used as tools to manipulate and control the people and to protect privileges
Business under public authority. We want to see that not only two television
monopolize the audience but 10, 20, which are technically possible. There should not be,
Under no consideration monopolies. Also, broadcasters will be promoted and
local and regional television stations that provide access and management of these media
indigenous peoples, peasant communities, youth, schools, universities and
educational and cultural training. We will ensure universal access to the Internet as part
the constitutional right to information.
39. Do not be a dead letter of Article 28 of the Constitution which prohibits the existence of monopolies.
Monopolistic practices by Mexicans paid more for goods and services in other
countries of the world. Open competition in telephony, Internet, television, cement,
banks, tortilla, bread, soft drinks and other items, would allow savings to consumers
up to 15% of their income.
40. Amend the Constitution and the Federal Radio and Television for
democratize the field of media and establish a legal framework defining
the functions and objectives, prevent government pressure,
democratize, transparent and done with discretion in granting
concessions and limit the excesses that with the enormous power of communication
sometimes they commit mass, ensuring, among other things, the right to
reply. And the creation and development of the media is guaranteed
Community massive.
41. End the legal and budgetary helplessness that exists for
the federal government dependent stations, universities or
State governments; and ensure access and plural and democratic functioning of
these means.
42. Create an autonomous city council to rule on the
concessions and issue recommendations to the media for
public service functions are fulfilled, uphold the independence
Publishing and contribute to respect for the rights of the hearing.
43. Encourage television quality ensuring diversity, plurality and openness,
and establish measures to fully guarantee the right to
information.
44. Create a fund for the development of public resources to support
projects of radio, cinema and national television, which fosters the creation of television
and public and indigenous radios.
45. Ensure respect for political, social, cultural and linguistic pluralism and
promote a public culture that rejects all forms of discrimination and
promote tolerance and social equity.
46. ​​Establish a new regulation of the official time on radio and TV.
47. Promoting the participation of the media in terms of
promotion of values ​​regarding gender-equity,
environmental, cultural and civil protection, among others, in order to make them
a tool they beneficial to society and citizens.
eleven


Citizen participation
48. Build a new government-society relationship by incorporating the
Figures legal framework for participatory democracy: public consultation;
accountability; social audit; popular initiative; constructive assent;
revocation of mandate; referendum; plebiscite; initiative
unconstitutionality citizen, public hearing, town hall to open session,
participatory public budgets; right to citizen voice; and popular action.
49. Establish communication policies to help overcome the mentality of
subordination and uncritical obedience to authority to make way for new
identities correspond to a democratic and participatory society, a
social change that promotes the construction of priority of citizenship and
community. It is encouraging exceptional public consultation
on acts of government or specific laws affecting the general interest of the
community.
50. Ensure citizen and community participation in the processes of
planning, implementation and evaluation of public policies in order to create a culture
citizen to combat corruption among public servants and
constant demand for efficiency in the performance of government by
transparency and accountability.
51. Incorporate the constitutional and legal framework respecting the rights and fuzzy
groups, and establish mechanisms for their effective exercise.
New Federalism and Free Municipality
52. We will promote a new federalism to clearly define rules
coexistence and cooperation among federal, state governments and the Federal District.
The capital of the Republic will have full rights.
53. Establish clear criteria for the delivery of public resources
to end the discretionary administration of the same, so
there is certainty on how and when the transfers are made
budget, and the practice is eradicated sub-exercises.
54. Restructure the Law of Income and Expenditure Budget for use
better public financial resources and ensure that in the units
Federal has a new equilibrium based on the criteria of equity and
compensation for the states and the country's poorest municipalities.
55. Amend Article 41 of the Constitution to include recognition
municipality as depositary of the exercise of popular sovereignty. In this regard, such
reform must incorporate figures and mechanisms for citizen participation and
12


Community participatory democracy.
56. Reform the municipal organic laws in the various entities
states to comply with the spirit of Article 115 of the Constitution and the
City Hall is effectively representative, can exercise fully their
powers and its ability as an order of government, autonomous actor of his
own development. In that regard, it must modernize public administration
in municipalities, ensuring democratic control and accountability of government
accounts.
57. Amend, in accordance with the above, the Act Coordination
Tax to increase economic resources and powers of the
administration and finances of the municipality as well as the strengthening and
diversification of sources of municipal revenue.
115 58. Reform the Constitution to recognize the diversity and
Municipal heterogeneity, recognizing asymmetries and social characteristics,
economic, demographic and cultural.
59. Establish constitutional basis to effectively promote
partnership between municipalities and joint governance, so that they can
form their own regional development bodies in areas
metropolitan, facilitate the establishment of institutions for better governance
and administration, as well as their economic, social and cultural development.
60. Reform the integration, operation and powers of local councils,
laid down in Article 115 of the Constitution, to also accommodate the
demand for autonomy and self-government of the people and Indian communities.
61. Implement in new spending schemes regional planning
and the rational and sustainable use of our resources. Especially must
strengthen the municipalities so that they can build the infrastructure that they
allowed to provide public water services, waste collection
sound, lighting and community infrastructure, and with the modernization of
property taxes to increase revenue by providing these services.
New Constitutional
62. Conduct a comprehensive and formal consultation to determine whether society
or not to a comprehensive review of the Constitution of the United States
Mexican and what is the best way to do it: is this the approval of a
project by the ordinary procedure of constitutional reforms; that is
by convening a Constituent Congress. In any case, the
approval of a new constitution will require the endorsement of most and
Mexican citizens.
13


63. Both the constitutional framework as the new constitutionality here
proposal must comply fully with international treaties and agreements
signed and ratified by the Mexican State.

II. JUSTICE AND PUBLIC SAFETY
Public safety will become a central framework for the development of
human rights. Any security policy will have the legitimacy
protection of fundamental rights of persons Safety
citizen is not limited to the fight against crime, but
seeks to create an enabling environment for peaceful coexistence. This environment
objective involves satisfying appropriate conditions of life and existence
instituted mechanisms to peaceful conflict management
individual and social. Public safety goes beyond the sphere of the function
police to demand the coordinated involvement of other agencies and
institutions, both state and civil society. This policy
Security puts more emphasis on the development of prevention work and
control of the factors that generate violence and insecurity, which tasks
purely repressive or reactive with a fait accompli.
The security crisis is but the most painful expression of the political crisis
economy that has been living in our country from a break
system to be held on the basis of the political hegemony of a single party
and right now that has protected criminals, officials and politicians
corrupt and white collar criminals, and the imposition of a model
economic development predator that has driven millions of Mexicans to the
social exclusion.
The violence, along with unemployment, is the most serious national problems.
We realize that without ensuring any new security is idle
Nation proposal. Here, clearly, we hold that we do will
resolve the crisis of insecurity and violence. We will, not with police criteria,
it has only complicated the problem, but under the principle that peace and
peace is the fruit of justice. The fundamental solution, the most effective, the most
human and probably the least expensive passes for fighting unemployment, poverty,
family disintegration, loss of values ​​and the absence of alternatives. Is
demonstrated that not enough coercive measures, militarization, with prisons,
with more stringent laws or heavy-handed. Violence does not resolve more
violence, but by improving the conditions of life and work of the population and
serving youth. The first is to create an atmosphere of progress and justice.
Nobody canceled the future and will always remain options to get ahead and
live with dignity. For example, there are tens of thousands of young people who, forced by
circumstances, they are about to take the path of antisocial behavior. To them,
14


before falling into the networks of organized crime, they should rescue and
the government should provide educational opportunities and well-paying job.
This new strategy will be complemented by the following measures: no
pursue a gang to protect another, the law even applies; I do not know
It will allow the sale of seats in states and municipalities. Those in charge of security
public be righteous men and women, of unquestionable honesty. All
agencies will work in coordination. It will banish corruption
police forces; there will be ongoing training to professionalize the police and
will increase wages and benefits for agents all corporations; are
they protect human rights; there will be a single office of intelligence; It will continue
track money laundering and asked firmly, the US government
prohibiting the sale of arms to our country.
A new law should be established with absolute adherence to the Constitution. The
systems and rights enshrined in the Constitution, but not abide
met. The Constitution is respected in form, but is systematically violated in
background. Therefore it is necessary that the judiciary ensures compliance with laws
and the delivery of justice, because currently only serves to legalize abuses and
spoils committed by the powerful. There will never be democracy without justice for
all.
Because of this, it is urgent to deploy a comprehensive prevention policy
criminal behavior, broad spectrum, supported by actions to deliver
alternative education, health and employment; To improve the conditions of
lighting and monitoring urban environments of the roads, units
housing, and to develop cultural, sporting and
free time, favoring the restoration of mechanisms
social integration.
The State must provide, without discrimination, by boosting security
social development, the formation of civic values ​​and citizenship, pluralism
political, economic liberty, poverty reduction, protection of
natural and productive resources of the country and its cultural heritage.
In response to public demand, a number of actions are proposed
for achieving effective public safety:
64. Adopt a strategy of citizen security based on the primacy of
human rights and constitutional guarantees, giving priority to prevention
on the control. Security policies and justice must be contextualized
in the coordinates of human security, the ultimate goal of aligning
I contribute to ensuring the conditions for full human development, based on
It turns on the full enjoyment of rights and freedoms, and the head
fulfillment of obligations. Overcome the false dilemma between security
efficient or respect for human rights. In a democratic and social State
fifteen


law is perfectly possible to implement security policies
respect human rights.
65. The policy development should focus on crime prevention
crime, the gloom of impunity, to reduce the number of deaths and
injured, the preservation of freedom and integrity of people and
defense of their economic rights. These should be the goal of a
national strategy.
66. Linking social policy and employment in areas critical to channel resources
education, health, community development, employment, prevention and eradication
gender violence and social work with youth at risk, according
a comprehensive and progressive policy of prevention that has as axes the
human security, coexistence and social cohesion.
67. Promote legislative and public policy initiatives based on the
implementation of the principles and guidelines laid down in the treaties and
conventions in this area particularly the International Convention
Palermo against Transnational Organized Crime (2000), namely attack:
a) the domed structure of criminal gangs and b) the structure of
killings; and dismantle: c) the financial structure that allows them to wash
money in the formal economy and d) the political structure that protects them.
68. Take your maximum intensity prosecuting money laundering
in synergy with the bodies of civilian intelligence. The fight against laundering
Money should be considered the main task and strengthened with
infrastructure and human capacity.
69. Reject any discriminatory security policy that criminalizes poverty
and the specific situations of people, such as youth, lifestyle
sexogenérica alternative and identity.
70. Carry out an evaluation on what should be the drug policy
experts and public and private national and international institutions, and
political and legislative representatives of governments AL on
alternatives to combat drug trafficking, including recovery of the
decriminalization of the use of tetrahydrocannabinol.
71. To promote legislative and policy measures to prevent and
treatment of addiction in the general population, particularly for
protect girls, and children and adolescents.
72. Reform the system of enforcement and administration of justice to promote
this may be prompt and lowering the high rates of complicity,
16


influence peddling, corruption, impunity and lag.
73. Ensure the full independence of the Public Prosecutor subtracting their
functions of the purview of the executive branch, thus precluding
criminal action slogan.
74. Remove the monopoly of criminal action by the Public Ministry,
asserting directly to the judge the rights of the victim,
eliminating the discretion of prosecutors, corruption in the
administrative procedure and the loss of time.
75. Unify local laws for offenses of the same nature
deserve the same punishment, especially with regard to crimes
related to organized crime and drug trafficking.
76. Building a civic culture of social rejection of illegality and crime;
our goal is to build safer communities across the country,
setting budget priorities in social policies;
77. exercise effective and responsible budget on security,
priority on social crime prevention areas and participation
citizen, training and equipping of the public security forces, and
the formation of new generations of policemen;
78. Respect and improve the legal framework for assistance and police coordination
mutual between the Federation, the states and municipalities in respect
unrestricted sovereignty of States, establishing mechanisms for
promote joint operations to combat crime and to share
intelligence.
79. Promote the reform of police institutions, and debugging
professionalization. Police will be understood as a public service
civil, community-oriented rather than the State. Members
Police are prepared to use force, so that it
it does not become a means of affecting the dignity of people. Also
They prevent discriminatory acts by reason of the application of the law, which
They occur when it is taught differently by reason of
appearance, social and cultural status of persons, or any other difference.
80. Run a national capacity building program to do
operating mechanisms of accountability, which sets properly
internal and external controls, and institute innovative structures
citizen audit.
17


81. Subject to all judicial authorities to transparency and accountability
accounts. It is therefore essential to review the integration and operation of
Judicial Council, given its inefficiency on corruption,
responsibilities, evaluation and impartial administration of appointments and
promotions.
82. Turning to the supervisory bodies such as the Supreme Audit
Federation true autonomous constitutional bodies, fully
accountable for their actions, which do not depend on any of the three powers
public, in order to strengthen the fight against corruption and impunity
improve accountability.
83. Establish a national registry of victims of crime and ensure
repairing the damage, and improper action of justice to processed
unduly.
84. We take care of the prestige of the armed forces, guaranteeing integrity
territory and defense of sovereignty. Gradually the army and withdraw the
Marine combat drug trafficking and are not used to resolve conflicts
social order or the inability to meet the civil government, let alone
repress the people.
85. demilitarize the police. The police is a civil institution and must refounded
putting as the main essence and value their civilian capacity for
conflict resolution citizenship, therefore, must be separated from the
military establishment and civil society approach.
86. Ensure that the security forces and law enforcement officials only use
torture, forced disappearances and executions, notably following
politicians, as is currently the case in large parts of the country.
87. reform criminal laws to bring the criminalization and punishment of
forced disappearance of persons and implementing the mechanism for
criminalization of the offense.
88. comprehensive reform and ensure proper implementation, fully respecting
human rights, legal systems that regulate the activity
government on public safety, in order to ensure coordination
and professionalization of the preventive police, judicial investigators and
prosecutors; and the related systems to ensure the
agility and transparency in the implementation of criminal justice.
89. Encourage reforms to the Federal Law Against Organized Crime for
prevent its provisions are applied against fighters and fighters
18


social.
90. On the issue of the dirty war and crimes of the past continue to combat
impunity and seek the punishment of those responsible according to the law.
91. End the police and holding financial protection to crime
organized and prosecute government officials involved in acts
corruption.
92. Create the Citizen Institute for Social Crime Prevention, generating
proposals and evaluating performance in the field; Encourage participation
observatories and citizen in civilian monitors; Y
93. Ensure the security and human rights defenders.
94. Take the facts rehabilitation and social reintegration. Contemplating
remand only for serious crimes and to thoroughly review the provisions and
practices precautionary measures in criminal proceedings - between
including, but not limited to, called "roots" - in the light of the guarantees
gives, in general, the Mexican legal system, as well as the provisions of
international regime on human rights. Stop seeing prison
as the most appropriate measure to solve the social conflict generated
violent, crimes dimensionándola only as a last resort for
violent and only for social protection, rehabilitation and offenses
reintegration.
95. Promote a constitutional reform to democratically elect
Supreme Court justices, combining the mechanisms of democracy
representative and direct democracy, to make the Supreme Court
Justice regain its independence, it is really at the service of the people and
of the Nation and the view that nothing must be outside the law enforcement and
no one should be above the law.
96. Realizing simplified, transparent oral trials, to dictate
the statements in a period not exceeding six months.
97. Implementing the presumption of innocence as an enforceable guarantee to
Been.

III

EQUITY AND HUMAN RIGHTS

The repeated violation of human rights and individual guarantees
a practice across the country. By act or omission, human rights are
19


broken daily. Recent diagnostic of various
international organizations in the field indicate that in Mexico the violation of
human rights is given at all levels of government. As a result
strategy "war against organized crime and drug trafficking"
maintained throughout the current federal administration, the violation of the
human rights and individual rights has worsened in the form
excessive. This has contributed to the pre-existence of a system of justice
careless, complacent, corrupt, inefficient, partial, arbitrary and in many
accomplice cases of violations perpetrated against these rights and
guarantees.
Human rights not only be recognized, but required,
guarantee, justiciable and subject to formal social assessment, not
be on a list of good intentions. They are one of the pillars of the
democracy and it is the duty of political parties, governments and
Lawmakers direct their main efforts and actions to ensure the
enjoyment of all human rights: individual, social, political and
citizens. The commitment of the left is its extension, enforceability,
compliance, strengthening and evaluation. Rights National Program
Human should be taken up seriously.
In particular, the relationship between society and the Mexican state with the people
Indians has been marked by discrimination, either openly or clearly and
with great underground, just it is hidden but obvious and often notorious. Therefore, the
claims of indigenous peoples and communities always includes something not
is in the laws in Mexico, but always put indigenous peoples
first: the right to dignity; that is, the right to be treated
worthy as any and all Mexicans and according to their rules and beliefs
life.
Mexico signed the Convention 169 of the ILO, so that the indigenous peoples have
already begun to demand their rights recognized. These rights must be exercised,
fully respected and guaranteed in our country.
With regard to the rights of children and the Convention on the Rights
Child strongly oriented towards its mandate whole child. The
promotion, respect and full implementation of the Rights of Children and
Girls involve the creation of family, social, economic and
cultural to ensure their welfare and integral development.
Also in the case of youth is clear that an intelligent society and
mandates the State responsible for designing and implementing a policy to
promote training and social, economic, political and cultural inclusion as well as
comprehensive development of young people. Opening public policy and promotion
opportunities for young people are a state responsibility.
20

This is particularly important for our country because we are in
the height of the potential that should provide the demographic dividend benefit, which
unfortunately it is not happening. But also by the economic crisis and
national emergency that generated the failed strategy of "war on crime
organized and drug trafficking "of the current federal administration, which has led to the
cancellation of opportunities to study, work and overall development
millions of young people, for whom the only alternatives are in migration,
underemployment or joining organized crime groups and drug trafficking. Is
serious problem can find a suitable outlet through a new covenant
social supported by all stakeholders, economic, political and cultural
our country.
An equally important issue is the recognition of the gender gap,
should be a guiding principle of democratic change and should appear
fully defined in the legislation and the substantial contents of the
public politics. Therefore, the reforms that arise for the development of
our country should be with the participation of women and with full recognition
of the differences by gender, conducive to change
positive that benefit society as a whole.
In the area of ​​human rights it is essential to ensure as such
women's rights, because they are still under treatment
discrimination and injustice as obtaining lower wages or harassment
sex in the workplace. Also many are victims of violence;
the most dramatic example of the mistreatment of women constitute unpunished
murders committed against them throughout the whole Republic, as is the
emblematic of the dead women of Juarez. Similarly, the
poor women bear a double discrimination: as women suffering and
the suffering for being poor.
Finally, people with disabilities constitute a sector of the population
which has traditionally been marginalized from development. Therefore, it is
necessary to promote the creation of appropriate conditions for them
fully enjoy all the rights that the law gives them (education, health,
work, sport, recreation, adapted housing, etc.) and create the conditions for
their full integration into active life of the country, within a framework of respect and equality
opportunities that match their situation. It is necessary to provide more spaces
participation of persons with disabilities in all walks of life
ensure that national and punish any violation of their fundamental rights.
PROPOSALS
Human rights
21


98. Strive for universal and inalienable; progressive and comprehensive; due and
justiciable; indivisibility and interdependence of human rights to overcome
current limitations, and ensure their exercise and with full force
a perspective of gender equity. This should lead to a profound reform
Been.
99. Promote collaboration and recognition of organizations not
government to achieve full respect for human rights.
100. To fight for full and better recognition of human rights
first, second and third generation in the Constitution of the United
Mexico, in the State Constitutions and federal laws and
state.
(101 Expand and strengthen the competence, actions and empower
the National Human Rights Commission. We believe that the
CNDH recommendations should have a vinculatorio character.
102 promote a constitutional reform, combining mechanisms
representative democracy and direct democracy, to strengthen and transparent
mechanisms for selecting the head of the Commission.
103. To maintain and improve the actions in all programs
Nation education systems in the human rights to strengthen and
consolidate a culture of respect and compliance with them.
104. To exercise the defense of human rights (civil, political
economic, social, cultural and environmental) with a comprehensive vision and
gender equity perspective.
105. To ensure proper training of officials from the three levels
government in the respect and fulfillment of human rights,
especially those related to the areas of Administration of Justice,
as chiefs, commanders and police officers; in addition to the controls and troops
of the armed forces.
106. Review and improve the constitutional and legal framework for rights
humans. Also require that interpretative reserves to reject
imprescriptible past crimes.
107. To promote the creation of a Truth Commission to investigate
past crimes and crimes committed in the context of the "war
against organized crime and drug trafficking "maintained throughout the current
administration. This committee, in parallel to enforcement bodies
justice, you must know the causes of violence, investigate the facts and
establish the appropriate legal responsibilities.
Rights and Culture of the Indian peoples
108. It will serve all, they respect everyone, but preference will be given to
poor and the dispossessed. We begin to pay the historical debt owed
22


with communities and indigenous peoples. It is outrageous that where there
deprivation, poverty and marginalization not arrive supports needed. The
Indigenous communities receive less than 1% of the public budget.
109. To maintain the requirement of building a multiethnic and multicultural nation
based on respect, protection and promotion of the rights of peoples and
indigenous communities. The democratic government that would represent the
Left and legislators, based on a new national project, we
committed to making the Indian peoples of Mexico to exercise their
rights, autonomy and integral development.
110. Redefine responsible institutions and public policies to address the
problems of indigenous peoples, with the direct participation of the same.
Eradication of all discriminatory and racist society practice, developing
public policies that reduce backlogs and educational inequalities,
social, economic and indigenous peoples existing in cultural, by
implementation of programs to enhance their capacity to access
worthy in food, clothing, housing, education levels and
basic infrastructure.
111. To design public policies to support productive development and consistent with the
particular forms of economic organization and management of communities,
boosting production and marketing of goods and services that allow them
improve their living conditions.
112. Building a comprehensive development policy oriented, involving
Community and recognition of the rights of indigenous peoples originating.
It is essential to strengthen their cultures to enrich the nation.
113. To honor the San Andres Accords made a new reform
Constitution to recognize the collective rights of indigenous peoples to
use and enjoyment of natural resources on their lands and territories; he
recognition of their forms of government; the preservation and development of their
languages ​​and cultural expressions; create a new redistribution of peoples
Indians and their communities in new municipalities; and build new forms of
association of municipalities.
114. Recognize and guarantee the right to full political participation of
Indian peoples in the bodies of local and national representation, particularly in
the Congress also to amend Articles 115 and 116 of the
Constitution.
115. To build mutual trust and work towards creating a climate of
proper negotiation. To do this, the new government intends to claim the
dialogue, tolerance and reconciliation. It will be necessary to establish a process
2. 3


national dialogue with indigenous peoples to enable boost reforms
They are missing.
116. Making a true national consultation of indigenous peoples to define
mechanisms of dialogue and negotiation, and the contents of reforms
Legal leading to a new constitutional reform. This consultation should
be deep and serious, with a national dialogue to generate a proposal
broad-based participation of indigenous organizations without pressure
of party forces, the government and Congress, and according to the times
to be agreed with those organizations.
Rights of the Child
117. To protect the right to a decent life and children, facing the
causes of maternal and infant mortality through special programs
prevention, nutrition, early stimulation and integral education.
118. To protect the right of children to have equal opportunities
through legislative initiatives and the design of public policies that guarantee
adequacy of resources for universal care needs
food, health and education (compulsory and free basic-on program
14 who gradually covering the initial, preschool, primary and
high school).
119. To provide absolute guarantees of protection of children against crime,
violence, sexual abuse and labor exploitation; by designing
services adequate protection and assistance and sanctions
tougher for criminals.
Rights of Persons with Disabilities
120. Promote a comprehensive reform of current legislation, which allows
ensure recognition, respect and fulfillment of the rights of
people with disabilities, a framework of equal opportunities chords
his situation, also beginning the process of harmonization with
international instruments in this field.
121. Incorporating the General Law of Persons with Disabilities, the
mandatory for authorities to carry out the planning of the
programs and actions aimed at people with disabilities, the
direct participation of this population group.
122. Establish programs of short, medium and long term, aimed at creating
appropriate conditions for the integral development of persons with
disability, past the paternalistic policies, providing them with the
24


tools necessary to place them on equal opportunities chords
his situation to aspire to a better quality of life.
123. To promote a new culture of respect for the disabled, allowing
sensitize and prepare society in a fraternal and dignified relationship to this
social group.
124. Strengthen programs relating to the promotion of sport for
People with disabilities.
125. Create specific programs to overcome the vulnerability
that women with disabilities face.
Rights of young people
126. full responsibility of the state and society towards
young people in the current economic and social crisis, and emergency
National generated by the failed strategy of "war against organized crime
and drug trafficking "has been implementing the current federal administration.
127. To strengthen and enhance the participation of young people in the exercise of their
civil, political, social, economic, especially security
public employment, education and culture, through an Act and a National Program
Comprehensive Development of Young People, which establishes mechanisms
enforceability.
128. prepare, design and implement programs that improve their quality of life and their
open more opportunities for the full exercise of their freedom. Must be
Promote a youth policy that cuts across different sectors of the
public administration and which corresponds to a social policy which guarantees
to the young people employment opportunities, health, education,
housing, sport, culture and recreation.
129. We will promote the sport, both in its entertainment and
health, and in high yield. sport units will be built and not
allow changing land use in the current baseball fields, soccer or
any space for the sport.
130. To implement social programs for this sector with a comprehensive approach and
non-welfare and with the active participation of the young people.
131. Design and implement a program of student wages, because in the
educational process intellectual work to be developed
rewarded. And a policy of training and promoting employment,
25


entrepreneurship and self-employment, creating employment alternatives for
youth population.
132. To encourage spaces for political participation under the unrestricted respect
freedom of expression and organization.
133. Establish mechanisms to limit or avoid intimidating practices,
incriminating or discrimination committed by public servants,
especially by the police.
134. Applying make better programs and information campaigns more
aggressive to prevent unwanted pregnancy and disease transmission
sexual, and to promote respect for diversity.
135. Provide financial incentives to young workers and professionals to
they can create wealth.
136. To ensure the strengthening of a public body that has
institutional and legal autonomy and financial resources to respond to
and aspirations of young Mexicans, with the implementation of a policy
whose youth development, implementation and evaluation involving young people themselves
and their organizations.
137. Create the financial, material and human conditions to ensure
one hundred percent coverage and raise the quality of public higher education and mediasuperior, and increase the number of scholarships at these levels, as a
strategic priority of a new national project.
138. To foster the harmonization of our legislation with treaties
International on human rights of young people.
Sexual Diversity
139. Strengthen, through amendments to the law, tolerance, protection and
full respect for the human rights of people to sexual diversity,
all levels and spheres of the state and society.
140. To promote respect and tolerance for sexual diversity within the plans
and educational programs, including free textbooks, as well as the
mass media.
142. Design and implement educational and information campaigns against
homophobia and sexual abuse material.
143. Ensure programs and actions for access of everyone to
26


sexual health services, with warmth, without discrimination, throughout the
national territory and under coordination that integrates prevention and care
health throughout their life cycle.
Gender-equity
144. To promote, develop and consolidate the culture against discrimination and violence
gender and make possible the construction and the full exercise of rights
social, economic, labor, political and cultural rights of all.
145. To ensure full freedom of women to choose and practice any
profession and employment; training law, freedom of expression, association
and organization; and freedom to make decisions about their bodies and reproduction.
146. To promote affirmative action to compensate the inequalities and fincar
foundations for equal treatment between men and women.
147. Enforce the international conventions signed and ratified by Mexico,
by legislative harmonization at the federal and local levels.
148. To promote a policy guaranteeing the constitutional right of women and
couples to decide freely the number and spacing of their children; to provide the
means to implement this decision; to ensure timely and
reliable information on the various methods of family planning; and to boost
sex education campaigns, especially among young people, to prevent
unwanted pregnancies and the spread of HIV / AIDS and other
STDs.
149. Ensure programs and actions for women's access to services
sexual and reproductive health quality, with warmth, without discrimination, in all
national territory and under coordination that integrates prevention and care
health throughout their life cycle.
150. Disseminate among women existing legislation to promote
knowledge and exercise of their rights to expose and access services
High quality abortion.
151. Revise the relevant legislation on abortion to protect
women from unsafe abortion and be treated as a health problem
Public threatening the lives of thousands of them every year.
152. To improve the services of specialized agencies in dealing with victims
domestic violence, especially battered women, and provide the
resources to enable the installation of temporary shelters for assistance
victims, in which advice on the legal, psychological and is provided
family.
153. To promote the creation of the Federal Office for the Defence of Women
at the alarming increase in domestic violence, unpunished murders,
sexual abuse and rape.
154. To promote an equal opportunities policy that crosses all
27


agencies and levels of government, in the sense that tasks taken up
now individually by women and severally equitable sharing
throughout society promoting the creation of child development centers
quantity and quality, promoting community organization
supply popular programs and community kitchens and School Time
Complete.
155. Consider the formulation and implementation of public policies the
power relations within families not to help reinforce
sexism, exclusion, and are effective in reducing inequalities.
156. To promote legislative reforms to incorporate a gender perspective in the
national development planning and in the Expenditure Budget
Federation allocating a percentage of the programmable budget allowing
address the specific needs and facilitate access of women to top
stages of development and their full incorporation into the different spheres of
national life.
157. Building a legal framework that guarantees decent work, working conditions
safe, equitable and satisfactory and fair remuneration for women.
Labor standards should incorporate the vindication of the rights of the
women.
158. Enforcing the principle that equal work, equal pay.
159. Eliminate barriers that prevent women from making full use of its
right to work, including exam requirement to enter weightlessness
employment or pregnancy as grounds for dismissal, by amendments to the Law
Federal Labour and Social Security Law.
160. Create, within the scope of the labor authorities, a special entity
deal with complaints of violation of labor rights of women.
161. economically revalue the work of women in the fields of the
private and public, including the housewives.
162. Include in the labor regulations of positive action measures
temporary nature which are designed to achieve equality in the
made between men and women.
163. Banish violence against women in the workplace that
practice through psychological coercion, abuse of people and the
sexual harassment.
164. Consider labor regulations in human reproduction as a
matter of social interest and collective responsibility; therefore be
assumed equally between men and women. Define commitments and
State obligations and employers for that goal.
165. Ensure that state investment aimed at generating jobs done
from a gender perspective, thus ensuring that more women
incorporated into formal employment, subject to labor rights, since in
28


We now have a growing number of women in the informal economy
subcontracted without access to benefits or unfavorable conditions as
those working in the maquiladoras.
166. Work on the mechanisms that modify the conditions put in
disadvantage women for participation, not only in open spaces but
on empowering women to reach them. Only when there is the
playing field for women's participation and access to decision-
decisions, we will be able to achieve full democracy.
IV. A NEW SOCIAL POLICY
In our country the neoliberal economic policy casts a negative balance
for most Mexicans: low economic growth, crises
daunting economic, insufficient job creation and
proliferation of unemployment, underemployment and informal employment, growth
poverty and extreme poverty, more inequality and social exclusion, insecurity
increase rampant and widespread violence; as a whole, the
result is a deterioration of the social fabric, which hurts and offends
society.
The general interest of society must be above the interests
individuals. Social policy is the essence of our political project.
It is urgent to promote the construction of the conditions that allow satisfying
the basic needs of all Mexicans, under the leadership of a
Social and democratic state of law. To achieve this requires that the State
and society-responsibly undertake a comprehensive set of policies and
actions in various fields of economic and social life, to reduce
inequality and overcome poverty, creating prosperity for all.
An economic policy that addresses the causes and should be adopted
effects of the ongoing economic crisis worldwide and in Mexico. This policy
should protect and promote the operation of the production plant, contribute to the
progressive redistribution of income and strengthen democratic institutions
based on the universal values ​​of human rights, equality,
solidarity and equity. Without an inclusive countercyclical economic policy is not
there may be social welfare. For a new social development policy
requires a minimum of social and economic conditions to ensure that the
people can claim their rights and participate in the economic game
market, as it can have a rewarding job that
meets their needs and develop their skills.
We must push the new social thinking that posits what has come to be
call human flourishing, which includes not only the satisfaction of needs,
but also capacity building. A socially responsible government
29


social policy should be evaluated using indexes put in the center the
being of each and every Mexican.
Mexicans have to build an organized, participatory and partnership
inclusive, in exercise of its sovereignty to satisfy their rights
integrally human; namely, civil, political, economic, social,
public, cultural security, collective, gender, ethnic and environmental.
A new social policy must understand the complete transformation of
national health system so that all people exercise their constitutional right
to the same. At present half of Mexicans do not have access to
social security and it is the poorest who are most sick and
They die due to their precarious living conditions.
In response to this problem and to build a strategy of globalization
the right to health protection, we must guarantee the fulfillment of this
prerogative to the uninsured.
The main problem of social security, health, is that
It has not been extended to the entire population. At present there is a profound
social inequality and many families are out of coverage
Health System. Public funding is inadequate, which puts us at
levels of countries with lower relative development. To give coverage to all
the population is required to grant an allocation of sufficient resources.
A new health policy must be based on equity, ie, in the
As to existing services need access to the same, for it is
essential allocating sufficient public resources to the health sector
allowing remove the financial barrier that prevents timely access to
medical care to those who have less.
Health means not only cure diseases. The changes and advances
on health begin with a change in lifestyle, this only
It can be achieved by solving problems and misinformation
lack of social consciousness; and the improvement of the environment and the
economic development. Therefore, the health system will also cover measures
prevention, health, ecological and reproductive education.
Social policy must consider the problem of food. All the
Mexicans have a right to expect quality food, which must
It is constitutionally recognized and complied with comprehensive policies
production, distribution, pricing, general subsidies and regulation aimed at
achieving food sovereignty; understood as the capacity of the state to
promote sustainable production of grain and other agricultural products and
basic fishing, while the required entry is generated for the
people can access those goods.
30


The social policy that promotes the welfare of all requires secure
adequate pensions and retirement, so it will be necessary to restore about
solidarity foundation financially sound system. It is urgent to reverse the process
destruction and looting of our social security institutions that
last PRI and PAN governments have held and has undermined the foundations
Health and the Mexican Social Security. Must stop and reverse actions
privatization of public health systems and social security. Is
indispensable and urgent that our country, with all the economic wealth and
human it has, change course and embark on the construction of a
Basic social welfare state.
The right to housing means that all sectors of the population have
access to it, to realize what is stated in Article 4 of the Constitution, in
the sense that the law should establish the instruments and supports necessary
for that end. The right to housing is also the right to habitat
let develop in a healthy, sustainable and sustainable environment, which
It should be treated as an indivisible right related to work, with the
health and education.
At present millions of families are living in unsanitary overcrowded housing without
public services, in areas of high vulnerability exposed to disasters
natural. Most Mexicans have had to build their houses in
adverse conditions, without support or certainty against the vagaries of
economy, which in past crises and which is ongoing have destroyed their
heritage.
The house built by the private sector is usually inaccessible to
Popular sectors and government action on housing construction
insufficient. No official policy whatsoever for rural housing or
rent. The rules of public and private credit in this area are excessive and
exclusive for many families.
It should be encouraged potential of self-help housing, the only one
reach of many popular sectors for a home, so that the
housing built under this system have the services
necessary. Must be regulated to not occupying peripheral areas or follow a
extensive, disorderly and predatory nature of the growth, while
There are many gifted urban land for all services remain
They lend or idle speculation.
In the present circumstances of inequality social policy must face
particularly the problem of poverty manner. In our country there are about
53 million people living on the equivalent of two dollars a day and
about 20 million are at the threshold of a dollar and that, therefore,
They live in extreme poverty.
31

While it is true that solving this problem is the responsibility of the State
Mexican at all three levels of government, it is for the federal government
main charge, as is the design lines of economic policy and
programs and actions to combat poverty, which have become only
cut welfare measures and not on permanent sources of income and
rewarding families.
The State, being an instrument of society, is bound to play a
leading role in the eradication of poverty and should therefore resume
link to the communal trade unions, civic, community, and
social who have demonstrated high efficacy in boosting social programs,
to strengthen them and enhance their capacity for self-management. The fight against
poverty must be a commitment of the state and all its organs, levels and
instances.
Mere policies to combat poverty and extreme poverty, are not
sufficient to correct the disastrous consequences of economic decline,
poverty and exclusion that generated the current neoliberal policies. A
Social and democratic state of law must be responsible for ensuring the
indispensable conditions for the integral development of the population.
Therefore, it is necessary to change the orientation of assistance programs
"Fight against poverty" for the population in extreme poverty. Tales
programs should be designed as a complement to all policies
mentioned above, particularly job, and as a shim
disadvantage in economic and social matters.
The purpose of these new programs should be to support the poor, eliminating
restrictions and providing them with resources to elements and "can do" and
better able to interact with other economic agents. Simple
social assistance, including in some cases delivery of food and
money, but it may be necessary as a temporary measure, applicable in the long
deadline only for populations with frank inability to enroll in the
production. Discrimination must be banished currently excludes
many municipalities, communities and poor families in these programs and that
They are used as an instrument of pressure and blackmail election.
The social policy that seeks equity must consider care programs
population groups that are disadvantaged, such as:
seniors and people with disabilities.
With the growing risk of natural disasters, we need a new way
to address the issue of civil protection, basing on a clear commitment
social. Earthquakes, hurricanes, volcanic activity, fires and
explosions, spills of toxic and hazardous substances, epidemics, and
32


like all kinds of contingencies, constantly they increase levels of
risk to which the population is subject. Hence the importance of implementing a
civil protection policy by which people not only aware
the risks to which it is exposed, but first of all the type of actions
preventive and organizational to be taken to avoid or mitigate
effects of disasters.
The civil protection should not be limited only to count the victims and
the quantification of damages in the affected communities. In a government
democratic and accountable should not be used for human pain the
delivery of relief assistance and patronage for partisan criteria. For
us civil protection is a priority, prevention, without implying
despise the work of reconstruction and the return to normal conditions
of affected populations.
PROPOSALS
A Universal Health Policy for All
167. effective Making the State's obligation to provide conditions
for people to exercise their right to health and social security,
mainly in the rural and urban popular areas, from
the restructuring and modernization of the institutions and agencies
make up the national health system.
168. To establish a policy of free medical services and medicines
care for the uninsured.
169 Carry forward the reform of public health institutions to ensure their
coordination and efficiency, tackling corruption and promote a new culture
institutional public service with quality and human warmth.
170. Moving towards a Single Health Service (SUS). In coordination will be of
considered the following four recommendations:
to. The public institution should be the backbone of the service.
b. The Mexican Social Security Institute should be the core of the
coordination of ITS.
c. The ITS must be coordinated gradually to avoid creating a situation
disadvantageous to any of the participating institutions.
d. You must make the changes and modifications that are necessary to
adapting the rules that currently govern the sector institutions
bless you.
171. Put into operation a program of rehabilitation and construction of clinics
33


and hospitals that cover the needs of the demand for care
health, focusing on issues specific to each health region.
172. Establish a program of modernization of administrative systems
to streamline services in health care.
173. To encourage the formation of new generations of professionals in the area
medical, with altruism and solidarity spirit, reformulating the social service within the meaning
its link with the various urban and rural communities.
174. To promote the role of alternative and traditional medicine, campaigns
massive information and practice activities such as sport.
175. Provide adequate attention to the Indian peoples in complete harmony with
culture and traditional knowledge.
176. Create addicts rehabilitation centers in the communities that
required, adequate infrastructure and promote jobs for
who are undergoing rehabilitation.
177. Addressing the problems caused by the epidemic of HIV-AIDS, which has
spread throughout the country especially among young people, with measures
ensuring effective care and provision of free medicines
patients and conducting permanent and open campaigns
information and prevention. This requires emphasis on the dissemination and promotion
the use of condoms and female condoms, as one of the ways more
effective measures to prevent the spread of this and other STDs,
particularly in the most disadvantaged areas without access to health services,
in fulfillment of the Millennium Development Goals that commit our country.
178. Establish a comprehensive health program that seeks not only healing
part or all of the conditions, or reduce the physical pain that they generate,
but also treats the emotional pain they cause and which is linked to
directly with impaired lifestyle manner.
179. Recognize the contributions of traditional medicine and alternative forms,
according to the social participation and cultural diversity.
Right to sovereignty and food security
180. Establish specific public policies on the subject of food,
linking directly with the issue of food sovereignty and security,
orchestrating the implementation of a national program whose primary objective
consists of ensuring basic food for the population, particularly the
of the most vulnerable economic sectors.
Implement broader and permanent campaigns on healthy eating and
consequences of obesity and overweight.
181. Provide for the production of healthy food and monitor the impact
that they produce on the use of technologies that have already been rejected
other countries because GMOs should be
3. 4


used for the benefit of all, prioritizing health and food security of the
population and the conservation of endemic species.
Universal Social Security
182. Achieve universal social security, with special focus on sectors
of the population that can not be covered by the security institutions
social or private medicine, because they are outside the formal economy,
claiming the right to comprehensive social security above
commodification prevailing today.
183. To promote the building of a universal social security system as the
right to economic security, while developing strong programs
specific poverty alleviation, including the review and evaluation and
existing.
184. Reforming pension systems to promote an investment policy
in infrastructure funds currently administered companies
financial capital. Thus 50% of the funds remain in the
Afores and the other 50% will be handled by the State under the legal figure more
convenient to protect pensioners. One objective of this
reform would free up resources for investment in infrastructure sector
energy: gas, electricity and petrochemicals.
Housing Policy
185. Ensure all families, gradually, the right of access to
soil and to decent housing. To achieve this, it must promote the unification of the
regulations on land and housing market in property and income, including
informal and popular, a new General Housing Act, which allows
recover promote housing construction sector agencies
public.
186. direct funding to promote popular housing through
specific, and a system of income, savings and loan financial program
for the same purpose, provided with incentives and subsidies; establish plans
the creation of urban development land reserves for social housing;
create a system of support for self-managed real estate development, with
allocation of land reserves, infrastructure, credit and public services;
decreasing subsidies for the population receiving income up to four
minimum wages and tax relief; and promote affordable housing for rent,
through tax exemption to a minimum wage landlords.
187. To promote and implement strict regulations, which define, inter alia,
acceptable minimum size of housing and the size of the sets
housing.
188. Modify the rules of operation of the banking and financial system and industry
private and public housing to make credit accessible to everyone, including the
non-salaried sector. It is essential to create investment schemes from
the application of fiscal resources, encouragement to social savings and investment
the private and social progress in the solution to the problem sectors.
35


189. Strictly implement funds for INFONAVIT and FOVISSSTE
acquisition, construction or improvement of housing and prevent their diversion for
subsidize pensions.
190. To promote the association of private capital, state investment and own effort
Plaintiffs sectors to build affordable housing and popular interest.
191. Promote programs and self-help housing construction, housing
progressive and utilities to bring down the huge housing deficit and
to promote this activity as a source of employment for its effect
multiplier in the economy. As well as improvement and construction programs
rural housing to sponsor the use of environmentally friendly materials.
192. democratize the organization of housing construction companies,
promoting the participation of social organizations in training
professional unions, workers and beneficiaries.
193. make transparent INFONAVIT resources, in order to prevent
financial manipulation and channeling of resources for groups
business and union leaders companies and officials.
Front Poverty Reduction
194. Keep generalized subsidies through the tax to VAT Exempt
food and medicine.
195. To increase substantially the budget are dedicated to the feminization of
poverty, since it causes people inhabiting regions
marginalized rural and city make an accelerated and inefficient use of
natural resources.
196. Accompanying the increase in resources and assistance programs to combat
poverty, with the increasing allocation of resources and programs that generate projects
productive jobs and stable income derived from the work of the sectors directly
involved.
Universal Alimony Aging
197. Establish child support in correspondence with a new
conception about generating welfare combined with a policy
active employment generation and protection and increased income. In addition
this pension will be accompanied by a social and political reconstruction of
public institutions of social protection based on the diagnosis of what
They are today and in the near future the main social risks faced by
majority groups of the population.
198. There will be universal pension for all adults over 68 years the country
and for people with disabilities. Fight hunger
ensuring the people's right to food and attention be given
Medical and free medicines to all people.
36


199. Provide every citizen, originally from the 68, of
a pension of half a minimum wage, whether or not made contributions to a fund
pension. The idea behind this policy is that, with very few
exceptions, all people, men and women have contributed to society
regardless of having a formal employment relationship.
200. Extending the benefits of social protection to most
older adults. That is, we have to raise as a point of arrival,
citizens' right to a universal pension.
201. Starting the delivery of universal child support, as well as the rest of the
social programs in areas classified as high or very high marginalization
and progressing gradually.
Economic Support Program for People with Disabilities
202. Operating a National Economic Support Program for People with
disabilities who attend directly to those in a situation
poverty and marginalization. This program will provide a monthly sum
equivalent to half the minimum wage for people of 0-69 living
in municipalities with higher poverty, for which a pattern of be integrated
people with permanent disabilities.
Civil Protection Policy with all and for all
203. Promote the establishment of civil protection and social security
institutionalize organized, informed and responsible participation of the
population programs and operational prevention, relief and reconstruction.
204. Deepening the strengthening of a culture of self-protection and
disaster prevention, the disclosure is made through
media and with the participation of members of the system
national education, and civil society organizations, trade unions,
social clubs and society in general.
205. Update National Risk Atlas and the corresponding state atlas
and municipal, in order to pinpoint the different zones of risk, and
guide the relocation of human settlements that are exposed to a
potential disaster.
206. Perform gradually, in coordination with state governments and
municipal infrastructure works needed to prevent
Disasters such as dams, levees, embankments, networks
monitoring of volcanoes and earthquake zones, highways and roads, among others.
207. Restructuring the Natural Disaster Fund through
establishment of a collegial body, which remain represented
the three levels of government and the private and social sectors, in order that
public and private funds allocated to prevention, support
affected population, and the reconstruction of affected areas are managed
transparent, timely and rational manner. Also give the game
corresponding budgetary, legislative and administrative conditions
37


necessary for encouraging the development of their resources, from a
rata share of the three levels of government.
208. To promote the strengthening of a global system of civil protection, enable
with institutions, rules and regional mechanisms for prevention and care
disaster, on a multilateral basis and as part of a strategy aimed at
fostering international cooperation for development and particularly for
a multinational joint response to global degradation processes
environment.
209. Creating the compulsory civil protection service as part of military service
national, to train and inform conscripts about the different
and operating programs operating in the field and incorporate them into the
development of actions that make the Army and other groups in society
civil disaster and to become multipliers
behaviors and patterns of self-protection among the population.
210. Redesigning the purpose and structure of the National Prevention Center
Disasters, in order to decentralize by region and diversify their functions
research and teaching, to make it an effective linkage analysis
between national systems Civil Protection and Education as well as a
vocational training institute, training and training in the field,
committed with the purpose of extending a national culture of civil protection.
211. Review existing legislation relating to Civil Protection to update
its contents and improve their institutional regulations.
Independent Evaluation of Social Development
212. Establish and implement, with the participation of various agencies
academic, social and citizens planning mechanisms, information and
evaluation of social development policies, for the welfare of the
population, under the new concept of human flourishing.
VI.EDUCACIÓN,
SCIENCE,
KNOWLEDGE AND CULTURE

TECHNOLOGY,

SOCIETY

OF

Education and culture indicate the degree and quality that characterize civilization
and regulate the work of a society. Education is the discipline that can
maintain, modify and develop the expressions of a people's culture being
set of demonstrations in which their traditional life is expressed. Family and
the school system and the social environment are the nuclei that maintain and transmit
generationally values ​​that characterize and define a country.
It is a process of acquiring knowledge, values ​​and cultural patterns
They serve to transform the economic and social conditions of a country and to
ensure equal opportunities for its members. We also recognize
that education and culture are indivisible part of the civic education and are
a right of all Mexicans regardless of skills, age, sex,
ethnicity, economic status, religion, ideology or place of residence.
38


The Constitution posited in their Article 3 rights, requirements and conditions
that explain, shape and support the national education system and propose profile
Mexican ethics and socially necessary for coexistence and progress
country within a framework of international coexistence. It is for this reason that education
It can be separated from the new national project to which we aspire. Also,
should not be left aside differences and regional particularities of our
country involving cultural and ethnic diversity.
It is extremely worrying that the Mexican educational system is in a serious
crisis is reflected, among other things, in its most significant indicators. He
literacy is in a range of between 8 to 9 percent several million
Mexican !, a little more than double what they recommend agencies
international education, which is 4 percent. Coverage, except
primary, leaves much to be desired. In secondary, and upper secondary education
demand for education goes far beyond what the system offers
education. The school dropout rate is very high at all levels.
With regard to quality, the picture is not encouraging. Recent
international Measurements put our country in the last places far
behind our business partners, and even well below countries with
similar to our development. And if this referred to marginalized groups,
particularly the indigenous population, these indicators are even more dramatic.
Early childhood education today acquires a fundamental strategic value. He
infant from birth not only requires feeding and care
fundamental for their survival, but also of processes Stimulation
early education and seeking to reach full maturity psychomotor,
emotional and cognitive, this will result in a comprehensive development of the individual that
allow assimilate more quickly and efficiently the later stages of their
educational training. In this regard our country is just beginning to be
aware of the importance of addressing this level represents.
The lag is evident anywhere you look and, if you said, you
we join the global environment has changed rapidly from the
information and communications technology (ICT) and we have a
scenario in which technological change in communications and
teleinformática dominates and permeates all areas, the demand for education
that meets the current requirements is even greater. In basic education
we need to update and train teachers and overcome the inefficiencies
derived from a corporate unionism that seriously affects performance
schools.
In secondary and higher education educational demand is growing, product
demographic dynamics of our population. Millions of young people aspire to
have a place in university classrooms, but failed. Teaching linked to
research and the research itself, which at this level is a goal of
essential compliance is well below requirements.
UNAM concentrates most of the scientific research conducted in the
country without education policy that promotes diversify and extend to all
universities and higher education in the country. Nor
scientific research and technological development related to the
39


real needs of the country through proper planning system
national and regional. Just as there are huge regional differences and groups
social in basic education, in terms of coverage and quality
teaching in higher education and in scientific and technological research
Also these shortcomings persist.
The public resources devoted to science and technology are about 35 thousand
million in this year; which accounts for just 0.24% of GDP.
We are at a crossroads where we have to meet the legitimate
demand of the population: education for all and high level for our
graduates can enter the labor market, wages earned well
paid to enable them to have a decent life with dignity and sustain their
families.
PROPOSALS
Education
213. a real educational revolution will be carried out aimed at improving the
quality of teaching and to ensure that nobody is left without the opportunity to
study, for lack of space, teacher or economic resources. The latter is
We face with an extensive program of scholarships, as well as breakfast delivery
free for school supplies and uniforms.
214. Form a National Education Council. This body would be autonomous and
would perform the functions for education planning, discussing and approving
the contents of the curricula among others, ensuring the secular nature,
Free, universal, scientific, proponent of national identity, multicultural,
tolerant, democratic and inclusive education. To strengthen this proposal
and have a local approach and regionally informed that their nation
fundamental principles, in view of their possible adoption, proposes the
organization of consultative forums with the participation of teachers,
specialists in the field and society in general.
215. To review the physical infrastructure of the national education system, in order
to expand educational spaces and enable multidisciplinary training
of students through specialized teachers.
216. Modify the evaluation system, in order to ensure their independence and
evaluate both the performance of students, such as teachers,
educational systems and schools. Use it as a tool
correction of inequalities and method for constant elevation
quality of education.
217. Making a gradual transformation of education and the education system
national, must take account of disabilities and educating
preparation of students are able to cope with the demands
in a globalized world, characterized by a great technological development and
scientific; This is to be accomplished while emphasizing the importance of
knowledge of our history and strengthening our national identity.
40


218. Complete the decentralization of education, parallel system reform
the tax system of the federation, taking care with funds and programs
that federal radically reduce the asymmetry between the regions of
country and sectors of society.
219. Increase enough state, federal and municipal budgets
for educational programs, the teachers' salaries, and allocations
the improvement of educational infrastructure. Establish an institutional one
political and social pact for education which commit all
public, social and private institutions.
220. To combat the asymmetry in basic education between schools
urban and rural, guaranteeing the minimum acceptable conditions of study
and ensuring the quality, permanence, responsibility, training and
professionalism of teachers, implying a training program and
update teachers and end the bureaucracy and corruption in
SEP and this flawed relationship with the teachers union.
221. Fold illiteracy through the widening and deepening of the system
adult education including a national program of evening schools
for workers. By production sector relate to training
for work, other social sectors and the dissemination of culture.
222. Give priority to children from birth to 6
years, in order to correct inequalities irreversible:
to)
b)
c)
d)
e)

Maternal and child guidance.
Power infancy.
Extended childcare system.
Universalization and development of early childhood education.
Education for mothers and fathers.

223. That the compulsory basic education preschool, primary and
secondary is full time, supported feeding
students where education is comprehensive and relates to students with
science, art, dance, music, sports, etc. Also be
providing school supplies, uniforms and transportation when necessary. They
You should plan effectively for the transformation of the system by force
should be gradually is completed as soon as possible.
224. Make compulsory and higher education, as essential
will help change the cultural profile of Mexican society and the
rate of population decline, the abatement of crime and
violence, and the delay of working age.
225. Strengthen the National Library System services that have
Modern information such as Internet and multimedia, and the creation of
spaces for periodicals, video and other similar instruments that allow,
storage and use of audiovisual information, promoting
decidedly reading through a national training program for readers
early.
41

226. Avoid dropping out of school for economic reasons, which is very
large secondary level, from extending the program of scholarships awarded
socio-economic criteria.
227. students or senior high school will have a
equivalent to half the minimum wage monthly stipend.
228. All young people who meet the requirements and may wish
entering public high schools and universities. It will end with the
pretext that youth is rejected because not pass the exam
admission, when in reality what happens is that there is no room in schools
public for lack of funds. The neoliberal policy in education has
It meant leaving without the possibility of studying 300 000 young people each year. It has
been irresponsible make education free market as if it were a
merchandise. This has caused, as we are seeing a tremendous social damage.
The prisons are full of young people. We have always said that whoever has to
pay a private school you can do, is his right, but the government
It is required to ensure public, free and quality education at all
school levels. Education should not be a privilege.
229. substantively reform the system of education, training and
Update teachers, fulfilling the obligation to their formation in the
undergraduate level.
230. Build communicating vessels between all education levels
improve the quality of education and ensure correct orientation
vocational. That is, involving institutions of higher and secondary education
top with basic education and implement exchange programs
academic, evaluation and updating.
231. To promote the upgrade of technology education, new technologies
information, promote the creativity of teachers and students, and strengthen
job training by establishing schools
crafts and trades.
232. Expand substantially and provide timely resources
budget approved by the Chamber of Deputies and universities
demand transparency and accountability in its exercise.
233. To encourage the participation of universities in the extension of its mission
to society, particularly in the field of humanities and sciences
social for regenerating community values ​​and active participation
of society in national problems, by all means of dissemination
special emphasis on electronic. It will be promoted each of the
Universities have their own television channel, radio station and its
focus their efforts on developing connectivity to link to the
generators of knowledge and scientific advances.
234. To implement programs to strengthen school spaces
Academy integrating the expertise of teachers
retired.
42


235. Respect in every time and circumstance, university autonomy.
236. Promoting higher education institutions inside the republic
to reduce the gap that separates them regarding the megalopolis, establishing
compensation policies with the poorest states.
237. Creating new public universities with more flexible and dynamic models
to adapt and respond appropriately to the new social needs.
238. To strengthen the study and research in the area of ​​Humanities,
Social and Health Sciences, particularly in relation to the specialties.
239. Making the most of information flows that has brought the global
with it, in such a way that drives consistent and cosmopolitan education
comprehensive, by installing networked computers and
early Internet teaching.
240. Making variants of virtual education system, as education
distance and traditional open, to extend the reach of education
National all layers of the population and regions, in order to
bring more Mexicans to the benefits of education
all areas and job training.
Science and Technology
241. To establish a policy that places scientific research, including
Study priorities, issues related to the satisfaction of the
needs of the population linked to the national plan and regional plans
development.
242. We will promote scientific and technological research. It will recover
prestige and quality of all branches of Mexican engineering. It will
priority to the investigation of alternative, renewable energy and
as clean.
243. To promote new careers that relate to scientific innovation and
as would be the technological field of computer science, robotics,
biotechnology and biogenetics. Also promoting the hybrid careers
biorobotics, socioeconomic geriatrics, food industrial rights,
applied mathematics to computer superhighways, engineering
virtual processes, ecoambientalismo, psychobiology, biolaw, the
geosociología, among others.
244. Consider the development of science and technology a national priority
in resources and training policies for more and better scientists,
ensuring that they have the necessary conditions and get with
security and timely economic support they require. Must be
invest in them, at first, 1% of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and
and gradually agreed to grant the amounts recommended by the OECD, such
as Mexico has signed.
245. To provide infrastructure, human resources and academic tradition
43


encourage the development of pure, basic and applied science, which is
They feed back and together make the basis for future research and advances
technology.
246. Making the Science and Technology be linked to strategic planning
the country and closely meet the national, regional and requirements
the various social sectors to promote production processes and other
needs of society, seize opportunities and face the challenges
the globalized world. Support through tax mechanisms companies
develop research projects and technological renovation, which
promote the development of the application of science to production.
247. We will implement the use of technology and digital media for
development of the country, closing the inequality gap by expanding infrastructure
to remote communities and the training required for their use; in the
areas where the infrastructure already exists, closer to the majority to avoid
called "digital illiterates".
248. To establish academic exchange programs, promote research
Inter, increasing scholarships abroad and encourage the repatriation of
Researchers based in academic opportunities job well
unpaid public institutions, preferably within the
republic, create national networks of researchers. All in order to
promote the development of other universities throughout the country, in what is
refers to scientific research and technological innovation.
Transforming 249. CONACYT in a Council of State where they are
represented all sectors linked to science and technology, in order to
formulating policies and guidelines for the promotion of scientific research
and technological development, and create mechanisms for strengthening research
institutions of higher education.
Culture
250. We take care of the cultural heritage of Mexico. We will encourage the creation
artistic from basic education and support to musicians, painters, artisans,
sculptors, filmmakers and those engaged in artistic and cultural promotion.
251. Amend the Constitution to establish the commitment of the State
the field of culture, incorporating provisions guaranteeing the right to
culture and access to their sources, conservation and dissemination of heritage
tangible and intangible cultural responsibility between society and government in
promotion of culture and the distribution of powers between the different levels
of government. Set in the Constitution that the objective of education should
be the promotion of national identity through the preservation and development of
all cultures.
252. Instituting an organ of state with autonomy, its own assets and
public authority, with broad participation of stakeholders and users, nature
democratic, federal coordinating the country's cultural policy, and linking
cultural policy at the national and regional development plans.
44


253. Enacting a comprehensive law on culture to establish a legal framework
integrated in the distribution of powers, financing, Profile
governing body frame of responsibility between society and government, and
basic instruments of cultural promotion. Issue a specific legislation
tax incentives, by way of a law on patronage, so that promotes
strict social and private participation in the financing of culture.
254. Reorganize the public sector culture by establishing clear priorities,
regrouping bodies and providing a general reform of institutions
sector. Redesign the institutional structure on which cultural policy operates
the Mexican state, and agree on the establishment of programs based on
criteria of democratic participation, cooperation, decentralization, and tolerance
ideological.
255. To promote decentralization and competition between the various orders
government, local governments transferring functions performed by the government
federal.
256. To promote the artistic and intellectual creativity and the enjoyment of
cultural goods throughout the national education system.
257. To encourage artistic creation and cultural recovery through support
Special scholarships and to increase training and expand knowledge,
particularly children and youth.
258. Provide legislation also support and encourage the cultural industry, and
review and correct for our country's commitments in this area
contained in the Free Trade Agreement for North America.
259. Strengthening law by specific cultural radio and television networks.
260. Ensure that in the field of international relations, decisions
in cultural matters are consulted and taken into account the criteria and
proposals of national institutions responsible for these policies.
261. Include the participation of states and municipalities in the formulation of
culture-related programs which define educational programs
coexist expressions of national cultures and universal calls,
defending the right to be different in a globalized world, and strengthen
existing institutions such as the National Institute of Anthropology and History and the
National Institute of Fine Arts.
262. Strengthening libraries and collections and historical content and
the written heritage, archival, bibliographical, documentary, musical,
videographic, photographic film and as the memory of a country, they are
deteriorating and losing.
VI ECONOMIC POLICY FOR SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT AND
EQUITABLE
After nearly half a century that the country recorded growth
4. 5


6.5% average annual economic GDP and 3.2% of GDP per capita, from
1982 and because of the debt crisis a long stage started
stagnation that has lasted nearly 30 years with a precarious job creation,
a significant decline in real wages and increased poverty and
Social inequality. All this to move from an economic development policy
another in search of price stability and exchange rate ignoring her
effects on employment and social welfare.
Throughout the three recent decades it has remained the model and policies
neoliberal economic, which in addition to shedding the economic and social outcomes
indicated above, they have generated deep crisis of 2008-2009 that reported a drop
GDP of -6.2%, the worst decline in recent history after the crisis
World 1929-1933, with a huge increase in unemployment rose from 3.9%
to 6%, which is again creating conditions for a second phase of crises
economic to be presented in the final months of 2011 and throughout 2012. At
previous increase in unemployment a new wave of unemployment will add that
will end up boosting the already serious process of increasing
crime, violence and destruction of the social fabric.
For these reasons it is urgent to change the model and economic policies and
social neoliberal imposed from the outside, and replace policies
growth with sustainable development and social equity. This will be possible if
we combine democracy with changing political and economic advantage
the 2012 elections to establish an effective democratic government, open to
social participation and transparency and accountability. With this
purpose must be to rescue the state's role in promoting development,
joint participation of public and private investment and the prospect of
regional development with long-term vision. Promote regional development
equitable planning to overcome the prevailing centralism that has fractured
the country into three major regions-north, central and south-southeast-which has
increased poverty and created the annual migration of hundreds of thousands of
Mexicans seeking opportunities in other countries that were in Mexico
They refuse, as well as the excessive increase in "industries" of organized crime and
drug trafficking.
As such it should promote a redefinition of the economic model
promote individual and social skills, undiminished initiative
Private but that makes possible the whole society, to end the
monopolies also to subjugate the citizens and not allow free
competition and economic growth; that promotes fair redistribution of
wealth, generate decent employment and fair pay, which transforms
the financial system in real agent of economic development, not
institutions whose interest rates, commissions and other charges, held in
millions of Mexicans permanent debt. In short, to improve the
living conditions of Mexicans.
A new democratic government based on citizen participation, is the
construction of a new society in which labor, production, and
knowledge, science and technology, and natural resources, serve to
meet the needs and aspirations of each and every Mexican.
Pugnaremos the full observance of the constitutional provisions
46


As for the domain of the nation over all their natural resources Platform
Continental and submarine shelf that house the rich biodiversity,
water resources, forests, rivers and beaches, which must be reserved
for the benefit of Mexicans. Therefore, the property of the Nation on
their property will retain its character as inalienable and imprescriptible.
We reject figures and legal subtleties that seek their
privatization and will carry out the necessary steps to rectify the processes
privatization that have been carried out in different areas of heritage
national, which belongs to all Mexicans.
PROPOSALS
Agricultural Development, Fisheries, Forestry and Food
263. Include sustainable rural development in the agricultural, forestry and
fishing in a national system of democratic planning and development
regional. Run a differentiated agricultural policy for different types
producer in the country, those who are already highly competitive,
those with potential to increase its competitiveness, and those who have
little or no competition and require the full support of the State.
264. We will rescue the abandoned camp which has been condemned by the
neoliberal policy. domestic producers will be supported with grants and
credits to achieve food sovereignty and stop buying abroad
what we consume. This will take root people in their communities and
will generate rural jobs to help stem migration.
265. Review and rectify aspects of the Free Trade Agreement of America
(NAFTA) relating to agriculture and fisheries, to recover
building valuable tools to ensure food self-sufficiency
our country and create better working conditions and living for
farmers and their families.
266. Realizing the right to food sovereignty and security and
food for the entire population, and special nutrition programs
MCH.
267. Increase productive spending and public investment and linking science and
technology to agriculture, forestry and fisheries sectors.
268. Establish the creation of credit and financial instruments and
financial institutions, commercial insurance and services necessary
to increase lending and coverage of guaranteed prices and put in
Law operation for Sustainable Rural Development with special emphasis on
promotion of industrial branches connected with the sector (agribusiness,
chemicals, supplies, materials, equipment, machinery and tools, including
others).
269 ​​million hectares of timber trees were planted south-southeast in the
country, mahogany and cedar among others, for economic purposes, ecological and
to create about 400,000 jobs a year.
47


270. Reform, commercial, financial systems and insurance services
necessary to ensure that the agricultural, forestry and fisheries sectors
have the necessary conditions and contribute to the sovereignty again
and food self-sufficiency of each and every Mexican, so
producers are guaranteed prices appropriate to their productive role and their
necessities of life, particularly those in lower and middle income.
Reform and put into operation the Law for Sustainable Rural Development
effectively contribute to the promotion of industrial branches connected
with these sectors (agribusiness, chemicals, supplies, materials and
equipment, machinery and tools, etc.).
271. Develop sustainable universal coverage programs for development
economic and social development of the rural sector.
272. attend carefully tourism: Mexico has splendid
archeological sites, important colonial cities, beaches, flora and fauna
Except addition, the tourist services have a high multiplier effect
employment and income of workers.
273. To develop the potential of growth of the national economy,
especially in the Isthmus Region where energy projects and fit
communication by rail and roads, agro-forestry and
fishing offer potential to be seized with laws and institutions
adequate and direct participation of their peoples and communities.
274. Reorient the silvicultural activities towards integrated systems of exploitation
sustainable forestry, returning the successful experiences in Mexico and other countries,
and institutionally organized with the participation of experts, academic centers,
civil organizations, organizations representing people and communities
Indians, businessmen and officials from the three levels of government, to reverse the
serious processes of ecological degradation and climate change.
275. fishing activities will be supported to improve the living conditions of the
coastal and riverine communities in the country and put within reach of the population
good quality protein at low prices.
276. foster the social sector of the economy, including cooperatives
fishing, production, service and consumption.
277. reinvigorate infrastructure merchant marine and ports to support
small and medium fishing industry and create jobs.
Energy Policy
278. invoke article 27 of the Constitution that establishes the direct dominion will be made
the Nation over natural resources. Under this principle will be reviewed
concessions or contracts that have been awarded illegally to privatize
mines of gold, silver, copper, oil and electricity.
279. There will be a new energy policy. Oil exploration will be integrated,
drilling, production, refining, gas and electricity to take advantage
48


the entire value chain and make this sector development lever
national.
280. Oil rationally exploit, always bearing in mind that
It is a non-renewable resource and that our generation is obliged to
take care. So removal shall be subject to reserve replacement.
281. stop selling gradually crude oil abroad to
process all the raw material in our territory; in order to generate
jobs and stop importing 500,000 barrels of gasoline and diesel, which
They represent 50% of current consumption, with an expenditure of 20 billion
annually.
282. We will promote the petrochemical industry and gas production to curb
increasing external dependence.
283. Go to operate at full capacity and other hydroelectric plants
Federal Electricity Commission to reduce the purchase, at very high prices,
electric power to foreign companies that take about 80 thousand
million pesos from the government budget each year.
284. To promote the industrialization of energy resources. It's about
the added value based on the right technology and resources
sufficient, secure productivity and competitiveness, and maximize resources
to address the looming energy transition, product
depletion of oil in the world.
285. Promote the development of a green economy, expanding capacity
renewable energy generation, as well as technical developments and
any accompanying technology, taking advantage of the enormous potential
renewable natural resources to produce energy, training resources
Human and develop technology to become providers
world markets.
286. Integrating national energy industry and consider the energy sector
as a whole, oil, electricity, natural gas, nuclear energy and sources
renewable and alternative, prioritizing the use of the latter, especially
hydroelectric properly incorporating the peoples and communities
involved. The energy sector requires a structural reform which no
It requires changes to our Constitution but on the contrary, to comply
fully. This requires structural reform measures such as:
to. Modernize the energy sector without privatizing the electricity industry or
hydrocarbons, adding value and creating jobs.
b. Establish a comprehensive, nationalist and rational energy policy
allow to preserve energy sovereignty, conducive to raising reserves and
conventional sources of energy to ensure economic development and
social, and allow regeneration of the environment.
c. Provide administrative and operational autonomy to public enterprises
energy (PEMEX and CFE).
49


d. Return to self-sufficiency and cogeneration of electricity
original and end with the figure of external producer or character
Independent.
e. Find forms of partnership with the states
producers so that they can participate in energy production and
It is not of interest to the federal public enterprises.
f. Promote the diversification of alternative energy sources.
287. Amend the taxation regime for public companies in the energy sector
in order to use its operating surplus to fund its own
expansion, technological development, industrial development of the country and by
an adequate system of prices and rates, the welfare of the Mexican population.
288. Increase investment in PEMEX exploration to restore reserves
hydrocarbon. Also increase refining capacity culminating
works refineries reconfiguration underway, starting construction
new refineries and supplying crude oil and other raw materials needed
installed capacity to operate according to a national optimum. Is
also necessary to rebuild and modernize the petrochemical plants
meet domestic demand and export products with the highest content
technology and higher value-added potential. This stop being
exporters and importers of crude oil and natural gas derivatives,
gasoline and petrochemicals.
289. Reviewing the corporate structure of PEMEX to reintegrate into one
company to consolidate its financial statements with a single account that allows
assess and maximize the results of the joint.
290. Remove the transfer pricing policy that decreases artificially
the profitability of companies and hinders comprehensive maximize chains
value to the detriment of industrialization. Determine the rates and prices
based on actual costs; these should be fair, supported by criteria
technical, economic and social, adding an assignment due
weighted depreciation cost.
291. Link management of public enterprises to the development of the industry
develop a national policy and market prices to take into account the
benefit that means in terms of job creation, payment of
taxes, import savings and increased value added of
Exports according to a national plan for industrial development.
292. To strengthen research and development of technical potential and
all economic energy sources and technological development
through the Mexican Petroleum Institute, Research Institute
Power and the National Institute for Nuclear Research. Diversification
energy must benefit the national economy and increase social welfare.
293. We reaffirm our commitment to lower the price of gasoline, diesel,
gas and electricity for the benefit of consumers, carriers and
50

small and medium entrepreneurs.
294. Promote a culture of rational use of energy and to establish adequate
policy to boost national efficiency and energy saving. Incorporate
plans and curricula of basic education, issues relating to
Building this culture of rational and sustainable exploitation of sources
power.
Fiscal policy
295. We will change the current economic policy. There will be growth from
boost productive activities and not continue privileging
financial speculation.
296. Making a deep and true tax reform, based on the
principles of equity and progressivity; establish mechanisms of taxation
modern to achieve greater efficiency and increase uptake; to adopt
a policy of income and public spending that promotes economic growth,
job creation, improvement in real wages and perform work
productive and social infrastructure.
297. To strengthen public finances fulfill the constitutional mandate that
states that taxes should be collected progressively, ie that
who have more should pay more. This requires implementing the following
measures: abolishing the privileges of the large national corporations and
transnational; tax will be charged for the operations performed in the
Mexican stock exchange; and must pay taxes on the extraction
mining companies.
298. procedures for tax payments will be simplified. All the
citizens must show every year their revenues and profits, and deposited
what their respective shares of contributions, starting from simple formulas and
taxpayer confidence. The audit was conducted by lot and
He punished energy tax evasion.
299. Restoring the levels of direct public investment and financial benefit
complemented by regional development of specific projects
business organizations, the micro, small, medium and large company
According to the system of mixed economy established in the Constitution.
300. Increase social spending to meet, in coordination with governments
state, with compulsory education at pre-primary, primary and
secondary, and meet the demand for secondary and higher education,
culture and scientific research and technological development throughout the Republic.
301. To sustain non-inflationary financing of public expenditure reform
the entire tax system and its administration, with the aim of influencing
significantly on the social equity; taxing more those who have more and
top earners; combating tax evasion, tax avoidance and omission and freeing
public finance its excessive dependence on oil revenues. The
tax reforms should help to promote economic activity and not
only to support public administration. Special emphasis should receive the
51


tax on individuals but also tax income
companies and VAT because it is a tax whose administration must be
complementary. These three well managed can double their taxes
participation in the fund (currently 10.5% of GDP).
302. Making personal income tax fulfills the provisions of
generality and equity, because the law has severe gaps that favor
people in high tax capacity. It is proposed to correct the tax
income of individuals under the following principles:
to. Generality. They are responsible and are obliged to file
Annual all persons receiving income from a
economic activity during a fiscal year. This would provide a standard of
As contributors to the economically active population.
b. Simplicity. The basis of this reform is the annual declaration
physical persons for the purpose of which is the prerequisite
simplification and training of taxpayers counting
to do with the tax administrations of the states, as it
participable is a tax which requires the development of a base
Data managed by the federal SAT in coordination with state SAT.
c. People who as such engaged in economic activity
own or as SMEs deducted own business expenses
to be taxed on their net income with the progressive overall rate
ISR of individuals.
d. Persons receiving income from different sources
They must accumulate under its responsibility in its annual statement.
e. Non-recurring income called "capital" may be netted
with losses of a similar nature and will be subject to a special rate.
Such is the case of so-called capital gains, inheritances, raffles,
sweepstakes, lotteries and other non-recurring income.
f. Establish and define the rights of taxpayers in order to
facilitate them to regularize and strengthen information,
transparency and accountability of government and the public sector.
Fully exercise the Federal Taxpayer Rights to
that the perpetrators are informed and assisted in the performance of their
tax obligations and receive education that will enable them to act with a
new awareness of democratic accountability.
303. To the extent that increases the collection and evasion and avoidance are corrected,
tax asset that will eventually eliminate gravel to large
taxpayers, who should be subject to ongoing consultation and
Treasury monitoring.
304. Use the great potential VAT revenue collection, (keeping exempted by
reasons of social equity, food and medicine), as the administering
other side of the coin of income tax of companies and businesses
52


individual, because it is complementary sources of tax collection levied
the same current income-expenditure at different times. We propose that this
Federal tax is administered with the same database governments
local companies operating in its territory who know and
confronted with the federal tax on income of individuals better
known locally for its income.
305. gradually raise the current total revenue and help reduce the
unequal distribution of income through proper collection and good
ISR management. They should also inspect your property taxes in
special property tax, the modernization and management of databases
technical and equity will increase resources for the benefit of the
municipalities.
306. Promote within the framework of the reform of state to sign a pact
tax and a new Fiscal Coordination Law that enables the proposals
above.
307. Establish a new governance model that optimizes public expenditure
preventing their diversion and waste with adequate planning, performance and
effective system of transparency and accountability. This requires reducing
excessive salaries and benefits accruing high bureaucracy and restructure
public administration on professional bases to ensure the effective
meeting the objectives of public service taking into account their
union organization and its technical staff. This policy of public spending should
increase public investment in infrastructure and financed so that
make growth compatible with price stability.
Financing for Development
303. We will respect the autonomy of the Bank of Mexico, but seek not
just try to control inflation, but also take care of fostering
economic growth. There will be an appropriate monetary policy and discipline
management of public debt and deficit.
309. Maintaining macroeconomic policies that promote stability but
not sacrifice growth, for which they will have to modify the objectives
Central Bank of Mexico, to not only have as "priority
ensure the stability of the purchasing power of money "but follow a policy
monetary as well have as priorities the promotion of
economic development and employment as does the system of the Federal Reserve
the United States. This next point and are particularly important in
Given that our country is immersed in an environment of global economic crisis
low growth and insufficient job creation internally, so
a countercyclical macroeconomic strategy is required to promote the
domestic market growth as a key driver of the Mexican economy.
310. Financing through trusts the Bank of Mexico, activities
production that promote economic and social development. The central bank
It should help to maintain a functional economic policy that serves the
process of accumulation and development and not a dogmatic policy that avoids
productive resource use credit, exacerbating the effects of the cycle and
53


hampering recovery of development.
311. Promoting efficient public policies with economic development through
investment promotion and restructuring of financing schemes for
productive activities, while respecting the initiative of individuals, and
with emphasis on increasing national productivity that allows us to be
competitive.
312. Using the monetary, fiscal and exchange rate policies to ensure growth
sustained and long-term production and employment.
313. To establish an economic cabinet with the participation of the Secretaries of
the branches involved, the Board of Governors of Banco de Mexico, perhaps
a regional structure, which has the power to consult with
Economic and Social Advisory Council, bringing together industry representatives
private financial, business, labor and academia to implement policies
accelerate the economic development of non-inflationary economy.
314. reform the system of administration of justice to promote the proper
settlement of disputes between individuals and between them and the state. So
and adjust the legal framework to support the activity of individuals,
by safeguarding the enforceability of contracts and intellectual property
and frontal combat smuggling.
315. The new model of development requires a growing link between
economy to the domestic market and export as well as an analysis of the
gap between technology and productivity and its effect on employment generation
in the formal sector.
316. Revise laws of planning, budgeting and expenditure programming
public to adapt to economic, administrative and political changes
country.
317. End budgetary commitments that are not from
public investments but of the technical bankruptcy of the banking and financial sector
absorbing a substantial part of GDP.
318. Review and reorganize the entire sector of financial intermediation, as
currently finances the banking system at a high price and lower consumption
As to housing, but does not give credit to productive enterprises, which
They are forced to depend on suppliers.
319. appoint a commission technicians capable of Monetary Reform
Financial analyze the Mexico Bank Act and all legislation
monetary and financial regulation without relegating according to the exchange rate policy
It needs a government program to ensure sustainable development
through job creation and financial stability.
320. Restore and strengthen the role of development banks to ensure
adequate and accessible to industry producers, farm credit and
services, with particular attention to SMEs which are generating more than 70%
54


employment in our country. All the emphasis on small will support
and medium enterprises. Energy and cheap credit will; It shall be protected
at inflated prices of inputs, high taxes and bureaucracy. In
the understanding that small and midsize companies, industry,
agriculture, services and trade, generated 90 percent of jobs
existing.
321. granting concessions will be promoted to the creation of banks
regional and productive sectors, in order to counteract the lack of
credit and usury. Thus the inertia of current break
financial institutions who live mainly at the expense of charging high
Banking and interest that the government pays commissions.
322. The construction industry will be encouraged to implement a comprehensive program
to provide the country's infrastructure, works and services that are
indispensable and achieve at the same time, the rapid recovery of the economy and
employment generation.
323. Releasing resources allocated to public investment in infrastructure,
education, health, public safety, field rescue and combating poverty,
derivatives restructure the domestic and foreign debt, by reducing the
capital, extension of maturities and reduction of rates
interest.
324. Applying an active industrial policy to promote the creation of a base
own technology and the growth of those branches with high generation
employment and foster productive linkages.
325. We will implement a comprehensive program in border cities
encourages the maquiladora industry, and take the proximity to the market more
largest in the world; to protect the employment rights of men and women
They are working in this activity and urban development including colony
popular. That is, the construction of schools, kindergartens, sports units,
health centers, public lighting, transportation, water, drainage and other services.
Employment and Labor Policy
326. Fight for the duration of an economic policy that gives priority to the
job creation and rising living wages and remunerative
linked to productivity gains and a fair distribution of surplus
budget through a scheme of social security protection and guaranteeing
the rights to health, food, education, culture and recreation,
training for work and employment of all Mexicans, with
equal pay for men and women for the same work develop.
327. We shall ensure compliance with the rights and benefits of the
workers. The minimum wage is fixed with adherence to the Constitution, which
states that should be rewarding and never again, as has happened in this
neoliberal period, rising wages remain below inflation. The
members of the Conciliation and Arbitration to proceed with righteousness
avoid aggravating conflicts between employers and employees and respect the
right to strike established in the Constitution.
55


328. Return to labor factor their role in economic development and restore
his share in GDP gradually restoring power
purchasing real wages and promote the recovery of labor productivity
through technological progress and training of the workforce.
329. Sustaining labor policy in legislation to protect any and all
workers dignify domestic work, respect and support for all
so labor organizations that promote the exercise of democracy
association. It will seek to realize the principle of equality of workers
before the law review and approval by its many sections of
creating a basic level exception normative that allows all
workers to exercise their rights.
330. There will be full freedom of association. The government will not intervene in the internal life of
neither unions and support from government leaders for life,
undemocratic and corrupt. To be well understood, there will be chiefdoms.
331. Prioritize stable and well-paid employment in the federal plans and
state of economic and social development to build a productive society
and fair to allow access to a dignified life through work.
332. To implement regional and local programs for creating
stable sources of employment with the participation of representatives of the
public, private and social sectors.
333. To encourage the creation of jobs for women in order to abate
They are facing inequalities in access to employment opportunities.
334. To promote the gradual formalization of the informal sector by creating the best
viable conditions for admission to the law through appropriate
tax schemes and facilities for the fulfillment of legal obligations
on protection and social security and all rights and
responsibilities that make the laws. In the case of informal activities
illegals who represent a national security problem, the policy will be
combat by strict enforcement.
335. Strengthen employment stability according to sustainability
labor supply, by a deliberate policy of wage recovery,
according to the strategy of strengthening the domestic market based on
recovery of agricultural production, strengthening the sector
buoyant energy and public works in housing and
infrastructure for all economic activity. The federal government
It shall assist local governments so that they have instruments
encourage the public, private and social sectors for employment and development
from the country.
336. To raise the quality of programs and institutions for training and
training of the workforce, incorporating plans and programs
study contents that allow the worker not only informed and
trained in the use and management of new technologies, but also on the
his rights and how to defend them before the authorities and
56


competent authorities.
337. To promote productivity, democracy, freedom and autonomy
union, preserving the right of professional association, the right to vote
direct and secret universal and eliminating control mechanisms,
recording and note taking. This reassess the legitimate collective bargaining and not
simulated. Through professional labor justice be promoted
impartial.
338. To promote worker representation on the boards of
management of public and private companies, to increase
business productivity and ensuring a fair distribution of wealth
generated.
339. Reaching a national consensus on the necessary reforms to the schemes
social security, notably on pensions, which
allow us to fund the cost in the future while preserving the principles of solidarity
social. As regards the protection and social security, in view of the problems
equity and universality present a responsible, gradual reform is required,
progressive and socially just contemplating collective component and strengthen the
redistribution of pensions for workers, a distribution scheme
contributions where all the actors involved, making
shared diagnoses to identify the destination of resources and
State responsibility in saving Social Security.
340. Managing pension savings deposited in workers
Afores with regional development criteria significantly lowering
intermediation of private financial companies, strengthening banking
development and incorporating the representation of the work ers, future
pensioners, in managing their current savings. The funds deposited
in the Afores can adequately protected channeled towards sectors
strategic economy.
341. Developing a parallel labor policy that protects workers
migrants crossing or settle in the country, seeking
agreements with their countries of origin to guarantee the benefit of
human and fundamental rights enshrined in our Constitution and
promote safety and dignity to their countries of origin reinstatement.
342. There will be justice for miners, electricians, flight attendants, pilots and
Mexicana Airlines employees who have been unfairly dismissed by the
privatization policy and the collusion between officials and businessmen
corrupt.
Corruption and Development
343. We will cleanse the government of corruption. We will do it from the top down
as the stairs are cleaned. There will be influyentismo, cronyism, nepotism or
none of these harmful practices of politics. Corruption is considered
as a felony and shall be punished without bail.

57


344. Stop substantial drain on public resources caused by
corruption, to be used to promote productive activity and development
economic infrastructure, through a comprehensive reform of the framework
legal and institutional framework and its laws and regulations that
affect the exercise of the budget, the administrative procedure,
acquisitions, leases and public works, among others.
345. Taking preventive and corrective measures to prevent the waste of
family income in bribes, targeting these to cover
needs of its members and not to speed enforce or evade
authority.

VII.- healthy environment
Sustainable development
Mexico faces an ecological and environmental damage of great proportions. TO
Despite being among the most biodiverse in the world, the territory
Mexico is devastated, with many species of flora and fauna in danger of
extinction, high pollution in most of their watersheds,
overexploited aquifers, vast deforested and eroded areas,
increasing desertification and population distribution that sharpens
regional imbalances. We propose to adopt policies with a view
based on sustainable development to ensure a healthy environment for
everyone.
Sustainable development is development mode able to use the
natural resources to meet the essential needs of the population,
as a way of improving the quality of life for this generation and future,
maintaining, enriching and positively transforming ecosystems
through appropriate technologies for this purpose and with the active participation of
the population in key development decisions which itself
it's part.
Promote actions among the population to preserve the environment means
restore the social fabric and to channel social participation in the organization
their living environment and ways of production and consumption.
To achieve a healthy and sustainable environment, it is proposed:
Environmental Planning
346. Do effective development planning with environmental policy
long term. There must be, therefore, a requirement of sustainability in the
definition of plans, programs and federal and state projects in all
areas of public administration, to ensure the attention of the big challenges
country environmental (climate change, biodiversity, water, forests, jungles,
etc.). Ensure the future viability of the country from rational use
of natural resources and environmental protection. In particular a
program for the proper use of water.
58


347. Exploitation and rational use of natural resources
ecological sustainability while that encourages development
economic and social present, without compromising our future. They should do
effective international commitments made by Mexico in this area and
strengthen law enforcement and Mexican regulations.
348. Combating poverty and preserving natural resources including
in government budgets, both the federal and state level and
municipal, a substantial increase in the budget are dedicated to combating
poverty, and the feminization of poverty because it causes people
inhabiting marginalized regions of the country and the city make use
accelerated and inefficient natural resources.
349. land degradation is slow. We will seek every project
economic, productive, infrastructure, real estate, commercial and tourism are
carried out in a sustainable manner; that is, the resources will be protected
natural, flora and fauna, in addition, soil pollution will be avoided, the
water and air.
350. To promote sustainable development is essential to end the
centralism and technocratic vision of planning. It will promote a
decentralized planning have as regards physical regionalization,
biological and social of the country, and will ensure that such planning is comprehensive,
inclusive and democratic, assuming commitments public, private sectors and
social.
351. The regional environmental planning will be designed according to the limits
natural and not strictly on the basis of administrative boundaries and
policies. Thus, watersheds, geomorphological units or units
landscape, depending on the productive capacity or conservation have,
They should be the basis for defining the use policies
Natural land use and resources. Therefore, they must establish the
intercity and interstate arrangements for a
democratic and equitable administration. Impinge on environmental planning
wide in any activity, project or development plan way through
studies of environmental impact statement.
352. Public investment in productive infrastructure will be a priority,
conservation and regeneration of soil and groundwater for enlargement
border agriculture and fisheries, and to develop a framework of control over
fertilizers and wastes that pollute the earth and sterilized.
353. In order to reconcile biodiversity conservation and development
economic requires a great effort and democratic participation
different sectors and stakeholders. It will seek projects with
environmental impact are designed and agreed with communities and
corresponding municipalities.
354. To promote primarily in the areas of high environmental conflict,
economic and social, land use planning with a focus preferably
Watershed and municipalities, which seeks to integrate ecological systems
59


territorial master plans for urban development, and other instruments
Similar sector.
Strategic Resources
355. For the sustainable use of resources strategic vision is needed
Set in finding solutions that enable society to live better
in the future as well as the rectory and the active participation of the state in
strategic resources for the production, extraction, utilization and
use of strategic resources, be they coal,
water, hydrocarbons, or wind mimería necessarily have a
Direct interaction with the environment.
Energy
356. It is urgent to give the category of state policy, and create mechanisms to
one long-term planning and ensure sovereignty over
energy through the use of new technologies and finding sources
non-polluting alternative in balance with the environment.
357. an alternative energy policy will stimulate with proposals
production, distribution and environmentally, economically and socially viable consumption.
358. It is proposed to radically transform the energy pattern of transport
from granting, public policy, public transport priority over
Individual and electrical systems on insumidotes hydrocarbons.
359. Establish annual targets for incorporation in electric transport
urban systems, suburban and distances. Incorporating positive incentives
alternative sources of automotive fed and negative incentives for
incorporating highly insumidotes hydrocarbon vehicles.
360. In the case of domestic, commercial and industrial electricity consumption
should promote distributed generation systems and the increasing goals
incorporation of renewable sources, strengthening legislation to make the
electrical system operator to acquire the surplus coming from the
use of renewable sources, while they also strengthen
saving programs and energy efficiency in energy strategy
Congress voted annually.
Biodiversity

361. To promote the active defense of the flora and fauna, especially
those that are threatened or endangered or
appropriation.
362. Update the inventory of natural resources
363. Promote specific legislation governing the appropriation of resources
Genetic native plant and animal species and experimentation
gene. Legislation, control mechanisms, sanitary and all must exist
type of standards and widely on the impact of these technologies
60


consumer genetic. For its part, Mexico's biodiversity should be
trade agreements protected intellectual property to prevent it
patenticen or patenting by transnational companies.
364. The Indian peoples have ancestral knowledge of ecosystems,
plants, animals and crops of native plant species such as corn. These
knowledge must be rescued and preserved systematically
involving actors: indigenous peoples, farmers, specialists and
committed to the preservation of this knowledge as researchers
national heritage, and find mechanisms to make them patentable, of
if necessary, for the Indian peoples to prevent the appropriation of this
knowledge of plant and animal species by companies
transnational currently threatening the extinction
native plants and animals, violating health
consumers and focusing on a handful of monopolies sovereignty
food in the world.
365. Preserving the great biological and cultural diversity of Mexico. We will promote
agricultural practices that increase productivity without harming nature.
The introduction and use of genetically modified seeds is not allowed. Take care
our reservation of biotic resources. They respect and support practices
economic self-management, traditional and innovative, common between indigenous
and peasants.
366. Ensuring the protection and restoration of natural areas to conserve and
develop biodiversity in the country, implementing
actions to make them compatible with economic and social development
communities and citizens living in these protected areas. In
that same sense of community forestry development will be promoted,
looking for a minimum of 50% of the use of authorizations
forestry forests are certified as a sustainable integrated management.
Agriculture and Forestry Sector
367. To promote environmental training program for men and
agricultural, forestry and fisheries producers women, and people of
rural areas of the country, in order to improve their living conditions from
the rational use of natural resources and learning
new technologies for the production and marketing of their products.
368. In order to change ancestral customs such as the slash and burn
indiscriminate and monocultures in agriculture and the use of explosives
still used for the fishermen is needed, in coordination with the
agricultural, fisheries authorities and farmers' organizations, a program
allowing the gradual change in the habits that are harmful to
ecosystems, based on the material, financial support and technical assistance to
rural people thus affecting the professionalization of the
organizations.
369. To support organic agriculture and organic farming, so that a
achieve short reach at least 10% of total production.
Similarly, the practice of fishing and aquaculture will be promoted with strict criteria
61


environmental sustainability and social justice, strengthening the organization
cooperative
370. Include in state programs for national civil protection, and municipal
a chapter on the prevention and control of forest fires
include at least the following measures: hierarchy responsible to
community; training of the population in prevention and relief;
provision of equipment to municipalities and communities to combat the
fires; selection and placement of shelters for the safeguarding and protection
community; Minimum system radio equipment at the municipal level, and
if possible at the community level in addition to those determined by the
respective state and municipal councils of civil protection
371. Protecting forests, creating profitable exploitation schemes not
destroy resources and generate employment for the population and the
research, patent protection and registration of national forest species.
Encourage the development of community forest management, looking to a minimum
50% of logging authorizations are certified
forests with good management
Water
372. Develop a policy of rational use of water resources taking into
account both macroeconomic, microeconomic and, of
which emerge a new water culture. In the world and in our country there
sufficient technological resources to promote a new management policy
water, with respect for the environment and preserving the right of
future generations to access the use and enjoyment of water resources
necessary for life.
373. The State will control and provide access to water to the population in general,
without discrimination, it is failing this duty under the justification
of lack of resources.
In the integrated water management prevail solidarity, reconciliation
interests and technical knowledge conducive to the use of water
it is economically efficient, socially equitable and environmentally
sustainable.
374. fully establish in law the right to use water belongs to everyone
the Mexicans. Promote a water management strategy, strengthening
relevant institutions with advanced technologies.
375. Regulation so that there is regulation that protects water policy
natural resources, preserve forest resources and construction works
hydraulic, considering a watershed with their natural beds.
Promote the use of all forms of water use that are
aimed at its rational use and preservation of their availability and quality
for the future.
376. Design and implement policies that are necessary for the country
use technologies to ensure the rational and sustainable use of water in
all users of the resource sectors.
62


377. To improve the quality and coverage of water utilities and
sanitation.
378. To support proposals at national, regional and local levels to rationalize
the use, distribution and recycling of water and ensure their preservation.
379. To build, maintain and rehabilitate water infrastructure
considering gender impacts.
380. Projecting integrally in the short, medium and long term,
sustainability in the supply of water to the countryside and cities from the
water availability rather than demand.
381. Provide concurrent, legal and political powers to municipalities
to be jointly responsible for the management and operation systems
of water.
382. effectively protected nature reserves.
383. To promote policies to feed groundwater areas
urban.
384. Treat and recycle water after domestic and municipal use.
385. Applying a water management policy that forces users
home to treat and recycle its wastewater before discharging it into the
receiving bodies.
386. To promote the use of treated water in government activities,
private and commercial, where feasible.
387. To ensure that the law is enforced in the industrial category
They are required to have their own water and sewage pipes waste.
388. To promote the exchange of water between sectors, so that it is secure
resource saving.
389. To promote the exchange of water between sectors and successfully reduce their
waste creating an agency to fund the proposed development
technologies that significantly reduce the consumption of water rights.
390. To promote the modernization of irrigation systems in the country, saving for
at least 50 percent of what is now used.
391. To promote practices in society to care for, treat, harvest and collect
water and a mixed system of sewage infrastructure, which has
participation in the collection of rainwater and water treatment
waste domestic private enterprise.
392. Conduct educational campaigns to raise public awareness on the
utilization and rational use of water.
63


393. Collect water use rational criteria (who use more pay
more).
394. To encourage public participation in the management and rational use
water. Particularly with regard to counter the loss of biodiversity,
deforestation, pollution of inland and ocean waters and
overexploitation of fish resources.
Sustainable Integrated Land and
395. To promote amendments to the Constitution to establish bodies
metropolitan government to enable coordinated action in urban areas
country more complex .; revise Article 27 of the Constitution for
guarantee the legal access of the population to urban land; review legislation
Human Settlements and ecological balance to achieve a vision
territorial integrated to avoid duplication and overlapping actions and false
separation between wild and urban areas.
Impetus to the development of a green economy
396. To promote a national policy on green economy, which incorporates
the concurrence of the diversity of stakeholders to include their knowledge
and experience in such a policy. Mexico must take advantage of the enormous potential of
renewable natural resources to produce energy, training resources
Human and develop technology to become providers
world markets.
Strengthening environmental culture
397. To conduct a comprehensive and ongoing communication campaign in
coordination with the authorities on the matter, the national education system,
media and society at large, allowing raise awareness
population about the benefits it represents, the rational use and
preservation of natural resources. It is necessary to emphasize the need for
tending forests and marine and inland bodies of water, soil, flora and fauna
for the benefit of mankind.
398. To promote the financial strengthening of research centers
specializing in the field, as well as institutions of higher education,
so that they are able to carry out specific studies on the environment
environment and biodiversity, in accordance with the needs of the region
who work.
399. To strengthen the legal framework in order to create the conditions
allowing for the participation of non-governmental organizations and the
society in general, in the work of preserving our environment.
400. To strengthen and sensitize the authorities and the population of the importance of
respect and care for the rights of animals, provide a framework
solid, consistent and appropriate legal to punish perpetrators of abuse,
trafficking, exploitation and death of such things, control regulation in the
64


they are used for recreational purposes and ensure health and humane treatment
in managing species for food.
401. To promote the government from education and ecological culture
environment in society and its citizens through the education system
national, media and society in general, for the country
is an example in promoting fair trade, social and eco-labeling and
responsible consumption, prioritizing environmental training for men and
agricultural, forestry and fisheries producers women, and people of
rural areas of the country, in order to improve their living conditions from
the rational use of natural resources and learning
new technologies for the production and marketing of their products.
402. To ensure that the national education system and provide training
ecological culture in society and its citizens, to make the country example
in promoting fair trade, social and eco-labeling and consumption
responsible.
403. Increase material and human investments in programs
research and development dedicated to ecology and environmental sciences,
especially on issues related to natural resources, pollution,
land use planning, saving and efficient use of water and energy sources
alternative energy and climate change, among other topics.
Specific actions to protect the environment:
404. To ensure that the law is fulfilled to a healthy environment as
and rights of Mexican citizens.
405. Create the enforcement mechanisms for the right of every person
a suitable environment for their development and welfare.
406. To promote policies and programs for management of natural resources (soil,
water and biodiversity) that make it compatible conservation and
sustainable use.
407. To improve environmental information systems in coordination with the
authorities of matter, and the competition for specialists and centers
higher education, promoting the implementation of a program for the
improving environmental information systems.
408. To promote policies of responsibility with states and municipalities to
reduce the amount of solid and hazardous waste, promoting reuse and
recycling thereof. For this, the development of production systems will be promoted
clean industrial processes, products and services from, among others, the
purchasing policy and procurement of public administration.
409. Promote designed to give state governments and legislative reforms
municipal greater legal powers that allow them to orient
development and preservation of natural resources and ecological environment under
responsibility.
65


410. It is also necessary to carry out a program that allows
states and municipalities have the infrastructure for environmental protection
necessary to achieve the monitoring and compliance plans and goals
programs of environmental protection.
411. To promote public policies aimed at the conservation and management of
protected areas with the direct participation of communities
involved.
412. Develop active policies to promote competition and defense
consumer and regulations and incentives to promote a means
sustainable environment.
413. To ensure the full participation of women in decision-making
decisions on sustainable development in environmental management that affects
gender.
414. Increase material and human investments in programs
research and development dedicated to ecology and environmental sciences.
415. Redirecting public expenditure and taxation to encourage modernization
Ecological public and private institutions with a comprehensive view of their
environmental effects, and ensure proper conservation and restoration
natural heritage severely damaged.
416. Regular financial markets to take into account criteria
economic, social and ecological nature.
417. Redirecting public expenditure and taxation to encourage modernization
Ecological public and private institutions with a comprehensive view of their
environmental effects, and ensure proper conservation and restoration
natural heritage severely damaged.
418. To encourage non-polluting small and medium industries and generators
employment, giving special emphasis to those that generate technologies,
products or services aimed at reducing the consumption of natural resources and
energy.
419. Incorporate Mexican environmental law, the application of funds
social, the maquiladora export industry by the serious risks
caused to the health of workers, the environment and
ecological balance.
420. To promote the ecological, crafts and alternative tourism from the perspective
strengthening sustainable social inclusion of communities and protect
biodiversity of our heritage areas and ecological conservation front
the attacks predators of some entrepreneurs in the industry.
421. clearly regulate the emission of pollutants
industrial, household and transport as well as introducing
clean alternatives.
66


422. Promote recycling technologies solid waste and combat culture
of waste, developing strategies for ecological management
solid waste and solutions for the use and disposal of fillings
health. The installation of nuclear dumps in the country will be prevented.
423. To propose special legislation regulating the storage, collection,
transport, treatment, reuse, recycling, movement, and incineration
disposal of hazardous substances and waste generated by industry,
while promoting the reduction in the production of these and prohibit their
importation into the country to prevent the country from becoming a
dustbin of industrial pollutants.
It is also necessary to punish
severely illegal use of these substances and promote their use
minimal in the plant.
424. To promote the integration of measures to combat desertification and
prevent droughts and floods in policies and programs of eradication
poverty.
425. To promote the active participation of society in saving programs
energy and renewable energy to prioritize supply
electricity with a view to protecting the climate and environment. In
that sense, is to develop and implement a program for the promotion of
renewable energy to cover a significant percentage of demand
primary energy in the coming years.
426. To raise awareness and encourage the general population to make use of the
citizen complaint, in the case of some company, or a particular authority
you are carrying out illegal activities that may cause an imbalance
to the environment.
427. Instituting the National Council for Civil Society Development
Sustainable.
428. Instituting mechanisms for civil liability for damage and deterioration
Ambient is in force.
429. Environmental Courts Building.
430. Making the Federal Office of Environment, is an organ
autonomous citizen body with legal personality and its own assets, which
play the procurement of environmental justice promptly and expeditiously.
431. To promote a state policy on climate change
incorporates all three levels of government and the active participation of society for
mitigate climate change and contribute to meeting the commitments
international signed by Mexico concerning the emission of pollutants.
VII I. whole, regional blocks and new national project
Mexico can not escape the various processes of global interdependence
(Economic, political and cultural), but their chances combat their
67


deleterious effects such as deepening of inequality between regions
and countries, the destruction of the environment and the predominance of speculation
financial capital, the main factor in the generation of the current crisis
global economic. We must not allow globalization imposed
detonate unilaterally social or political conflicts global, and much
Unless you limit national sovereignty. Our country must promote and support
the multilateral initiatives for peace, democracy, respect for
human rights; and equitable, inclusive and sustainable development.
In the context of neoliberal globalization and global economic crisis, the lack
competitiveness of our country, the lack of an economic policy
balance domestic needs with external and moderate opening
indiscriminately and without reciprocity, among other factors, they have been moving to
Mexico world markets and deepening internal inequalities.
While other economies have grown rapidly, ours
collapses virtually all international ratings. We have to
implement a policy to reap the benefits offered by the
globalization for national development, offsetting its harmful effects
domestic policy and deploying compensatory actions in the field
International for this purpose.
Our foreign policy based on the enganchamiento
Mexican American economy has proved its frank limitations
as a solution to economic stagnation, and has shown, however, their
terrible effects when the US economy has fallen into a severe
structural crisis. The weakness of the external sector was barely concealed by the
favorable situation in oil prices and remittances from
Mexicans working abroad. In the current environment of economic crisis
world with its epicenter in the United States, external factors influencing
As some favorable for our country, they have virtually disappeared.
Mexico needs to rethink its international economic relations, allowing
diversification of production and exchange with other business partners,
avoid dependence on a single market and promote not only the
opening, but our legitimate interests abroad.
First, priority should be given to subregional policy areas
geographic, economic and cultural closest to us. Of course,
Community relationship with Mexican migrants in the United States, within
the concept of extraterritorial nation. Next, solidarity and political
integration with the countries of the Central System and the Caribbean nations,
without prejudice to a future Latin American unity as a whole, which has
begun to take shape in recent years.
With more than 530 million people, Latin America can influence so
decisive in redefining a balanced international geopolitics; without
But the region has been displaced from the priorities of our policy
outside, despite forming the homogeneous cultural area of ​​the world.
It is vital to regain our Latin American calling that operate in solidarity and to
Please historical links that keep people as brothers.
68

No new advocate a policy of hegemony, the creation of a
Mesoamerican community must be the product of a dialogue between peers, based
in the broader search for consensus between states. Civil society,
business community, labor organizations, churches and community
academic and scientific would have a significant and essential role in this process.
Secondly, we need to consolidate a policy that favors a relationship
mature, respectful and equitable to the United States and Canada
on the basis of common interests, that is, set an agenda that does not
but neither confront subordinate our interests as a country, in a framework
regional responsibilities, at various levels of cooperation.
Third, a joint strategy is required to manage and enhance
bilateral and multilateral relations in accordance with priorities that reflect the
range of interests of Mexican society. You need to build new
strategic relations with various countries and regions, identifying interests
shared in the economic, political, scientific and cultural areas, and stimulate
cooperation schemes to promote the development of Mexicans
and the international community.
For all this, Mexico should make a renewed foreign policy based
in multilateralism, consistent with domestic priorities of the country and
contribute to national benefit. To the extent that the fundamental interests
the nation are identified and consequently large deals
nationals are adopted across all sectors of society, politics
abroad will be much more solid and consistent.
Mexico's foreign policy is a product of its history and its future vision,
embedded in a solid national project. The effectiveness of our early
foreign and political sovereignty as enshrined in the Constitution guide and support
our foreign policy: self-determination, nonintervention,
peaceful settlement of disputes, prohibition of the threat or use of
force, legal equality of States, international cooperation
development, environmental protection, respect for human rights and
struggle for peace and international security.
Besides a renewal of trading instruments are required
incorporating the various actors, mainly the Senate. In
Consequently, we do not accept a reformer mood to cut or add to
principles and content changes without the explicit will of society.
Finally, it is of utmost importance to protect the interests of Mexicans
the outside; in particular, the rights of migrant workers and their
families, both across borders as they stay in
Mexican. The State should link all nationals and ensuring
no matter where they reside.
PROPOSALS
An Alternative Globalization
432. Regular globalization processes so that this is
69


inclusive, equitable, inclusive and democratic as well as solidarity and
builder of a lasting peace among all peoples. You should be favored the
universal human rights, strengthening international law,
respect the self-determination of nations, reject any form of
military intervention outside the UN standards and promote sustainability
environmental.
433. To promote the comprehensive reform of the UN system and
multinational economic organizations like the World Bank, the Fund
Monetary International and the World Trade Organization. Such reform should
lead to the democratization and strengthening of UN bodies, in
particular to eliminate the veto and the presence of permanent members
in the Security Council of United Nations. Also must be transformed
the Economic and Social Committee on Economic Security Council,
responsible for coordinating and harmonizing the work of the main agencies;
restore the primacy of the General Assembly as a democratic forum
par excellence; strengthen the powers of the International Criminal Court; so
even as informal negotiating bodies like the G-8 with a
more representative membership.
434. Assume full responsibility and reconsider the deadlines to meet
Millennium Development Goals, which set priorities
international community from the following goals: to halve the
percentage of the population living in extreme poverty; achieve primary education
universal and gender equality at all levels of education; reduce
infant mortality by two thirds and maternal mortality by three quarters
parts; stop the spread of HIV, malaria and other diseases;
50% decrease in the population without drinking water; and assist
in the formation of a global partnership for development. Establish criteria
Measuring more real life conditions existing in the world.
435. To foster the strict compliance with the commitments
developed countries to contribute 0.7% of GDP to finance development.
This will align a series of internal policies coordinated with the
responsibility and international solidarity.
436. To promote international regulation of global capital flows
by establishing a tax on financial transactions
(Tobin tax) and the establishment of international trade rules
offset disparities between nations.
437. Review and, if necessary, renegotiate existing trade agreements under
the following principles: equality of conditions for economic relations;
creation of compensatory funds for regional development; Free circulation
labor force; equal employment, social and political rights for
migrants; employment protection; respect for cultural differences; Y
environmental stewardship.
438. To ensure the active participation of the Senate in the negotiation process
international and approval under popular consultation procedures
treaties concluded with other countries when such impact
70


determining the interests of the nation.
439. Designing a foreign policy that contributes to the strategy
sustainable and socially inclusive and equitable development.
440. To increase the export capacity of the country not only with agreements
free trade, but by promoting competitiveness,
productivity and promoting Mexican products abroad.
441. Using the mechanisms offered by international agreements to
protection of the productive sectors that require it for consolidation.
Mexico and the Latin American Community of Nations
442. End the policy of neglect and discrimination with people
Mesoamerican, punish the abuse of national authorities to the
Central American and Caribbean migrants and ensure strict compliance with
all their human rights.
443. Developing common initiatives for the reconstruction of multilateralism,
democratization of political and global financial institutions and
regional as well as the establishment of inclusive negotiation mechanisms
joint.
444. reaffirm and expand our relationship with the Caribbean, particularly Cuba,
with a long-term vision and perspective integration processes
Central and South America; and maintaining a strong and firm condemnation
economic blockade suffered by that country.
445. To generate an integration process from the consideration of the
national identities and the size of the complex set of
traditions, customs and traits that make up the Mesoamerican space
From the Caribbean. The integration would not only be limited in the opening
economic and infrastructure projects would necessarily include
Community building an ambitious program that includes policies and
wellness strategies that modify the trends of stagnation
economic, regressive income distribution, social exclusion, crime and
violence and destruction of the social fabric.
446. Actively promote a project to erect the Community
Nations Latin American regional integration instrument for
sustainable economic, social and cultural development, and for the
symmetrical interdependence, cultural exchange, political cooperation and
regional and international friendly negotiation.
447. Unify, deepen and revitalize the structures of political deliberation and
existing economic cooperation in the region, such as the Rio Group, the
Latin American Parliament, the Latin American Economic System (SELA), the
Latin American Integration Association (ALADI), the Commonwealth of Independent States
Latin American and Caribbean and the Union of South American Nations (UNASUR), between
other.
71


448. Strengthen the Latin American Parliament by universal election,
direct and secret ballot of its members, to serve as a space of
deliberation and decision on the strengthening and consolidation of the Community
Latin American and Caribbean States.
449. End the disorderly proliferation of trade agreements with
Latin American states, to undertake a great effort
complementation, and if approved the merger of existing entities
as the Latin American Free Trade Association (LAFTA), the association
Latin American Integration (ALADI), the Caribbean Community and the market
Common (CARICOM), the Central American Common Market (SICA), the community
Andean (CAN) and the Southern Common Market (MERCOSUR).
Balanced relations with North America
450. With strict respect for our sovereignty, we must summon the States
US and Canada to visualize the region in all its potential as a
alone, with challenges and common interests, and privileging cooperation schemes
solidarity that result in the welfare and peace of our peoples.
451. The relationship with the United States Fincarà on respect for the sovereignty and
cooperation for development, strengthening consultation mechanisms and
ongoing dialogue. Our common border of 3,000 kilometers represents a
challenge and an opportunity for both countries, but militarization,
interventionism, and walls that divide us and confront. It should be reviewed
FTA. In the bilateral agenda rather than cooperation
military nature, must be the issues of economic growth and generation
jobs in Mexico to address the root causes of the phenomenon
immigration, the environment, regional development and social cohesion. So
as the protection of human and labor rights of our
compatriots necessarily cross the border to work in the United
United. Central American migrants crossing was also protected
our country to the northern border.
452. Review and renegotiate NAFTA in all aspects that are
convenient to the interests of Mexico, and implement programs that address
field problems and promote regional development, among other things
necessary to counteract the negative impact to the national economy.
453. Extending the activities of the Development Bank of North America to
to provide the matching funds required for the country's regions
affected by the treaty.
454. Establish an immigration agreement with the government of the United States
recognize the positive aspects of migration. Promote the amnesty,
legalization and documentation of all Mexican immigrants.
455. To demand the termination of all threats, arrests, apprehensions,
raids and other abuses by US immigration authorities against
undocumented workers; and require surveillance deletion
conducting anti-immigrant civilian groups and racist laws were repealed
anti-immigration which have been adopted in several states of the United States of
72


America.
456. In terms of the defense of the sovereignty and interests of the Mexican State, and
not a policy of subordination to US national security,
intergovernmental cooperation in judicial matters should be deepened. Agreements
cooperation as the Merida Plan must be reformulated or, where appropriate,
rejected on the basis of the sovereignty and interests of Mexico. In its
place should be favored an area of ​​freedom, security and justice in America
North.
457. Deepening relations with Canada beyond NAFTA, seeking
strategic alliance to strengthen joint negotiating capacity
compared with other countries or blocs. Furthermore, it should expand the program
temporary workers; strengthen educational and cultural relations
through more ambitious exchange projects academics, students and
technology; as well as greater cooperation in multilateral fora.
Diversification of International Relations
458. To consolidate a policy with Europe and the European Union, plus
optimize the Global Agreement, reverse the downward trend of exchange
bilateral, and strengthen our political, economic, social,
environmental and safety from the strategic partnership between
both sides.
459. Redefine and strengthen relations with countries of the Pacific Rim,
differentiating the most economically important countries like China and Japan and
countries similar to our development.
460. Strengthening relations with emerging countries to increase
substantially the bargaining worldwide, including Brazil,
India, China, Russia and South Korea.
State Foreign Policy
461. We will maintain a respectful relationship with all peoples and governments of the
world. We will enforce the principles of non-intervention, self-determination
the people and the peaceful settlement of conflicts. Recover the prestige
We had maintained historically in Latin America and in the concert of
nations.
462. Conduct a consistent foreign policy needs
national, respectful of the law and to encourage multilateral solution
international issues such as the arms race, organized crime,
drug trafficking, terrorism, environmental conservation, pandemics
global or mass migration flows, among others.
463. Practicing a genuine foreign policy of the State, involving the three
Branches of government with clear goals and objectives; redefining its powers
and introducing innovative mechanisms such as the ratification of the Secretary
Foreign by Congress or the creation of the National Council
Foreign policy.
73


464. Strengthen the Mexican Foreign Service from a structural reform
Foreign Service Act among other things help to prioritize capacity
professional and labor merit among diplomats.
Responsibility for Mexicans Abroad
465. To fight for the recognition of individual rights, economic,
social, political and human rights of migrants generally in place
work and residence.
466. To ensure the full exercise of political rights of Mexicans
living abroad: the right to vote, to be elected and to organize for
political participation, including the initiative posed a representation
own migrants in Congress, known as the 6th district.
467. To promote cultural projects and legal and political advocacy with our
communities abroad.
468. Establish a scholarship program for children of migrants residing in the
abroad to join the Mexican system of higher education.
469. To promote the creation of networks of small and medium businesses
Mexican Americans; and the establishment of professional associations
border.



74
