platform
electoral
federal
2

0

1

2

-

2

0

1

8

and program
of government

Institutional Revolutionary Party
Commitment
with Mexico

PLATFORM
ELECTORAL
FEDERAL AND
PROGRAM
OF GOVERNMENT
2

M

0

É

X

1

I

C

O

2

•

F

-

E

B

2

R

E

0

R

O

1

•

2

8

0

1

2

Pedro Joaquín Coldwell
President of the National Executive Committee of the PRI

CRISTINA DÍAZ SALAZAR
General Secretary of the National Executive Committee of the PRI

FOUNDATION Colosio B.C.
Marco Antonio Bernal
President

GUILLERMO Deloya COBIÁN
General secretary

OSCAR GONZALEZ PIMENTEL
Vice president

SAMUEL AGUILAR SOLIS
Vice president

Vicente Gutiérrez Camposeco
Vice President of Corporate Affairs

MARIN CARLOS ALBERTO ROMAN
Treasurer

 | p ties f o r l m e l e c t r a l

CONTENTS
04

I. INTRODUCTION

09

II. DEMOCRACY, SECURITY AND JUSTICE

22


III. Economic growth, competitiveness
AND EMPLOYMENT

33

IV. SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT AND EQUITY

43

V. ENVIRONMENT AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT

53

SAW. MEXICO IN THE NEW INTERNATIONAL CONTEXT

61

VII. STRATEGIC POLICY ASPECTS
PUBLIC





•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Security
Justice
Transparency and accountability
Fiscal federalism
Economic development
Fiscal reform
Employment
Business
Tourism
Energy sector
Infrastructure
Country
Regional development
Knowledge society
Education
Culture
Bless you
Social Security
Sport for a healthy life
living place
Fighting poverty
Young
Women
Migrants
Environment
Water
Foreign policy
  : 2012 | 

INTRODUCTION

 | p ties f o r l m e l e c t r a l

Mexico is experiencing a critical juncture in the process of
development, risks and opportunities in virtually
all acts of social life. The country is going through turbulent times: crucial in determining their future. As ever, the stagnation of the economy are combined; high levels of inequality and
poverty of the population; the deepest grief of
Rule of law, public safety and social peace,
with a transition to democracy unfinished
and institutional life crisis and governance.
Citizens demand the rule of law
and justice. Good results require the government,
observance of the most elementary guarantees of respect
life and human dignity, and the full exercise of the
freedoms and rights of individuals. The Mexicans
They demanded certainty and clarity in the course of the nation.
Our greatest challenge towards the building of
a fair and progress country is overcoming the serious inequality
social and poverty which is more than half
of the Mexican population. Wickedness and misery are
the biggest drag on our development and constitute a
huge social debt of our democracy.
The tranquility of the vast majority of Mexicans has
It has been affected by violence and the effects of organized crime and the war on drugs. The lack
functionality of many of our institutions
government has complicated the decision-making process.

The main political objective is equity and better quality of life for Mexicans. The vision of Mexico
we want to build for our children is an equitable society, based on productive effort and
a democracy to function effectively.
Overcoming social inequalities and build a
new society involves creating the material basis for
generate wealth, organize a modern economy, based on the dynamism of the internal market and competitive in the global environment and encourage
better distribution of income among the population. This
turn requires responsible action from political and institutional reform, with which we can overcome and
failed idea that the free market action can
generating, by itself, the necessary balance to
achieve economic development.
Should ensure the provision of public services,
Significantly related to health and safety
social, which require efficient management and
adequate funding. An effort is essential
coordinated for the transition to a higher stage
growth, development, productivity and competitiveness.
The State is required to conduct the march
and regulate the market economy by transparent rules and policies that provide certainty to society. Therefore, it is necessary to redesign the role
should play, strengthen their capacities and take
  : 2012 | 

in order to grow, create jobs and improve the distribution of wealth.
The only way to begin a process of sustained high growth is a new policy
economic development to generate the jobs needed,
encourage productivity, create incentives for the use
rational use of our resources and ensure a climate of
certainty for investment and work.
Resources and natural elements are key to the survival of human beings and their quality
of life. There shall be no economic and social growth without environmental protection, life
wild and timely attention to the prevention and mitigation of climate change, so the
new development strategy must be truly
sustainable.
The new development strategy that promotes the
economic growth and assume a commitment to
equity and greater well-being of Mexicans, requires constant efforts of management and consensus
with the different political forces, a new scaffolding
institutional and new rules that regulate its operation. And this is an eminently political task. The
policy must regain its transformative capacity
to make our democratic political regime
encourage progress and better quality of life
the Mexicans.
It is essential to have a vision and a conceptual model of the kind of state and society that demands the situation
Current development of Mexico in a globalized world.
An electoral platform and a government program must be based on a vision that, collecting the opinions, positions and proposals of society, point
towards a better future.
 | p ties f o r l m e l e c t r a l

The Mexico of today requires a vision, quality education, efficient social services and State
to promote and guarantee the welfare of the population.
In consequence, the need to strengthen emerges
the education system and centrally schools.
We aim to achieve a shared opportunities for decent life, quality education promoting culture and capabilities welfare income and Mexico;
and in full recognition of a multiethnic and multicultural country where equality is the primordial condition
all as free citizens. We want citizenship sustained in equity; a society with justice
social life as generator set equal
opportunities for all Mexicans access to
full wellness and exercise their capacities for
sustainable and shared development.
In 2012, Mexicans will go to the polls to
renew the Federal Executive and the members
the Congress, on a day that will be crucial to set up a new government and give Mexico
the direction we want.
The race must be, above all, a
exercise of dialogue and public debate on serious
problems currently facing the country and the roads
we go to fix them, to make way for the
nation building to which we all aspire to
the coming decades. The value of the call you
do the parties should be backed up with ideas and proposals to overcome shortcomings and new challenges.
The cornerstones of the Electoral Platform are:
• Democracy, security and justice
• Economic growth, competitiveness and employment
• Development and social equity

• Environment and sustainable development
• Mexico in the new international context

PúblicaComo strategic policy aspects of what we noted above, Mexico is experiencing a crisis without
previous manifested in the following photo:
Uncertainty is the sign of our times. Yes
we do not know what's going on, then we will not know what to do.
After a long political liberalization and a
historic alternation, Mexico has failed to consolidate
the new political system that responds to the new XXI century; it's time to complete the transition
policy.
Our challenge and commitment is to provide assurance program in governance with an open and pluralistic society.
We claim the politics and the state on the market
to the experience of the crisis of the neoliberal model and the
inefficiency of public policies in recent years.
We have a democracy of low quality; In America
America, according to Latinobarómetro, satisfaction
democracy has a support of 44% on average,
in Mexico is barely 23%.
In the latest World Bank report, Governance
Indicators, under the "rule of law", trust in social institutions and the quality is where analyzes
implementation of their actions, Mexico scored 42 points
2000 and in 2008 the score was 30.
Today we are facing fear society where violence, insecurity and impunity are taking naturalization; 50K is executed
balance of the past five years.
According to Transparency International, Mexico
It was ranked 98 of the Corruption Perceptions Index 2010, a total of 178 countries.

The growth rate of gross domestic product (GDP)
in the past 10 years on average it was 1.9%.
The World Economic Forum (WEF) said that Mexico
He has lost international competitiveness in recent years
and now ranks 58 of 142 countries radar.
The tax administration is highly inefficient.
Persist evasion and avoidance in large scale, and the collection has increased by only 1.5% of GDP.
From 2002 to date, income tax collection has
increased by 0.1% of GDP. Meanwhile, rates and special schemes have cost the country
570 billion pesos, equivalent to 4% of GDP and
40% of all tax revenues.
The 35% dependent on oil revenue, and debt has grown in real terms at a rate
annual average of 11.3% to reach 4 billion 327 000
million pesos, equivalent to 33.1% of GDP.
The country has to import food for consumption
human: in 2010 94.5% of soybeans were imported, 74%
rice 42% wheat and 25% maize.
Of economically active population (EAP)
48.9 million Mexicans, only 15 million have formal employment; the rest has more options than the informal economy, labor migration and crime
open or simulated.
Social security is nonexistent for 68.3 million
people, 23.2 million have educational deficiencies and
18.5 million have no basic services
housing.
The education system is inadequate and ineffective.
Mexico ranks last among the countries of the
OECD and place 48 out of 65 nations
reading, math and science.
10 people, four of them older than 15 years,
  : 2012 | 

They suffer "educational gap"; 6 million are illiterate, 10
millions more did not finish primary and 17 million
youth and adults dashed his studies in high school.
The number of doctors per thousand population is the second lowest in the OECD and occupy the last place
the number of hospital beds per thousand inhabitants.
According to the latest report from CONEVAL, there are 52 million Mexicans in poverty.
Environmental imbalances and effects
global warming in recent years in Mexico have caused serious and multiple injuries, both in human lives and nature, infrastructure,
household wealth in the regional economy and
national as well as on government finances.
95% of wastewater is not adequately treated, the country has the fourth rate
deforestation globally, 95% of the soils are eroded and are identified 297 sites
contaminated with hazardous waste.
Mexico has a weakened image abroad, not
only by generalized violence, but by an erratic and
gross foreign policy that has abandoned the principles
constitutional, diplomatic history and traditions.
In summary, social inequality traverses along
around the country, our society and threatens governance.
The risk for our weak democracy is not only its
regression, but its own viability in the medium term
to the profound social imbalances and the outbreak
the violence that eats away at our institutions today.
Our concern and great responsibility is to reverse this state of affairs in the country, give a blow
helm with the nation back on track so that,
in the short and medium term, demos concre answers | pl formae tied him c to ral

tions that allow a frontal fight against poverty and
inequality; it is through economic development, with formal jobs and a better distribution of
national wealth, as we achieve not only justice
social, but to safeguard democracy, restore
Rule of law, giving growth sustainability
and recover our prestige and role in the context
International.

DEMOCRACY,
SECURITY
AND JUSTICE

  : 2012 | 

Democracy is the way of life for which we have
Mexicans chosen. The PRI claimed their contributions
historical and present to the construction of democracy
and reaffirms its commitment to help consolidate and
improve its quality for the benefit of the nation.
During the extensive consultation that we conducted, the
general perception was that living a crisis without
precedent for public safety. A
deep social malaise towards politics and a lack of
results of the government during the last decade. Clearly perceived that confidence in the institutions will
downward and citizen confusion is growing.
To achieve quick solutions, society and the government must make a great effort. Raised the
need for reform of the political regime to ensure the consolidation of democracy results
and strengthening state capacity to
it recovers the strategic role that historically
She has had in building the nation, in the rectory
development and ensuring public safety and
the validity of the laws.
We are convinced that, if we keep our
institutions as they are, things will remain the same
and the country will continue to limit their horizon of development
and will continue to fail the people by not providing the
minimum conditions of safety and welfare. More than
dependent on the will of the people, the PRI proposed
they are the institutions which guarantee certainty in the
democratic governance and ensure that the government and
politics serve the economy and society.
In the PRI, we are convinced that we must move from a strictly electoral democracy to participatory democracy more and better results.
To this end, we propose to consolidate a goberna | pl form ties to the ec ral

democratic stability as a form of exercise of government
based on the law, respect, tolerance and readiness
to work with everyone to build a common agenda
and establish shared goals and agreements to
that work together to materialize.
It is our conviction that the diversity of ideologies
and partisan forces reflects a plural society,
alive and demanding, and that political plurality is synonymous with wealth and not because of disunity. Diversity
of ideas favors a public debate that institutions
They must be able to represent and channel.
We propose to consolidate a representative state and
results, with functional and modern governments,
from the following:
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES
Consolidate a State acting on the basis of
broad consensus

We will promote the agreements and decisions to the state reduce social inequalities on the basis of sustained economic growth and
stability. These agreements and consensus building
in the public interest and to avoid paralysis
which prevents progress in the urgent issues for the
recovery course of the country.
We believe in strengthening the rule and democratic governance based on collaboration
institutional relationship between the executive and legislative powers;
the participation of civil society in public decisions, in implementation and evaluation framework
transparency, accountability and full access to
public information.
Based on the above, we must summon the
social, economic and political sectors to a social pact

cial, with shared and long-term objectives, related
the need to grow and to ensure stability
greater equality of opportunities for welfare.
Strengthening of federalism and national cohesion

Our federalism should be updated and translated into the
full exercise of state autonomy and freedom
municipalities; federalism to reduce inequalities and disparities between regions and
promote regional development and national cohesion,
based on a new distribution of responsibilities, powers and resources.
Mexico should advance political development of local governments; improve the system of checks and balances,
preserve the plurality and improve systems of transparency and accountability in the states.
Build a functional and modern government

We will innovate the institutional design of government and revitalize our political system, integrating participation
citizen in open government and fostering the autonomy
State organs to strengthen the balance between the
public authorities and encourage long-term decisions.
Based on the modernization of the administration
federal government and transparent government that yields
accounts, we will strengthen the ability to deliver results and improve government efficiency.
A State to ensure public safety and
fair and equitable system of administration of justice.

We will strengthen state capacities to address these two immediate priorities of the population: public safety and functionality of the system administration and enforcement of justice.

We seek to consolidate a State to maintain and
effectively exercise the legitimate monopoly of force based on public forces professionals, duly coordinated and efficient intelligence sources.
When institutions of law enforcement
They work, they guarantee and promote respect for the rule of law, ensure the exercise of
freedoms and provide legal security which are essential for economic development
and social.
HOW ARE WE GOING TO DO IT?

We propose to meet these objectives from the following lines of action:
We will modernize and functionality to
political regime

Faced with a regime that hinders agreements and decisions with agility and efficiency
claiming citizenship, so it tends to lose
functionality, the PRI intends to address three issues
basic to democratic governance: ensuring
formation of stable majorities that facilitate the adoption of the agenda of priorities, extend the mechanisms of citizen participation and representation in the
Governance and strengthening the constitutional balance between the government and the autonomous organs of state.
Electoral competition and coexistence in a
State institutions capable of representing and processing
the interests of society only guaranteed on a
democratic regime. With the vote of the majority of
citizens, the PRI proposes to consider the following
issues and to carry out reforms to tradu  : 2012 | 

cir the will of the majority in a government that gives
certainty to citizens:
1. Have stable majorities in the legislature as a necessary and desirable condition for access
Results to democracy and strengthen the rule
effectively comply with government management. There are several paths leading to the same
objective.
• One could be the elimination of which has proved "ungovernability clause" which, at
limit the over-representation of the political party
it obtains a majority in an election at 8%,
It has become an obstacle to the formation
stable parliamentary majorities. Fit
Further, the regulations could be revised
voting on the composition and magnitude of
house of Congress, guaranteeing
pluralism and respect for representation
minorities. In that sense, it is relevant
evaluate proposals for reducing the number
Legislators raised by different sectors
of the society; or any other alternative that,
the very purpose of ensuring efficiency, arising
analysis.
• propose that is the subject of public discussion
coalition government as a
optional instrument of the Federal Government for
create stable majorities based on an agenda of common government.
2. In order to strengthen the legitimacy and effectiveness of public institutions and help the
citizenship is fully recognized and modify them
their perception of the exercise and the role of authority
public, the PRI raises complement operation
  | p ties f o r l m e l e c t r a l

representative democracy with the following mechanisms
participatory democracy:
• The independent candidates, to open
channels of participation and representation
citizens in the governing bodies, in the form
independent of political parties.
• Citizens' initiatives, to enable
direct submission of legislative initiatives
public interest by a representative group of
citizens.
• The referendum, to regulate and carry
to practice this constitutional right and do
citizens can sanction public agenda issues that are of general interest and cause of
controversy.
• Hold the reelection of legislators and revocation of mandate to a popular consultation process to resolve, in a democratic and open way,
public debate on the pros and cons
of this proposal.
3. We propose to extend the checks and balances
between public authorities with autonomous bodies
State public policy to allow long
term, and not the government of the day, and ensure decisions
by impartial institutions of economic regulation, among others.
Integrate citizen participation
in open government

The present condition of the process of democratization has
caused to citizens' demands have each
Again causes difficulty finding representation through traditional channels of political participation.
Our society is increasingly diverse, but also

more demanding with the results of governments at all levels.
Given the diversity and complexity of society,
It requires a process of coordination, consultation and
balance between government and society, in which information technologies and modern methods
governance are the best instruments to achieve a more participatory society and governments more
responsible.
For the PRI, the interests of the citizens must be
considered in all government decisions. Is not
possible to maintain the monopoly of the state as manager
exclusive representative of the general interests when there are almost thirteen thousand civil society organizations in the
country that build credibility, trust and links
solidarity to solve problems.
PRI for the great actor of democracy is the citizen. We must improve and deepen the relationship
citizens with politics and institutions
public.
1. Citizenship

We must strengthen the construction of citizenship
through policies that promote free participation
citizen. The PRI aims to strengthen the citizen through the following proposals:
• Strengthen education programs with values
democratic.
• Expand forms of participation in society
public affairs.
• With the support of information technology
expand the channels and means where citizens channel their efforts with the authorities.

2. Civil society

PRI is a priority for review and strengthen the link between the instruments of government and civil society; We propose boost
the participation of civil society organizations in the
management of public affairs, from the following proposals:
• Promote Effective Citizen Participation Act that will open institutional spaces
for citizens to intervene and take the
decisions that concern us all.
• Legislate to create social comptrollers in
all agencies and entities that handle
public resources.
• Promote consultation means citizenship
to take account of its position in the analysis and
execution of transcendental issues.
• Incorporate social participation in the planning, operation, monitoring and evaluation plans
and government programs, as well as design
public policy.
• Ensure the operation of a Unit
Monitoring and Citizen Participation in each
federal public office, to oversee the process
of citizens and make the knowledge of the Federal Government's non-compliance and sanction requests.
Consolidate federalism

Although our country has a formal structure
political and administrative system based on federal, not
undoubtedly remain pending because this
organization has been characterized by a high degree of
centralization.
  : 2012 | 

Our federalism should be updated, translated into the
full exercise of state autonomy and freedom of
municipalities; federalism that supports a new
distribution of responsibilities, powers, capacity
making and resources.
The goal is to establish a cooperative federalism hacienda and establish a model of intergovernmental relations; will translate into a development process
regional dynamic and more equitable; raise competitiveness, job creation and cohesion of the nation; Y
ensure the full exercise of sovereignty of the entities
states and municipalities.
Federalism we aspire should cover topics
fundamental as the redistribution of powers
and balanced allocation of financial resources,
composition of local authorities and modernization
administrative.
It is essential to review relations between levels of government for a better redistribution of power
political and give full effect to federalism.
We will consolidate our cooperative scheme
federal system from a clearance and harmonization
the federal system of federal, state powers and
registered in the municipal regulatory framework to meet so that public administrations,
effectively serve citizens and encourage the development and cohesion of the nation.
We propose to review the unique powers of each
level of government, as well as determine who will
concurrent and overlapping, and leave to the states
residual powers since it originally, before
that subscribed the federal pact, all were his.
We propose to review the decentralization
in education and health care matters and
 | p ties f o r l m e c t r a l

meet the conurbations and metropolises that are
strategic for urban development, competitiveness and
the quality of life of the population.
We must reduce the margin of discretion of centralization and federal public resources from the
revision of the tax coordination and distribution mechanisms of participation and contributions
of fiscal resources to the states.
The cooperative federalism we propose implies:
• To promote the political, economic, social and cultural decentralization to the municipalities, to
prevent falling behind in development
national.
• Promote reforms and additions to the law to strengthen forms of political organization and municipal administration for auxiliary presidencies, agencies and offices have full legal recognition as local authorities.
• Build mechanisms for authorities
achieve and maintain local real balances.
Operating systems more clearly
counterweight of local authorities.
• Check the decentralization processes
education and health services, to the
adaptations which allow providing higher quality services and coverage
public.
• Check the operating system of federal delegations, create systems that allow
saving resources and systematizing performance
federal government agencies.
• Build a network of administrative support and
training for municipalities and further behind
less political development.

• Increase participation of entities

states and Congress planning
national development through greater incidence in the formulation of the National Development Plan.
• Promote reforms and additions to establish in
the legal framework of the exclusive powers
states as well as the matching and
concurrent.

according to the changes experienced by our
nation, the civil service and develop in harmony with
a long-breath; We therefore propose:
1. Improvements in public administration
• To promote a reform of public administration

•

Let useful and functional changes in the
structure of the federal public administration

The consolidation of a responsible and functional state
It depends on the quality of governance and capacity
to design, implement and evaluate public policies and programs, based on the adoption of modern and effective methods of public administration and training
capacity of public servants.
In the PRI we recognize the work, effort, experience
and dedication to public service.
Therefore, we are committed to combating
corruption and inefficiency; practices to be
punished, where applicable, and disposed of institutions
government.
We will promote an efficient, responsible, professional, transparent and corruption-free public service,
because the public administration should be the core instrument of Governance, the effectiveness,
discipline and honesty are the source of legitimacy
authority.
We intend that Mexico has with institutions
solid and prestigious, public authorities acting with
autonomy, but in harmonious everyday communication, and
conducive to confidence in each of them, that

•

•

•
•

•

ca oriented to excellence in public service
and based on the incorporation of technologies and
Modern methods of governance.
Establish a national network of one-stop
for easy installation, operation and development
the micro, medium and large enterprises.
Create an efficient system for citizen
to ensure an immediate response to the citizens.
Promote incorporating digital government
technological development in public tasks,
process automation and providing
public services by electronic means accessible to the paperwork, authorizations and payments are made through electronic pages,
safeguarding personal data and security
cybernetics.
Promote regulatory reform and simplification
of the procedures and services in the public sector.
Support an efficient public administration whose operation responsive to changes and social demands
and economic-based optimization
use of public resources.
Submit a new Administration Act
Public and amend the Constitution to include
a modern form of organization of the appliance
bureaucratic.
  : 2012 | 

2. Public service career
• Incorporate public administration to maintain

two senior executives, competent and committed to the government's efficiency,
transparency and ethics of public service.
• To promote the professionalization of servers
public to leverage and extend their experience and ensure effective implementation of the
government programs.
• To promote the professional career service for
provide career opportunities for officials on an equal footing and transparency, in consideration of their academic merit and
technical preparation.

3. Combating corruption
• Fighting corruption in the public service,

•

•

•
•

giving priority to preventive and corrective actions to reducing the discretionary
effective audit systems.
Promote modernization of the legal framework
processes governing programming, budgeting, planning and control, so that these
activities are built with a horizon
long term.
Adopting an approach to quality and innovation in
government processes, incorporating
better governance practices.
Update and publish the evaluation mechanisms
public management, as well as their results.
Propose force of a new Law on Responsibilities of Public Servants for
fight corruption and administrative discretion, with precise rules of conduct

 | p ties f o r l m e l e c t r a l

sen types of faults, offenses and penalties in that
may incur civil servants.
A transparent and accountable government

Transparency and accountability are principles
Basic rule of law and democracy. No public information, citizens can not
objectively assess and manage their rulers
governments can not obtain complete information on the needs and demands of citizens.
A democratic society is built and functional
with the public and informed debate. The government has the
socialize duty to public information, improve
quality and foster the foundation of truth for the evaluation, supervision and accountability issues
public. To achieve this, it is essential to ensure access to information for citizens, to be
exercise informed not only of resources but
also to know the causes of decision making and the integration of government projects,
as their results.
In Mexico the process to adopt a culture of
transparency and accountability has been slow, and
Simulated many cases, favoring more quality statistics and information that opportunity. we are
convinced that it is our responsibility to the task
continuing to build more efficient mechanisms
so that citizens are increasingly participate in
processes, control and monitoring
public spending. We head a government offer
zero tolerance for corruption, accountable
transparent society that meets your
mandate, and that costs less to taxpayers.

We will give greater powers to the Institute
Federal Access to Information to the effect that a
framework of autonomy has powers to:
1.-

procedures within the public administration on the
based on the autonomy of these organs of state.
Facultaremos exercise and effectiveness of service
public, and we will raise penalties and punishments for
wrongdoing.
5.-

• Monitor compliance and decide on possible

denials of access to information on the legislative and judicial powers.
• Impose sanctions for breach of its resolutions.
• Instruct required to generate information in the event that it previously declared as non-existent subjects, whenever this store
regarding their legal mandates.
• Alert the ASF on areas of opacity detected by denial, incomplete presentation or declaration of non-public information.
2. Strengthen the information areas of the Executive Power

mittee, Legislative and Judicial, enabling people
responsible for them to establish the public domain
the information is held by the State and
legal means to respond in a timely manner to
citizenship requests.
We will review the legal framework of the procurement system, Procurement and Public Works, flexible and
being transparent rules for procurement and
public sector procurement.
3.-

Reform the legal framework applicable to the system
regulatory reform to change the mandate, scope and instruments of the Federal Regulatory Improvement Commission and the respective state commissions,
in order to achieve genuine deregulation of rules and
4.-

We establish a system of accountability
to fight corruption, prevent impunity and promote the transparency of government institutions,
involving society.
6.

We will promote a national system of control,
in order to establish uniform parameters
the system of accountability, in terms of expenditure
federal public.
7.

We harness the potential of technology
information and communication pathways to enlarge
access to public information, based on their abilities and qualities.
8.

We achieve effective protection of Mexican and
we ensure public safety

Public safety is for one of the citizens
more sensitive and expect better results topics. Only through the actions of a strong state and
determined to effectively fulfill their functions
will achieve substantial changes. We realize that restoring public security requires a long-
scope, that is, consider that efforts in that area transcend changes of government, and must be based
a comprehensive conception.
The forms of crime have changed over the
  : 2012 | 

time and increased manifestations of violence
in our country, so security we require different and complementary solutions that are
They have applied so far.
Facing the challenge of public insecurity and violence to the integrity of the State, the
people and heritage, as well as the threat to
meaning national security activities of transnational organized crime, we propose the implementation of a comprehensive strategy, multidimensional
and long-term vision, which has the dimension
State policy shared by the three levels
government and the social, productive and political sectors,
that is linked directly with the implementation of
reform the system of administration of justice.
Alike recognize that we have a weak culture of legality is urgent to reverse, because it
It generates corruption, irresponsibility, distrust
institutions and, of course, criminal behavior and
impunity. We also note the accumulated deterioration
in the institutions responsible for public security,
which is manifested in the levels of corruption and impunity, as well as public distrust.
It is necessary to adopt a state policy and develop a cross-cutting strategy that puts priority
prevention, encourage and facilitate social participation, and have a regional focus and vision internationally; that is comprehensive and involves the whole process
more balance between the phases, stressing
especially in the research of crime, and strengthening the rule of force for effective intelligence detention for evidence prevail, and
robusteciendo the performance of public servants
Executive during the proceedings before the judges.
  | p ties f o r l m e l e c t r a l

We consider integrating a strategy priority
including:

Strengthen crime prevention and participation
Community to meet the factors of crime and
not only its consequences.
2. To preserve the life and integrity of the people, their
families and their assets and reduce violence
and increase the efficiency with which it is fighting organized crime.
3. Implement a strategy that has the support respect for human rights.
4. Improve the structure and functioning of the organs
responsible for the enforcement and administration of justice.
5. Ensure that the public prosecution is
alien to all kinds of criteria other than technical legal order, avoiding the interference of the owner of Power
Executive in the investigation and determination of competence.
6. institutionally strengthening the security police with new technologies and equipment, and
as priority actions of intelligence and strategy
in their actions.
7. Create a unique intelligence center to concentrate,
systematize and provide the competent authorities with all
the information necessary for the effective fight against
organizated crime.
8. Create enforcement bodies and police
specialized in the fight against drug use and trafficking
drugs.
9. Encourage participation of society in all actions aimed at public safety and restore
social peace.
10. Evaluate the proposal to establish mechanisms au1.-

ditoría citizen to help improve programs
public security and law enforcement.
Our proposal includes also work in the
following three items:

•

National security

The present condition of the country compels us to strengthen our protection schemes and institutional performance
to safeguard the integrity of the nation. we are
aware of the dangers of increased activity
criminal organized crime, and therefore take
the following measures:
• To support the regulation of the constitutional reform on human rights and, specifically, Article 29 of the Constitution.
• To strengthen cooperation between countries in order
to curb the smuggling of weapons, ammunition
and money.
• To promote a program of international cooperation to fight corruption in customs
from the country.
• Strengthen control of northern and southern borders,
both in terms of movement of people and
the goods, to prevent activities
organizated crime.
Better conditions for police forces

Dignity in the conduct of our police is
condition for improving its effectiveness. We know
with gaps they face in meeting
of their activities, so we propose:
• To promote professionalism, training
and continuous improvement of conditions
Working and living in the police forces

•

•

•
•

the three levels of government, according to the
specific functions that correspond to them.
Fight corruption, complicity and impunity in all bodies responsible for the
public safety and the administration and enforcement
of Justice.
Update the register of public servants in the
category of public security, to consider
performance and training as
requirement for admission and readmission rates, promotions and
tenure, in order to purge the police forces at the federal,
state and municipal.
Create a profile to enter and remain in the
police forces at all levels and promote the establishment of reliable controls.
Promote federal legislative deliberation on the model of single police.
Boost police career system based on
principles of selection, training, career development, performance evaluation and dignified retirement.

Public safety actions

Schemes seek to close the passage to the activity
crime and strengthen the performance of bodies
responsible for combating it. We will take actions in the
following fields:
• Consolidate the National Prevention Program
Crime as a strategic axis of the fight
anti-crime.
• Combating Money financial circuits
illegal origin with increased activity of the Mexican tax authorities and instruments of international cooperation.
  : 2012 | 

• Expand public policies substantively

combating addiction, with two objectives:
prevent the increase of drug use and
reduce retail drug sales.
• Eliminating the informal economic activities
linked to organized crime and promote economic and social programs in areas
with this criminal presence.
• Combating of priority by
creation of a specialized police crimes
which mostly they hurt society as
murder, kidnapping, extortion, trafficking
people, and thus reduce rates
crime in these areas.
• Refocusing public security strategy for
privileging research in crime prevention by modernizing
technological and implementation of information systems and police intelligence.
Consolidate the justice system

Mexicans need a state underpinned
a strong system of enforcement and administration
of justice, without privileges, respect human rights, protect victims, punish effectively
those responsible, be transparent and reliable and,
all phases, is carried out by professional institutions and consistent public servants, honest
and efficient.
Access to a fair and expeditious system of justice remains a priority for the State, in
the obstacle and frustration represents justice
often denied, and inaccessible to most
placing us unfortunately still at a distance
 | p ties f o r l m e l e c t r a l

significant consolidation of a country guarantees
and laws.
We will work progress in the homogeneous changes
constitutional and statutory as well as the development of institutional capacities, budget
and human capital that are essential for
citizens have certainty on compliance with the
law as a principle of social coexistence and the system
production has secured legal security conditions that encourage investment and generating
employment.
The PRI aims to strengthen the institutions of justice
and the rule of law, from:
1. Administration of justice
• Build a great deal, with the commitment

governors and mayors, to
finalize the legal and practical implementation of
penal reform.
• Ensure that the public prosecution
It is conducted in strict observance of criteria
legal professionals and technicians to consolidate their independence and avoid meddling
any different authorities in the investigation
and determining matters within its exclusive
competition.
• Reform the legal framework to ensure the rights of victims of crime, expedite the performance of bodies to ensure
justice and ensure access to it for
It is not facing economic barriers, linguistic,
cultural or otherwise.
• Train and equip technologically investigating officers and experts for the detection and

prosecution of offenses, particularly
which they have risen significantly as
extortion and wire fraud.
• Transforming the Financial Intelligence Unit in decentralized bodies of the Ministry of Finance, with
more resources to combat laundering
money.
• Improve the proceedings of the interests of the federal government, through joint efforts
their legal areas.
2. Delivery of justice
• Implement fully the adversarial system,

•
•

•

•

•

adversarial and oral, to give transparency to
work of judges and reduce the time of administration of justice.
Ensure access to justice for members
indigenous peoples and communities.
Promote a dialogue with members of the judiciary, human rights groups and lawyers associations for comprehensive implementation of the reform of Power
Judicial.
Improve the strategy to protect victims of
crime, prior institutional review of the Office of Victims, and create public policies
comprehensive.
Improve the system of juvenile justice, considering the unique conditions
characterize, without prejudice to the assumption of its
responsibilities.
Apply the system of conciliation, mediation and arbitration as an alternative to conflict resolution.

3. Society and justice
• Prevent the commission of criminal acts by

•

•

•
•
•

Public actions coordinated between the Ministries of Public Education, Health, Development
Social and Public Security, among others.
Promote in each municipality citizen participation committees are installed on
prevention, safety and complaint.
Intensify communication campaigns for
crime prevention and antisocial behavior. So
to promote the culture of complaint.
Consolidating the public safety tips
and strengthen public advocacy.
Design an educational policy focused on cover
Risk factors affecting the uncertainty.
Develop a system of citizen complaint
against all forms of online crimes.

4. Social reintegration
• Modernize the social reinsertion

a human perspective and effectiveness in fulfilling the objective that no prisons
be authentic schools of crime.
• Paying attention to social and labor people
who obtained early release, with
in order to facilitate their reintegration into
society.
Democratic governance, the PRI seeks to vindicate the value of politics and democracy
form of government that respects the law, and justice done
uphold the rule of law, guarantee the safety of all, it opposes all forms of discrimination and benefits
Mexicans as a whole.
  : 2012 | 

GROWTH
ECONOMIC,
COMPETITIVENESS
AND EMPLOYMENT

 | p ties f o r l m e l e c t r a l

The country is one of the worst crises
I have lived in their history. One of the problems more
serious is the increase in inequality and poverty
coming from the mediocre economic growth
we have had over the last decade: growth
annual average of 1.9% of GDP.
It has been privileged over the financial stability
economic and social priorities; stability
which, while necessary, is insufficient to generate
growth, employment, fairer wages and overcome
poverty.
The economic policy of alternating governments has not been able to generate enough jobs or
the goods and services necessary for every Mexican
have a decent standard of living.
The data speak for themselves. The unemployment rate, which in 2000 was 2.3%, has risen to 5.6%:
more than double. Currently there are more than 2 million
and half of the unemployed, 13.4 million people
They work in the informal sector, seeking 3.8 million
second job or a better one, and not more than 3 million
remunerated for their work.
These results do not correspond to potential
our country occupies the fourteenth place in area, it has extensive coasts, ranking
eleventh place in population, the seventh largest
oil producer, the fourteenth in export
of goods and services, it has business and competitive workers.
The lackluster growth with financial stability
in recent years is the result of that have not built their own economic engines and has depended
only high oil prices and the increase in
manufacturing exports to the United States. Front

the unfavorable global scenario, these factors
stimulus at risk of losing power and wane
the support they have given to the national economy.
For these reasons, it is essential to change the direction
current government policies and adopt a
new strategy for the economic development of Mexico.
Equity with stability:
strategic objective

Reduce social inequalities and poverty is the fundamental goal that must guide the growth of
the economy and job creation, as unique
way to boost the development of the country concerned
the efforts of the Mexican and allow them to improve their
quality of life. To make this process sustainable, it is
requires a responsible management of public finances
ensuring stability and certainty in the course of
the economy.
This new strategic objective is crucial because
poverty and unequal society is a society that,
beyond wrong, it is less productive and grows
mediocre rhythms. The economic and social policy must support each other. All instruments
policy must be aligned to ensure more growth, more equality in income distribution and
between regions, all within a framework of stability
make it possible for employment growth to be sustainable
for many years.
The new policy calls for defining a new ranking of the engines of development. The economy
country must and can change its strategy and management
economic and social instruments to give it a
path, a path away the economic risks
we, promote rapid economic growth,
  : 2012 | 

achieve the improvement of living standards, attend major
national problems and mitigate social inequality.
All these reasons compel growth
budget of the following year is based to a greater extent, but not exclusively, in our
own forces, internal engines of growth
economic. Achieving this is no easy task, but in the current
international economic context. It involves, among other
measures, using all financial instruments
coordinated manner and with the same orientation.
The new economic development strategy

Achieving a high level of economic growth and generate
jobs demanded by the population should be explicitly defined and deliberate purpose of the new
strategy development with equity and stability.
It is therefore necessary to redefine the role to be
the state play in the running of the economy and
strengthen its stewardship role and promoting development. We need an efficient state in meeting its constitutional responsibilities, capable
driving the development of the nation and generate certainties
in society.
The effectiveness of the new development policy should
built on the basis of a new balance between the
State, market and society, which promotes the contribution
each national development. The current financial crisis shows that you can not continue
assuming that the market alone can solve the
weaknesses of the national economy that prevent
improved economic performance.
Competitive markets are indispensable for
dynamic economy able to generate quality jobs
steadily and create the basis for a decent life
 | p ties f o r l m e l e c t r a l

Families of workers. To achieve competitive markets need to strengthen regulatory bodies and
that the government plays an important role in representing the interests of the majority.
The PRI struggle for a state with the capabilities
financial, technical and human, necessary to comply
strictly with their constitutional functions of stewardship of national development, in order to make possible
that markets operate competitively.
Promote a new development strategy required
competitive markets, of a State to fulfill its
constitutional responsibilities and the wider
and active participation in society and institutions
Private, in a new balance in favor of the interest and
welfare of Mexicans.
Build a broad agreement on the new role of
State in the promotion and development management involves
reforms to align the various policy instruments, and establish precisely the responsibility
the Mexican State. It is necessary to reconsider the role
economic institutions of the state to contribute effectively in order to achieve growth with equity. Development banks a new policy to strengthen after the long period
dismantling and deterioration which was held by the
alternating governments and that away from their true
vocation to support the development of the country.
The new economic strategy of the PRI proposes to use
our internal strengths as an engine of growth: a broad and vigorous internal market with huge
potential to the extent that more opportunities
employment, better wages and the effects of a new
social policy to improve the conditions of those living in
poverty.

Globalization is a historical fact and can not
be closed to competition, but to define a new concept of competition under which our plant
productive, our employees and employers are able to compete and maintain the internal market and,
same time, gain more markets abroad.
Additionally, the conditions of the international economy, in the present and in the coming years, will
adverse for exports and domestic transactions. Consequently, achieving the new strategic goal requires that development efforts are supported by the
strengthening the internal market and is used with
strategic sense the potential purchasing power of
large public and private companies as leverage
development of small and medium enterprises.
Today we have millions of unemployed and many
more informality, low productivity and income
barely allow survival. National income
It may be much higher if we use productively
our people. This will be a profound change for the generation of income and to raise welfare.
We must do things differently. It is urgent offer
young people, who every year join the force
work, a chance of employment, income, a
real hope. Offer huge segment of the population living in poverty a chance to overcome their plight.
The new economic development policy must align
all instruments and policies. The policy
increased savings and investment for families, businesses and
State should promote high economic growth. To the
As incomes policy and public expenditure, must be
coordinated with foreign trade, credit and
antitrust fight. The wage and employment policies should

boost the internal market, boost competitiveness

and building infrastructure, support
science and Technology.
To implement the new strategy for development
economic propose the following lines of action:
Promote a Comprehensive Tax Reform

Build a broad agreement on the new role of
State in the promotion and development management involves
reforms to align the various instruments of public policy and establish accurately state responsibility.
The PRI considers it essential reform
hacendaria comprehensive. It is the material basis for developing
the functions of the State. Capture what is necessary to meet the public service. Do it with minimal administrative cost, efficiency,
transparency and honesty.
Currently we suffer from a situation hacendaria
which it is characterized by insufficient tax revenues,
a pernicious dependence on oil revenues are spent inefficiently, with high opacity, poor performance evaluation and limited accountability
accounts.
To build adequate to the challenges of this tax reform, comprehensive, PRI proposes:
• Determine, with the assistance of the various actions

social and economic tors, the indispensable needs and priorities of government spending,
are necessary for economic growth consistent with the purpose of creating conditions
Wellness acceptable for all Mexicans. A common mistake in the various attempts
  : 2012 | 

Tax reform in the last decade has been no
require public expenditure needs to be
They intended to finance the reform or the economic results expected to achieve
reforms. Furthermore these attempts were not
They gave explanations to society, nor sought
build consensus with the main forces
policies represented in Congress around
the needs of infrastructure, regulation,
public safety, education, health, pensions and
social security reform would be financed. To point out to people what is needed and
ensure that their resources are going to achieve this effectively and efficiently, it will be easier
build the most appropriate way to collect them.
The principles of comprehensive tax reform
must be, inter alia: review in detail the powers of each level of government and efficiency; he
collection system should be simple, secure
legal certainty both the government and taxpayers and minimize care costs
tax liabilities; the tax administration must ensure that all contribute so
fair and equitable; accountability must be established
Accounts with a fair and effective system
punish both corruption and inefficiency
and to report clearly and complete all
items of income and expenditure in the sector
public; evaluate performance, the financial situation and the role to be played by companies
public and development banks in the new economic policy.
• Review, with support from local governments,
Public spending needs to support a
 | p ties f o r l m e l e c t r a l

accelerated growth with equity and
assign responsibilities for each area of
government. The PRI believes that the objective should
be awarded to each the suitable responsibility
according to their nature and, on the basis of
this new distribution, proceed to provide each
governing body of fiscal powers
sufficient and define coordination mechanisms
more useful and efficient tax that provide them with the
resources commensurate with their responsibilities.
• Define and agree with the economic actors and
social rules that guide the spending policy
public in the three levels of government. The PRI
It proposes that these rules at least include:
>> Democratic planning, for institutions and main social forces of the nation
participate in the drafting of the National Plan
Development, to include in government programs the priorities of the people.
>> The overhaul of the current expenditure of Power
Federal Executive, in order to reduce it to increase savings and finance part of the investment,
and promote this practice in other federal branches and levels of government.
>> The obligation of absolute transparency in spending
the three levels of government, with accountability
accounts and suitable instruments for this.
>> Securing autonomous bodies
control and evaluation in the three areas
government, provided with technical independence,
budget and management.
• Agree with the economic and social sectors
the criteria for distributing the tax burden. The PRI
He proposes:

>> Rely on the constitutional mandate which obliges

all Mexicans to help finance public expenditure, everyone in line
its capacity. Without equity no reform will
stable and successful.
>> A proper mix of income taxes
and wealth of people and indirect consumption and eliminate privileges.
>> Tender to a single tax income
personal moral. Competitive, simple, general,
unprivileged. Merge ISR and IETU.
>> The full development of the potential tax
Municipal property taxes.
>> Reduce the dependence of public finances on oil revenues. These should serve,
mainly for investment in the modernization and energy security of Mexico.
The PRI considers these actions, met with rigor, accountability, transparency and honesty, will lead to a comprehensive reform of public finances,
federal and local, that will allow the State to recover
their ability to problem solving and attention demands. The reform should be comprehensive since its inception and
enforcement in accordance gradually recovers
the growth of the economy.
Strengthen the state as an engine for development
and employment

The PRI proposes a big deal with all economic and social actors on a new development strategy.
This broad consensus must include reforms to various instruments of current economic policy to align
the objective of growth with equity and commitment

to integrate key programs for that purpose.
The PRI believes that the critical decision is to recognize
the need for a policy to promote. To the
design new instruments it should be recognized that
we are part of a global world, where there are rules
trade and investment that have been accepted by Mexico;
but this does not exclude the possibility of an active policy
self-defense and promotion of our markets.
This agreement on a comprehensive development policy
You must include at least:
Monetary and financial policy

It is proposed to evaluate the possibility of the Bank
Mexico contributes to the objectives of growth and
employment, and price stability and control
financial system to set monetary policy. Should
strengthened its ability to induce commercial banks to grant credit timely, adequate and
competitive on international standards, sectors
production.
The orientation and operation of development banks should be framed in the purposes of the Plan
National Development and relevant sectoral plans. We establish, to that end, clear objectives, defined in terms of national priorities
employment generation, infrastructure, external trade,
agricultural development and regional development.
Increased competitiveness and job creation

Increase productivity and generate the largest number of
work involves at least the following crucial actions:
• Increase the competitiveness of the economy as a
It requires regulators set
strong and independent. Competition and inno  : 2012 | 

tion enables the scope and population
maintain higher levels of consumption. A key element for the functioning of
competitive markets will combat monopolistic practices.
>> You need to have regulatory bodies
autonomous economic, conditions that promote competition in domestic markets,
ensure legal certainty for investments
predictable and secure conditions in the rules
gaming, as well as the elimination of practices
monopolies and oligopolies which restrict investment, raise prices and limit supply
products.
>> Due to its importance, it stresses the need to strengthen and give autonomy to the Federal Commission
Competition (Competition Commission), the Federal Commission
Telecommunications (Cofetel), the Federal Commission for Regulatory Improvement (Cofemer), the Energy Regulatory Commission (CRE), the Commission
Nacional de Hidrocarburos (CNH) and the Federal Commission for Protection Against Risk
Sanitaryware (COFEPRIS), among others.
• Develop a vigorous program of research and technological development for competitiveness, the promotion of domestic production and
employment, to reach 1% of GDP, including the
infrastructure for technological research,
the creation of national high-tech laboratories, aimed at development priorities
national and regional schemes and tax incentives to companies that invest in these concepts.
• Create a national infrastructure program for growth and competitiveness
 | p ties f o r l m e l e c t r a l

save costs, to overcome the current lags
and create the required infrastructure to support
accelerated growth rates. This program
It should be integrated from a diagnosis
national infrastructure, with federalist vision,
identifying how to improve substantially
the conditions of the infrastructure, communications and transport, both domestic and
urban and suburban, joint transport networks
multimodal to improve logistics performance
regional and international trade.
A new industrial policy

Promote the reconstruction of national productive chains and domestic production, training
clusters, support from development banks, energy
at competitive prices, with the support of research and
training, effective regulation and antitrust
tariff policy consistent with the national interests, among others.
The new industrial policy should be linked to
innovation and technological development and rising
educational quality.
This policy should respond to a new concept of
means regain competitiveness for the domestic market and strengthen national plant capacity
to compete abroad, both in the field of fair trade competition. This implies also
formulate a strategy of diversification of trade
Outside of Mexico, making better use of the extensive network
trade agreements we have signed with various
countries. An objective of this policy should be exported
goods and services, not migrant workers.
The new policy should incorporate the principle that

the purchasing power of the government and public enterprises
can and should be used to boost national production: Pemex and CFE should be strengthened
as levers of development.
Furthermore, an industrial policy requires that
promotes National Procurement of goods and services.
Large companies, public and private, must become the driving force for small and medium enterprises. In this regard, large companies
They can and should assume a joint commitment to
provide technical, administrative and tax consultancy, as well
to exchange technology with small and medium
operating companies and their suppliers.
We can not base our economic growth
at low wages. We must base it
in the skills and productivity of labor,
and innovation and incorporation of technology
on end. Otherwise, we will never reach
purpose of strengthening the internal market
is the mainstay of economic development.
Boosting agricultural sector

We need to encourage maximum national agricultural production and propose the objective of food security. This is essential for
the farmers live better, but also to
Mexican foods to ensure quality and affordable prices.
To achieve this we propose:
• Incorporate a long-term strategic activities for the promotion of production
and differentiate the instruments to combat rural poverty in those needed to
increase production and productivity.

• Have a safety net scheme to in-

Congress of the producers with a legal framework that
provide certainty to the sector and allow order
the markets. Policy is also needed
storage, ensuring food supply and remunerative prices to farmers.
• A policy to increase productivity
agribusiness activities; a legal framework
favoring agricultural compaction surfaces; a model that promotes integration
producers and generating economies
scale.
• Increase investment in conservation and maintenance of dams and irrigation districts; save money
the water lost in evaporation and filtration and thus incorporate new areas for cultivation. We will increase spending on research
and agriculture and agribusiness development;
We will promote funding, assistance
technical, research, technological development and training. Procampo should be reviewed and adapt to current circumstances
the country with a differentiated approach, ecological
and productive. It is essential reform
background of the National Water Commission, whose
intervention is obsolete, centralized and inefficient,
to develop an institutional framework to enable a comprehensive policy on water use
sector. We also propose fair prices
acquisitions and sales to farmers.
It is take to the field a policy of territorial development and the elimination of rural poverty programs
community development related to environmental protection, agro-tourism, forestry and handicrafts, which
  : 2012 | 

incorporates, among other actions: the elimination of social inequality and productive heterogeneity of the medium
rural; micro-finance productive projects
marginalized areas; supporting productive, environmental and craft community initiatives, especially
women, youth and indigenous people. The state built
telecommunications infrastructure for deployment
programs and higher education, health,
as for the sale of their products. They will be developed
compliant financial services community as
mobile banking, microcredit, micro-insurance, among others.
Poverty field responds to specific problems of productivity. Therefore, we propose, in
First, address the structural problem with a
unprecedented education and training effort
the adult labor camp; in second place,
encouraging mobility of labor in the field
deliberately; Third, support the efforts of
producers in the automation and compaction
production units.
Boosting tourism

Tourism is consolidated as generator
currency, jobs and driver of a middle class. For
It is therefore necessary not only promoting, but the momentum
determined to a master plan for tourism infrastructure
adequately identify segments of demand, expectations and profile of geographic location.
Tourism has become an important global economic activity. For Mexico, the origin
of the most important tourist flows is the United
States, Canada and Europe.
It is therefore necessary to promote programs and promotion
to better serve specific segments of demand
 | p ties f o r l m e l e c t r a l

with unique characteristics. Examples include: consolidating beach resorts and cultural tourism
Riviera cruise in the Pacific; tourism for the elderly, which has huge potential; youth tourism and the large reef, for Europe, the cultural tourism. We consider it necessary to give a new impetus to the Centers
Integrally Planned existing as well as boost
new centers, as a way to revive and sustain
development of this important economic activity.
Ensure energy security

Energy policy must have as its fundamental objective the country's energy security to ensure
national development and promote economic growth, employment and stability. It must be recognized
that the energy sector faces risks, but has a
enormous potential. Has risks because the main
primary energy source which is oil, we only tested for just over nine reserves
years and together with the likely this period is only 14
years. As a result, oil production tends to decrease, without there an alternate source for
oil revenues. At the same time, we promote
energy transition to renewable energy sources.
Therefore, we must achieve:
• Incorporate and develop new proved reserves
hydrocarbon.
• Stimulating the exploitation of shale gas, which has a
enormous potential for self-reliance and promote the production of fertilizers and
basic and secondary petrochemicals.
• Increase the efficiency of exploration and exploitation
hydrocarbon.
• Prioritize the reconfiguration and maintenance

•

•
•

•

•

•

•

•

•

ing refineries and the construction of the planned refinery in Hidalgo, for
consolidate the National Refining System and
reduce its financial losses and reduce the country's vulnerability to rising
on imported oil.
Modernize the transport system and storage
petroleum, including industrial safety
of the distribution network and marketing and
oil complexes.
A final impetus to the development of domestic suppliers of Pemex.
Boosting research and development system
technological and human capital formation
high specialization in the oil industry.
Eliminate the tax collection strategy criteria
oil exploration. To do so requires
modify the Pemex tax regime under
of comprehensive tax reform.
Support strategies for energy saving and efficiency, particularly in transportation systems
and domestic and industrial consumption.
Rate Policy fuel prices
in terms of generating better conditions
competitiveness.
Reduce carbon emissions from industry
to help reduce and mitigate the effects of
Climate change and promote sustainable development.
We will facilitate the exploitation of coalbed gas, to
protect coal miners today and use a natural resource wasted and pollution.
Revise the powers and enhance coordination
among all actors involved in the gen-

ation, promotion, financing and development
of renewable energy sources.
Petroleos Mexicanos (Pemex)

Pemex is the business of all Mexicans, it has been pillar
economic and social development of our country and not
You should remain so. We intend to boost Pemex is necessary for effective lever for development and growth of the economy changes.
In this, as in other strategic sectors, we believe that
it is necessary to move more decisively and effectively.
We propose how to modernize Pemex
as a public company able to contribute to security
energy in the country, to maximize oil revenues associated with
hydrocarbon exploitation of national property
and boost domestic production and employment.
Federal Electricity Commission (CFE)

Electricity must be accessible to all energy. Therefore, it is necessary to lower production costs
which help improve the competitiveness of enterprises and
improve the economy of families. In electrical field
we must reduce the margin of idle capacity
CFE and use as primary energy cheaper
gas instead of fuel oils. It is also important to strengthen the capacity of developing new water infrastructure that contributes to the generation
energy and regional development.
Other sources of energy

We must harness the potential of cogeneration of electricity between CFE and Pemex, and
promote the use of alternative energy sources,
among others, geothermal, micro hydro and biogas.
  : 2012 |  

Labor policy and boost the welfare of the class
employee

The demographic bonus has been wasted by the lack of jobs. The reflection is migration, which
Mexico makes the young people lose formed
through the efforts of their families and the country to work in
U.S.
Never before were so many young people in search of a
better life: seven out of 10 migrants are between 15 and
24, that is, are those who have great productive potential, in addition to the workforce more
qualified, in whom he has invested substantially and
they will produce another country.
The labor policy that has as its central objective propose high job creation and the real recovery of the purchasing power of wages.
It is necessary that the Mexican government remains the
guarantor of compliance with workers' rights and to avoid this we propose the simulation
hiring employees who lack access
to benefits, health services and social security.
The strategy for medium and long term should generate
a skilled and specialized workforce, whose salary levels corresponding to the yield they generate.
To make this possible, we will promote greater coordination between the education sector and the productive, to
plans to link education with plans
development and modernization of the economy.
Economic policy and all its instruments should be at the service of creating jobs and promoting the incorporation of those working in the informal to the formal sector of the economy. This means,
among other things, update the legal framework governing
labor relations with strict respect for the rights of
 | p ties f o r l m e c t r a l

workers seeking such legislation drives
productive investment and raise the competitiveness of the
labor and business.
Impetus to greater social participation

Progress has been achieved in participatory democracy it requires citizens to attend an organized decision-making process on
economic policy, so that they obey the interest
general population, which must garantizársele
full transparency and full accountability
the results of the implementation of public policies
related to the new economic development strategy. Hear the opinions to determine the manner and time for their social participation by an Economic and Social Council,
among others.

DEVELOPING
AND EQUITY
SOCIAL

  : 2012 | 

Mexico has 58.5 million people in poverty and
inequality is persistent and deep. 10% of the
poorest population receives 1% of the income, while the
The richest 10% receive almost 40%. The away in schooling between the poorest and richest municipalities is
11 years; and infant mortality is 10 to 20 times
higher in the first. Our country is one of the most
unequal in Latin America.
Economic policy has failed in promoting
growth with equity; the wealth generated in the
boom times does not reach the poorest families and
not improve income distribution.
The combination of low growth and high unemployment, with rising prices in basic goods and services, loss of purchasing power, low productivity and
the precarious public safety is the decisive factor for
perpetuating poverty and exclusion. The social policy
alternating governments has failed.
The fundamental problem lies in the abandonment of the role
State as a growth promoter in the absence
of industrial policy; the lack of an effective banking
developing; and in the absence of employment policies to strengthen the domestic market and increase external competitiveness.
The inefficiency of the model also derives from the application of a short-term and poorly managed social policy that advances the welfare variables only, which does not affect the real transformation of the conditions of poverty
and does little to create equal opportunities.
In addition, social spending is inequitable. He
The richest 20% of the population receives 32% of expenditure
the State allocates for human development, while
the poorest 20% only receives 13%.
Moreover, the international financial crisis makes
possible to provide a long cycle of stagnation or
 | p ties f o r l m e l e c t r a l

slowdown with higher unemployment rates. Therefore,
if you do not act with resolve and urgency, will sharpen the problems of inequality and poverty, with consequent
loss of social cohesion and the possibility of improvement
on the welfare of families.
Faced with this situation, the PRI reaffirms its commitment
to strive for an effective state to strengthen its rectory
and responsibility as a driver of social policy,
ensure attention to social rights, for
meet the following strategic objectives:
• Raise the human development and reduce poverty effectively.
• Achieving a balanced regional development.
• Eradicate discrimination and exclusion
ensure fairness.
We will raise the human development and reduce
poverty effectively
A new social policy

We will promote institutional reform, coordinated
economic policy, set a new vision and
effective instruments to ensure that the state resume
their responsibility to ensure universal access
citizens to social rights.
Universal access should be the basis for the effective ownership of the rights enshrined in the Constitution,
and their enforceability. Only in this way will be achieved
reverse the alarming social exclusion that has failed
resolve the current political, despite the huge resources it has provided.
Universal public policies will eliminate the tendency to use social programs as
electoral instrument.
a new strategy of social spending will be applied with

progressive redistribution, to change the direction of the
compensatory mechanisms simple policies to generate productive options, self-employment and opportunities for social mobility and development.
That model will head the search for equity, to combat inequality that prevails among people and between regions and the structural problems that limit the full integration of men and women
development.
The State support will be directed primarily to
those most in need, to ensure universal access
equal opportunities.
We will promote social federalism in favor of
backward areas and marginalized; that respects the powers of the branches of government and conducive institutional collaboration. State that recognizes creativity
and community force municipalities.
Social policy will be shared task of the three branches of government, but on the basis of a new covenant
National recognize the contribution of true federalism.
Reducing poverty and inequality are purposes that must permeate all actions and programs of government and convene the responsible participation of society.
We apply a participatory social politics,
that citizens are considered in the formulation, design and management of programs; and
especially in the making, implementation and evaluation
results. Only with active social participation
and co-responsible actions of beneficiaries is
ensure feasible to appropriate and use new avenues for social mobility that the new social policy
provided.

We seek universal access to health
and social security

The PRI aims to ensure access for all Mexicans to
health services and social security, thus following
components:
• Medical care ensured by the mere fact

mexican and without any other requirement.
• universal pension for the elderly.
• assured minimum income in case of unemployment.
• risk insurance work.
The minimum income in case of unemployment should be

gradual application consistent progress in fiscal reform, limited in its coverage to over 18, and
linked to training and registration for the tax rolls.
It is necessary to overcome the current fragmentation of the health system, so that there is equity in the quality of
the services you receive every Mexican. It is not simply that there is only one security institution
social, but that radically transform existing ones are integrated and coordinated manner, to ensure access of Mexican social security
equitably, dignified and universal.
We will work to ensure in practice the universality of health services through new
public financing mechanisms, construction
infrastructure, equipment, health programs
preventive, training of qualified personnel and supply
sufficient drug.
Eradication of poverty by food shortages

The primary universe is the population of 28 million
Mexicans who are in a situation of lack ali  : 2012 |  

tary and, within it, the child population, mothers
and seniors. To change the current situation of
substantively, it is necessary that public policies
They align under this purpose.
To fold the lack of food, while also
promote employment and income shares for groups
lower income, and are cared for population
in conditions of social vulnerability and helplessness, is
will strengthen policies to expand the supply supply
commodity and medicine outlets
poor urban areas, outside the commercial offer
popular range, which allows, with community participation schemes, supporting family economy.
A true universal attendance policy
and social protection

To allow poor people living in vulnerable social welfare are fully integrated,
the actions and responsibilities of care review
vulnerable groups, in order to be considered as
part of a broader strategy of social development, not
only from the standpoint of health.
7% of households have someone with a disability. This social group has been historically relegated to the attention of the State. Besides the
rehabilitation, employment policy is required to
them through tax incentives. Should be increased
urban infrastructure allowing free access and
incorporation into social life. Should be strengthened
a culture of respect and non-discrimination, with a
broad social participation.
The demographic transition population increases
seniors, so that public policies should strengthen health care, income, access to ocupa | pl formaelec tied to ral

tion and opportunities for socialization and recreation.
It is necessary to ingrain a culture of aging and
promote social attitude of respect and solidarity
the middle-aged population, whose experience in different
fields of activity is valuable for future generations.
Strengthening institutions and instruments
social policy

To ensure the enforceability of rights,
decentralized spending exercise, performance federalist delegates entities, evaluation
autonomous programs, transparency in spending,
social organization and citizen participation,
will make a profound transformation of the Secretariat
Social development.
In this redesign we seek ensure it meets
its mission of coordinating the policy of social development, poverty alleviation, land use
territory and human development, with full respect for the
state sovereignty, autonomy and powers
municipalities, in the highest consideration to the
citizen participation and social organization.
The consolidation of autonomy will be promoted
CONEVAL, to ensure the independence of the
evaluation of social programs.
Institutional strengthening will be promoted
municipalities so that it is they who make
the shares of basic social infrastructure, leaving
back competition and duplication of functions with the
federation.
It must be compact and coordinate the scattered efforts, guarantee the right of citizens to information and
institutional certainty about the programs and amounts to be applied in each entity.

Strengthening social housing policies

It should ensure greater access of the population
poverty housing, with land suitable alternative processes and accessible, self, improvement and
expansion, with opportunities for counseling, support
technical and subsidies.
The housing sector in our country drive
economic recovery while increasing the
quality of life of Mexicans and power development
families. Public spending on housing and facilitating the social and private investment will be a priority
essential to raise health care, education
and welfare.
Housing policy is an instrument for promoting sustainable economic development, to boost
internal market and social development. We will promote the adequate and accessible financing demand,
especially people with lower incomes; will promote local policies to facilitate system
urban and territorial and involve greater participation
the county, cities looking to make quality
life and competitive communities in economic, social, environmental and technologically sustainable terms.
Fighting rural poverty

In rural society, poverty and social inequality
achieve more dramatic and therefore has its fight
not only greater urgency, but also has to
given with a vision of integration, it has to be a
State policy. We propose a new policy:
• Link the social policies to combat poverty in the new economic development strategy and regional development.
• Recognize that the new rural society not only

•

•
•

•

It is linked to agricultural production activities, but others have to do with the
services and tourism, among others, and therefore the
support programs and government actions
You must consider this productive diversity.
Increase budgetary resources
the promotion and financing activities
rural production; greater coordination of
programs, as well as three orders
government in its implementation and further decentralization of resources for this purpose.
Guarantee the labor and human rights
rural migrant laborers.
Increase budgetary resources to ensure the infrastructure to support in terms
actual access of rural population to services
health and education.
A support program for improving rural housing and environmental sustainability.

Quality education for all

Education is a key component in human development; social mobility factor and pulse
social transformations. It is the only way we
ensures that we can move towards achieving our
aspirations and achieve comprehensive development.
The first obstacle to overcome to undertake a serious effort in the definition of relevant public policies is to overcome the wear and concepts
purposes, by the lack of results, and cause
skepticism. A feature of the situation is the adoption of strategies and projects that are certainly indispensable in the agenda to improve
  : 2012 | 

the system, but whose content or forms of management
counterproductive. The actions allegedly
Innovative has led to a bureaucratic maze superimposed the real educational practice
disorients all stakeholders in the educational process.
To effectively meet the demand of the national community for quality education to the
accessible to all Mexicans is necessary to place education at the center of the strategy
to achieve a comprehensive and equitable development. As
political organization, we are committed to fostering a responsible change, oblivious to political interests
of parties or groups, and a long-term vision,
whose sole purpose is to promote a transformation
real, measurable and sustainable education in Mexico.
For education to reach competitive levels
According to international standards we must close the gap between regions and social groups; enlarge
infrastructure and education coverage, and reinvigorate
improve teacher improvement programs. We must move towards universal upper secondary education; expand support for research and development of science and technology, prioritizing the development of
skills and competence and encourage the development of
culture to strengthen coexistence and social harmony.
A new agenda for education reform
It must be based on a clear political will of the Executive
to define, in collaboration with other instances of
government and society, through state policy
which long-term commitments are assumed to:
• Modernizing the institutional areas responsible
education.
• Ensure to allocate more resources under
rigorous criteria of rationality and efficiency.
 | p ties f o r l m e c t r a l

• Give a new impetus to training and educational

Continuous cation teachers.

• Adopt new strategies and resources that pulse

•
•

•

•

•
•

•

•

sen innovation and achievement of the purposes of
learning such as school day
full time; strengthening reading,
writing and mathematics; Teaching
English language and the incorporation of new
information technology.
Promote equity as a principle of the
transformation of the educational system.
Ensure adequate articulation system
education at all levels needs
economic and social development.
Fostering partnerships with the educational process
the development of arts and culture, as well as
with the promotion of human values.
Strengthen federalism by a sense
of responsibility among levels of government
federal, state and municipal purposes with
education policy.
Strengthen mechanisms for evaluation
improving educational quality
Encourage participation of society and
parents in the process of improving the
quality of schools and the education system
all levels.
Strengthening basic education by promoting a new agenda for reforms to adequately address the challenges of coverage, quality and efficiency.
Finalize the constitutional reform that guarantees
mandatory upper secondary education
and high school.

Knowledge society

Promote digital agenda is essential in the context of the knowledge society and therefore intend to expand investment in science and research
and technology to promote better education and training to strengthen human development, contribute
mechanisms of transparency and e-governance, improve health services and promote the digitization in the economy to make it modern, dynamic
and inclusive.
It is necessary to reduce the technology gap, so
we propose universal access to internet
and the use of new information technologies and
Communication Technologies (ICT), ensuring the protection and
netizens security.
We will promote the inclusion of all Mexicans
the digital agenda of the PRI, so that the generation,
appropriation and application of information and knowledge to become a productive tool,
and create wealth, to contribute to the integral development of individuals.
Culture

The culture in its broadest expression is an inherent part
quality of life of citizens. The PRI has a
fundamental commitment to the promotion of the culture
as a factor of national identity, as a vehicle for
strengthening social and as a tool for enhancing the quality of democracy cohesion. It is a link
communication between the company, an irreplaceable value
democracy, full citizenship and security
human. Free production of culture guarantee
and citizen access to it as an obligation
State. To do this, you will need:

• To consolidate a national system of incentives for

generation and preservation of diverse cultural expressions, with effective support, transparent
creators, promoters and preservers of the old and the new cultural heritage of the nation.
• Promote a federalist system of promotion and
cultural development to enable transfer
resources to states and municipalities for the creation,
preservation and care of the various expressions
and cultural products as well as promotional activities and talent development.
• Strengthening the cultural aspect of the education system, especially educational institutions
higher. We will encourage support for cultural institutions that are the product of the initiative
civil society and contribute to increase
national heritage and recognize and encourage the contributions that the private sector makes
for the public and development of culture access
universal values ​​thereof.
The dissemination of culture is essential to ensure
socialization work of the creators. To give the necessary support tasks from disclosure
specialized public institutions, civil society
and the private sector are made for the benefit of the nation.
We propose the renovation and modernization of
cultural policy. Foster a new policy
State promotes and guarantees creative freedom; the
universality of the various manifestations, recognition and development of expressions of a nation
multicultural and multiethnic, that state action
impact on a higher cultural level of the population,
a better quality of life, greater social harmony and more
broader and deeper community life.
  : 2012 |  

Sport

Sport and physical activity has a positive influence on the quality of life of people, from childhood
to the fullest. In the PRI we seek to address the issue
Sport as a pillar of public health while
its slope side entertainment and recreation;
and their recovery effect of the social fabric, its
competitive potential in the amateur field and
sports tourism. Sport should be a lever more
human development and social integration.
With the momentum the sport will contribute to reducing childhood obesity through compulsory
deepening and physical education programs
sport and culture within the national education system, with adequate monitoring to avoid risks
on the health of children. Also we give impetus to the
inclusion of sport and physical activity as an element
key development at all stages of life.
Community sports are as important as the education to strengthen the tissue
social. Along with the states and municipalities, since the federation will promote the creation of local programs for construction and recovery of public spaces
conducive to the practice of community sport with
intended to encourage integration and family cohesion to threats such as crime and addiction.
In the competitive, public investment should serve
all sources that give prestige and pride example
the capabilities of the Mexican nation; in substance shall be given priority to amateur sport generated
in the educational system, to recover their formative values ​​without prejudice to support high-profile sport emerged from the specialized organizations
society and municipal authorities and local government.
 | p ties f o r l m e l e c t r a l

We will achieve balanced regional development
A new combat federalist model
productive poverty

To raise living standards and reduce poverty in zo-

nas rural and poorer urban parks in the country,
It was followed by a new strategy based on the progressive redistribution of social spending to break the factors
They are limiting their structural development and integration
to strengthen social cohesion, encourage the creation of
infrastructure and production projects, and resume the responsible participation of the community.
The federal government should focus its energies on
actions that break the structural conditions
keep the areas and regions of high and very
high marginality in a situation of underdevelopment, through
a fund that promotes economic development and
productive.
The PRI proposes the creation of a second generation of social development programs, leaving
the merely welfare vision becomes projects
or production programs, which can incorporate
the development of the disadvantaged population, generate
employment and boost economic activity through
microcredit loans to the word and direct support
for the development of social enterprises.
Support for the social economy

It should stop the economic decline of small

farmers, craftsmen, freelancers and
social enterprises. With the assistance of the institutions and
municipalities should create alternative support for productive activities, funding, microcredit to rate
social, venture capital and micro-insurance.
Welfare programs that have so far not given

result must change their approach with a productive sense and address, as a priority, the population more

vulnerable in the most backward areas. This will be achieved
with coordination and joint action of the three orders
government.
Shed be incorporated boost employment and
production activities in the social sector as an axis
social development. To do this, they will be integrated under one
institution all programs, now scattered support
training, training, and funding to individuals and social enterprises in poverty.
National program for cities with quality of life

To meet the challenges of urban development, equipment and land management, should be strengthened
local and municipal capacities. The federation must
take responsibility for supporting the organizations,
municipalities and communities to expand and improve infrastructure and public services, transport boost
worthy of passengers, better roads and waste management, recovery of spaces for recreation, integration and
community life, as well as preventive civil protection mechanisms; all this carefully
especially in metropolitan areas.
Let's eradicate discrimination
and exclusion to ensure fairness
New policy focus on youth

We build a new care proposal to
Young. The viability as a nation is based on
the existence of a young population with the capabilities
competitively necessary to insert the market,
with education, health, recreational options and supports
allow to obtain a decent job.

To support school retention, expand the
infrastructure and quality of educational services,
ensure access to secondary and higher education; We support those who wish to study,
scholarship programs and alternative education options for those who need to join the
working market; and promote support actions
child care for young mothers who
They require further study.
Steward will promote productive connection of future professionals in the labor market
through social service paid. We will promote
social support for young companies, and those
They are hiring them through employment programs first.
We will promote the access of young people to culture,
from the different areas in which its core business be located: the classroom, employment or community. From
Likewise, we will open exhibition spaces for
initiatives artistic development of young people.
We propose new schemes to promote youth-oriented addiction prevention, and
disseminate information on reproductive health and sexual education that allows them a free and responsible life.
The problem of addiction must strengthen its approach
as a public health problem for increasing state-funded treatment for recovery
young victims of drug.
Develop a comprehensive policy to assist the
woman

Inequality of opportunity between men and women affects all of society. That gap prevents the full development of Mexico. The condition nonwoven
makes itself vulnerable women, but they
  : 2012 | 

They face widespread disadvantage derived from a culture of discrimination, subordination and
historical exclusion from the benefits of economic, political and social development, particularly affecting women.
Women with high school education and higher
earn less than men who, in the same condition, serving or working somewhere. The
This also compounded by four out of
ten women who work are paid for their work,
while the other does not. Substantive equality
between women and men it is one of the central aims to achieve an equitable, just and free society
discrimination.
It is necessary to promote the access of girls and young
women at all educational levels and ensure their permanence in the educational system, especially in the
rural and poor urban areas, with support
economic guaranteeing retention of girls and
Teens at least through high school level.
a comprehensive care policy will be developed to
woman. We have to do the perspective and approach
Gender is a constant of all government programs to achieve integration of women
development, including labor reforms that ensure greater equality: public policies for care
child safe, for the prevention and eradication
violence, and to achieve the full-time schools
and other facilities for working mothers.
Ensure the protection of human rights
migrant workers

We assume that is fundamental task of orderly State

nar, manage and ensure the security of every person
involved in the phenomenon of migration internacio | pl formaelec tied to ral

nal and establish regional agreements necessary for
protection of Mexicans abroad, as well as
transmigrants crossing our country.
Similarly, we have to heighten the role of
organizations and human rights defenders
that protect and care for migrants in all this
process, ensuring a harmonious coexistence between
government actions and activities.
Poverty and lack of opportunities is closely associated with migration. Mexico is a country
expulsion, transit, destination and return of migrants, by
what we understand as fundamental task of the State
Mexican addressing migration issues with a regional approach, consolidating a State policy on the matter
that addresses the vulnerabilities associated with the migration and
ensure that migrants worldwide, and particularly in Central America and the Caribbean, in our territory
they will see their fundamental rights protected.
All promoting integrated policy area
migration that is modern, efficient and consistent with
our reality, that favors the respect for human rights
human of migrants and their families, and take migration not as a problem but as a
phenomenon of world order.

ENVIRONMENT
AND DEVELOPMENT
SUSTAINABLE

  : 2012 | 

Sustainable development is the principle on which
societies should organize their activities to meet the needs of the present without compromising
the possibility that future generations can
meet theirs.
In effect, nature is sustenance and the basis of the
human life; however, when man exploits
natural resources beyond the capacity of the
of replacing it, they end up exhausted, jeopardizing the well-being and, ultimately, the
survival of future generations.
Sustainable development is a necessary condition for the nation superpervivencia. The PRI is
aware of the role that the state and government
should be made to establish effective mechanism
preservation of the environment and natural resources without
compromise economic development and welfare
human. The environmental challenges facing the country are
so large that they may ultimately reach
endangering state governance and
the quality of life of present and future population.
We intend to overcome outdated development models that have not resolved the economic inequality and
social and other environmental problems have worsened,
to generate more poverty, population growth and overexploitation of resources.
This contributed to install and national security issues as climate change; the pollution
soil, air and water; biodiversity loss, with its destruction of habitats and species; deforestation and desertification; pollution of rivers,
seas and oceans, depleting its resources; and increasing and
inadequate management of solid and hazardous waste
human settlements.
 | p ties f o r l m e l e c t r a l

We intend, with the help of companies, organizations and citizens to implement at national level
and, state policies that reconcile economic affairs and social development effectively
environmental sustainability.
We must respect and enforce care and sustainability of our environment. It is right
all have a healthy environment; and it is a responsibility
all ensure sustainability for future
generations. Both are actions to meet from
now, urgently and talent.
Mexico will participate more actively in
multilateral agencies to assist in
tuning regulation and global policies
are intended to combat global warming and
preserving a greener world.
To move in this direction, you must update
the legal and institutional framework for the implementation of
international commitments we have assumed,
and the design of public policies and commitments
with the private and social sectors to integrate
environmental, social and economic objectives of the country.
Legal and institutional framework

Mexico is not a country unprotected in environmental matters. We have laws and regulations, institutions and
instruments, and administrative and criminal processes, both federal and state procedures. 1996
the General Law of Ecological Balance and reformed
Environmental Protection (LGEEPA), and with it most sectoral legislation still in force was generated.
But before the most recent damage, we must
updating our legal and institutional frameworks. They are
priorities:

• Promote the creation of the General Law on Cam

Climate bio integrating into it the focus
in multilateral solution. Mexico
It contributes only 1.6% of the greenhouse
(GHG) emissions, while China-
United States generate about 42% of the total
while our country has itself signed the Kyoto Protocol and is ready to assume their responsibilities, these two countries have not done so.
• Promote reforms to the national legal framework
encourage private investment in environmental economic sectors with respect to the environment.
• Promote the updating of environmental legislation with a strategic horizon of certainty for the next generations of Mexicans,
both the Law (LGEEPA) and its regulations and
sectoral legislation associated. Promote equivalence within the states.
• Promote fiscal policies to operationalize
the polluter pays principle and they
promote sustainable activities and remediation
environmental.
• Analyze and review tax instruments from an environmental and economic perspective, for
eliminate subsidies harmful to the environment and encourage activities that ensure
environmental sustainability.
• Expand consultation with the social sectors and
private, in order to develop a reliable, timely and efficient environmental management.
To which it must consolidate the link
with the education sector and scientific research and technological development.
>> Strengthen and improve environmental planning to

Through the integration of environmental aspects into national and sectoral policies.
>> Promote the upgrading of structures and functions of the institutions of the environmental sector.
Resolve existing shortcomings in several of them.
>> Promote greater decentralization of functions
environmental states and municipalities,
adapting the relevant environmental legislation.
>> Strengthening integration between the three levels of government to optimize institutional coordination.
Climate change

We have a responsibility to pass on to the generations

future an equal or better than our environment. One of
the most important challenges is climate change, both
because of its negative consequences, such as resources
economic allocate required to cope.
Worldwide, changes in patterns
temperatures have caused more extreme climates, are torrential rains, cold and heat more
more aggressive and intense winds. Climate change
we have experienced is a result of contamination in the air, on land and in water, and it's time to
We avoquemos us to carry out all possible actions
to stop their effects and ensure that future generations can enjoy a healthy environment.
That is why we are committed to:
• promote state policies that enable transition to an economy of low carbon, ensuring economic growth,
job creation and the reduction of
inequalities.
• The national climate change strategy de  : 2012 | 

Bera will include public policies with clear goals,
coherent plans and funds and own budgets, setting goals, time compliance and satisfaction mechanisms commensurate with the
impact of the energy, transport, industry, agriculture and urban construction have on emissions of greenhouse
(GHGs).
• Develop institutional monitoring actions of economic activities that generate
more GHG emissions. And establish and evaluate the most appropriate and timely actions
reduction and mitigation. These actions should
result in environmental, economic and social benefits.
• Guide the GHG reduction strategy to
sectors that provide the highest percentages of
emissions: 1) energy and transport (60.7%); 2) waste (14.1%); 3) forestry and use changes
floor (9.9%); 4) industrial processes (9%); and 5)
agriculture and livestock (6.4%).
• Start with the most potential sectors
reduction at lower cost and culminate in the
representing the highest costs and
less environmental benefits, measures and mitigation strategies regionalized
and adaptation:
In the energy sector:
• Energy efficiency in street lighting.
• Improvements in energy generation and use;
• development, production and use of renewable energy.
• Use of wasted energy in the

Pemex refining processes.

 | p ties f o r l m e l e c t r a l

• Reduced gas venting facilities

Pemex.

• Mechanisms for cogeneration of electricity

Pemex-CFE.
• Energy recovery in production and electricity generation.
In the transport sector:
• Regulating the performance of light vehicles,
•
•
•

•

automotive transportation of light diesel and disposal of junk cars.
Multimodal transport and rail infrastructure.
Modern urban public transport.
Financing public transport systems
instituible preferred by fund by ecological assessments.
Standard energy efficiency and compounds
Greenhouse for light vehicles.

In the area of ​​waste management:
• Establishment of more and better infrastructure

deposits.

• Use of solid waste reuse,

minimization and recycling.

• Use of organic waste into com-

posts and energy production.

• Improvements in the dumps and water treatment

waste.

In the area of ​​deforestation and land-use changes
Floor:
• Stopping deforestation and degradation

soil (including administrative and penal measures).

• reforestation practices.
• sustainable forest management practices and wildlife.
• Policies and instruments to expand the co •
•
•
•
•

forest coverage.
Commercial forest plantations.
Protection of natural ecosystems by
Protected areas.
Payment for environmental services.
Improved use and land use change.

In the agricultural and livestock sector:
• Improving farming practices.
• Development of sustainable agricultural practices.
• Productive reconversion (land reclamation

degraded and diversified perennial) crops.

In the construction sector:
• Voluntary programs to promote buildings
•
•
•
•

•

sustainable.
Introduction of green building in the
urban planning.
Inclusion of sustainability criteria in
building regulations.
Boosting laws and rules on environmental performance of building products.
Development of bioclimatic building by climatic regions: temperate, warm-dry sub-humid and warm warm-moist.
Systems of wastewater reuse,
separation of gray and black water treatment
prior to discharge into the municipal sewer.

• Promoting development of an evaluation system

and indicators to assess progress of
mitigation actions and adaptation to change

climate and regularly update strategy
and federal and state programs.
• Measures to protect people and property from disasters
climate change. Accelerate the construction of infrastructure to cope with floods and other
disasters in areas of the country more
vulnerable to this phenomenon.
• Promote international obtaining greater financial and technological resources to promote adaptation and mitigation measures in the country.
The following sections are contextualized, they expand
and require priority actions set out in the National Climate Change Strategy proposes to develop the PRI.
Biodiversity and sustainable resource management
Natural

The regions that do not meet and replenish its endowment
natural resources are at risk of losing so
irreversible and, thus compromising their future viability. It has been setting aside conservation
biodiversity and protection of natural resources.
It is time that we bring to all Mexicans
prevent, control, correct and redress the imbalances
environment we face.
Mexico is one of the most diverse countries
biodiversity on the planet; to preserve and leverage,
the PRI proposes a strategic policy to ensure
sustainable use of biodiversity, and protection,
conservation and restoration of ecosystems. As
we have argued, it is not necessary to complete the development
economical to preserve the environment; all the
Otherwise, as we have done before.
  : 2012 | 

To integrate a strategic policy in the PRI give the highest priority to:
• Strengthen and innovate the legislation under
national circumstances and weighting
local responsibility for global phenomena.
• Update environmental protection regulation
biotic heritage, which, with the development
science and biotechnology, will be to provide
benefits for scientific research
as for economic and social development.
• Share with private and social organizations
the approach of sustainable development, fostering
constant updating of the regulatory framework and
continuous improvement of public and private programs.
Protected areas:
• With the assistance of the three levels of government and
of society, increase, expand and improve
protected natural areas of the country and
strengthen the National System of Natural Areas
Protected by encouraging social participation in
their management with the aim of their activities
economic benefit to its inhabitants.
Encourage forestry and reforestation activities
Sustainable:
• Promoting sustainable forestry development
would reduce or even eliminate the alarming deforestation in the country and prevent soil degradation.
• Apply a more incisive policy
protection of forests in the country and strengthen the
law enforcement on the issue of illegal logging.
• Strengthen reforestation programs
 | p ties f o r l m e l e c t r a l

country, favoring the protection and reforestation
economic opportunities for Mexicans
committed forest owners and forest
sustainability.
Strengthen the protection of soils:
• Strengthen and soil conservation programs and improved cultural practices economic
land use technical assistance and services
technology transfer.
Conserve and protect wildlife:
• Strengthen implementation and enforcement of the
law on the issue of poaching and wildlife trafficking
flora and fauna.
Enhance processes and gear:
• Develop and implement technological upgrading of fishing gear to reduce the overexploitation of fish stocks and catches
incidental by-catch.
Ecosystem restoration:
• Substantially increase the priority restoration activities and strategic ecosystems.
• Establish the principle that damage the ecosystem, you must pay the remediation actions.
• Integrate ecosystem vision in planning,
development and operation of tourism projects and
sustainable economic operations.
Protection of aquatic ecosystems:
• To strengthen significantly the protection of
mangroves, lagoons, river deltas, areas

coastal and coral reef ecosystems because it is fundamental for economic activities that develop and services
environment they provide.
Increased employment and promotion of economic instruments
Environmental:
• Increase the use of new instruments and
modalities for conservation as payment
environmental services; biological corridors; areas
private; certification of sustainable use; and others.
• Develop and introduce new financial instruments in areas of natural resource management.
• encourage the strengthening of a market for environmental services in Mexico that generates jobs and
income for rural communities that provide
environmental services and for coastal communities by promoting, among other industries like
Whale watching in strategic places,
ecotourism services to sanctuaries species
protected as the monarch butterfly or activities of ecological fishing, among others.
Mexico is a country with great environmental diversity. We have deserts, forests and jungles and endemic animals, unique in the world. As a result, the
protection is a task for everyone. Forests are
consuming alarmingly. Among the oversights
by fire, excessive logging and the effects of natural disasters caused by climate change,
We're running out of them. It has also brought consequences such as soil degradation, declining
in filtering water tables and sadly
lost natural resources and animal species.

On the conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity, for the PRI it is indispensable:
• Preserve natural environments of different
regions and the most fragile ecosystems.
• To safeguard the genetic diversity of the species
wild.
• To preserve species that are endangered, threatened, endemic, rare
and which are subject to special protection.
• Strengthen implementation and enforcement of the
law on the issue of poaching and wildlife trafficking
flora and fauna.
• To promote a truly sustainable forest development that would reduce or even eliminate the
alarming deforestation in the country and prevent soil degradation.
• Apply an aggressive policy of protecting natural forests.
• Strengthen programs and contributions are made to
field so that no soil production runs.
• Improve infrastructure for ducts
water reach all areas of planting.
• Protecting forests to prevent desertification
productive areas.
• Avoid the use of pesticides and toxic chemicals or
harmful to our soil.
• Define stringent monitoring measures and transmission of oil and derivatives, and other chemicals, to prevent accidents and spills.
• To promote joint venture projects for the generation of alternative energy in different
regions.
  : 2012 | 

• Support companies that promote the use of pro-

products
Water is one of the elements of nature more
important for human life. However, this
vital resource is not inexhaustible or renewable. In addition, the
population growth makes its endowment is
increasingly scarce and increase problems
distribution.
Being a strategic resource for economic and social development of the country, it is indispensable:
• Improve legislation on water, particularly in specific regulations for
benefit to states and municipalities.
• Avoid over-exploitation of aquifers, passing
for administration by the watershed.
• To control and prevent leaks in distribution networks.
• Establish measures to prevent contamination
water, promote the treatment of wastewater and
prevent misuse of resources by the population.
• Strengthening Program Treatment Plants
in the budget.
• Improve distribution networks and supply for
the water reaches everyone equally regardless
the location or economic status.
• To modernize irrigation methods because of the high
volume of water used in agriculture, through the construction of new infrastructure
to increase the amount of surface storage, distribution and irrigation.
• Promote water harvesting structures
stormwater in urban planning of metropolitan areas and building construction
intelligent and sustainable.
 | p ties f o r l m e l e c t r a l

Comprehensive waste management

Today, in Mexico less than 20% of fillers
Health officials operate under the rules and approximately 30% of the waste remains nationally
open sky. In response, the PRI proposes:
Promote a national policy with a comprehensive approach that simultaneously establish prevention measures in waste generation and disposal
adequate thereof. This policy will establish actions and aggressive measures of collection, reuse and recycling to help improve
health and quality of life of the population, as well as
create jobs and support the transition towards development
sustainable.
Coordination:
• Involve all sectors of society to

that each co-responsibly assume their role in the design and implementation of
systems integrated management of waste in its
areas of competence.
• Harmonize land management policies and integrated management of waste
promote proper management between the three levels
government, as well as the convenient location
facilities for it.
• Articulate effective and co-responsibility to
competent institutions in different subjects that involves the management of the
residues.
• Design and implement municipal plans and programs of integrated waste management providing technical and financial support. Start with pilot projects in strategic municipalities.

Economic incentives:
• Establish systems of integrated management of re-

•
•

•

•

wastes achieve the necessary balance environmental and economic efficiency, technical feasibility and
social acceptance.
Promote and develop markets for the sale of recycled materials, compost and biogas.
Promote the establishment of waste recovery companies and encourage those economically instrumented programs
use of them and discourage
those that do not.
Establish a system of payments for services
integrated management of waste for whom
generate, taking into account the amount generated
and the particular circumstances of each locality.
Encourage research and development of methods of recycling and waste treatment.

Research and Education:
• Implement programs and resources classification

tion and recycling of waste in the municipalities.

• Evaluate waste contaminated sites

to determine priorities for restoration in
depending on the potential risks to health and the
ambient.
• Design, implement and manage campaigns
education and mass communication media
communication and educational institutions for
implementation of a national recycling program
of garbage.
• Design programs of environmental education and involve all schools and towns in the country
and that they remain constant and consistent.

Planning and land use

In recent decades, population growth
Mexico has been conducted at an accelerated pace; the
urban spread rapidly, exceeding
city ​​limits, joining others in a process of
expansion resulting in the creation of metropolitan areas; they become shared responsibilities
between different municipalities and states.
The development is significant approaches
designing strategies for the growth of cities and their needs. We propose:
• Creation of green areas, and dissemination projects
ecological in cities.
• Promote the collection and treatment of water
rain and establishing measures to prevent
wastage in urban systems.
• To encourage the reuse of treated water in agriculture, industry, aquifer recharge
and landscape irrigation.
• To promote substantive works aimed at expanding green areas to improve quality of life.
• Tackling water leaks in urban areas,
through the improvement and rehabilitation
inter infrastructure.
• Promote Environmental Program and Cities
Socially Sustainable promote the methodology and minimum standards for
environmental governance, water, air, waste, soil
and climate change.
Education and Research

Caring for the environment requires the use of

new technologies and constant research. The
technology implementation should be a factor
  : 2012 | 

intervene to make more effective the effort to compensate
the damage incurred in the soil, water and all
ecosystems. It is a tool that contributes to
the task of caring for the environment in which we live. In addition,
possible technological advances lead to activities that drive the national economy in the form
ecological.
It is a priority to involve the national agencies
research and academic institutions in the
governmental environmental planning processes and
and the design and implementation of environmental projects
of the various productive sectors. It is for this
the PRI proposes:
• Allocate the necessary resources for the study and

•

•
•

•

disseminating research lines in universities, research centers, foundations and associations generally related to education and
research of environmental issues.
Incorporate issues of conservation and care
the environment in the various educational levels, especially at the basic level.
Promote the training of specialists highly
qualified in environmental matters.
Encourage and promote scientific research
programs for the development of techniques and procedures to prevent, control and
reduce pollution, promote the rational use of resources and protecting ecosystems, as well as designing the best measures
adaptation and mitigation of climate change.
Promote higher education institutions applied research projects for the
alternative energy generation.

  | p ties f o r l m e c t r a l

• To promote the application of new technologies

efficiently use the field to use
natural resources.
• Promote the use of new technologies to provide services to cities along with the implementation of ecological energy production alternatives to existing methods
production become more efficient.
Overall, the PRI proposed to integrate a
pose achieve sustainable environmental policy benefits of social, economic and environmental impact on
Local, national and global levels, with the participation of
private sector and social organizations to improve
competitiveness, based on scientific input and
promoting technological product innovation
friendly nature, culture Care
environment and economic and social activities
truly sustainable.

IN MEXICO
NEW CONTEXT
INTERNATIONAL

  : 2012 | 

The international system is undergoing transformation,
a multipolar configuration. The ability of
countries not measured only in the traditional way (from
military strength, population or economic variables), but
that, gradually, the power is more distributed
various actors, national and organizational few others.
In the case of Mexico, its geographical position, the composition of their international relations and economy, it faces unprecedented challenges to face new
configuration of the international system. Mexico has
a large dependence on the United States and any
variation in the stage of its main partner affects you
more than proportionally. Moreover, the country has
lost maneuverability in Latin America, particularly in the Southern Cone, the alliance with Europe
barely relevant at the moment and contacts
Asia still have a very limited scope.
In response, foreign policy must recover
as a state policy, which will open new opportunities to the country, regain promoting our
interest and transform the respect he still has in the
community of nations, through better cooperation actions and instruments, financing and
promotion of development.
Mexico's image has deteriorated in the world
following the "war on drugs". While the country
an average power remains an important country
in Latin America and an economy that has a place
among the top fifteen in the world, the external perception suggests a country where the rule of law is
proof, democracy is fragile, the policy is ambiguous,
inequality is staggering and there are thousands of deaths without
It has been declared a civil war. Many
chiaroscuro in the international image of Mexico that
 | p ties f o r l m e l e c t r a l

They need to be corrected with a different conception of
our international relations.
Mexico needs to modernize its concept of sovereignty. Which it has changed the world as a product of globalization, and at least three of the biggest
-Migration problems of this country, fighting drug trafficking and climate change force you to think about it so
different, with more emphasis on cooperation and less on
autarky. In that regard, it is important to update
instruments of Mexican foreign policy and place
in the new scenario.
On the issue of migration, Mexico has a triple identity: country of removal (the most important
world), transit country and the host country of migrants, including Central Americans. So important
and take better defend our
nationals abroad, it is to meet the problems associated with those who travel or stay in the country.
It's time to clearly define Mexico
how you want to participate in the international system. With
sovereignty, with dignity, with clear principles and goals. Once you decide this, Mexico must act
strategically. It certainly is a big, rich country,
an enviable geopolitical intersection, and a
wide participation in key international treaties of the community of nations, but that is not
all that is needed to achieve and sustain our
place in the world. The most important thing is to have clear
long-term objectives and also the conviction
what you want to achieve.
It is urgent to strengthen our foreign policy objectives that go in line with the policy that we must continue in the interior, and preventive diplomacy
It was later to attend problems and timely.

The PRI is determined to retake the courses and the initiative
lost and forge a foreign policy that projects to
Mexico in all its potential and promote our vital interests.

•

Foreign policy objectives

Our new foreign policy will be formulated with vision
strategic long-term and with a clear definition of
the political, economic and social objectives to be achieved:
• Participate responsibly in the international arena in order to help control and combat the threat of global character and the crisis
international financial, organized crime,
climate change, food crisis, poverty,
the spread of pandemics and terrorism.
• To promote the attraction of foreign direct investment and promote foreign trade, ensuring that these processes are accompanied by technology transfer, use of domestic inputs
in the production and training of our human resources. To that end, it is essential
internally invest in quality education,
technologies and infrastructure development.
• Intensify participation in agencies
multilateral economic and sponsor reforms
and necessary regulations of the financial system
transnational.
• Strengthen cooperation agreements and strategies on security, combating
organized crime, drug trafficking and arms smuggling, precursor chemicals and goods
trading partners, both with our neighbors
North America, and with the countries of
Central America and the rest of Latin America. Apo

•

•

•

•

yar that they legislate to penalize laundering
money, and together we improve confidence
for mutual exchanges of intelligence and confidential information.
Give priority to immigration, both from the south as those
leave north. We must develop schemes
shared responsibility with partners
to guarantee us our borders and ensure
legality, safety, fair treatment and human rights.
Expand and improve advocacy services
Mexicans abroad, ensuring respect for human rights and observation
due process in cases of complaint
court.
Bolster the defense of human rights,
promote the universalization and improvement of the relevant conventions and promote
legitimacy of the organs of international jurisdiction recognized, always ensuring non-
intervention.
Contribute to the construction of a new architecture of major multinational institutions, strengthening their effectiveness, timely
performance and full compliance with their agreements. To this effect we must ensure our presence
active in them and make use of rotary positions
and choice corresponding to Mexico.
Actively participate in the decisions of the G-20
for the establishment of global pacts
employment growth, a fairer international taxation rules and the move to close
tax havens, tax evasion sources.
  : 2012 | 

• Diversify our foreign relations, seek

Cando strategic partners to open up new
markets, sources of investment and technologies,
We sitúen networks more regional, continental, trans-national and global governance, and
help overcome partnerships and relationships
ancestral and onerous.
• Leverage the category of strategic partners
the EU has given to us for promoting our interests in that area of ​​the world.
New instruments for foreign policy
• To promote cultural diplomacy as a means

privileged to endorse strong relationships and
long term with other countries and to
be heard with attention in various forums
multilateral.
• To promote the activities of the Agency for International Development Cooperation (AMEXCID) useful instrument to amplify relations
with relatively less developed countries by
programs of cultural, technical, educational cooperation, scientific, and so on.
• Improve timely dialogue with the Senate
the Republic. Proactive diplomacy must work with those directly involved
and also, crucially, with the Senate
Republic, which resolves several far-reaching foreign policy issues.
• To promote parliamentary diplomacy as an adjuvant effective in promoting the interests
national and rapprochement between representatives
popular, non-governmental organizations and
citizens.

 | p ties f o r l m e l e c t r a l

MEXICO RELATIONS WITH THE WORLD
1. Regional Priorities
North America
• With the United States we have an intense relationship

•

•

•

•

tion that should be subject to continuous processes
to adapt to the different stages of the policy of both countries.
Strengthen cooperation on issues related
NAFTA, particularly the acute problems of the countryside, the environment and distribution
water at the border, and go providing solutions to the problems of border binational cities.
We stand against all forms of discrimination, racism, intolerance and violence,
particularly against immigration policies and legislation that promote xenophobia and insecurity
of migrants.
The relationship with the United States should be based on
dialogue, unrestricted respect for human rights, reciprocity, mutual benefit and seeking negotiated solutions to conflicts
and differences in the treatment of problems
bilateral and global.
On security, we stand strongly to strengthen joint efforts
the fight against organized crime and drug trafficking. We affirm that we must ensure climate
mutual trust that allows sharing
intelligence and confidential information. We confirmed that efforts must continue
by reducing the consumption of drugs in
both countries, money laundering, and trafficking
weapons and chemical precursors to Mexico.

• The Mexican population in the United States TIE

•

•

•

•

ne constraints to political influence. The
consulates and the Embassy should approach these
communities and act as intermediaries between
the needs of nationals and US authorities. It is for the national and local Hispanic organizations,
assume the leadership against the US authorities.
With Canada should be promoted more intensively trade, investment and
tourism, and should promote higher forms
cooperation and efforts continue
trilateral integration already agreed.
Both governments must work on easing the visa, reducing cost and facilitating the movement of travelers.
We are for addressing the field of
security for both countries, promoting training and promoting border security
cooperation in the implementation of reforms
the justice system.
We stand for a temporary worker program, paying particular attention to
the protection of their human rights and their
Labor conditions.

Central America and the Caribbean

Retrieve the relationship has historically Mexico
had with this region, particularly on issues of common interest-trade, agriculture, illegal migration, drug trafficking and organized crime-and
on issues related to development in general.
• Mexico must resume their interest in attending the
region, especially considering that the solution

•

•

•

•

•

many problems require solutions
shared responsibilities.
Rebuild the relationship with Cuba under
political, cultural and social development of countries in the region economic integration.
Rescuing the relationship with the Anglo and Francophone nations through programs of technical assistance in disaster prevention
natural, health and education, among others. The
Mexico-CARICOM Summit meetings must
strengthen political rapprochement with the region
Caribbean.
Strengthen the Central American Security Strategy, especially on issues of flow of weapons, trafficking and kidnapping of migrants.
Support the development of the region beyond
security matters. Strengthen commercial and educational relations, technical assistance
and the political approach.
Stimulating action of the mechanisms for political consultation and economic support that affect the region, such as the Organization of
American States, the Inter-
Development, the World Bank, the Rio Group,
American Summit and the European Union.

South America

We propose to recover the approach to this area
taking advantage of the new political landscape, identifying
political, economic and social issues of common interest. Back to the coordination and cooperation of our
actions within the multilateral organizations
where we act together.
• Reinforce the centrality of South-South cooperation,
which they are focused most countries
  : 2012 | 

•

•

•

•

region. More proactive, you can take advantage
niches to expand our presence and business.
In addition to the commercial, Mexico should approach
regional cooperation initiatives on issues
global governance, human rights,
security and justice, democratic reform
international institutions and organizations, and
fighting organized crime.
Strengthen the relationship in the economic and
cultural, educational and technological, as well as seek consultations on environment and change
climate.
Build a new relationship with Brazil to strengthen political, trade and relations
investment in the country and turn them into bridge
to the South American Community of Nations,
Mercosur, the Andean Community of Nations and the BRICs.
Strengthening systems for cooperation and trade, science and technology with
the countries of the Andean Community and strengthen
Conventions security and combating drug trafficking.

Europe

The Mexico-Europe relationship should be better used
for our country. It should make full use of the links in foreign trade and deepen the political relationship, especially in the forums
multilateral. Translate punctually category
strategic partner of the EU has granted Mexico.
• The Mexican government must do more and
better use of the Free Trade Agreement. Should
foster the creation of better schemes
business support for SMEs and higher
  | p ties f o r l m e c t r a l

use of commercial relations
with the region.
• At the political level, should strengthen ties with major powers. Should be sought
matches on relevant issues of the international agenda to negotiate jointly,
such as climate change, biodiversity,
disarmament, human rights and reform
United Nations and others.
• assistance should be encouraged by the
EU on issues of public safety and
law enforcement in both the sectoral dialogue
public security and law enforcement,
and in multilateral fora.
• also be sought greater cooperation
science and technology, particularly in areas
such as biotechnology, nanotechnology and the environment, within the framework of the Agreement on Science
and Technology.
Eurasia

We deserve special attention Russia, relations with
that country, such as cooperation in the energy sector, science and technology, culture and education, will
priority.
Asia and China

Mexico should continue to actively participate in the
regional forums and strengthen the presence of its products and business in Asian growth markets.
It should also seek to attract investments
Asian powers to Mexico.
• With Japan should increase bilateral trade and investment, particularly in infra-

•

•

•
•

•

•

ture, automotive and clean technologies.
It is imperative to use the comparative advantages of the Free Trade Agreement.
The Republic of Korea can be major investor in our country, especially in technology-as well as a valuable ally in
multilateral issues, where some positions
both countries are close.
They should create stronger links with India and
Indonesia, regional powers with significant economic weight. With India, it should be given continuity to the "privileged partnership" given to
Mexico in 2007.
China should strengthen political dialogue
as emerging powers.
In the High-Level Mexico-China and
Permanent Dialogue Forum between the Mexican Congress and the Chinese People's Assembly,
among others, should continue to strengthen the
links, and seek to improve cooperation against
organized crime and piracy.
Economically, it should be greater access for Mexican products to the Chinese market as well
as seeking greater investments in our country.
It should be increased scientific and technical cooperation, particularly in agro-sciences, fisheries,
higher education, health and water resources.

Oceania

This relationship should be strengthened. Mexico is the main trade partner of Australia in Latin America. Agriculture and mining are likely to benefit from the
Australian and New Zealand investment and in
tourism and education.

Africa and Middle East

It should support the development of these regions in the forums
multilateral, and foster ties with its major
nations in international organizations.
• If possible, seek links Mexico
with key countries in the region such as South Africa,
Nigeria, Kenya and Egypt.
• We will work to strengthen the relations
with the nations of Middle East issues
energy, trade and the political and democratic development to international stability.
2. MULTILATERAL

Globalization creates changes in the way of acting
some countries over others. That is why international organizations are a vital forum to form
links with other nations and to mold together the
new international architecture. It should promote a
greater participation, greater initiative and
best spaces in these areas, both in scope
regional as global impact.
• Mexico should use its participation in these fora to push toward greater activity
issues related to the fight against corruption, the fight against drugs and organized crime, democratic elections, advocacy
human, intellectual property protection, and
strengthening the organs of justice.
• Mexico must act on these forums as factor
attracting resources to respond to call
"Oldies" as underdevelopment, famine,
extreme poverty and the "new generation" as climate change, organized crime and humanitarian aid.
  : 2012 | 

• Action in these forums should help Mexico

to establish links with geographically distant nations, supporting vital themes
development.

• Ensure constant presence in major

multilateral organizations in which Mexico participates.

• It requires a foreign policy with a voice ar-

So far the emphasis to implement the new foreign policy. In a rapidly changing today's world,
Undoubtedly there will be new additional priorities.
Running a foreign policy course

•

It is necessary to modernize the internal structure of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the embassies
and consulates. To this end we propose:
• Implement a thorough administrative reform

It is going to revitalize the Foreign Service, to combat
avoid inefficiency and misuse of resources.
• Update the mechanisms to promote career staff, making them more transparent
and more based on academic merit and
job performance. Career staff
Foreign Service is a cornerstone of the policy
Mexico international.
• Promote more agile communication mechanisms that allow the exchange of timely and accurate information, especially in
moments of crisis. This modernization is still
more urgent in the offices abroad.
• Bringing the consular network reflection centers
and the means of local and regional media to strengthen knowledge of Mexico,
encourage the promotion of investment and trade, and to encourage support for innovation and technology transfer.
 | p ties f o r l m e l e c t r a l

•

•

•

monica to the rest of the world, which sets forth
various international expressions of the federal executive bodies, other powers
Union, other levels of government,
as well as social organizations and groups
interest.
The priority is to return to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs a space in decisions
involving issues of international order. The
executive agencies, and even states and
municipalities should conduct their international activities in coordination with the Foreign Ministry.
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs must recover incidence in areas of foreign trade, and urges,
in particular that effective coordination mechanisms are respected on the international agenda issues with implications for national security.
Must ensure the voice of our experts
the various areas of public policy, in line with members of the Foreign Service, the
Mexico performance in multilateral organizations in which we participate.
It should encourage the harmonizing function
Ministry of Foreign Affairs in major international actions of social, economic and political actors in the country.

The commitment of the PRI is to recover the image
Mexico in the world and uphold the principles
constitutional and diplomatic traditions in the new
international environment.

VERTIENTES
STRATEGIC
POLICY
PUBLIC

  : 2012 | 

The findings of the consultation and dialogue with society that called the PRI and the Colosio Foundation
A.C. in recent months they are reflected in the axes
strategic and forth in the preceding chapters.
The guidance proposed to give new
direction the country is based on the following priorities:
>> The need to combine and align all
public policy instruments to achieve
equitable development;
>> Realize the importance of institutional reform that allows to improve our regime
political, more effective government action; Y,
>> Build a broad social and political consensus
around the national project we propose.
The conclusions of Mexico Program are
PRI political proposal and the basis of its program
Government for the period 2012-2018, the same we want by the following principles of Eastern policy
public. They constitute the political base and proposal
his government program for the period 2012-2018,
we want it be guided by the following
public policy principles:

• The orientation of public service to citizens.
• The mainstreaming of equal criteria

•
•

•

•

•

• Collaboration unrestricted powers in the order

a productive democracy and the strengthening of rule of law.
• Promotion of cooperative federalism, fincado in an efficient intergovernmental relations and a broad new pact
responsibility, economic, fiscal and for
social equity.
• Comprehensive reform of public management model,
under the following criteria:
  | p ties f o r l m e l e c t r a l

•

•

gender; affirmative action rights
people with disabilities; and the eradication of all forms of discrimination.
A proactive policy of transparency and accountability.
The rationalization of public spending by
harsh austerity policies, setting organizational structures and reducing levels
unjustified charges and cancellation of privileges
bureaucratic.
The update of the structure of public administration based on the intersectoral
qualitative goals, organizational flexibility
according to program objectives and practice
a collaborative public service.
The promotion of a new legal status for
improve planning, performance, control and efficiency of public enterprises and agencies
self-regulation.
Reconfiguration planning system
development, to harmonize the principles of guidance of the State with an effective governance
the economy, the promotion of social development and
research and higher education.
The reconceptualization of the national strategy
for decentralization and regional development,
based on federal criteria of equity, national productivity and social responsibility and
Private with intergovernmental programs.
The effective strengthening of municipal autonomy and modernization of the institution
City Hall, to address the serious demands

of the conurbation and metropolitan phenomena.

• The consolidation of a statute of government

Mexico City that recognizes the rights
Politicians of its inhabitants and the uniqueness and strategic importance of the Valley of Mexico to the
balanced development.
• The promotion of a harmonious system of administrative justice at the local and federal levels,
under the premise of efficiency, to provide effective protection to the rights of citizens and
certainty for economic operators.
The program sections are discussed in addition

lante include the basic actions demanded by the
society throughout the consultation process of this document and are designed as a true platform for the PRI and its candidates maintain
Dialogue and debate throughout society
the next federal political-electoral campaigns,
so that citizens continue to incorporate their proposals which will, after the elections, the guidelines of the 2012-2018 Government Programme, and the
framework of cooperation of powers, proposals for
LXII Legislature agenda of the Congress.
The PRI is committed to maintaining open to the community all the traditional channels of communication and, especially, the services offered by our
website and social networks for each
Theme section citizens can make comments, criticisms and contributions.
The following policy guidelines set forth
public that are considered strategic for the various
public administration sectors. Importantly, these sections do not constitute an exhibition

exhaustive of all actions that can and should
done, but those that were subject to greater
attention and debate in our exercise of dialogue with the
society.
SECURITY

The problem of organized crime, drug trafficking and
common crime must be fought by
State policy on security that is comprehensive, based on the institutional reform and propose more equitable development, that has
with a clear political and social consensus, and be as
target restore peace without concessions or abuse of
human rights. We need a clear strategy
strengthen the rule of law and its institutions and,
same time, align all public policies; than
do not allow collateral damage; decrease poverty,
unemployment, school dropouts, internal migration and
other factors that have triggered the unacceptable
current situation. For that:
• will adopt a comprehensive, multidimensional and inter-agency approach where all policies
public help to change situations
generating insecurity, violence and impunity.
• will respond to public safety as an issue
which it can not be treated separately from economic development and social policy
understand the effects of unemployment, poverty
and inequality have generated a new reality of social conflict, where violence
and impunity are fertile ground for
growth.
• We will strengthen development programs and
strengthening the social fabric in the regions,
  : 2012 |  

•

•

•

•

•

•

cities and communities to present high crime rates.
Conjuntaremos efforts from different fields of action to overcome the current situation
emergency requiring a response involving all individuals, families and all
social and political actors.
We will primarily social, economic, cultural and political diagnoses of urban spaces, to have the ability to influence
risk factors and the triggering factors
insecurity. We can not make the mistake
homogenize problematic since its origin and nature, they have been different.
We create intelligence systems both at
as the federal states and the
major urban centers, for a decision
timely and orderly decisions, to increase
effectiveness and reduce undesired effects of
use of force available to the state.
Build well-paid police force, capable, recruitment systems,
selection, promotion and tenure transparent to encourage good practice and sound
competence, merit recognition, the
training, which are product promotions
recognition of the history and performance, to
permanent and based on oppositions training.
We analyze the relevance of concentrating
intelligence activities and fighting crime
drug trafficking and organized in a single institution, under a clear legal status approved
internationally.
We integrate a national strategy to reduce

 | p ties f o r l m e l e c t r a l

•

•

•

•

•

•

violence specifically focused on reducing the number of homicides, kidnappings and
extortion, maximizing coordination corporations.
Promote greater investment in infrastructure, equipment and intelligence tasks
the fight against organized crime.
We will refine the channels and mechanisms
coordination between the three levels of government
and between institutions responsible for
public safety, to facilitate the adoption of
State policies around appropriate and
timely prioritization.
We will set the guidelines for operation and timing, as well as the legal limits of the involvement of armed forces in security
public, preserving its institutional integrity and
the civil nature of public safety.
We will fight as a fundamental part of the strategy the financial structures of organized crime through the implementation and enforcement of
international money laundering provisions.
We are to analyze the transformation of the
FIU into a decentralized agency of the Ministry of Finance
and Public Credit, with increased resources for
effective fight against money laundering and the financing of organized crime.
We will review international cooperation agreements to combat organized crime, with particular attention to the strategic role of the US-Mexico joint plans
States, primarily in regard to
arms trafficking and money laundering.

• We will have more control over customs

•

•

•

•

•

country and discuss the relevance of creating Police
Border to combat the entry of products
the country for illicit unsupervised customs points. Focus strategy at borders
combating trafficking of arms, people and money.
We propose a common front between federal government, state governments and
municipalities to combat insecurity,
strengthening joint programs, promoting legislative reforms and speeding
transformation of administrative structures and
operations that are necessary for the modernization and professionalization of debugging
security and justice systems of states and
municipalities.
In the same vein the implementation of joint actions in matters is very important as
trafficking, money laundering, kidnapping, extortion telephone, mail fraud,
car theft and, of course, all kinds of
violent action of organized crime.
Effectively apply all the laws
have approved security, insufficient or improperly operated, as is the
case of forfeiture, the roots and the
witness protection.
Strengthen the culture of legality in
three levels of government enhance the morale
public, civic culture and the culture of reporting to reduce the potential for conflict and
give certainty to citizens.
We will increase the reliability of citizens to the public security institutions,
through the establishment of mechanisms

accountability, transparency and evaluation
results, internal and external, citizens and social councils observatories.
• propose the strengthening of the National Council Against Addictions, for the effective
prevention programs and rehabilitation of addicts. Especially we attend to the problems and
needs of young people to reduce the risk of
that are integrated into criminal activities.
• We will promote greater social participation and
a better partnership government
with civil society in addressing this acute problem, where social organizations
They have much to teach.
JUSTICE

The effective guarantee prompt access to justice and
expeditiously is a cornerstone of the rule of law. This is not the task of the judiciary but a
public function inherent to the state and the federation. Mexico needs a justice with effective protection
fundamental rights to accompany
development processes it has set in
economic and social fields. A cemented justice
on social equality, family well-being, harmony
Community, culture of legality and respect for the
law, government honesty, unconditional respect
human rights and security policy
effective citizen. For that:
• We will implement a comprehensive strategy to care
the whole process, from crime prevention,
criminal proceedings, investigation, prosecution of crime, the administration of justice, including victim care and execution
sanctions, unlike the current policy
  : 2012 | 

•

•

•

•

federal government whose effort is concentrated mainly in the pursuit of criminals.
Exert a policy to promote certainty regarding the role of the Public Ministry
as a cornerstone for research and
the prosecution of crimes.
We will ensure that the Ministry's action
Public, is not related to any kind of criteria
Legal or not technical, avoiding
interference by the Chief Executive in
investigation and determination issues
its competence.
We will create a system of remuneration
raise their income and considering its performance
path, acknowledge their participation and evaluation systems of training and professional specialization.
We propose to thoroughly review the criminal law
decriminalize not serious behaviors such as vehicle accidents, so-called crimes of honor,
among others, to place them in the civil law.

In the administration of Justice, we propose:
• Increase the efficiency of judges and courts,
shifting attention from non-serious matters
a system of mediation centers and justice
alternative.
• Strengthen the presence and role of the victim and
of the offended in criminal proceedings.
• To strengthen the justice systems of common law
They are those with about 90% of the
workload, with equipment, technology and
better pay.
• The comprehensiveness of the new strategy to take
 | p ties f o r l m e l e c t r a l

to ensure public safety and to lower impunity granted greater attention and priority
implementation of reforms to the justice system
Criminal with full protection of human rights.
• We will promote the application of penal reform
2008 on oral trials to ensure better delivery of justice and especially in recent amparo.
• We will promote a series of institutional reforms beginning with the Attorney General
Republic of assessing the possibility of creating
two prosecutors:
>> An autonomous body entrusted to serve

the set of criminal activities under federal jurisdiction that are not crimes against health.
>> An Attorney General for Combating Crime
Organized (including drug trafficking) that is a
technically autonomous organ of intelligence.
• Strengthen the Ministry of the Interior in

its functions of planning, implementing and coordinating actions of national public safety
and civic and civil protection.
• We will orient the design of a policy of justice
civic and social, with an effective judicial system,
accessible, well designed and oriented to the containment of violence in social conflicts,
It is capable of detecting and pacify social conflicts
before they become violent.
• We will design judicial, administrative and community mechanisms appropriate to solve
a flexible, fair, peaceful and just our
differences, decreasing profitability

violence and profit to the delay in granting justice.
• propose to discuss the creation of a Secretariat
Justice that is responsible for designing this set of mechanisms, favoring the law as
fundamental mechanism for resolving
conflicts, strictly guarding the area
functions of the judiciary and the sphere of competence of the Ministry of Interior.

>> Alerting the Superior Audit Office

•

TRANSPARENCY AND ACCOUNTABILITY

•

We head a government with zero tolerance
corruption, transparent, accountable, to achieve
its mandate, costing taxpayers less and
to maintain the necessary openness for citizens to obtain information, and it can constatarla
We can ask for a full explanation of the decisions made and the results achieved.
We are aware that on this basis democracy is strengthened and reencausa dialogue with society on a
scenario legitimacy and responsibility.
• seek greater powers for the Federal Institute of Access to Information in order to
have authority to:

•

•

>> Monitoring compliance and resolve negative

Access to information legislature
and Judicial.
>> Impose sanctions via fines or fincando responsibilities for breach of its resolutions.
>> Sort to obligated parties to generate
previously declared as missing information, provided it relates to their
legal mandates.

•

(ASF) on all areas of opacity detected by denial, incomplete presentation or
declaration of no information
public.
We will promote reform legislation
monitoring, to allow the ASF do
their functions promptly and that its recommendations are binding. We evaluate the appropriateness of giving it constitutional autonomy.
We will promote the strengthening of areas
information of the Executive, Legislative and Judiciary, empowering the people in charge of
these, to get a clear dominance in the classification of the information that is in the hands of
State and legal means to respond in a timely manner.
We will promote a reform of the legal framework
procurement system, public procurement and works by relaxing and being transparent rules
for procurement and contracting in the public sector, creating electronic auction systems and
approved pricing information.
We will promote a reform of the legal framework for improved regulatory system to adjust the mandate, scope and instruments
Federal Regulatory Improvement Commission and
respective state commissions to achieve a genuine deregulation approval
and simplification of rules and procedures within
public administration.
We will promote the reform of responsibilities and accountability for
simplify and clarify the different types of faults,
  : 2012 |  

violations and offenses that may incur the
when public servants comply neither met
his duties when they commit acts of
Corruption, if not achieved satisfactory results for society, do not make decisions
quickly or cause the units or
entities incur unnecessary expenses.
• We will facilitate the exercise and the effectiveness of public service, but recognizing that the bureaucracy also affects the rational use of resources
endureceremos while, penalties and punishments when unlawful acts are committed.
• reorganize the bureaucracy to
it has clear mandates and approach it
efficiency, transparency and efficiency to achieve the
national development objectives by precise targets and reliable indicators of accountability
accounts.

•
•

•

•

FISCAL FEDERALISM

The dynamics for the distribution of public resources
prevailing between the entities and the federal government
It is inequitable and has serious distortions. Despite
that, in recent years the federation has delegated
greater obligations on the states without giving them more resources. Given this scenario, we will promote one
new federalism that is based on restructuring
the tax powers of the three branches of government,
recognition of the need to improve the effort
tax collection in local government and the productive use
financing.
• We will build a new fiscal coordination, with redistribution of tax powers and
decentralization and better definition, not only
  | p ties f o r l m e l e c t r a l

•

•

•

expenditure management, but exercise
powers.
We will increase the tax base of the three levels of government.
We will promote the decentralization policy
tax to states and municipalities gradually
and strengthen local governments by
expanding its tax and spending powers
public, and clear commitments to raise the municipal property tax taxation.
Decentralize the federal government investment
for most of the public works
They are implemented by state governments,
technical assistance, norms of federal agencies and the support of schools
professionals in a context of competitiveness,
transparency and supporting the local economy.
Recognize and heritage revaloraremos
public, especially in states and municipalities,
in order to ensure their preservation and
utilization and capitalization
without equity assets.
Rigorously define responsibilities between
government orders on sensitive subjects such as
education and health, in order to balance liabilities, sources of income for your attention
and cost differentials by region and by state.
We will resolve the unfinished decentralization
the education and health services, as processes
that they have affected the state's finances.
Will adapt the legal framework within which the educational system is based, to better define
the competences and commitments

spending among the various levels of government.

• improve coordination between the three chil-

•

•

•

•

Veles government and the fate of federalized spending on public safety, from
the legal changes necessary for better
operation of the national security program
and national public procurement system and
administration of justice.
Transferable attend urgent budget requirements and state governments
for municipal public safety, Recognizing singularities level
institutional development of our municipalities, to promote the gradual system in the regulations.
We will promote the implementation and deployment of innovative mechanisms of public and private funding, which contribute to the strengthening of public finances ensuring
sustainability.
We will encourage the states to
participate in defining the design and implementation of the operating rules of the
federal sector programs clear impact
regional.
Promotion of cooperative federalism, fincado in an efficient intergovernmental relations and a broad new pact
responsibility, economic, fiscal and for
social equity.

ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT

We are committed to promote a series of strategies that activate all fronts of the Mexican economy

to achieve high and sustainable economic growth, and thus attain higher levels of development, reducing
poverty and social and regional inequality, retrieve and create
jobs, improve wages and return the feeling of
being present and future prosperity families.
• We will use all the instruments of economic policy to influence simultaneously on the
macroeconomic stability and growth
high, sustainable, fair and strong impact
in employment levels.
•'ll get a higher level of investment
Based on a higher savings of the three sectors:
families, businesses and government.
• We will increase the proportion of capital spending
in the budget and we will reduce the corresponding administrative expenditure.
• We will fight monopolistic practices will foster competition and permanent and comprehensive way.
• We will give certainty to economic actors through much needed reforms to the judicial system
and the performance of regulatory bodies.
• We will apply a long-term strategy to boost economic growth based on
quality and productivity of labor, the
qualified human resources, technological innovation and high levels of savings and investment.
• We will encourage business creation, greater productivity and increased competition these including seeking higher levels of
production and wages fully reflect
productivity gains.
• We will strengthen the innovative, scientific and technological capabilities of the country.
  : 2012 | 

• We will promote a modern industrial policy

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

that, with minimal cost to the public purse, articulate industrial clusters of products and services
high added value which it promotes
cooperation between higher education institutions, research centers and companies.
Adopt an industrial policy that promotes national proveeduría. Large companies
They must become the driving force to
small and medium businesses.
We analyze the relevance of strengthening the performance of the Bank of Mexico to care for
overall health of the financial system to boost
lending to production by the
commercial banks and participate in the promotion of
economic development and stability.
We will promote the strengthening of banking
development that contributes to financing
strategic sectors of the economy.
Detonate productive vocation of the strategic sectors of each of the regions
our country.
We will promote participation schemes
young entrepreneurs, and we will link to
working market.
We will promote unemployment insurance as a
extent necessary for income protection
from involuntary job loss.
Implement mechanisms equity
income, always seeking fair compensation for the work of women.
We will facilitate lending to women
with business initiatives, especially if they are
part of an organization of civil society.

  | p ties f o r l m e l e c t r a l

Tax Reform

We need to urgently undertake reforms to
make efficient allocation, exercise and evaluation
public spending, increase revenue to reduce the dependence of public finances respect
oil activity and prices and tariffs for goods and public services. Thus, it is undertaking a
Comprehensive reform:
• Ensure the structure and productive exercise, austere and decentralized public spending,
criteria of equity and efficiency, and with a
surrender of society accessible to all accounts.
• Review and update performance indicators
in order that expenditure allocations are based on a proper assessment of their results.
• Increase state revenues by distributing
better the tax burden, broadening the tax base and eliminate preferential treatment.
• Review the tax progressivity and grant incentives
investment.
• Remove the flat tax, incorporating its elements
ISR key companies and heritage of the people.
• Reduce fiscal and tax burden
Pemex detriment of its business strength and
developing.
• Simplify the tax system to promote
increasing the number of taxpayers and
competitiveness in general to invest and create
jobs.
• Fight tax evasion and avoidance, including
measures to reduce the informal economy and
smuggling, especially punishing corruption
customs.

• Impulse strengthening public finances

city ​​and state, establishing a genuine fiscal federalism with the review of tax powers and the Law of Fiscal Coordination.

•

EMPLOYMENT

The country has a serious problem of unemployment, underemployment and poor quality jobs, caused by low
economic growth and low productivity,
insufficient to create every year a million posts
are needed. The official unemployment numbers do not reflect
the profound reality in the field and its dramatic consequences on society, and income distribution
loss expectations. Therefore, economic policy
You must have two objectives: to create well-paid jobs and raise the standard of living of the population.
• Strengthen the domestic market through a
State policy and concrete actions to encourage
industrialization that allows us to recover the
economic growth, increase jobs,
wages and quality of life of workers.
• We will promote a sustained increase in productivity to make our country a competitive economy in global markets.
• We are committed to defend, strengthen and renew the institutions created by the Mexican State
as IMSS, ISSSTE and Infonavit.
• Through profitable projects with the Afores,
will make greater efforts to enable the
returns on savings accounts of workers and in a simple way transparentaremos
your information.
• We will integrate emerging forms a vigorous
employment program geared particularly

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

unemployed young people without educational options
immediate, that offers a view of life
honest and helpful.
We will support community and social initiatives
already they are forming a fourth sector of
formal economy, supported by innovative and sustainable forms of production and trade tools of solidarity and responsibility.
We present a legislative initiative
for the taxing the income of workers is eliminated by way of overtime
and social benefits.
Recover the purchasing power of wages, through a policy that wages grow faster than inflation.
Link, effectively, education and job training to productive economic activities.
Create a scholarship program for unemployed people-oriented work, especially for
women, indigenous and youth.
We will promote a labor policy that protects
collective bargaining, ensuring decent work and
labor justice; and reduce the cost and frequency
conflict.
We are committed to advancing better
regulation to promote the labor market
all its dimensions, to define schemes
hiring with ensuring social security and, above all, rely on government oversight of companies that use
to other companies that are subcontracted.
Radically revise the model of development and management of construction, financing and
  : 2012 | 

housing allowance, new and used, and
for expansion, remodeling or improvement,
seeking to ensure its quality and proximity to
urban centers and utilities for the family
worker.
• breeding programs will promote efficient public transport and non-motorized mobility in urban population centers, for
protect one of the areas of greatest impact on
household spending.
• We will strengthen the credit support programs
for consumption of durable goods for workers, social tourism and the enjoyment of leisure.

•

•

•

ENTERPRISES

Companies based in our country are paramount
for our economy: they are engine of our system
productive, detonating economic growth,
generating most of the formal employment and technology developers, so it is necessary to promote them through better financing and facilities
for investment, contribute to its productivity and
expansion and the improvement of sustainable national competitiveness. In this sense:
• shall confine conditions of effective competition
in all markets to boost productivity, foster innovation and attract domestic and foreign investment.
• We will benefit purchasing power of consumers with goods and services of high quality,
competitive prices.
• settle for a powerful new banking
development, able to increase the credit potential, it support in times of desacelera | pl formaelec tied to ral

•

•
•
•

•

•

nomic and has the priority to activate
micro, small and medium enterprises.
We will promote the opening of enterprises and the creation of productive chains to increase,
among others, the presence of small and medium-sized enterprises in international markets.
We will provide advice, training and financial support to innovative entrepreneurs who
promote profitable projects that incorporate
and technologies that aim
increased productivity and competitiveness of their
companies. We invite young innovators
create new jobs.
Public policy will promote regulatory reform to facilitate the opening of companies and
attracting investment incentive.
We will promote the spirit of entrepreneurship,
through microcredit loans to the word and
with direct support for business creation
social.
We will encourage the development of human capital
with great added value.
Strengthen protection mechanisms
consumer.
Generate access to credit instruments
for the population excluded by commercial banks,
as mutuality and corporatism, under strict government supervision.
We will lead the government-academiaempresa dialogue to trigger a virtuous circle of innovation and productivity in a new framework
participatory planning and national development
regional.
Implement an information strategy,

link and Guidance for those
historically vulnerable groups in search
employment: people with disabilities,
the elderly, farm workers, people released from a rehabilitation center or rehabilitation, recently graduated youth, among others.
Strategies for a modern industrial policy:
• We will promote market research to chil-

•

•
•

•

•

vel world to locate business opportunities
for Mexican companies; and we generate free information available to all companies.
We will promote education focused talent
the development of experts in various industries around the world as technical researchers
in acquiring technologies that are applied later in Mexico.
We seek investment and leadership development
of technology.
We will promote the development of small and medium industrial enterprises involving new
production chains.
We will form a fund to promote small and medium industrial companies through financing schemes and securitization.
We will promote pride in the Mexican industry through media campaigns that encourage awareness and the importance of Mexican industry.

TOURISM

Tourism is one of the main economic activities
in Mexico. We need to encourage all its enormous potential
and consolidate it as a generator of income and employment. By
the geographic diversity of its offer, should be one of the

drivers of regional development to combat poverty and
marginalization through investment and immediate generation of new jobs, for which we need
not only promotion but the boost of a master plan
tourist infrastructure with strategic vision and long-
term to understand tourism as an integral activity
bringing together the enormous potential of resources
natural, cultural and human basis of any globally competitive tourism industry.
• We will strengthen the tourism promotion in the country and
abroad, to improve the image of Mexico as the most attractive destination and disseminate their
broad and diverse tourist offer.
• We will train our permanently
HR tourism service providers.
• We will promote the creation of consultative councils of tourism in states and municipalities.
• harness the cultural and natural heritage
in tourist activities and give greater opportunities for social sectors such as tourism
that of both national seniors as
foreign.
• FONATUR will transform to give it the mandate to promote investment in tourism and also we will give you the tools
necessary to effectively allocate the
availability of resources to finance the recovery in the construction of the supply necessary
to revive Mexican tourism, both in the
SMEs tourist level as in the case of
major projects that become detonators of regional development.
• redefine the mission of the Tourism Board of Mexico, in order to ensure
  : 2012 | 

practice of tourism promotion
country, to avoid the delay in the use of resources
assigned and frequent deviation in strategic communication purposes.
• We will generate programs that achieve
high levels of security in major tourist destinations.
• will channel resources to meet the needs of infrastructure, services and equipment
in tourist destinations due to the phenomenon of
migration and population growth associated with
the intensive use of labor in the
Turistic zones.
• propose a tourism model based
in five dimensions: economic, social, territorial, sectoral and cultural coordination, which:
>> In the economic dimension the contribution tourism makes
the economy to grow significantly.
>> In its social dimension not only generates greater opportunities for progress but security spaces across the board, going hand in hand with
human security.
>> In its territorial dimension involving all
regions under fair conditions, with a territorial perspective favoring instruments
investment, financing, infrastructure, training and technical assistance and care of the
ambient.
>> In its dimension of management, each level of government and its institutions have a purpose
common.
>> In their cultural dimension consolidate our
historical identity through heritage, art
and traditions.
  | p ties f o r l m e l e c t r a l

• Promote new, diverse and attractive option

tions of tourism accessible to all.

ENERGY SECTOR

The national energy sector should be one of the
heights of the new economic policy, its strategic role in regional development,
industrial and technological development of our country. We
great opportunity to update and operate a policy
that addresses the delays suffered by the domestic industry, balance the balance between reserves, exploitation,
refining and sales, acting as an ally of a competitive and offer consumers reindustrialization
and users prices and competitive rates and sustainable
long-term.
• We will increase the adoption and generation
technology to improve energy efficiency
the country and reduce greenhouse gas emissions
highly poisonous gases and other pollutants to air, soil and watershed.
• Eficientaremos national refining system
and will diminish the use and import of oil.
• will complement the exploitation of hydrocarbons with Shale gas deposits, which
Mexico has huge potential allowing
National self-sufficiency in gas production
fertilizers and petrochemicals, together
other synthetic products and services.
• Pursue the reduction of production costs of energy to raise the competitiveness of enterprises and improving the economy
families.
• We will promote the reduction in the margin of the CA-

••
•
•

•

•

•

idle capacity of the CFE; Primary energy use cheaper water, gas, biomass,
subtropical sun, geothermal steam, rather than
fuel oil.
Harness the potential of cogeneration of electricity between CFE and Pemex,
and other industries, and will promote the
use of sustainable alternative sources of
energy, among others, geothermal, micro-hydro, biomass, wind and sun.
We will seek to increase domestic content
tenders for works and services.
We will make Pemex a modern and competitive and integrated international oil company.
Pemex must identify and apply for tax, financial and corporate governance reform,
that allows you to plan and execute more effectively their maintenance programs, modernization projects and expansion plans for
increase the economic value generated by the
company.
Build refineries that create jobs,
regional development and replace imports
gasolines.
We establish a measurement system and efficient real-time control of volume and
quality along the production line,
refining, marketing and storage
hydrocarbons and other products. We will make
measuring a critical element in promoting
operational efficiency and transparency.
We will support SMEs and regional companies,
as providers of goods and maintenance services.

• explore the benefits of emerging technologies

people around "smart metering" and "differentiated electricity tariffs," and the urgent
"Transformation for consumption on site and
networked CFE "for residential users and small users.

INFRASTRUCTURE

The welfare of a country is correlated with the degree
development of infrastructure and, in general, the
creating physical capital. The basis to grow as
economy, they passed by generating an infrastructure network
functional in all sectors, which will result in
social welfare, more productive population due
access to quality services and more
investment.
• We will promote the national infrastructure fund with an emphasis on transparency and efficiency in the use of public resources.
• It is necessary to redefine the model of development banks to ensure that finance large investment projects in priority areas for the country,
such as industrial innovation, generation
alternative energy, and agricultural development, including first-tier operations.
• It is necessary to strengthen the development bank
to increase the credit potential of the country
in times of economic slowdown. In
particular to enable micro, small and
medium enterprises.
• We will promote new financing schemes that encourage multi-year budgeting works long term and high impact
social in municipalities.
  : 2012 | 

• We will comply with mission-bathroom

bras local governments provide technical assistance, advice on the measurement of
social and economic impact of projects
infrastructure work and a large financing
and accessible for execution, operation and maintenance.
• It is essential to build new dams, rebuild much of the water infrastructure
improve infrastructure and to streamline the
Water consumption in the cities and countryside.
• We will increase investment in infrastructure
telecommunications and transport.
• We will create and improve the installed capacity
our resorts.
• will recover capacity building
basic social services and infrastructure and joint networks of multimodal transport to improve regional trade logistics performance,
national and international, by:
>> Roads and highways of high specifications
>> Transportation Sustainable Urban and suburban passenger
>> Commercial transportation and modern and efficient goods
>> Best and safest Airports
>> Efficient ports in which industrial development and agribusiness
>> Dry ports and logistics centers
>> Clean energy competitive enough and
World Class Schools >>
>> Hospitals and supplied, serviced and clinics
supply of medical personnel and enough beds
>> Clean water and sustainably covering the
family, institutional and productive demand.
  | p ties f o r l m e l e c t r a l

COUNTRY

The risks of shortage of commodities in the country
They are getting closer due to the two successive crises
International prices we've had, coupled to
impact of extreme events that is producing
climate change. Therefore, agriculture and livestock
in Mexico they require a profound transformation,
have food security objectives, generating local jobs and strengthening a sector
Primary internationally competitive. Thus, we propose a comprehensive policy for the field well
consider the economic profitability taking into account their
social, cultural and environmental elements to improve
the quality of life in rural areas.
• Given the decline in food stocks
we will have a national planning to generate
a second green revolution in the country, first to
level of micro regions and then to
increase food production, increase
inventories and combat speculation.
• We will create programs to take the field
consider farmers as part of the
solutions as its indispensable actors
progress and development.
• will channel preferentially supports
government to farmers so they can
solve its production problems, marketing and sustainable employment and income and permanently.
• We will ensure attention to the poor rural population (indigenous population, laborers and
avecindados).
• We will orient government programs and subsidies to the countryside to avoid regressive.

• We will exercise full and on time budgets

•

•

•

•

•

•

•
•

sector jobs and direct them effectively to increase productivity and quality of life
in the field.
We will strengthen support to field programs
clearly differentiate those intended for
combat rural poverty.
Generate greater infrastructure and equipment for production, storage and
transformation of primary production.
We encourage the modernization of the rural sector
support the development of new technologies and production processes, capacity building for
production and productive innovation.
We expand the support to achieve change
crop from low to high profitability,
technical assistance to small and medium producers, incorporating modern technologies and
adequate planting, fertilization programs,
the organization of producers to technify
agriculture and market their products and
the incorporation of genetic improvements.
We will rehabilitate and expand infrastructure
irrigation to improve the productivity of small farmers.
We will rehabilitate irrigation districts to drastically reduce the current loss of water
generated by lack of affordable technology
and high profitability.
We support the supply of fuel and energy
Power applied to the appropriate production rates.
Generate comprehensive production projects
food impact and job creation and
revenue in areas of high deprivation.

• We will promote a policy of supporting the activities

•

•

•

•
•

•

dad promoting livestock association
small producers to achieve economies of
scale with appropriate criteria of profitability
of escape from poverty, while
sustainable use of the bearing surfaces of rangelands and pastures is made,
and alternatives semiestabulada stables and production.
In fishing, we will promote the growth of the domestic market, which give added value to the sector
and modernize the fishing fleet.
We will promote economic alternatives in the rural sector with efficient schemes
financial support, micro financing, equity
risk, guarantees and insurance mechanisms to improve access to agricultural credit.
We discuss the creation of a National Bank
Credit and Multiple Services for Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries Sector, including credit services, insurance and savings, correct flaws
the current development banks and serving on
the more than two million small farmers.
We will create a system of Research and Technology Transfer focused on the field.
We will review the applicable budgetary policy
field, especially the Special Concurrent Program for Sustainable Rural Development.
We will promote real equality in rights and
educational, financial and land tenure opportunities for youth and women,
They facilitate their participation in the economic and social aspects of their communities, or ejidos
municipalities.
  : 2012 | 

• institutions will promote the service

field, both technical and financial, to consider an aspect of special support indigenous, based on the full respect for their
customs and traditions.

• We will promote joint planning of the three

REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT

The national development project we propose is
Building on the firm conviction of the need to combat the growing regional inequalities and social
today mark the country, solve the structural problems
which they are inhibiting the development potential
the states, promoting actions to detonate
national competitiveness, ensure state control
on strategic areas, and promote a cooperative federalism to strengthen national cohesion and address
the new demographic and territorial phenomena
increasing urban concentration.
• We will promote the development of regions
lagged with a federalist policy that supports
infrastructure, public services and works
production building to break the
factors limiting their development.
• We will strengthen urban development policy
and land use planning to address the serious deficiencies and challenges that arise in
urban centers fastest growing,
large conurbations and metropolitan areas
our territory.
• promote policies to keep up with
generating claims growth
northern border.
• We will give priority to including South
developing country.
 | p ties f o r l m e l e c t r a l

•

•

•
•

•

•

•

levels of government for regional development
high participation of productive agents,
stakeholders and research institutions and
higher education as well as a bench for
development of firm commitment to promoting local and regional development.
We will promote the harmonization and updating
legislative framework for development planning
general land use planning of human settlements and management of conurbations
and metropolis.
We seek alignment instruments
ecological land, politics
hydrological uses, planning
and regulation of urban development and sectoral, industrial, agricultural and livestock programs
tourism and trade.
We will promote a fund for promoting the development of the poorest regions of the country.
We will conduct a policy to support industrial restructuring and financing adjusted to the reality of each of the regions
our country and according to the processes of opening
internationally agreed trade.
We will provide federal administrative procedures and create, in coordination with states
and municipalities, a system of opening businesses
easier conducive greater competitiveness
and productivity.
We will promote the generation of local jobs
favoring the roots and limit the disruption of families.
Establish guidelines to promote

and ensure democratic participation
various social groups, peoples and communities in the development of planning
regional development.
• We will update the role of Banobras as a true agent of fund state and regional development also review the criteria
operation and allocation of resources by the
Fonadin to strengthen their financial capacity.
KNOWLEDGE SOCIETY

In the knowledge society investment in science and technology it is essential for development
nation; productivity that facilitates the appropriation of
knowledge and tools to generate it is key
to reduce inequality gaps, promote a
better education and training, contributing to the transparency mechanisms and, in general, to achieve a modern, dynamic and inclusive economy. For this reason,
We propose forming a digital agenda that achieves:
Promoting research in science and technology
• enough so will fund activities

Science, Technology and Innovation (CTI) to
achieve globally competitive levels, expanding the participation of all actors involved, in particular the private sector.
• meet the goal of 1% per year in spending on Research and Experimental Development
as a percentage of GDP in a lower term
ten years. In this way we can allocate more resources to create modern and numerous
research centers.
• We will make the private banking development and pro-

move technological innovation activities.

• We will improve the stimulus programs

retirement to plant researchers.

• We will promote the decentralization of the system

CTI to achieve a regional distribution
balanced in such activities.
• In the next six years will increase the
number of graduate students, both
national programs and abroad. He
Conacyt will double the number of scholarships and
public research centers.
• We will convene universities, centers
Research and representative organizations
private and social sectors to the establishment of a National Agreement on Science
and Technology.
• we will implement a comprehensive program to
consolidate the national research system
science and technology in the country, supporting a
Reform of the National System of Researchers
(SNI), self-critical, autonomous and collective, by
of its members.
Education and training for technology
human development
• We will ensure a digital agenda that includes

all Mexicans.

• We will use technology as a basic tool

for universal education, multiplying the capacity of the education system
National and raising their quality.
• We will give training in the use of technologies
to raise productivity and make the
Mexican globally competitive people.
  : 2012 | 

• will favor the formation of human resources

high quality we linked to regional and local needs.
• We will facilitate access to information and the use of
communication tools to everyone.
Universal access to internet
• We will make more investment in infrastructure
•

•
•
•
•

•

•

•
•

broadband, encouraging competitiveness
productive companies in the industry.
We will promote innovation and production
technological equipment by companies
Mexican sell their products at prices
accessible.
We will reduce the cost of access to broadband or high-speed international levels.
Expand the infrastructure to detonate
connectivity, punishing monopolistic practices.
Liberate portions of the radio spectrum
for public universal use.
Extend funds in the annual budget
federal government for social and rural coverage
in these services.
We generate a schema based on goals
the reduction and elimination of the gap between the
urban and rural population with internet access.
We will encourage technological consumption through
public access programs first
computer at home.
Support programs for microenterprise
internet services in rural and urban areas.
Foster the development of applications
public services based on free software
other innovative options.

  | p ties f o r l m e l e c t r a l

Generating wealth from the increase
in the competitive productivity: building
scanning technology and the economy
• We will improve the framework conditions for

•

•
•

•

•

•

•

innovation, by investing in human capital at all levels and in all sectors
economy.
Improve tax incentives for investment
in Information Technology and Communication (ICT).
We will promote the technological innovation in
companies.
We promote and support the acquisition and
renewal of new technologies (hardware and software) for the benefit of SMEs, as well as training programs.
We create support programs for sale
line in order to maximize the benefits of
digital economy and e-commerce by reducing cost and efficiency program of
marketing.
We promote the creation of new businesses and
sources of employment, teleworking to mothers, people with disabilities, and people who
were necessary or possible labor from home.
We establish training programs with companies and universities to generate
leadership skills for innovation and
use of technology in all
levels and sectors.
Extending the use of advanced electronic signatures and
create the right incentives to gradually convert electronic invoicing in the only
proof with tax value.

• encourage the development of electronic industry

unique, computer and software, as a link in
tech industries in regional clusters.

Public policy planning
• analyze the relevance of creating the Coordination

National Development and Inter-tion
CTI (involving Conacyt, SEP, SE)
which will unify public policies on science
and technology, and will focus on the implementation of
ICT, involving:
>> Communications
>> Education (e-learning)
>> Digital economy and e-commerce
>> Electronic Government
>> Health (e-health)
>> Intellectual Property
>> Privacy
>> Transparency and legal certainty (electronic signature).

ment of the country. To achieve this aim the following
public politics:
•

•

•

•

•

EDUCATION

Education is a key component in human development; social mobility factor and pulse
social transformations. It is the only way we
ensures that we can move towards achieving our
aspirations and achieve comprehensive development.
It is essential to effectively address the claim
national community for quality education
have access to all Mexicans. It's necessary
give a turn to the educational agenda, of a magnitude and
make feasible to address in the coming years
substantive progress in achievement, in the
universal coverage, increased efficiency
system and, above all, in its contribution to developing

•

We undertake long-term plan with goals and
periodically measurable performance parameter,
reforms to improve basic education.
We will have a strategy to raise
education levels and years in
the education system. In the first case, the goal
six is ​​going from 8.6 to 10 years of schooling;
in the second, forward of the current 13 years,
15 in the same period.
We review the compatibility of advances
integration of basic education with the purposes of a state policy in education.
Strengthen the system of educational skills and teachers has been putting in place
curriculum reform of basic education,
allows students into society
and in the workplace.
You need to be implemented and strengthened,
as a strategic and cross-cutting policy
public education, those transcending
the realm of the techni-educational (usually
Search epicenter of "best practices"
educational), are structured rather under
broader social policy;
such policies should and should focus on
student needs and seeking to ensure
its basic material and psycho-social conditions
long before reaching school, during
the way to this in their school day and up
Upon arrival home, including the further development
learner in the family and social womb same,
although generally they assumed as given,
  : 2012 | 

today are not fully guaranteed
Mexico. Among them, we should highlight those
aimed at ensuring:

•

>> The physical and psychological health and safety of students

•

not in your home and environment.
>> The basic economic satisfactions for the student and his family.
>> Transport and school infrastructure and
urban, accessible, adequate, efficient and safe.

•

• We will refine the program Carrera Magisterial

•

•

•
•
•

rial, whose main objective is to raise the quality
education by supporting and strengthening teacher professionalization.
We will refine and continue the implementation of the National Assessment of Knowledge and Skills Teachers for obtaining
squares, implemented and managed by the Appellate
Independent evaluation federalist
(ŒIf) where authorities, teachers, observers
social citizens, business organizations and parents participate.
We will promote compulsory universal screening
for teachers, principals and teachers on duty
pedagogical technical support.
Generate mechanisms to improve labor and social recognition of the work of teachers.
Intensify the measures to overcome the
abate educational backwardness and illiteracy.
We define, in coordination with the policy
economic and social policy, specific measures to address inequalities that prevail
in education between rural schools and

 | p ties f o r l m e l e c t r a l

•

•

•

•

•
•

indigenous and urban schools, between men and
women and between regions.
We establish measures to ensure universal coverage of basic education actions.
We will promote basic education schools with
where full-time day students
they can reinforce knowledge and develop artistic and cultural skills, along with programs
school breakfast and scholarships.
We will promote, according to circumstances
of each entity, reducing the number of students per class in elementary schools,
for the purpose of improving conditions for the
achievement.
Strengthen the teaching of writing and
mathematics, and reading habits, as core
central languages ​​and tools that require students to display their potential
learning and personal development.
We establish the teaching of English
as part of the contents of learning
basic education.
From basic education will incorporate use
New Technologies of Information and
Communication through programs that allow
dissemination in the educational community, the right equipment and the necessary connectivity.
Review and will adapt care schemes for students with special abilities and
students with outstanding capabilities.
Review and strengthen school safety programs.
We will foster educational federalism as a
new institutional arrangement for the provision of

educational services.

• We will strengthen and expand coverage

secondary education.

• review the current state of the education system

•
•

•

•

•

•

•

•

tion technology to strengthen its links with
the productive apparatus.
Strengthen the National Institute for Educational Evaluation.
We will promote transparency of information,
accountability and oversight of public resources for education.
We will promote programs aimed at increasing
school quality through better systems
school management and professionalization of its managers.
We will support the plans for improving the quality and expanding the coverage of institutions of higher education, by allocating
more resources.
We will strengthen infrastructure programs
education for the construction, equipment and
maintenance of schools.
We will design specific programs to strengthen
the coverage and quality of indigenous education and
ensure that they have all the teaching resources and equipment necessary to fulfill its task
education.
We will promote the strong involvement of governments, parents, teachers,
of the learners themselves and society as a whole
to strengthen the quality of education as the
central axis of the educational policy.
If we trigger a fundamental change in the
quality of Mexican education system, we

to start to translate this priority in a significant increase in education spending by
student.
• will adapt the plans and programs of study
Normal education to meet the new
challenges in education today
Basic. One potential reform entails a review
employment background, budgetary implications and
professionals involves the transformation of
teacher training institutions. It is priority
that normal schools recover their central role in building a new model
education, and for that renewal is necessary.
The requirement now presents the national education system is that teacher training
it is of the highest quality, taught by schools
dependent on the state, with proven ability
academic.
CULTURE

In the development of contemporary Mexico, the promotion of a cultural policy by the State has been
constant. The tasks of promoting and disseminating
arts and culture in general, along with the protection of
our vast cultural heritage, have been met
multiple initiatives and infrastructure development
in all the country. The culture must remain a key factor in strengthening the identity
national and a prerequisite for progress towards better
quality of life.
• We will promote a taste for culture from the
education to the development and promotion of its
different manifestations.
• We will generate new partnerships with industry pri  : 2012 | 

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

ford and social that allow combining their work
culture with public institutions.
We present an initiative to the Legislature
that allows to grant tax incentives
promote cultural work.
We seek to coordinate cultural tasks feasible
with the productive apparatus and regional tourism
develop self-sustaining in those models
expressions and localities that have options
profitability and cultural development.
Generate a public policy of strengthening cultural industries and enterprises
oriented Mexican social development.
We will support and will stimulate new task
culture, where, through social networks,
tune believe communities to share cultural experiences.
Through the use of new technologies, we will promote and support the innovative languages
artistic and cultural, as well as of formarción
promotion and dissemination models for new
spectators, many readers, new artists and
performers.
Coordination with entities of the federation, will promote the dissemination of heritage
regional and national culture in order to meet the
cultural needs of all geographic locations of Mexico.
In the restructuring of our social fabric,
cultural task will be central to
This clearly and vigorously, we will promote
actions, particularly among children and youth,
to help combat antisocial behavior and violence.

  | p ties f o r l m e l e c t r a l

• review the model and co-financing

ordination, to optimize the development of festivals
in states and regions worldwide, seeking synergies, equitable distribution and more equitable access to cultural goods throughout the Republic.

BLESS YOU

Health is one of the main sources of welfare
of individuals, families and one of the components
vital for human development. Therefore, one of our priorities will be to strengthen the health system and
policies in this area, to provide greater services
quality and effective universal coverage, optimizing the operation and resources of the National System
Bless you. To achieve this:
• We will ensure that all Mexicans have
access to quality health services. We will promote the figure of vouchers medicine
fully guarantee the supply of drugs
and therapeutic agents to those claiming
various public health systems.
• we will implement new mechanisms of public funding to enable universal and
improve the quality of health services.
• We will reduce the gap in quality of services and health indicators among municipalities
poorer and richer.
• Ensure the attention to the most vulnerable groups (indigenous, disabled and adults
older).
• Ensure that the considerations
gender equality, poverty, ethics and
human rights are incorporated into the preparation of guidelines, policy

and implementation of programs relating to health.

•

• invest in human and financial resources

•

•
•
•

•

•

•

in order to ensure and expand equitable access to safe and high quality interventions.
We will put emphasis on prevention, detection
early, diagnosis, treatment and control
of communicable diseases among all
populations.
Improve services in health
reproductive.
We implement programs for the detection and
treatment of breast cancer and cervical cancer.
Orient health policies to reduce
morbidity and mortality and improve health during key stages of life, including pregnancy, childbirth,
the neonatal period, childhood and adolescence,
improve sexual and reproductive health and promote active and healthy aging for all
people.
We will give more attention to the prevention and reduction of current rates of mortality from diabetes and hypertension, as well as eradicating mortality under five by deficiencies
nutritional and mortality rates by cause
violent.
We will support the state health services, helping to reduce inequalities, since the
local governments are closest to the most vulnerable and marginalized populations.
Shall prevent and will reduce risk factors
related diseases associated with the consumption of snuff, alcohol, drugs and other substances
psychoactive, unhealthy diets, physical inactivity and unsafe sex.

•

•

•

•
•

We will reduce the health consequences of
emergencies, disasters, crises and conflicts, and minimize their social and economic impact by
preparedness and prevention against such eventualities,
full participation by the health sector
in emergency and humanitarian interventions.
And shall prevent'll fight HIV / AIDS,
promoting essential interventions
prevention, treatment, care and support,
as universal access to these interventions,
order to stop transmission of the disease.
Improve the organization, management and delivery of health services by implementing mechanisms, procedures and incentives that encourage
all stakeholders -in particular,
providers and provider organizations
public and private sector to join forces
to improve service delivery and eliminate
exclusion from access to health care.
Doubling the number of doctors, nurses
and hospital beds per thousand inhabitants, as well
as the number of clinics and hospitals there
currently in the country.
We will ensure timely access to quality medicines and affordable to the entire population.
Strengthen leadership, stewardship and base
science of health systems. Improve
scientific knowledge and data for decision-making on health through
consolidation and publication of scientific data
existing, facilitation of knowledge generation in priority areas, and national leadership and policy coordination
health research, including measures to
  : 2012 | 

ensure the observance of ethical conduct.

• Ensure the existence of a health person-

Lud, competent, able to respond to the needs to improve health outcomes.
• We will support industry research
health area.
• We will promote the discovery and development of
innovative treatments to optimize patient care.
• We will improve the institutional supply of medicines.
SOCIAL SECURITY

The institutionalization of a social security scheme is fundamental to the development of capabilities
Mexican and improving its expectation
life, this will allow a glimpse of the future as a guarantee to enjoy the fullness and not a threat
or uncertainty factor. In this regard our country
It presents a clear lag, as most Mexicans do not have access to social security. Thus:
• We will create a social security policy
state vision, based on the responsibility of the public, private and social sectors,
as the three levels of government and fincada
an articulated, solidary, federalist comprehensive strategy and, above all, with a long-
term, beyond the six-year changes.
• We will build a financial model, fiscal and labor policy and a national network of
guaranteeing minimum social security and welfare protection mechanisms to economic and social contingencies.
• We will promote Social Security System
  | p ties f o r l m e l e c t r a l

•

•

•

•

•
•

•

Universal offering cash access services
health, a pension for retirement, insurance
unemployment and a labor risk insurance
on equal terms to all Mexicans.
The focus of this new Social Security System
It is the condition of being Mexican and not being
necessarily enrolled in some work
formal.
Integration of fragmented health system
we have in Mexico, which could
optimize the investment and spending that these institutions perform.
The social security system should be gradual and mostly financed through
general taxes not linked to employment.
We will promote unemployment insurance, ensuring universal minimum income to all
Mexicans who lose their jobs and are in
finding one, regardless of their situation
economic and social status. This minimum income must be unconditioned, to avoid
clientelism and serve as protection
If unemployment; It should be gradual application
as you progress in fiscal reform, bounded
its objectives of target population, older
18, and linked to training.
We will promote the strengthening of savings
workers and their families.
We pay special attention to pregnant women and young children. It is the obligation of
State to ensure that they receive power
balanced, housing, day care and medical services.
We help men and women combine

gainful employment with caregiving
daughters and children through maternal and paternal leave with pay and benefits for dependent children.
• We will enforce the law on quality
and security of surrogate and private nurseries.
• Ensure the quality of services with its
respective constant evaluation based on a
autonomous entity (Coneval) and wider,
informed and effective social participation.

•

•

SPORT FOR HEALTHY LIVING

Sport and physical activity has a positive influence on the quality of life of people, from childhood
to full age. In the PRI conceive sport
as a cornerstone of public health, harmony
social and community safety; without prejudice to their
leisure and recreational aspects, and their recovery effect of the social fabric as well as its potential
high performance and sports tourism, making your
practice an additional lever of human development and
social of Mexico.
• The sport will form a substantive part of educational programs to consolidate a culture of
health and performance.
• Board the sport and physical activity as
a component of social development and health
public applying a logic prevention
diseases culture of life
healthy, helping to reduce the incidence of diseases and treatment of diseases associated with lack of physical activity.
• We will promote the sport from an early age by linking it with the educational system, creating the right conditions for

•

•

•

•

•

everyone can practice and develop physical activity to your liking.
We seek as a priority to reduce obesity
Children by deepening and compulsory physical education programs and culture
sport within the national education system.
We will implement actions to strengthen the capacity of local governments for the maintenance, preservation and expansion of the venues and infrastructure worthy ensure access
and make the development of sports.
We will promote community participation in the
design sports programs to convene
organized participation, thereby promoting
attitudes of cooperation and joint work.
We will design and implement sports programs, in coordination with local and municipal authorities to strengthen the social fabric,
and rehabilitate and invest in the creation and
recovery of public spaces for practice
Sport, with the intention of promoting the integration of communities to threats
crime and addictions.
Orient physical activation programs and youth sports as a way to keep them away from addiction and crime.
We support the amateur high performance sport scholarship schemes for students
excel in this area. We will pay special
care for those with disabilities.
We will promote a model of sports tourism
that creates jobs, attracts economic benefit
and use natural resources responsibly and
human of our country.
  : 2012 | 

• invest in the construction of units

•

•
•

•

•

•

•

•

strategically placed sports and
improve, rehabilitate and maintain the
existing installations, optimize existing sports facilities in the country, including tennis
underutilized school evening hours, ensuring coverage of demand and anticipation
intensifying their use.
Expand the budget, coverage and promotion of sports programs in the three areas
government, in coordination.
We will support universities to give greater impetus to the sport.
We promote the improvement of equipment and sports facilities in public and private schools
all levels.
We propose the creation of regional centers
training, sport specialization and higher
performance.
We invest in education and training
human resources in physical culture, sports and sports medicine.
We will promote the physical culture and sports between
people with disabilities and adults
elderly, and create adequate space for
development.
We will promote widening participation
of the population in the sport, driven by the spread and operation of programs
officials aimed at developing culture
physical and sport and their incorporation into
educational programs.
Strengthen coordination and development
physical activation programs and promotion

 | p ties f o r l m e l e c t r a l

sport in the national education system and
school curriculum.
• We will promote linkages, feedback and
I work in parallel between sporting bodies and
the education system from databases and
sports social statistics in the different areas
care for the benefit of the entire population.
LIVING PLACE

The enforceable right to housing is a central objective
our policies of social, urban and economic development. It is an area of ​​clear sectoral policy value and high impact on all indicators
competitiveness and quality of life. The housing sector
It should be considered as well as a driver of recovery
and economic development of families. The investment
housing will be a priority.
• We will have a housing policy that promotes sustainable economic development,
boost the domestic market and is a factor of social development; to provide adequate funding
and accessible to demand even people
lower income; that would promote
urban planning and territorial harmony, and
involving greater participation of the municipality;
seeking to make cities and communities
competitive in economic, social,
environmental and technologically sustainable.
• We will support the processes of self
materials, training and access to credit
lower income families.
• We will promote policies to support families
which today they are located in regular land for
deed and division of ownership

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

in the event that two or more dwellings were
sharing the same property.
We will support the process of regularization of land of poor families with full respect for
legal framework.

Strengthen the coordinating entity for the housing sector (CONAVI) to incorporate under its
sectoral protection precisely agencies
national housing (except Fonhapo).
Modernize the operational structure of Infonavit, and SHF Fovisste
(SHF) to that address in an appropriate manner, quickly and efficiently to the different segments of the population requiring meet their
housing needs.
Strengthen the role of the SHF as banking
development to be guarantor of liquidity
housing sector.
Take care of the progressive nature of subsidies
housing and Conavi and Fonhapo in the Expenditure Budget of the Federation to meet
the low-income population.
Abatiremos with the existing backlog of priority
housing and will project through proper planning in this field needs to
the coming years.
Coordinate and simplify formalities with
the authorities of the three branches of government
housing.
To strengthen Bansefi for promoting of
integrally with the housing culture of saving purpose, providing the sector employee
access to a subsidy to the front to integrate an
hitch and be subject to mortgage credit
market conditions.

• We will orient federal contributions under normal

strict activity to support the orderly growth and the provision of infrastructure and services
in cities, avoiding dispersion and loss
Community cohesion.
• Promote agreements for quality housing with developers and developers, who
a minimum guarantee satisfactory product
dignified, humane and suitable for family development
and community.
• Pursue the development of a culture of coexistence and property development in young families, which make urban densification feasible by vertical models and condominium housing.
• We will promote the housing industry in the
perspective to be one of the triggers of
economic, social and environmental development,
strengthening domestic demand and counteract
external market weakness.
FIGHT AGAINST POVERTY

The actions of the government program have as
axis guiding the drive for poverty reduction and
inequality, with both individual development options
in the economic and social field, to improve the human development indices. Find open
spaces of social participation, with a view to building a more just and better quality of life
for all its inhabitants.
• We propose the implementation of a new
social pact between the political, social actors and
economic, that targets sustained growth, equitable development and
poverty eradication.
• The State will resume its stewardship and responsibility
  : 2012 | 

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

as a driver of social policy. It will ensure firstly care rights
social.
We will make a profound transformation of the Ministry of Social Development, to fulfill
fully with his mission on coordination of national social policy development,
to combat poverty, sort of
territory and human development, based on the
strengthening and rebuilding the social fabric
Community.
Coneval will promote autonomy, to
ensure the independence of the assessment
social programs.
Compacting will promote programs and simplify access mechanisms
the same.
We will promote institutional strengthening
municipalities to reduce competition and
duplication of functions with the federation.
We advocate for social federalism in favor
of the backward areas and marginalized that respects the powers of the branches of government
and conducive institutional collaboration, recognizing the creativity and communal state force
municipalities.
We will design policies to reduce
sustained way the current inequality, decrease
radically poverty and, in particular, eradicate
food poverty.
You transexenales implement public policies and cross, focused on reducing
poverty and inequality, considering how differences: ethnicity, age, gender, to con-

 | p ties f o r l m e l e c t r a l

pursue a better quality of life.

• define short-term form of instruments

•

•

•

•

tar inserting State responsibility
to guarantee the right to food to
national population and must address the problem of food poverty in their problems
Integral, which implies the need to increase
domestic supply, converting the potential unmet demand into effective demand, expanding the popular supply in the best possible conditions,
support the consumption of the poor population
resources and substantially improve food and nutritional culture.
Undertake a second generation of social development programs, leaving the
paternalistic view, it really becomes
productive projects or programs that we
can incorporate to the population served and
less favored.
We insist on the access of rural households and
We will exercise their right to feed the newly approved for the condition disappears
inhuman of food poverty and malnutrition of our national reality, both
cities and the rural sector.
Shed incorporate boost employment and production activities in the sector
social, as a development axis
social. To do this, we integrate low
one institution of all programs today
scattered to support education, training,
support and funding to individuals and social enterprises in poverty.
We will make an extraordinary effort and duly

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

articulated mind to undertake a true
crusade to rescue rural areas and urban focus.
Improve the efficiency of public spending and eliminate generalized consumer subsidies
replacing them with targeted subsidies or direct transfers to the poor.
We give full support to the construction of health centers at all levels, as well as quality improvement, equipment and specialized medical services to rural areas.
We will promote a policy of territorial development and elimination of rural poverty
community development programs linked
to care for the environment, ecotourism, forestry, handicrafts.
Strengthen strategic locations in the
more remote and marginalized areas to reduce
dispersion and rural isolation and facilitate access to basic services.
We will review comprehensively the actions and
responsibilities for vulnerable groups, in order to be considered as
part of a broader strategy of social development,
and not only his attention is privileged from
Optical health sector.
We will ensure a minimum level of support
most vulnerable, so it will push the
universal pension for the elderly.
Particular attention will be supported indigenous, to close the gap in welfare today
separates them from other Mexicans.
We will promote a program of quality cities.

• We will recover the notion of development, COM-

ment and urban planning, in light of the recent amendments to the Housing Act, aiming
to build inclusive cities and urban spaces for coexistence.
• We will strengthen decent housing projects
rural families, respecting their culture and
supplies in their region.
• We will implement a strong policy to generate public spaces of coexistence and encounter among Mexicans.
• In general, we will promote that all Mexicans have access to recreation, culture,
opportunities for participation and integration
social; In short, there will be a sustained effort and
permanent in favor of a better quality of life.
YOUTH

Young people represent the most valuable social capital
Mexico; They are, however, one of the most vulnerable groups in our society. They face enormous gaps
economic and social limiting their freedom and put them at a disadvantage in a highly competitive world. Build a proposed youth care
It is an urgent priority. The viability as a nation
It is based on the existence of a young population
inserted with the necessary skills in the labor market competitively.
• We will design a cross-government policy
for the attention of young people.
• We will promote the creation of a General Act
Youth, based on the principles of equality, non-discrimination, freedom of preferences,
responsibility and trust.
  : 2012 | 

• We will ensure effective access to education,

•

•

•

•

•
•
•

•

•

health, employment, housing and political participation of young people.
We promote the application of international treaties and conventions on enforcement
juvenile justice.
Strengthen the capacities of young people through the provision of adequate education and
quality at all levels.
We expand infrastructure and quality
educational services, to ensure access to
middle school and high school.
We support those who wish to study, scholarship programs, and alternative education options for those in need
to enter the labor market.
We will promote measures to support child care
of young mothers who want to continue studying.
We will promote the responsible participation in
development with social service paid.
We will promote the updating of programs
study, its content, materials and methods to increase its relevance and importance in the
comprehensive development of students and encourage
skills, values ​​and skills to improve
their productivity and competitiveness to be inserted in
economic life.
We incorporate in upper secondary school education and financial literacy content
to give young people a new perspective
and enterprising.
We will promote support for social enterprises
young, and those who hire them through programs first job.

  | p ties f o r l m e l e c t r a l

• Strengthen the promotion and access to culture,

•

•

•
•

•
•

•

•

•

and the artistic development of young people to
to pursue its creative energy, and prevent antisocial behavior, understanding culture as a
element of social cohesion.
Expand the number of scholarships in all
educational levels so that young people have
encouragement to continue studying.
We achieve that young people are doing
practices or social service professionals have
with social security.
Foster a digital agenda focused on
Young.
Generate company-university link
to identify market requirements and develop profiles according to this university.
Implement a policy of employment for recent graduates.
We will open spaces for youth projects
concerns and innovative ideas; having the
opportunity to develop as entrepreneurs and establish their own company.
We introduce a micro-finance policy supported by a project created by youth
collaboration with experts in the field.
We create incentives based on the Act
Promotion to First Job, for companies to generate job opportunities for
Young.
We will further inspection centers
work by the relevant authorities to ensure that young people
have problems of exploitation or abuse of his
need for employment and gaining experience

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

to have them working in conditions that are far from legal.
We will encourage young people to participate in government projects so that they can contribute ideas
innovative.
Strengthen awareness programs,
prevention and sexual and reproductive health, including information, education and accessible, appropriate and comprehensive services, according
the needs of young people.
We will promote ongoing campaigns to promote "first gynecological or urological visit" to
after 14 years.
We will carry out innovative programs for prevention and addictions to report
about exposure to risks and behaviors
harmful to health.
We create programs to support reintegration
social youth who have committed crimes, including employment policies.
We will promote family integration that reinforces the values ​​in young people, starting with the
culture of gender equality and the rejection of the
gender violence and domestic violence.
We will spread democratic culture programs involving youth in decisions
policies.
We will encourage young leaders committed
with the community to represent us in the
Congress.
Establish programs of access to credit
accessible to buy a first home
of the young people.

WOMEN

Unequal opportunities we have lived between women and men affects all of society. It is by
why we are committed, now more than ever,
close the gaps of inequality, which prevent the
full development of Mexico. We propose:
• transversal public policies.
• Women will be included clearly and consistently in the National Development Plan in
sectoral programs, resulting in diagnoses,
programs and objectives and mechanisms
permanently evaluation measure their progress.
• The National Program for Equality
Women and men will be stewards all
areas and sectors of government.
• The Expenditure Budget of the Federation will
tagged resources to advance the objectives of gender equality.
• To achieve this, we will promote training on gender issues for officials
public.
• Promote before the Legislative reforms and additions to laws and regulations that encourage
the full development of women and men.
• We will support programs that contribute to the full incorporation of women to the economy and
especially their benefits.
• we insist on building a labor reform that:
>> Facilitate the integration of women into working life, particularly those who are mothers.
>> Reconcile work and family life.
>> Promote aspects of breastfeeding support; Y
>> Do actually equal rights to
income and benefits between men and women.
  : 2012 | 

• We will promote, from the policy level

•

•

•

•
•

•

•
•
•

•
•

•

education, a culture of shared responsibility and the recognition of equality
genres.
Strengthen policies that guarantee child care nurseries and childcare centers with
quality.
We will promote and guarantee the access of girls and young women at all educational levels and in all areas.
We will promote the analysis of the condition of the
preschool and women at all levels
for relevant public policies.
Keep the school attendance of girls through educational grants.
We refund comprehensive actions, from prevention education to the effective punishment, which would reduce the incidence of violence
against women.
Reinforce campaigns and health programs
preventive action to reduce maternal mortality indicators.
We will promote sex education to avoid
early pregnancies and unwanted.
We will reduce maternal and child mortality.
Generate effective programs for early detection and treatment of breast cancer
and cervical cancer.
We will ensure respect for sexual rights
and reproductive.
Strengthen campaigns on education, health care and production support for indigenous women.
We will ensure the effectiveness of full citi-

 | p ties f o r l m e l e c t r a l

zenship and political rights of women.

• As part of the strategy to support the eco-

social economy, give priority to training,
training and support for productive projects
of women.

MIGRANTS

The migration has to be seen from a
holistic perspective; can never be content
walls and police programs. It is essential to build agreements and bridges between the nations involved in the various facets of the migration process,
so that together build
favorable conditions for both governments
for migrants and their families. We attend to the issue
migration from a development perspective, a
regional and comprehensive approach, because we are aware
you need to promote employment, education and
wellness options in the communities of origin
both urban and rural.
• We will implement a coherent immigration policy
with our position, which assumes migration
not as a problem but as a phenomenon of world order, according to the context and
demographic dynamics that protects the vulnerabilities associated with the migration and exercise
of fundamental rights, particularly the
full respect for human rights
migrants and their families.
• We propose the creation of an Economic Development Fund and Social Security for migrant serve as guarantor of recognition
the effort and contribution that migrants give
the country that can help finance

•

•

•

•

•
•

programs, health, repatriation
bodies and supports of various kinds.
Monitor, and negotiate for the development of immigration policies in other countries
violate guarantees and human rights
Mexicans abroad. We reject from
a diplomatic stance respectful and effective the
laws with racist, xenophobic character and
violates human rights of migrants and their families.
We will promote the extension of political rights of Mexicans abroad until
exercise and the fullness thereof. In the PRI
We recognize the concept of political participation
from a much broader view than the exercise of suffrage from the outside, just as
from the government we recognize the role of
migrants and their families as a cornerstone
in the construction of an integral democracy.
Consolidate a genuine immigration policy
State to allow access to programs
government and to establish more effective mechanisms
that care for migrants and their families
Mexico and abroad.
We will promote administrative simplification
expand, modernize and become more effective consular protection to Mexicans abroad.
Improve care policies returnees.
We will strengthen care programs and legal guidance and assistance to migrants, both
that they are directed to our compatriots in the
abroad, and those who travel or migrate to other countries to our country, especially

you from Central and South America and the Caribbean.

• consular services will expand the bestowing

gan Mexicans abroad.

• We will involve civil society in drawing

ration of migration policies, especially
organizations that work directly
with them. We will emphasize attention to communities that have high rates of
expulsion of migrants.
• We will promote a comprehensive reform of the National Institute of Migration, it modernizes and granted
the degree of operability needed to promote and
boost its efficiency, legality and honesty in
service, combating corrupt practices,
providing the necessary tools to
good performance and operation for
attention to migrants and their families.
• We will promote the image of Mexicans
abroad and learning from their experiences as a contribution to regional development,
particularly from Mexico and the United States.
• Promote a development policy and regional security Mexico-US-Canada
incorporating the issue of migration as a
While strategic area and a topic of interest
common to the integration of joint agendas
of government. Similarly, we will do the
Central American nations and the Caribbean.
ENVIRONMENT

We are aware of the risks and damage to Mexico
and the world may suffer from the deterioration of the
ambient; therefore, we assume full responsibility to fight for mitigation and adaptation of
  : 2012 | 

regions such changes. Being so serious this problem, we must find ways to attack measures
that do not impede economic growth, generating
jobs and fight poverty. For these reasons
It will work on the following:
• We will strengthen integration and coordination between
the three levels of government.
• We will expand the cooperation with the social and private sectors, in order to develop a
reliable, timely and efficient environmental management.
It is therefore essential to strengthen links with the education sector and research
scientific and technological development.
• We will promote further decentralization of
environmental states and functions
municipalities.
• We will promote the creation of the General Act
Climate change.
• We will generate a real awareness of the problem
through the actors and educational programs.
• Establish measures and mitigation strategies and regional adaptation to change
climate, such as energy efficiency
lighting, production and use of alternative energies.
• We will regulate the performance of light vehicles,
Light diesel automotive transportation, disposal
scrap vehicles.
• We will promote the provision of energy efficiency and
compounds vehicle greenhouse
light.
• We will strengthen the rail infrastructure
support the reduction of fossil fuels and is
used as multimodal transport.
 | p ties f o r l m e l e c t r a l

• We will have urban public transport m •

•

•
•
•
•

•

•

•

ern and efficient in metropolitan areas.
Improve the generation and use of energy, and
We pursue like an exploitation of sources
for renewable power generation.
We will reduce deforestation and degradation
soil and protect natural ecosystems
through natural protected areas.
We will promote sustainable forest management practices and wildlife.
We will create conditions and instruments to expand the forest cover.
We will promote the use of waste
urban solid waste minimization, reuse and recycling.
We will promote the use of organic waste for composting and processing
energy production.
We will carry out the measures and mitigation actions sequentially starting with
sectors with the greatest potential to lower cost reduction, culminating in accounting
higher costs and lower profits
environmental.
Orientate the strategy for reducing gases
Greenhouse gas (GHG) to sectors
provide the highest percentage of emissions. These
They are: 1) energy and transport (60.7%); 2) waste
(14.1%); 3) forests and processes of change of use
floor (9.9%); 4) industrial processes (9%) and 5)
agriculture (6.4%).
We will promote the recovery of gas through
reducing its flaring and venting in oil production and the utilization of gas associated with coal deposits.

• We will improve the efficiency of industries estata-

•

•

•

•

•

•

•
•

•

electricity and oil them and remove the
subsidies harmful to the environment.
We obtain greater international financial and technological resources to promote measures
adaptation and mitigation in the country.
We will promote fiscal policies to operationalize the polluter pays principle and promote the sustainable and remediation projects.
Expand sectoral programs related to use of cleaner fuels and
renewable energy.
Establish legal mechanisms to facilitate the access of Mexican projects Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) and markets
international carbon bond.
Take measures to protect people and property from disasters
climate change.
Accelerate the construction of infrastructure
to deal with floods and other disasters
areas of the country most vulnerable
this phenomenon and these works will include the
National Infrastructure Program.
We will increase protected areas
National and strengthen the National System of Protected Natural Areas territory stimulating social participation in their management with the
goal of a productive system
benefit, among others, the peasants and the
coastal fishermen in the country.
We will promote a real forest development
sustainable that would reduce or even eliminate the
alarming deforestation in the country and avoid degrading

•

•

•

•
•

Foundation soil. For this scheme will be supported
Avoided Deforestation and Degradation, known as REDD +.
Apply an aggressive policy
protection of natural forests in the country,
it will be necessary to strengthen significantly
implementation and enforcement in the
issue of illegal logging.
Incorporate conservation issues and environmental stewardship in the various cycles
education, especially at the basic level.
Pursue the committed participation of
the mass media in strengthening environmental awareness, and dissemination
sustainable development projects.
We will promote the training of highly qualified specialists in environmental matters.
We promote scientific research and promote programs for the development of technical and
procedures to prevent, control
and reduce pollution, promote the rational use of resources and protecting ecosystems and design the best measures
adaptation and mitigation of climate change.

WATER

The objectives of our proposed public policies
focus on the rational and sustainable use of
national water resources; good management and
hydraulic and efficient infrastructure; manning
equitable potable water, sewage
and wastewater treatment for rural users,
institutional, urban, industrial and domestic; strengthening the national authority and the or  : 2012 | 

organisms basin, state operators and dealers
and municipal; the consolidation of the financial system
effective water sector in Mexico and the institutionalization of efficient entities in a new governance of this strategic resource.
• We will review and will reform entirely the
water legislation, since the law in
very early vigor has accused serious flaws and shortcomings that prevent their full
effect.
• systematize and edit appropriately to any specific regulations
establish adequate distribution of powers and functions in the field, considering
the responsibility of states and municipalities
the following areas: a) governance, b) decentralization of the sector, c) attention to the damage
environmental resource and d) improving
resource management scheme with
sustainable solid, reliable, transparent and sustainable system of concessions and assignments
in relation to the environment.
• We will develop and we will implement a policy
national water that promotes the comprehensive management
and sustainable water management in the basins and aquifers
joint participation of users, society, government orders and utilities, which in
Once fosters better coordination between sectors
productive, particularly in the agricultural sector.
• We will build a state policy to prevent disasters in settlements in
risk areas.
• We will strengthen the institutional framework for a new governance in the management of the resource.
  | p ties f o r l m e l e c t r a l

• We will avoid overexploitation of aquifers, the ex-

•

•

•

•

•

unsustainable exploitation of watersheds, over
granting volumes, lack of treatment
sewage and misuse of the resource
of the population in all its uses.
We build a new financial system
the sector that includes the agricultural irrigation
the concurrence of the various stakeholders, programs and pooling resources
tax scattered, to create an innovative budget mechanism, which encourages economies
and increase and improve the existing infrastructure in the districts and irrigation units and
training programs and transfer
technology to increase efficiency in water use and increase productivity
field.
Refund to utilities
municipal drinking water and sanitation, strengthening their skills and capabilities
providing a more efficient service, are financially self-sustaining and operational; reduce water leakage in urban areas
through the improvement and rehabilitation
infrastructure.
Expand and strengthen props
national and international banking development
rehabilitate urban distribution networks.
Improve the financial sustainability of
bodies that manage the resource, control and
maintenance, through strategic financial plans that combine public subsidies and
the proceeds of the users.
Strengthen in the Expenditure Budget

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

Federation Program Plant Wastewater Treatment.
We will promote the collection and treatment of
rainwater and the establishment of measures
to avoid waste in urban systems.
Incentivize the reuse of treated water
agricultural, industrial, recharge
aquifers and landscape irrigation.
Effectively apply the regulations in
concerning wastewater discharges and
treatment, particularly at the municipal level and in the industrial sector. Will increase,
Furthermore, the use of economic instruments to encourage compliance with this
regulations.
We will increase user participation in financing water management
and the recovery of costs for irrigation services.
Modernize irrigation methods through the construction of new infrastructure
hydraulics that expand the surface
storage, distribution and irrigation.
Consolidate municipal and district water management plans, particularly in the
Municipalities with lower development index.
We will promote wider social participation of users and industry players, as well as
academic institutions, in a space
where society and citizens generate solutions to the main problems facing the
resource.
Through education and culture will encourage the
changing social attitudes that encourage wasteful water.

FOREIGN POLICY

Mexico is essential to take a leading space in the international community, both at
regional and global, in line with our history, our true potential and capabilities. We not only
retake the lead we had, but mend
relations with Latin America and the Caribbean as our
allies and neighbors, just as with other regions
Mexico world that demand a new policy
Visionary and effective foreign, distant from what we have
currently aimlessly and without expectations. For that,
We undertake a foreign policy that promotes
dignity of the Mexican people, who have clear goals and
common objectives with our strategic partners and
it becomes a real tool to detonate
the development of our country.
• We will fight transnational threats such as drug trafficking, human trafficking,
money laundering, arms trafficking and crime
organized from the area of ​​cooperation and
the exchange.
• Participate in a leading role in addressing phenomena of current world order such as climate change, health risks, prevention and attention to natural disasters
and human mobility, through the contribution
effective international organizations in the field
and the signing or ratification and implementation and
compliance with international conventions, protocols and international instruments in this field.
• We will attract foreign direct investment and promote foreign trade that benefits
Mexico, safeguarding primarily the interests of
producers and entrepreneurs.
• intensify our participation in or  : 2012 | 

•
•

•

•

•

•

•

•

multilateral economic organisms from
a sovereign position and in correspondence with
national order of priorities.
We will promote an effective strategy to inhibit and
punish money laundering.
We will give priority attention to the migration processes and their inclusion in the agenda
foreign policy priorities.
Ensure respect for human rights
of migrants and their families, expanding guarantees in cases of judicial imputation.
Contribute to the strengthening of multilateral organizations in which we participate, to strengthen its effectiveness, and timely action
full compliance with its objectives.
Actively participate in decisions
G-20, higher body of international consensus. Promoting the spread of democracy and freedom, and the rule of law, the establishment of global growth pacts
employment, a fairer international taxation and
step rules to close tax havens,
sources of tax evasion.
We diversify our external relations
from the new world order, which open us
new opportunities for development and
the breadth of markets and sources of investment
technologies.
We will promote more and better ways of diplomacy in addition to the traditional, such as cultural, scientific, academic and parliamentary
for our participation in forums proactivar
multilateral.
We will strengthen our participation in organisms

 | p ties f o r l m e l e c t r a l

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

international agencies with a strategy to promote the renewal and modernization of these,
mainly within the Organization
United Nations (UN)
We will strengthen the activities of the Agency
International Development Cooperation
(AMEXCID).
We review the structure and functioning of
Mexican consular network in other countries
that improvements be promoted and their tasks be extended
protection and care communities
countrymen.
Gradually fulfill the commitment
UN to allocate at least 0.7% of GDP
international cooperation for development.
We will review and seek solutions to the problems associated with NAFTA to do
favorable causes of Mexicans.
Condemn the immigration policies that violate human rights of nationals and,
with respect for the sovereignty of nations,
will promote diplomatic mechanisms to not implemented.
Embassy and consulates in the United States
They should approach the communities, and act as
true defenders between the needs of
nationals and US authorities.
We will promote trade, investment and tourism to Canada; will promote
recovery of relations between the two countries, exploring higher forms of cooperation, and continuing integration efforts
trilateral already agreed.
We will review the benefits of work- program

•

•

•
•
•

•
•

•

temporary work- primarily with ensuring Canada
that the rights and protection guarantee
our countrymen.
We will rescue the relationship with Anglo nations
French-speaking Caribbean through technical assistance programs, disaster prevention
natural, health and education.
We will promote agreements with the Central American region on issues of great importance for the
region such as Security Strategy
Central America, especially in the areas of flow
weapons, trafficking, fighting bands
organized crime, drug trafficking and kidnapping
of migrants.
We will encourage the performance of the mechanisms
Political Coordination and financial support.
We will strengthen South-South cooperation.
We approach, with cooperation initiatives,
issues such as global governance, rights
human, security and justice, democracy
institutions and international organizations.
Strengthen the relationship in the economic and cultural, educational and technological fields.
Latin America must be a priority
our relationships, recognizing our role
history with the countries of the Andean region
the Southern Cone. We deepen and diversify relations with Argentina, Chile and Brazil;
with the latter, recognizing it as an ally
working with strategic and complementary to a potential trade agreement formulas.
We will use the consultation mechanisms
regional issues for negotiation with the United
States, the European Union and nations

BRIC (Brazil, Russia, India and China)

• Pursue the creation of better schemes

•
•

•

•

•

•

•
•

support companies and SMEs for superior
use of commercial relations.
Strengthen ties with major powers.
We will promote ties with the European Union on issues of public safety and enforcement
of the law.
We will seek further scientific and technological cooperation, particularly in areas such as biotechnology, nanotechnology and the environment, more
emphasis with the nations of Asia and the Middle East.
We will increase the scientific and technical cooperation, particularly in agro-sciences, fisheries,
higher education, health and water resources.
Japan will increase bilateral trade
and investment in infrastructure, automotive and clean technologies.
Find that there is an economic exchange,
technological and trade with major Asian economies such as the Republic of Korea.
Create strong ties with India and Indonesia,
regional powers with economic weight.
We seek access to more Mexican products
the Chinese market and will promote balance
fair trade with this nation
to protect producers and entrepreneurs
Mexicans.

  : 2012 | 

Electoral Platform
February 2012

PRI

commitment
by Mexico
2

0

1

2

-

2

0

1

Commitment
with Mexico

8
