D
N
A
L
R
E
D
R
E
L
A
I
C
O
S
&
R
ST E R K E
Election
Parliamentary elections in 2012 NETHERLANDS
STRONGER
& MORE SOCIAL
Election 2012 parliamentary elections Imprint
Composition program committee:
Marco Florin (chairman), Diederik Samson, Hans Spekman,
Jeroen Dijsselbloem, Monika Sie, Kirsten Meijer and Vera Tax.
Secretary: Sander Schaap.
Support: Anneloes Waelpoel, Marc van Veen,
Maartje Schrama, Hayte de Jong and Ruud Haak.
Graphic design: Studio Pollmann, Amsterdam
Layout: Laurant & Bakker CONTENTS
Introduction
5
1.
7
Our choices for a strong economy
2. Our choices for good education
14
3. Our choices for labor
21
4. Our choices for participating
29
5. Our choices for a safe Netherlands
36
6. Our choices for living
40
7.
44
Our choices for care
8. Our Choices for Sustainability
50
9. Our choices for Europe
56
10. Our Choices for world solidarity
61
11. Our choices for democracy and governance
68
12. Our choices for culture and sport
72
13. Our choices for finance
75
PvdA election parliamentary elections in 2012
3 INTRODUCTION
The Netherlands needs to progress to a new perspective and new opportunities. Netherlands
desperate for a way out of the crisis. Which way out of the crisis is through an agenda that growth, new investments and bringing more jobs into balance with sensible and fair socio-economic policy.
That is the agenda of the Labour Party.
Our ambition is to have an open society full of opportunities for our children. A society
we are more than a collection of individuals. A country that derives its strength from the best
education, decent working conditions, a sound financial sector and high-quality infrastructure. A country in which we build together the key features, giving everyone a chance
get to get the best out of themselves.
That country over the past two years, unfortunately not closer, but further away to be located. The Netherlands
sliding into a recession and the confidence of households and firms has fallen faster in the future than
anywhere in Europe. While in neighboring countries unemployment is falling, unemployment is rising here.
That is not something that has just happened Netherlands. A failed recipe unilateral cuts and a
taboo to the necessary reforms has caused slide our country. And if it is for the
five parties, who recently joined the 2013 budget agreement, extra running another round in Netherlands
the vicious cycle of cuts that investments and acquisitions does lack, doing jobs lost
Netherlands go and do further afield bags in the recession.
At that failing recipe we eliminate. To lift the Netherlands out of the crisis is another agenda
required. An agenda of growth and optimism. An agenda that will bring new investment and jobs in balance with sound public finances.
We primarily do it again to get the talks by the economy. And you can. We are, after all
always a country with endless possibilities. Who looks at the concentration of technology companies around
Eindhoven, the food industry around Wageningen, the logistics industry around Venlo, the energy activity
in the north and the chemical industry innovation around Emmen, know that you can. Which of all the places
Notice that metal companies, transport companies and creative enterprises the Dutch economy
keep it going and create jobs at all levels, which realizes how many opportunities
Netherlands has to steam ready for the future. But these opportunities are not necessarily used.
This requires active developments are boosted. This requires sometimes a direction
directed, towards a sustainable economy, creating new growth path.
Exploit economic opportunities requires a vision.
The inspiring vision of the future we have in this program. A vision that offers the prospect of a fiscal policy that is not fixated on an occasional budgetary outcome in 2013, but focuses on fast
structural recovery of public finances in 2017. This prevents pinching of the purchasing power of
families and give you space to economic growth.
A vision that offers the prospect of investment in innovation and education, professionals and engineers, so that we
soon Made in Holland products can be exported.
So we make technical education more attractive, we fight the dropout at technical universities
and we create in collaboration with companies more training places in business for MBO students.
A vision that offers the prospect of a service-oriented financial sector and more investment in the real economy of businesses, including small businesses. That's why we put an end to the bonus culture and conduct
we are a tax on hot money. We extend credit to businesses, especially in the
SMEs make investments by making companies more attractive and enhance public private investment with the help of our pension funds.
PvdA election parliamentary elections in 2012
5 A vision that offers the prospect of investing in renewable energy and infrastructure. After the last few years of
failed "pruning to grow," it is now time for a new proud form of industrial policy, so that we
will soon have a new energy when the old one runs out. And so create new jobs
where old ones disappear. We carry a mandatory share of renewables in energy companies so that 100%
of our energy supply in 2050 is sustainable. We also put a grid in the North Sea
to. That makes billions of investment loose.
A vision that offers the prospect of a solid foundation of healthy public facilities. The power of
Netherlands and the confidence of Dutch rests on the basis of a good public sector. On safe streets, affordable housing, good schools and accessible hospitals. These are the facilities
which together constitute the social ladder by which everyone climbs up. Who reinforced that ladder,
strengthens the uplifting and uniting power of the society. That's why safety is so incredible
important and therefore we ensure that those who guard our safety on the streets to earn more than the
people behind the desk. We stop the sprawling conglomerate of schools and investing in the training and salaries of teachers. And we organize care close to people and put an end to perverse market incentives that make the care unnecessarily expensive. We stop the advancing state-of flexibility in the
labor market by strengthening the position of people with a flexible job and do everything
to help people from job to job. We reform the housing market in a fair manner
offers security to people at an affordable rental or owner-occupied. We also ensure that the burden of our public services are shared fairly and questions in tight economic times
the strongest shoulders an extra contribution. This is not only fair, so we can 'purchasing power
ordinary families keep more resilient.
The future does not stand alone, but is in Europe. A prosperous Netherlands can not do without our
European environment. A Europe which is growing, Netherlands grow. A Europe that works, let Netherlands
back to work. And just as in the Netherlands is in Europe urgently needs a new agenda. Also
Europe has a long muddling through with the cut-sided recipe. That approach is now bankrupt: politically bankrupt, bankrupt economically and socially bankrupt.
Fortunately, there seems to be a new wind blowing through Europe. Away from the grumpy concatenating
topo push new austerity agreements, but aimed at perspective on growth control
unemployment. There is a great future for a strong and social Europe where countries are increasingly
growing closer together, benefiting from each other's strengths, and raising each other's weaknesses. A Europe that many
more than a market and currency. A Europe where cooperation wins out of power and
where the future of our children is more important than instant gratification. The election of President
Hollande in France and more influence of the Social Democrats in Germany make room for a new social democratic wind blowing through Europe.
On Wednesday, September 12th there will be elections in the Netherlands and can also be room for a new vision. These elections do not end up on the Euro on VAT, on the PGB or the AOW.
Elections are essentially about the choice between two visions of how we want to shape the Netherlands for our children. What country we can show our children over one or two decades? Will
that a country that has entrenched itself behind the dikes, which the government has withdrawn? A
country trying to enter the competition on the lowest wages, the most flexible labor contracts,
karigste public facilities or the fastest flash capital? Or we can give our children proudly
fail open society in which we are more than a collection of individuals? A country in which we
together build the crucial features, so everyone gets a chance to the best of their
pick?
The Labour Party has chosen. For an alternative that Netherlands stronger and more social. An alternative which we use all the talent that our country is rich. So we are creating jobs, the engine of our economy
weather running and we fairly share the burden. We opt for a stronger and more socially Netherlands. Because
just as we steam our country for the future.
Diederik Samson
6
NETHERLANDS STRONGER AND MORE SOCIAL OUR CHOICES
FOR A
STRONG
ECONOMY
1. Strong out of the crisis
2. Business investment
promote
3. Education as the engine of
economic growth
4. SMEs as a source of
entrepreneurship, innovation and
jobs
5. Green growth
6. Innovation
7. A sound financial sector
Made in Holland
Netherlands is an economic factor to be reckoned with. This is already evident from a cursory look at the
international rankings lists. Sixteenth economy of the world. Seventh on the list of foreign investors. Sixth recipient of foreign investment. Fifth exporter of goods. Third agricultural exporter in the world. The second highest per capita income of all euro countries.
Our competitive position is strong. The balance of payments, the balance of exports and imports, has a large
surplus. These impressive figures translate into a series of compelling national champions. Four
our universities are among the top hundred. Wageningen Agricultural University
among the world leaders in its field. KLM is the most sustainable airline in the world.
Leiden Bioscience Park is one of the leading centers for life sciences
Europe. The port of Rotterdam annually save 435 million tonnes making it the leading port in Europe,
whereby the main port number one in the world in terms of sustainability. Brainport Eindhoven is the most
innovative region. Philips is internationally the best example of innovation. Water company Vitens is the
most innovative water company in the world. There is so much to be proud of.
A strong economy is at the beginning of the way out of the crisis. Growth creates jobs. Job worries
income and confidence. Income and confidence in the future to encourage consumers to spend and businesses to invest. Growth supports healthy public finances. Spending, for example
social security, running back while tax revenues increase. Thus creating a solid foundation
for good education and accessible care and a decent social security.
There is, according to the Labour Party just one scenario. Netherlands needs economic progress. Achieve that
we do not by rushing behind chasing bubbles which then burst in our faces. We
should focus not on speculation, but to strengthen the real economy.
'Made in Holland' must appear on many more products and innovations. Therefore, we must endeavor
strive to be the best and to stay.
The bottlenecks
The support agreement between CDA, VVD and PVV was presented as one big jobs program. That is a stateless
shown promise. Netherlands would do it better than our neighboring countries. The opposite is the case. Netherlands is in recession and grow our neighbors. That is not the fault of the
abroad, or the world, but the result of failed government policy.
PvdA election parliamentary elections in 2012
7 The Netherlands is in a recession. The current financial and economic policy contributes to this. The fixation on
Short-term deficits lead to draconian cuts. The Kunduzcoalitie put this harmful policy
from continuing Rutte. Cuts are inevitable for the economic recovery, but crucial here
the pace and the way.
By the way is now intervened, consumers hold their hand even tighter on spending,
the housing market is still more secure. Consumer confidence has fallen nowhere faster than in
Netherlands. Netherlands is now well below the EU average. That leads to a downward spiral
of lower spending and reduced business investment. In the first quarter of 2012 capital expenditures declined another 4%. Later is more than half a million people out of work. In particular
young persons without legal staff are hit hard. 12% of our young people is without
job.
The housing is locked. House prices are falling for five years, while the volume of mortgage debt not
decreases. Starters are struggling and limiting bank lending, the case
worsened. Right-wing parties have for years blocked any reform of the housing. The
interest-only mortgages cost the Treasury billions annually. The new housing is on
a historically low level ended with huge economic damage to the building sector. Stranded
housing market also hampers the labor market. Moving to a new job often means a unsaleable house or double loads.
The creditworthiness of the Netherlands is strong. To keep it that way we have our financial sector
heal, prepare for an aging population and strengthen the economic structure. That means,
besides stabilizing the euro and structural reforms of the housing market, the labor market
and of our financial system, an ambitious growth agenda for our economy.
Our ability to create new economic growth is closely linked to the way we
Treasury would put in order. When, at the time of consumer confidence in a
absolute lows, the purchasing power to make savings inflict a heavy blow, we squeeze
the last air from the economy. However, when we realize new growth and employment decline
direct government spending and increase revenues, making the budget accelerated toward an equilibrium
going. In short, the Netherlands needs a growth agenda.
A new growth agenda
It's time for a new, energetic approach to the crisis. Netherlands has strengths and weaknesses. Which
are central to a new strategy for growth. Unlike the failed 'pruning to grow "focuses
This strategy focuses on the long term. The PvdA wants to strengthen the economy along three lines. First, the control of domestic demand with its own, more good products will predominate
perform. Our prosperity is not solely dependent on exports. Second, we must for our exports
look beyond its European neighbors. Dynamic new economic powers are appearing in the distant
East, Latin America and Africa. We have to focus us on time. Thirdly, we need more
be concentrating on making good, innovative products and do not want to be merely a service economy. The potential of our (knowledge-intensive) manufacturing industry, which is distinguished by a high added value should be better exploited.
8 NETHERLANDS STRONGER AND MORE SOCIAL

OUR SOLUTIONS
1. Strong out of the crisis
At the start of the VVD-PVV-CDA coalition stated that the coalition tolerance and a 'jobs plan'
was. Netherlands would do it better than our neighboring countries. Is the opposite
happened. Netherlands is in recession and grow our neighbors. That is not the fault of foreign or international trade, the reasons are mainly domestic. It does not happen to us but
it is a result of wrong policies.

We're going to do this:
•
•
•
•

We opt for a fiscal policy that offers the prospect of a structural balanced budget in 2017.
Necessary cuts must be chosen such that economic growth is harmed as little as possible.
A fair distribution of the account between citizens according to their means.
Structural adjustments in housing, employment and health care; which is not only a contribution
supply in the longer term sustainability of public finances, but also the foundation of the
Dutch strengthening economy.

Promote 2. Business investment
The next few years, it is crucial that businesses start investing again. That government can stimulate along
fiscal path, through guarantees and through public-private partnerships.

We're going to do this:
•
•

•
•

•

•

Reintroduction of the successful settlement of tax-free depreciation for business investment
(temporarily in 2013 and 2014).
SMEs will also encounter higher cost of capital. That hampers investment. Therefore,
the Innovation Fund SMEs be tripled from 125 to 375 million per ear for the benefit of
innovation lending and stimulate the provision of long-term equity at the
SMEs. To this end, a new National Investment Bank is established.
The state guarantee scheme will be extended to lending by the banks
Improving SMEs.
The construction, the motor of the economy, must be boosted by temporary tax relief schemes in terms of renovations and facilities in the field of energy savings. Moreover
the VAT is in the construction of 19% to 6%.
The Law on Corporate Income Tax is adjusted such that investment is promoted equity. The deductibility of the cost of debt is limited and
equally responsible for equity. As a result, businesses that invest much less pay taxes and companies that invest little more. And companies are rewarded with healthy financing while companies that are pumped with debt before tax no longer be rewarded.
With public-private partnerships, in particular with our own pension funds can
For example, additional investment will be upgraded in the field of infrastructure.
Thus can be created up to 2020 per year to 500 million extra for investment. Important
here is it to keep the return on these investments for our society in the eye
Public-private cooperation is an efficiency gain of 10% in the construction and operation of
these projects feasible.

3. Education and knowledge as an engine of sustained economic growth
A well-educated population is essential for renewed economic growth. Investing in education
is investing in the future. The key here is not to get as many people in higher education
but to get well trained people at all levels. Especially in the technique where a lack of

PvdA election parliamentary elections in 2012

9

educated people continued growth of technology sector and regions threatening. The number of technique
Students must therefore double over the next few years. To achieve this we do in addition
on the Master technique, the following proposals.

We're going to do this:
•

•

•

•

•

•

•
•

•

The outage at the technical universities is far too high. In the first year is already 25 per cent of
the students graduate. That is not dogmatic. Here's what to do. Well structured education and intensive support should reduce the dropout accelerated dramatically.
The Labour Party encourages more guidance to schools on subjects which students
technical training problems encounter, in order to prepare better as the pupil
technical education and thus to reduce the threshold to so choose. beside
we go for courses or summer schools for students free disposal, in
Together with the universities. This allows prospective students to fully prepare for technical education.
More companies need to take young people at MBO level 2, after which they will be trained further
to Level 4. Young people should be able to switch between BBL and BOL. Also in business integrated vocational training must offer young people a sufficient basis for a chance
job elsewhere.
In the MBO new dynamic techniques can be presented so that the gap
between school and the labor market is smaller. An obvious example is the training aircraft maintenance engineering. Business and government support of this joint responsibility and should jointly this very targeted resources available.
Innovation Contracts between business, research and educational institutions and government
should result in a concrete investment agenda. Thus, fundamental, applied and practical mutually reinforcing.
The cut on the national research budget (formerly from natural gas) means
we from 2015 total of 2500 fewer PhD positions at Dutch universities and institutes
shall have. This will have to be run as soon as possible to get back to the level
Germany and Switzerland to come in terms of public investment in research. This
is also of great importance to Dutch researchers to continue to participate in good
EU research programs and to gain access to new knowledge.
The PvdA wants the next few years more space for initiatives such as school work, vocational schools and
describe schools where practical training to craftsmanship is central.
To increase the use of ICT in education and to stimulate learning in the workplace
be educational tools, especially e-books and e-learning environments, like textbooks
charged with a VAT rate of 6%.
For students in the MBO of the materials to be used are supplied by the school. "

4. SMEs as a source of entrepreneurship, innovation and jobs
SMEs are the driving force for jobs in the Netherlands. The Labour Party is proud of real entrepreneurs who sell services.
These products make and export. They offer lots of employment. The bulk of
the Dutch population, 4.5 million people working in SMEs. In shops, in the agricultural and tourism sector, in IT, in the media or as a bookkeeper or accountant.
60 per cent of total exports is accounted for by SMEs. In SMEs we find the true entrepreneurs who find new solutions that open new markets and who dare to run risks.
These entrepreneurs are cherished by the Labour Party. We want to remove unnecessary rules, complex
simplify procedures.

We're going to do this:
•
•
•

•

10

To really stimulate entrepreneurship debt and equity are taxed equally.
We encourage students and universities to put the knowledge into practice
new businesses, which will potentially generate many jobs.
There start each year 40 000 new enterprises. We want to encourage them for their ideas
a success and grow. That creates jobs. The self-employed and
entrepreneur facilities blend into a winstbox that is more focused on start-ups and growth.
Due to the banking crisis, companies often difficult to get loans. We intervene if it appears that banks do not take their social responsibility.

NETHERLANDS STRONGER AND MORE SOCIAL

•

•

•
•
•

•

•

We are private initiatives to support lending and promote wealth creation in SMEs including in the form of venture capital and microfinance for starters.
SMEs need access to government procurement. That encourages innovation and competition with larger companies. The government shall ensure the unnecessary accumulation of experience requirements and the provision of high capital requirements to stimulate innovation.
The Winkelsluitingstijdenwet is much broader. It is up to local authorities themselves to decide which shops may be open on Sundays.
The PvdA wants entrepreneurs can arrange as many procedural issues in a digital counter to reduce procedures and legal costs.
Inspectors must collaborate and monitor simultaneously. The inspection is improved, intensified and better coordinated. If they prove good behavior is based on trust
Instead of mistrust. Where necessary, must be just occurred.
The admission of knowledge workers and international students connect better aligned
specific needs in business and science to highly qualified staff and also be stripped of red tape. Confidence must come first. When abuse is taken hard.
We want the tax to the next few years intensive vertical supervision and controls
exercise, so be missed minimize tax revenues.

5. Green growth
Sustainability is no longer desire but an absolute necessity in an economy where commodities
becoming scarcer and thus more expensive. Corporate social responsibility has long
no longer a sideline, it is the essence of entrepreneurship. Otherwise you simply do not exist. In addition, advocates
them that the government will set a good example by as much as possible with every purchase or contract
Choosing a sustainable provider for conscious product or service in question.
A sustainable economy is not only necessary because of climate change and the depletion of our
earth, but also a huge economic opportunity. Opportunities for new growth, where the old stops; new jobs, where the old disappear. New innovation, which the Netherlands can excel in. Netherlands
has the best engineering firms, offshore companies, builders and water ports. We can and want
global player in the field of offshore energy production. And with Wageningen also in the field of
biomaterials.

We're going to do this:
•
•

•

•

•
•
•

The Labour Party supports social entrepreneurship, investing in renewable energy, supports
initiatives and green growth.
Fiscal measures to support our green agenda: red diesel is abolished, the
elimination of environmental taxes we turn back, the scheme remains green investments and the
SDE we phase out and replace it with a compulsory proportion of renewable energy.
There will be a supplier obligation for green energy. Suppliers are required to have a
annually increasing share of renewable electricity supply. Coal plants are obliged
sustainable biomass co-firing.
We opt for innovations aimed at a sustainable economy. This approach encourages the development of green energy through biomass, wind, solar panels and reduce the
energy consumption. In the production of biofuels will take into account the
effects on food security, especially in developing countries.
Grid operator TenneT is responsible for the construction of an offshore grid for wind energy.
Local initiatives for decentralized energy are encouraged. The energy
disappears on small-scale, decentralized power generation.
The PvdA wants economical use of natural resources. Energy saving, emission reduction and
recycling of products to be promoted permanent. This is based on the principle:
'Waste not' so much as possible to a final stage of 100% recycling of afvalstaffen new resources. In addition, funds to stimulate citizens to provide much for recycling, such as systems with return premiums expanded to multiple materials. So
the deposit system for bottles is not abolished, but looks at the (partially) take over of the German deposit system.

PvdA election parliamentary elections in 2012

11

•

•
•

•

•

Our transport interchanges the port of Rotterdam, Schiphol and railways are indispensable
importance to the Dutch economy. Rotterdam port complex can be so with strong growth
become an important engine for economic recovery and employment. To get sustainability breakthroughs example regarding waste heat and waste in the whole port area, an area permit is required. Economy and sustainability go hand in hand provided growth
is conditioned, in order to limit damage to the environment. Residues from the port are reused in the greenhouses in the Westland. This reuse is also promoted in other port areas.
When purchasing criterion is introduced by the government that in comparable prices as much as possible the most sustainable option is purchased.
Households should be able to deliver their waste for free at the local waste station to prevent illegal dumping. The price here can be passed in the general waste tax
which residents already pay.
Not only goods, but also the realization of cross-border
Intercity connections are crucial for the further economic development of the
Randstad and the regions.
Public funding is examined in subsidies and tax benefits that green growth
obstruct and these are being phased out.

6. Innovation
Entrepreneurs know best areas to target. Innovations come from people, companies,
science, not from the Ministries. But the government can, however, make excellent entrepreneurs
trained workers can have that the public services are organized and the infrastructure
functioning properly. The role of government in economic policy is crucial as regards the economic structure.
Therefore, the Labour Party chooses focused innovation. A policy which reflects the successes of economic networks closely around so-called "talent towns'. High-tech in the Southeast Netherlands around
Eindhoven and the campuses of Chemistry & Materials and Life Sciences & Health in South Limburg, agro & food
in the network around Venlo and Wageningen, Enschede and Nijmegen in biomedical, biotech in Leiden, logistics in Rotterdam Schiphol Energy in Groningen, Leeuwarden in water technology, and the development of
the cluster "Smart Services" in Parkstad Limburg. Also, the Labour Party will be adjacent to the existing talent towns' go hard to make the development of new networks, such as a Medical Health
Campus around Boxmeer and Oss. This commitment also reflects the European commitment to so-called 'smart specialization' that builds on strengths of institutions and regions. Furthermore, the current top sectors policy of the Dutch Ministry of EL & I will be further expanded and focused on export promotion. Government, top universities and promising sectors work together (eg, using each other's networks) for innovations
successfully introduce foreign markets.
Innovation policy that also lays the foundation for responses to future challenges. After all, it will be
Furthermore, these economic clusters that may be able to put our technological innovations climate change, an aging population, a growing world population and increasing scarcity of water resources to cope.

We're going to do this:
•

•

12

The growth strategy also has implications for policy and the establishment of the government. We
should opt for far strengthening of regional cooperation around the 'talent towns'.
Economic policy, new industrial policy and innovation policy is implemented through regional
joint ventures in which governments, research institutes and industry work closely together. All resources should be at the service of a shared growth agenda. Make appointments
with universities, other (educational) institutions and undertakings (in) direct research grants can be given that any production activities arising from it in
preferably located in their own country.
The strategy also has implications for the allocation of research funds to universities
and research institutions. The competition in higher education in recent years has mainly been in the breadth and not depth. Specialization of universities and colleges is necessary to belong to the international top. This process should be accelerated, and as far-reaching strategic cooperation between Dutch universities by

NETHERLANDS STRONGER AND MORE SOCIAL

•

•

the government should be encouraged and supported as necessary. There is a knowledge center for
sustainable innovations based on cooperation between the three universities of technology businesses that facilitates young people in sustainable innovations.
European policy aimed at economic development of regions must be changed radically. The expenditure of European funds must effectively promote growth. Resources
Now do not sufficiently available to SMEs and too much money is still heading in
retention of unprofitable agricultural bulk production instead of eg funding
of starting new businesses or develop renewable energy technology.
Start-up companies are encouraged by public co-financing available for sustainable innovations that enable the private green funding is elicited.

7. A sound financial sector
For renewed economic growth in the Netherlands has a sound financial sector is indispensable. Structural
flaws, effects of decades of deregulation of the financial sector should be accelerated
addressed. For the PvdA, it is crucial that these measures wherever possible, be international.

We're going to do this:
•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

We need European banking supervision. The supervision of banks is primarily regulated by national legislation and
"saving" of banks is a national responsibility, while the big banks are international and the European currency union. This situation is no longer tenable. Banking supervision
To be European is. Banks in the euro zone must all be adequately capitalized and
under effective supervision. In the international context should be regulated the financial sector together with the other major trading blocs.
In order to obtain a balanced social society, it is necessary to make a distinction in the investment banks between long-term investments with a size mon
interest and short-term investments exclusively pursue a personal or corporate gain.
The banking sector must be restructured. Bank profits are private, but the risks are passed on to the taxpayer. Banks may take any risky adventures with them the savings entrusted by citizens. A further reassessment of the
structure of the financial sector is necessary.
ABN Amro does not go to the fair. Service of the bank to our economy must be decisive and not shareholder returns and earnings growth in the short term. An alternative positioning and polity of the bank also promotes the 'biodiversity' of our financial sector. By diversity in the organization of the big financial players the stability takes
of the banking system increased. An alternative financing and governance there for ABN Amro
developed, including a possible role for patient capital from institutional investors.
The financial sector must help pay. Now the taxpayer stepped in the banks
rescue, it is reasonable that the sector itself will contribute significantly to a load
on financial transactions (FTT). Our pension funds are excluded from its emphatic.
An end to the bonus culture. There are 7 million profiteering policies sold in the Netherlands. Not because
customers asked for it, but because the bonus culture of banks initiated unwanted
behavior. The banking sector must again be where people are subservient to their
customers. The Labour Party comes with a private member's bill that bonuses for directors and others
working in the financial sector puts rigorously restricted. On top of regular salaries may not exceed 20% of variable remuneration to be paid. The Financial Markets Authority (AFM) will supervise effectively develop new financial products, to prevent additional profiteering policies.
The auditors have to do their job well. At the proposal of the Labour Party and others recently
the House decided that auditors may not audit the books at the same
banks and insurance companies where they also carry out consultancy work. It is prevented that the butcher are so
approves own flesh. The auditor must rotate after eight years in order to prevent monitoring
is jaded. And the AFM has been given the powers to keep this effective supervision.

Capital requirements for banks should be increased. Many instability caused by excessive
leverage, speculate with money that they had not themselves. The capital requirements for banks will be increased. Netherlands should like Switzerland and England, additional requirements. So that
Banks are again solid financial institutions.
PvdA election parliamentary elections in 2012
13 OUR CHOICES
FOR GOOD
EDUCATION
1. Time for Quality Education
2. Sufficient good teachers
3. More human scale, less
market
4. Appropriate education fit
5. Living together starts at school
6. Technology is the future
7. Continue to learn
8. Careful selection
9. Aspirations for higher education
Education as the engine of the knowledge economy
The quality of Dutch education is paramount for the Labour Party. By international standards is
the quality of our education in order. Expenditure on education is internationally seen
average, while our performance is above average. The number of young flows towards the
Higher education continues to rise and the number of early school leavers increased considerably in recent years off.
At the same time we have huge ambitions with education. Education is and will remain crucial for the chances
from children, to achieve the dreams and goals of helping young people and contributing to a strong
and caring society. We stick to the ambition internationally as the best five countries
world hear on education.
What the Labor Party concerned must give the policy based on clear agreements confidence to education
and education from the faith in their own strength to the challenges of society offensive
picking. With proud of what education can offer and ambition to the development and deployment of
to advance students. What the Labor Party concerned make politics and teaching appointments
where ambition and capabilities are brought together. That will require additional targeted investments
that demonstrably improve education, allowing more time for better trained teachers benefit
Apprentices therefore able to proceed in their social development.
The bottlenecks
Education is under understandable pressure to do it even better. This requires sufficient teaching time
good teachers who get to offer customized space. Quality education requires constant
attention. It has been shown that a teacher for 80% determines the quality of education. Now there is too much attention given to large-scale changes of outside education and another merger or reorganization. Appropriate education is impossible if time and money are missing. Too many school children do not
off or stabbing remain below their level. At the same time, there are large gaps in the labor market.
Cuts have by learning in many ways more difficult. While in higher education quality requires continuous attention. In short, We still do the necessary.
14
NETHERLANDS STRONGER AND MORE SOCIAL OUR SOLUTIONS
1. Time for Quality Education
Education Time is precious. Literally and figuratively. The time should be utilized. Where should need
additional time to invest in children. Think of preschool education, lengthening the school day for targeted extra classes or summer school. It is ultimately our quality
education and this is tailored to each person important. There must therefore be given space.
We're going to do this:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
We want no more uniform solutions imposed from The Hague. The standard 1040 hours
must table. Some students can very well with a little more freedom, but others
have the legally required 1040 hours is not enough. Schools therefore have the space
where necessary to hire more or fewer hours and thus get more from children. Focus on quality
is more important than focusing on quantity. The schools justify their total time commitment,
but not all students the same standard of how many hours.
Monitoring and dealing with (very) weak schools is very important, but for average schools, this no challenge to become better. Therefore, we are differentiated inspection
surveillance, also involving schools as 'good' or 'very good' may be assessed.
Retention is not automatic, but a customized option where the child development
is leading. Not repeating can be captured for instance by focusing on in-service training (including after school and during the holidays) on the weak subjects.
Because time is precious, we must also set priorities. The school day is filled quickly. Therefore
should certainly be argued that the basic skills of literacy and numeracy receive sufficient attention throughout the school career going. In the MBO and HBO. We have to
prevent every social problem to be shifted to the teaching
form of another curriculum.
We like where necessary, extend teaching time. Think of very young children with developmental delays. Through early childhood education (early childhood education), the chances of these children should be enhanced in their further education. The educational level of many of the educational
staff in the early childhood education should be increased. Yet not all children to be with participation in early childhood education, be notified before benefit for their development. From
Dispensary for GPs to Centres for Youth and Family must be alert to developmental delay. Parents sometimes need to be helped over the threshold.
Not all students will benefit from considerable autonomy. Not all ages have been able to self
to bear responsibility for their learning. Therefore there must be more tailor-made
education. All pupils and students are entitled to a clearly structured educational and professional guidance. Girls seem to be able better to work independently
deal than boys. Increasingly, do boys from example VWO to HAVO. In special education is now seven out of 10 pupils a boy. The undesirable developments
must be reversed.
Good, objective, key systems are a tool to encourage further development and
identify gaps in time. Pupil monitoring systems, wider than literacy and numeracy alone,
should therefore be actively used at the school so that teachers and school improvements
can pick up. Reference levels set the standard for the test of the pupil. Schools choose their own pupil, this can include a final test. The professional is and remains the best placed to assess the student.
2. Sufficient good teachers
We want the best people for the class. In the coming years there are many teachers retire. To
both quantity and quality to balance it takes a firm teacher policy. Solid quality and pay well, in that combination. Cabinet Rutte got no further than the incentive, actually a bonus culture in education, and the teachers Kunduzcoalitie wants another two years on
set the zero line.
PvdA election parliamentary elections in 2012
15 we're going to do this:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
Performance pay is finally abandoned. To hear the good personnel support
further training and actively monitoring the quality of teachers.
The baseline for teachers immediately leave the table. Well-trained professionals should be
tempted to engage in education. If we want good teachers, we are there just for
pay. Teachers' salaries should follow the wage trend in the market. The backlog
Now arose must be run otherwise we will soon simply not enough
have well-trained people for the class.
Teacher training lay the foundation for mastery. Their quality is therefore fully
his order. The inspection is there extra to oversee. Initiatives that want to further the quality of teacher training up as University teacher training colleges we want to stimulate. There must be
room for excellence.
The number of unqualified teachers in the classroom must be reduced quickly. The on initiative
PvdA, stricter competence requirements must be complied with and monitored. The
requirements must be up. An offer is developed for unauthorized but competent teachers
retrain.
Teachers and school leaders follow mandatory continuing education. We do so using the
professional register for teachers. For school is also a professional register. The
Teachers Fellowship, an initiative of former Minister Plasterk will continue.
The PvdA wants well-trained teachers receive professional weather ample space to take responsibility for their own work. They account for over reached himself afterwards
results.
Initiatives to get more men in the classroom are supported. The number of men for the
namely class continues to decrease. Especially in dealing with boys male teachers
essential for the development and act as role models.
3. More human scale, less market
We want more quality and attention to the individual in education. In education, market forces
led to perverse effects that affect the quality of education and attention to the individual. Thus, the battle to lead the pupil here and there to a multitude of meaningless training
without the quality is in order. That must be smarter and better.
We're going to do this:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
16
The Minister takes the lead to a substantial reduction of the number of different diplomas, the
number of training and mutual agreements within regions over who specializes in the training, to create in MBO and HBO. After all, the government is responsible for the
quality education and an efficient use of taxpayers' money on behalf of a
complete and coherent educational offerings.
A consequence of dropping courses is that graduate students will have to travel more often. This is an additional argument to finally get together with the provinces OVtrajectkaart for now
MBO students (under 18) to arrange to be financed from the BDU mobility funds.
The PvdA proposal for a merger test has now become law. School administrators must
mainly deal with the quality offered in-house and not the umpteenth merger.
Further scaling up in education is not required.
Teachers, pupils and their parents / guardians must be given more control over their school.
So they must be able to detach from a bigger school board or be able to accompany themselves
with another school (also of another denomination). They should also give explicit approval in the future when the school board is preparing a merger.
It is remarkable and significant that we in the Netherlands or the minimum size of a school
have not been established, but the maximum size. With regard to the Labour on the basis of a
social dialogue agreements with the teaching on the desired scale of our
education. The scale of both institutions, school boards, school locations as of classes should be curbed.
At the same time must be independently assessed whether the schools, given the compulsory education period and the maximum class size should be sufficiently funded.
A particular scale problem arises in shrinking areas. By 2020 there are expected to 100 000 students less in primary education, a decline of 6%. Other sectors
follow soon afterwards. So it is inevitable to organize education smarter move in
NETHERLANDS STRONGER AND MORE SOCIAL •
•
•
regions where it plays. All forms of cooperation should be possible. Administrative and
constitutional barriers to cross ideological boundaries should be
tidy. For this, besides the dual education system is a `third way 'necessary, which
controlling various denominations can really work together and jointly and
mixed last school can sustain.
The development of community schools is a good opportunity for the provisioning to
maintain or even to be amplified. Cooperation between school, child care, sport and culture
is promoted with this. The community school district is the provision for children and parents
a range of activities from 7 am to 7 pm.
There is also a problem with very small school of less than 40 students. Schools where so
few pupils on that quality can no longer be offered there. For this school is that they need to deliver quality. They can not be exempted from.
The Labour Party is taking the initiative to change rules that due to perverse incentives to quality incentives for small schools in rural areas.
4. Appropriate education fit
The Labour Party supports the goal of appropriate education, which many children as possible in ordinary schools have come into their own. But education should be able to take up this task. And good special education should always be maintained.
We're going to do this:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
To appropriate education is really fitting accessibility of educational facilities a
requiring first. It can not be that a school with adequate support offer a
student refuses, because denominational reasons. For students with a support need to be introduced universal access.
The cuts to the appropriate education and special education go permanently off the table. You
Can not extra responsibility lay with the schools and in the meantime removing the cash.
If necessary, a school must be adjusted in mainstream schools for children with
a physical limitation as to be able to follow training.
All schools in one region be jointly responsible for caring for all students. The
extent of the region must be chosen so that the energy does not sit in the extra
administrative burden rather than in the care of the student. The extra money for care and support needs
there also be addressed. Parents and teachers should be involved from the start in the design of care. This region, where possible, to coincide with the labor market region, RMC region and the health regions.
With municipalities must take place alignment on connecting to the youth.
Education should get one year extra time to prepare the introduction and
prevent these students fall through the cracks.
That extra year should also be used to the expertise in caring for pupils at all
to strengthen schools. The money available for the Teachers Scholarship, should the next few years
therefore be targeted.
Schools should be rewarded in their assessment for the inclusion of pupils with special needs and
certainly not to be punished with a lower valuation.
5. Living together starts at school
Too many places in our country move children from different ethnic origins separated
to school. In mixed neighborhoods, an all-white school standing next to a black school. That
parents are looking for a good school is absolutely right; Quality must always be in order. But there are even
good schools closed because of white flight to get underway; School suddenly gets a bad name
because there are too many migrant children would sit on.
We are committed not accept it. A school should be a reflection of the neighborhood. Children need
grow together across all kinds of divides it. There are several practical ways of this
to deal with. Local experiments should receive plenty of space. But also nationally, we must influence
continue to exercise that freedom of education can not mean freedom from poor education and poor school administrators not again be able to establish a school.
PvdA election parliamentary elections in 2012
17 we're going to do this:
•
•
•
•
•
Initiatives of parents who report jointly their children to come to mixed schools, so again, we welcome that very much and deserve local support.
A fixed registration point for all schools in the municipality to ensure that all children
create an equal probability of enrollment at all schools.
A fixed age at which children may be enrolled in school prevents an increasingly
former run on the 'best' schools.
With double waiting lists would help to maintain good range of disadvantaged children.
Education Councilors should have overriding authority to agreements with school boards
can make to work together on mixed schools.
6. Technology is the future
Our future economic growth and jobs are a large part in the technical sectors. Think
the Eindhoven region, growth engine in the south. The main bottleneck is the lack of technically trained people. That will increase enormously. At all levels. The number of engineering students should therefore the
years to double. To achieve this we do in addition to the Master technique,
the following proposals.
We're going to do this:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
The outage at the technical universities is far too high. In the first year is already 25 per cent of
the students graduate. That is not a law, there is what to do about it. Well structured education and intensive support should reduce the dropout accelerated dramatically.
The Labour Party encourages more guidance to schools on subjects which students
technical training problems encounter, in order to prepare better as the pupil
technical education and thus to reduce the threshold to so choose. beside
we go for courses or summer schools for students free disposal, in
Together with the universities. This allows prospective students to fully prepare for technical education.
It must be made easier for firms to hire young people, and to ensure that
they can switch between BBL and BOL. It leads to a win-win situation: the companies involved
have interest in being on time that they have well-trained staff and the young people have an interest
insist that they are definitely using this construction a job.
In the MBO new dynamic techniques should be offered so that the gap between
school and reality becomes smaller. An obvious example is the training aircraft maintenance engineering. Business and government must work together for this highly targeted means
make available.
Innovation Contracts between business, research and educational institutions and government
should result in a concrete investment agenda. Thus, fundamental, applied and practical mutually reinforcing.
The cut of 500 million structurally on the national research budget (formerly the
natural gas) means that from 2015 to 2500 a total of less promotion places
Dutch universities and institutes will have. This should be as soon as possible run in order to get back to the level of Germany and Switzerland in terms of public investment in research.
The PvdA wants to provide space for experiments and initiatives such as the school work,
business schools and vocational schools, where the practical skill to central.
To increase the use of ICT in education and to stimulate learning in the workplace
be educational tools, especially e-books and e-learning environments, like textbooks
charged with a VAT rate of 6%.
For students in the MBO of the materials to be used are supplied by the school.
7. Continue to learn
We still have many early school leavers in the Netherlands. Since 2006 in addressing them
top priority was declared the number it fell sharply, from 56 000 to around 38 000 per year now.
But 38 000 early school leavers are still too many. There must still needed
to happen.
18
NETHERLANDS STRONGER AND MORE SOCIAL we going to do this:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
We are committed to execute on combating early school leavers. It starts with a
proper registration, rapid action against truancy and involving parents, including on the
MBO. Longer in school means more labor and less use of social services. To go further point against a good match with a training and intensive
guidance on such training is of great importance. The link between school and pupil or student
must be intensified.
Associate of supply Degree programs in HBO should be expanded. The labor market requires this level of education, and thus MBO studen at an attractive
way further learning.
The offer for students who are learning bad in theory but may well learn practical needs
better. The PvdA wants therefore the next few years more space for initiatives such as work and school
vocational schools, where the practical skill to central.
Unemployed young people who come home to sit must be stimulated by learning.

and achieved what they are now
thanks to the possibility of stacking example VMBO HAVO HBO. And there are many routes
education building. Unbridled selection by educational institutions at the gate, could compromise this principle.

We're going to do this:
•

•

The Labour Party puts heavily on sound primary and secondary education through a serious examination, so that a
diploma in the Netherlands always presents something. Selection takes place already at the present school,
in the choice of the level, on passing to the next grade and graduation. Alone
that way we can combine quality education with the possibility, if you do your best
do and have ambition to further study. Both are for both the individual and society
of crucial importance.
Many students still switch study and lose time and money. Students should 'matching' helped more quickly to come up with the right study. Allow students to teachers of the course that interests them, so they can get advice about their
study.

PvdA election parliamentary elections in 2012

19

9. Initiatives in Higher Education
The quality of our higher education must be beyond any doubt and even international
world leaders. Moreover higher education accessible to anyone who has the qualities for it, regardless of origin and income.

We're going to do this:
•

•

•

•

•

•
•
•

20

We want institutions in higher education to specialize in different educational fields, so that they stand out on the quality of the schools in place of the
quantity. The method of financing of the institutions should be adjusted accordingly.
Further diversification of teaching in Higher Education, as the committee
Veerman advocates, can help to respond better in terms of level and learning styles on diversity
the growing number of students.
Confidence in the quality of higher education must be restored. Students are
itself explicitly involved in the quality of education. Where necessary, the will
inspectorate are deployed. We ask students a great sense of responsibility in their study. However, this also means that they need to rely on the quality they get delivered. In too many subject areas has a Bachelor however no
good basic qualification, enabling students any freedom of choice on whether or not a
To continue Master's degree. The Labour Party will consult with the relevant sectors extra attention
attention to the quality of the Bachelor of Education, so that each degree is a basic qualification.
The PvdA wants a loan system for bachelor and master phase. Students then henceforth borrow
their scholarship. Upon completion of the study should be refunded to capacity. After
15 years, any remaining debt is forgiven. The supplementary grant for children
less well-off parents, still just a gift. The major part of the cost of the
Higher Education thus still accounts for the government, but students
is thus asked to invest in their education and their future. The money thus becomes free is fully invested in the PvdA plan in the quality of education.
At present, the interest rate on student loans from the government is determined to
the hand of the graduation date, and is thereafter fixed for a number of years. Because of this interest rate per period to be determined arbitrariness disappears and everyone pays the same about the same
period.
The increase in tuition for a second study leads to unintended problems
is reversed.
The long study fine knows many injustices and needs of the table.
The reduction proposed by the five-party coalition of the right to a public transport pass goes from
table.

NETHERLANDS STRONGER AND MORE SOCIAL

OUR CHOICES
FOR
LABOUR

1. Work for young and old
2. A happy old age
3. People with disabilities
do fully participate
4. Increased security for flexible workers
5. Working towards freelancers
6. A fair and flexible
labor market

Everyone to work!
Full employment - we believe it can. And the PvdA wants it too. Because work and emancipates
gives people self-respect. A job leads to economic independence. With the fruits of their
working people contribute to a better society.
A job for everyone starting economic growth. This growth relaunch is therefore the top priority of the Labour Party. Growth benefits from an open, international economy, including the labor market. We harness the talent of people from all countries and not shut ourselves off from the rest of the world.
But it's more than that people are at work. For the Labour Party is also about how people
are at work.
We want people whistling go to work.
That they feel involved in their business.
They have influence from their expertise in the content and quality of their work.
They deserve a decent wage, safe in the certainty that they are not from one day to the other along the sidelined.
That the differences between the salaries at the top and at the workplace within the bounds of decency.
That the long-term interests of a beautiful, healthy business in the short term interests of shareholders
trumps.
That security lies ahead for those forced to hop from job to job.
That foreign workers are entitled to fair wages and good working conditions.
A job has greater meaning to life than just a source of income. Everyone will endorse. Therefore, the Labour Party for more than just work.
Dutch employees together form a huge source of strength for the economy. We are with
all becoming better educated, more and more skilled. Young people are graduating with ever
higher dip works. We speak our languages ​​and can cope with innovation and technological developments. Our labor market is flexible, much more than the surrounding countries and more than
right would have us think. And our employees are loyal and dedicated.
Not that it's everywhere hosanna. More and more employees have suffered in their jobs. Nurses need to run lists on the shop floor. People in the home care setting with a zero hours contract.
Cleaners are a meager reward per 100 meter floor rushed through the corridors of office buildings. Postal workers must provide their own letter of resignation. Officers and paramedics
are increasingly faced with more aggression. We have seen in recent years all happen.
This injustice fight is over a hundred years the root of social democracy. The old ideals of the Labour Party are therefore more relevant than ever. The Labour Party is committed to good work, decent protection of workers, and therefore maintains close contacts with the unions.

PvdA election parliamentary elections in 2012

21

In 2012 there is a world to win the position of flexible workers and self-employed
staff. For young people who often have to make do with temporary jobs so that they have sufficient security to start a family, buy a house or govern their retirement. For the elderly who
often along the side stand because they are seen as too expensive. For people with a disability or a
handicap, whose talent still underutilized businesses.
All those people deserve a chance. Only then can we great vitality of the Dutch labor market
real disconnect. Before that the Labour Party is committed.

OUR SOLUTIONS
1. Work for young and old
Young people come in recent years with an average of more and better qualifications of school. Keep elderly
healthy and motivated. They can and want to work longer. Two great advantages for the economy and society. But the crisis is there setback.
Youth unemployment is twice as high as average. One hundred thousand young people reach 25 years
not to the tray. Many of them have learned through during the credit crisis of 2008, but their employment prospects are still poor. Pull the economy later on, the generation that just will
of school is more likely to come than they bake. There is likely to lead to a new lost generation
with possible assistance hundred thousand customers.
Since the Labour Party is committed not resign. We let the youth do not go and put all the stops to keep youths connected to the labor market.
At the other end of the labor market, it is time for genuine emancipation of silver
generation. For years, politicians and employers' rhetoric about the need to work longer. But in the workplace are employees age still badly off. Too often
employers regard them as too expensive, too old and too unproductive. The elderly feel discarded.
The five-party agreement has strengthened that impression.
Working longer - time we have less talk and more to do. The PvdA wants
employer and employee together to invest heavily in training. This keeps older versatile and keep them in security work. Good for the self-esteem of older workers. Good for employers
experience, engage staff in house. And good for the government, which does not have the (financial) burden
contributing unduly depreciated staff.

We're going to do this:
•
•
•

•
•
•
•
•

22

Internships should be extended to young people. The government - local and national -
sets a good example.
If no placement is available, the program offers an experience of learning to. So that the
or younger can get the diploma.
There is money available to ensure that young people are directly threatened by unemployment after
Leaving the classroom, a year longer able to stay in school. The municipalities then oversee and provide support.
There will be a budget for individual support to long-term unemployed back to work
help.
For unemployed youngsters is: back to school or to work. The municipalities see to it there
and provide support.
To tackle youth unemployment, we make use of European Structural Funds.
The statutory superannuation, which now goes automatically to everyone who reaches the age of 65,
abolishes the PvdA.
Employees should be able to easily change jobs. That is even more true for people at the end of their careers. Their knowledge and experience we need to refresh, instead of

NETHERLANDS STRONGER AND MORE SOCIAL

to make that capital dust in the WW. Therefore, there will be a new work-to-work scheme:
O
Employers pay for the first six months of unemployment wages. This includes flexible workers.
O
The amount and duration of unemployment remains the same. Workers should have the right to a faster
Unemployment benefit: After 13 weeks of work, the right to four weeks of unemployment benefits.
O
Employer and employee put unemployment at a mandatory work-to-work plan.
O
At the end of the first six months of unemployment checks the ability of both parties
have done enough to find new employment. The employer has not done enough, then
he longer pay wages and additional budget for additional training made available. Has
the employee done too little, he gets a discount on its payment or should he be
by paying wages due.
O
For SMEs sectoral and / or regional cooperation even more important. Emerge
ability to reinsure the risk of unemployment sector, while still
examined the cyclical component of the unemployment risk. The introduction of
a continued payment of wages in unemployment requires a collective safety net for workers
whose employer threatens to go bankrupt.
O
Work is never less. That should apply to all unemployed, taking into account personal circumstances.
O
Work should pay. That should apply to each unemployed person. It can not be that the unemployed
lose out if they accept work. Therefore, the PvdA now settle actually earned wages with unemployment benefits, rather than the hours worked.
O
No preferential treatment for officials. Also they are the primary beneficiaries of the work-to work scheme and will be covered. Profits from the existing redundancy schemes
benefit the budgets for training.

2. A happy old age
Dutch to generation after generation happy getting older. After a working lifetime, many
people longer than before enjoying a fine old age with a good income thanks to our AOW
and our strong pension system.
The Labour Party was the foundation of that system. Thanks to our Willem Drees out nearly sixty
years old and poor no longer go hand in hand. In all these decades, however, much has changed. As mentioned, we are getting older, the number of older people relative to the number of young people is growing substantially and we must all
to put everything in the future to maintain sufficient hands to bed and teachers for the classroom.
The retirement age must therefore upward. The PvdA thereby always required that
This age increase is not at the expense of people who have worked for a low income
and that it does not come at the expense of people who became unemployed at an advanced age and that no longer
the work to come. Finally, public finances need to be put in order and we ask
Dutch all previous contributions, work longer forms an essential part.
Now the pension agreement that met all of these conditions by the five-party coalition of table
drawn and the money that was set aside for a careful introduction is removed completely threatened
a misguided raising the retirement age. From the retirement age would be next year
up should, without any provision for people who thereby come in big trouble. That is
unacceptable to the Labour Party. The PvdA opts for a strong and social alternative that does justice to
the interests of workers and the interests of the exchequer. There should be a good arrangement
for people who have been since childhood worked for low wages and those in later life
were still unemployed. At the same time we will be in light of the financial and economic environment
already in 2017 begin with the raising of the retirement age.

We're going to do this:
•

•
•

We link the retirement age to life expectancy. The state pension age will increase in 2017 with a
half years, in 2020 and 2022 by half a year and in 2025 for 67 years. This gives future retirees ample time to prepare for change.
The PvdA wants people to be able to prepare enough so that there is no gap between AOW
and old age pension.
Unemployment and disability benefits run through to the start of the AOW
age so that they can not distinguish the age of 65 and the retirement age end up on welfare.

PvdA election parliamentary elections in 2012

23

•
•
•

•

•

•

The PvdA allows for a flexible retirement age. Employees may one to two
year previously received state pension, but with a discount of 6% per annum.
People with lower incomes get the opportunity to build more retirement leave on. Which can
by that part of the income on which no pension is built to decrease.
When working longer also includes a package of measures that ensures that people can work longer and a fair settlement for those who can not continue working. There are three
necessary things:
1. There will be an early retirement for people after their 61st involuntarily to the side to come
stand.
2. The use of a work bonus and Vitality Scheme allows people who worked long
against low income, right at their 65th stop working. The discount on their
AOW is thus reduced from six to three percent.
3. The PvdA wants in the short term improve the labor market situation of older people so that
people can actually work until 67. We support older workers
to find work and tackle age discrimination.
We need everyone on the labor market. Atv existing arrangements insofar
possibly reduced. Among other things by combining labor and care more easily to
make, we encourage people who work part-time to work more hours. The possibilities
be improved, for example, telecommuting.
There is new legislation for how our pension funds are governed.
Community involvement and expertise for the PvdA important here. Employers
should also remain responsible for healthy pension funds. It shall also consider
how participants can gain more control on the part socially responsible investment by the pension fund to which they are affiliated.
There will be a new assessment framework for pensions, in which solidarity between generations (young
and old), but also within generations (high- and low-skilled) is central.

3. People with disabilities do participate fully
Each man has his own talent. And every man is lucky if he can develop that talent. Often
it goes without saying, but sometimes people need a helping hand to be helped to make it come out.
Certainly people with disabilities or other disabilities. A limitation or disability is not legitimate
dismissal ground, and the Labour Party will not accept this. However, it can function adaptation or modification are necessary.
One hundred years social democracy has led to great progress. In this country we stop people
a limitation not go away. They have enthusiastically joined, for example in sheltered employment. That gives
esteem, adds value to the economy and contributes to a better society. Nevertheless, it is
a delicate balance, especially in the current economic crisis. The previous Cabinet had reports of people with
a limitation rather write than to bring them to fruition. That is not an option for the Labour Party. We want to do everything possible to ensure that people do not become dependent on benefits.
Of inhabitants of our country, we should expect them to contribute to society. Of the
government, we may expect them to set a good example and removes barriers so
people with disabilities can contribute. And employers can we expect
they participate and not leave the efforts of a handful of enthusiastic pioneers.

We're going to do this:
•

•

•

24

Large and medium businesses are required by law five percent disabled and
(old) having long-term unemployed. Who lies beneath, will be fined. Government
only go with companies that meet this quota. The government is an employer too
under the quota obligation.
The Labour Party is convinced that municipalities know best how to get people to work quickly. In addition, do not apply boxes and dividers. Therefore we add the Wajong Act, the Social
Employment and the Work and Welfare Act into one settlement, in the hands of municipalities.
The distinction between disabled and non-disabled remains in the new
arrangement of great importance. Work-disabled people who, because of a functional short-term limitation is not able to independently, without intensive supervision, to work in a
regular environment. It is the group Wajong benefit and those who sheltered intended. But also to the group of young adults who become disabled during the first six months of study, or at any other time before or after their studies, if they are

NETHERLANDS STRONGER AND MORE SOCIAL

•

•
•

•
•
•

have not started the job market. And the group of freelancers who are faced with a
disability.
The statutory minimum wage is rightly limit. This also applies to employees with a
disability. The convergence standard wages sufficient incentive. With a combination
of wage subsidies, education and adequate counseling people in the workplace with
disability helped to obtain a place on the labor market.
The Labour Party is not fiddling with the working conditions of people who work in sheltered employment.
Employers get great comfort from the new scheme. A regular employee shall not be less
costs than a disabled person which is less productive and needs extra support. The
difference in productivity will be reimbursed to the employer. Paperwork they are taken care of.
Those who refuse a decent job offer, get a discount on his allowance. This can also happen if
someone arrangements for monitoring education, rehabilitation or work knowingly fails to comply.
Also partially disabled may not rely on an income level below the
assistance.

People who are totally disabled due to physical and / or psychological reasons
our civilized society the right to a decent life and material may not also
rely on an income level below the assistance. These people will not be bothered with requirements such as: job duty, obligation against performance and penalizing.

4. Increased security for flexible workers
A growing group of employees working on temporary contracts. What sometimes can be said:
together they provide a not inconsiderable contribution to the economy. The army allows flexible employees
companies to quickly, cheaply and without fuss to adjust operations to changing working conditions.
The Labour Party believes that great contribution bears no relation to the low valuation that flexible workers
enjoy. They live in constant insecurity. I work next week? Do I have enough income
to make ends meet? The chance of a permanent job in recent years has declined sharply. The
economic independence of flexible workers is at stake.
That does not accept the Labour Party. We will not watch as their employers entrepreneurial risk free pass on to society. We need to reward businesses that other one, more social way
their need to provide flexibility. We are going to put high on the agenda in consultation with employers and employees.

We're going to do this:
•

•

•
•

•
•
•

•

Employers with temporary contracts come under the wage fall continued payment obligation of the WW. Must not be endless soldered there with people. Therefore get employees after a
term contract of one year in principle, a permanent contract, unless the collective agreement provides for derogations.
We see that the agreement for two years sick pay in practice the undesirable effect
is that too few people still be adopted for fixed, so we reduce the wage payment period to one year.
Make evading the security rights of workers by structures such as payroll
We impossible.
There will be a ban on competition clauses in temporary contracts. If the employer does not want
workers go to work with a competitor he must himself take on a permanent basis. To Flemish
German model and lists the non-competition clause also requires the geographical and functional scope, the duration is for everyone maximized to one year, and for the duration of
the competition clause in the employee must pay a fee.
The PvdA is paid by piece for the lowest paid. For this category of workers should
Employers neatly hours tracking and adhere to the minimum wage.
The evasion of minimum wage via ZZP-constructs must be countered. The
enforcement will be strengthened to increase the probability of detection.
Working with a decent contract is a question of civilization. Anyone who three months
long each week, or have worked at least twenty hours is entitled to an employment contract.
Employers who fail to comply, fined.
Temporary workers may work up to six months with one employer.

PvdA election parliamentary elections in 2012

25

5. Working towards freelancers
The small independent is the hero of the economy of the 21st century. The so-called self-employed (also now ZP'er (independent professional) called) are not indispensable. These are special
entrepreneurs, creative, independent and driven. They have to make the space their own choices and their own
to give substance to their profession. This makes them the potential for innovation and innovation in the
labor market.
Make employers (thankfully) readily use the services of freelancers. Especially in economically uncertain times, they are an attractive alternative to the permanent staff. Here of course are downsides
to. So fly freelancers often the first to like it rears headwind. Too often they have therefore a
income which they find themselves below the poverty line.
Thus threatens to become the hero of the labor market of the 21st century anti-hero. That takes the PvdA
sin. Many of the healthy entrepreneurial spirit threatens the button to be broken. That's why we want
improve the position of freelancers.

We're going to do this:
•

•
•
•
•
•
•

•
•
•

Where too many self-employed people live in poverty, the PvdA wants in sectors that lend themselves before introducing minimum rates. Earnings should at least be enough to build a pension and
be able to afford insurance for disability and sickness.
The Labour Party encourages new forms of solidarity among the self employed. The bread funds as
insurance against risks such as illness and disability deserve active fiscal support.
In contrast, however, the obligation to insure against illness and disability.
Freelancers get in certain circumstances access to assistance.
Freelancers access to existing funds for education.
Freelancers get right to equally good working conditions as employees.
Apparent constructions where the employer dismisses an employee first and then like this
ZZP'er get back rent, the Labour Inspectorate will deal harder. There will be additional inspectors,
financed by own extra income.
Employees who start working as a freelancer, may remain connected to their existing pension fund or insurance.
The government should ensure that self-employed in all cases where the freelancer to the set
job requirements can meet to compete for jobs.
The differences in the tax treatment of employees and freelancers we make it smaller. We do
also for the health insurance premium. In debt for freelancers is no longer required them to stop their business in order to qualify.

6. A fair and flexible labor market
Few countries in the world have such a stable labor market as the Netherlands. Much as the previous Cabinet
spanner in the works tried to throw: we crossed less than counterparts in the neighboring countries, social unrest we barely know and often conflicts with give and take resolved amicably. That makes us one of the most attractive places to locate a business.
On the basis of this stability is a good protection against dismissal. All social achievements such as the
maternity leave, the right to membership of a works council or career
for caring depend on it. For what are these rights worth as workers constantly chance
risk of being put on the street?
Therefore, the Labour Party will always stand for a fair dismissal system. Because sometimes it is inevitable termination of employment. In such cases, all focused on helping people from job to job.
More and more employers today circumventing the day the dismissal system. Highly educated employees
good prospects are often well protected against adversity and also get them a decent severance pay. Low-qualified workers who are forced temporary jobs tying together
not a penny if they lose their jobs. The permanent job for life is no longer a standard more in our labor market. That gave way to a suite of different types of labor relations, contracts and
working conditions. On balance, the position of individual employees and contractors at
relative to their employer weakened.

26

NETHERLANDS STRONGER AND MORE SOCIAL

That seems like employers. But in the long term is something major at stake: which stability
our economy just so sustains. Therefore, the Labour Party is fighting for a strong legal position of workers and
contractors.
Of equal importance to the social peace that we restore order in the business world. Short-sighted shareholder capitalism that greed has elevated to standard, our economy has inflicted great damage. This also applies to large differences in pay high bonuses. There will be a change in the
making tax avoidance structures to be excluded in the future. And multinationals go
gradually paying a reasonable tax on their profits.

We're going to do this:
•

•

•

•

The PvdA wants to get rid of the UWV route for dismissal. There will be a clear dismissal route through the
Subdistrict, where workers are entitled to a preventive test. In case of collective
discharge the social plan remains leading.
For the amount of severance pay, we take the current subdistrict court formula in mind. However, we want to maximize it in an amount of 75,000 euros as previously between
employers and employees agreed. If the labor market for older unemployed is similar to the other unemployed, the formula can be adjusted.
Severance pay will largely benefit the work-to-work budget. With this money
for example, can be funded retraining or starting their own business. All
designed to get the person as soon as possible to work. When the employee
has a new job, the remaining work-to-work budget fairly between employer and
employee divided. So they both have an additional incentive to seek other work.
Also flex workers can gain the right to work-to-work budget. The possibility for a
long-term temporary contracts will be elaborated which include mutual obligations in the contract for development and promotion prospects
here in a subsequent agreement.

Improving position of employees
• The legal and facilities of members of trade unions are defined by law. That
is necessary because, unfortunately, more and more parties are calling for an end to the general mean declaring CAOs.
• We remove the deduction for debt - so clearing out by private companies
equity funds less attractive.
• We revised the corporate governance. In addition, the impact of volatile shareholders is limited and we encourage patient capital. There will be more independent oversight of the company
and a reduction of bonuses and performance pay.
Combine work and care
• The PvdA wants the whole range of schemes child and child blow reform there, so there are two schemes. One aimed at supporting the purchasing power of parents with children and
one aimed at encouraging participation in the labor market.
• We make the child tested, to target the purchasing power of parents and children
to support. Parents with a lower salary will therefore receive more allowances
than parents with a fuller wallet.
• The affordability and quality of childcare should be ensured so as well in districts
where kids just have a great interest in early childhood education have access
to good childcare. Ensuring quality is partly done by good housing,
improved security and adequately trained personnel.
• The PvdA wants to reform the system of leave arrangements, where the traditional division of roles between
husband and wife will be fit parents and the number of holidays themselves can distribute among themselves.
This means that should be able to take paternity leave for fathers easier.
• By consistently supporting policies, for example by making work of the community school, the can
government to facilitate the combination of work and care.
More participation
• The PvdA wants perverse tax incentives to curb speculation. This applies to the deductibility of debts and the internal shuffling of profits by multinationals.
• The Labour Party seeks at European level to discourage hot money, through a levy on
financial transactions. Our pension funds are here expressly exempted.
• Large companies are independent internal oversight required by the supervisory board.
That council would have to approve all important management decisions.
PvdA election parliamentary elections in 2012

27

•

•

•
•
•

The position of workers is enhanced. The national participation is up-to-date
brought to the international economy. Employees have a right to international representation. The position of European Works Councils is reinforced. Works councils
have right of approval for mergers and acquisitions. Companies are not merchandise.
The influence of employees is enhanced by when changes in business practices, through work meetings, employees and the Works say give shelf in improving quality of work
and working conditions.
There is a loyalty and a greater voting power for shareholders who sustained the
long-term interests saints.
We strive to better protect companies against hostile takeovers if
only focus on splitting the short term and draining of a company.
There is a legal possibility for the government to prevent the sale of companies of strategic importance to the Dutch economy if such acquisition harms vital public interests.

Towards a fairer income distribution
• The PvdA's balanced income distribution. In addition, ask the remaining lowest incomes was thinking, like the pay differentials within companies.
• A legal foundation and strengthening of the corporate governance code. This is hard
needed as the code we have now is weak and noncommittal. There is no provision for the height
the appropriate topbeloning. That is particularly so because the race goes to the top. Get there
penalties for companies that fail to comply with this code.
• Through legislation we combat the bonus culture in financial institutions, even if no aid is given. After all, financial institutions are more exposed than others
the temptation to take big risks. There is a statutory maximum rate of 20%
with regard to the variable remuneration in addition to fixed salary in the financial sector. This applies
not only for top executives, but for everyone working in the sector.
• There will be a retrenchment of the currently very generous expatriate arrangement 'for the highest
incomes above 150,000. We want taxable income for which the 30% rule of
capping is applicable to 150,000.
• For the income portion above € 150,000 a year, the Labour Party wants a tax rate of 60%
Entering as a solidarity contribution of people with a high income. "
• The rate on assets above € 125,000 in box 3 goes to 40%.
• We pack hidden rewards in pension schemes. It happens too often that top executives when they joined stipulate that their pension holes are repaired, or that their
lifelong pension is adjusted to the topbeloning they deserve only a limited number of years. These schemes will be capped at the level of a minister salary.
The deductibility of pension contributions is capped at 42%.
• There will be a right of approval of works councils in determining executive compensation.
• There will be a further tightening of the reward code state holdings. Depending on the
weight of the public interest. Thus, in the NS weight of the public interest in the reward already raised from 25 to 40%. But this 40% is still too low, and should go to 75%.
Similarly to other state holdings.
• The remuneration policy for (semi-) public institutions adheres to the Balkenende norm

28

NETHERLANDS STRONGER AND MORE SOCIAL

OUR CHOICES
FOR
JOIN

1. Activating and poverty
debt
2. A roof over the head for
young and old
3. Vrouwenemancipatie
4. Gay rights movement
5. Integration
6. Attention to dependency relationships and honor killings

Participating in Netherlands
In the Netherlands, everyone counts, regardless of origin, religion, ethnicity or sexual orientation. Everyone has to
get the chance to participate. But there is much to be gained in terms of emancipation and integration. And the PvdA wants to seize these opportunities. Social Democrats have always fought for equal rights and
opportunities for all; for voting rights for women, gay rights, basic civil rights
for everyone. That struggle is never finished. People should have the opportunity to further build on our own
to the life they have in mind. Everyone is entitled to a fair chance. However, for the Labour Party.
Whether this minority, gay, children, the elderly, people with disabilities or people are in a vulnerable position by dependency relationships or debts. The Labour Party is committed to ensuring that everyone participate
can do. And everyone must participate and contribute to capacity. This reciprocity is needed
to keep our community strong and socially.

Bottlenecks
The Government policy in recent years has exacerbated the social isolation of many people. There are
more and more working poor. Debt problems running under large groups further, sometimes reaching consequences such as homelessness or crime. The emancipation of women and gay people is still
far from being completed, and people are excluded from language learning. If we want everyone to move, we have to turn these trends are behind it. We need everyone. Everyone is part of it.

OUR SOLUTIONS
1. Activating poverty and debt
Two successive crises in a short time and a Cabinet which has sharply cut back on social security
ensure that for a growing group of people is increasingly difficult to get financially.
Locally, more and more middle class in trouble, measures such as the elimination of untaxed travel allowance also make it more difficult for that group to earn their living. The group
middle is within the Labour Party to get specific attention; Over the past few years it has
group increasingly difficult given by a multitude of measures, must be prevented
in this group of people slipping into poverty hidden and the Labour Party should therefore be extra vigilant
for the socio-economic position of the group. The PvdA feels that work should pay.
More and more people struggling with debt. Until recently, these were mainly people on benefits,
Since last year, the majority of those exist with a debt of people with a job. This development is worrisome. Isolate debts. Fear of bailiffs, reduced self-esteem and

PvdA election parliamentary elections in 2012

29

years are excluded to ensure that even volunteering is a step too far, the health is at stake and that children in families with debts become victims. The PvdA state
for activating poverty thresholds have to go and work should pay. People who have a temporary
job acceptance and therefore steps from benefits, get right to return that benefit, without
wait. This may continue until the prospect of a stable income.

We're going to do this:
•
•

•

•

•

•
•
•
•

•

•

The Labour Party is in favor of a threshold-way arrangement. Childcare, debts and language may
not prevent someone works.
With landlords, utility companies, insurance companies, telephone companies, as well as mail order businesses, municipal covenants are to report any payment arrears of several months. For people with debt problems is therefore rapid intervention by the municipality as possible and avoid bigger problems later.
The PvdA wants to get rid of the standardization of the municipal income policy at a maximum of 110% of the
statutory minimum wage. We want the community the freedom to express their income
municipal minimum establish yourself.
The rich cuts in municipal debt are deleted. Because more there
is invoked, by other groups of people, extra money will be released for this purpose.
It is unacceptable that children growing up in poverty in the Netherlands. Children deserve therefore
a special place in the poverty approach, so that they can develop and poverty can
outgrow. We actively advocate support funds that the sports of children and enable participation in cultural activities or contribute to the high school fees.
Everyone is entitled to a dignified existence. The level of assistance should never fall
below the standard of Nibud: not much, but enough.
Employers work with a new debt settlement for workers.
There are covenants with bailiffs. People in debt should not additional in debt
hunted by exorbitant costs of collection.
Debt problems have previously come to light, which avoids bigger problems later.
Education and debt counseling to youth can be done by institutions like Nibud schools
are cared for. Young people should be more aware of the impact of a debt.
Branches that advertise active young people should cooperate to avoid debt.
We do research, how we can prevent it with respect for privacy
(mail order) business people who are already in debt, bringing tempted to take on new debt.
Unscrupulous lenders to be addressed so that exploitation is prevented.

2. A roof over the head for young and old
Homeless people are getting the help they need and a roof over their heads. Addressing the
these problems not only helps them, it makes society better. With their strength and our help
we help them recover.

We're going to do this:
•

•
•

The successful approach to homelessness in recent years will continue. Shelter
should be more accommodating to small-scale assisted living. Affordable housing,
Good guidance and access to ambulatory long-term care are crucial.
Multi Problem families are particularly vulnerable and require extra assistance to homelessness and escalation
to prevent. These families receive coordinated assistance with care, debt and education.
Young homeless people need a home, an education and a job. Young homeless people need an ID card
to request and obtain from the municipality where they reside at the time.

3. Vrouwenemancipatie
Emancipation is one of the priorities of the Labour Party. This has always been so and it will,
as long as it is needed, remain so. We stand for a Netherlands where everyone is equal and every
Dutchman gets the chance to develop his or her talents. But this emancipation is not finished.
Women are still underrepresented in senior positions, and they earn less than men.

30

NETHERLANDS STRONGER AND MORE SOCIAL

Boosting employment opportunities for women, both in terms of hours and in the level of the positions held by women, is crucial. More women than men studying not only the
university, they also achieve higher grades and graduate faster. Nevertheless, the educational achievements of translation
women hardly in more women at the top. The ability to combine and upgrade work and care for our children is of the utmost importance. Especially in these times of economic crisis, we need everyone, steps should be put to the purchasing power
level to maintain and promote that both parents can stay active in the labor market. Party
Labor thereby supports them with a good system of child arrangements and affordable for everyone
high quality childcare.
Still, most women are not economically independent. This has mainly to do with their limited working hours. The part-time factor and the hourly wage gap have ensured that the Netherlands on the 18th
place in the EU-27. This while aging with swift steps approaching. We also see a further feminization of poverty (the situation is even worse for immigrant women and women with
handicap) Women are more successful at school than men (59% of all university alumni are female).
Still, women earn in their first job though less than their male peers. The gap
tightened and women after their first pregnancy, returning to work. The pay gap
strongly related to the image of mothers in our society, the expectations regarding
women and the disproportionate number of women with family responsibilities. It should also - or even
right - women are profitable at the bottom of the labor market to work more hours.

We're going to do this:
•

•

Women are still underrepresented in top positions. Allows the introduction of quotas
ensure that women are better represented in government and business. The Labour Party
therefore believes that at least 30% of the members of Boards of Directors, Boards
Board and supervisory boards should be women, a directive as appropriate legal
is recorded.
Abortion is an absolute right and reproductive medicine must be given the space to
develop.

4. Gay rights movement
We must also continue to fight for gay rights. More than a million Dutch lesbian,
gay, bisexual or transgender (LGBT). But it still often happens that people are discriminated against based on their sexual orientation. Violence against gay men take the recent years more
increasing. We find this unacceptable. Therefore, the Labour Party remains firmly committed to gay rights.
The Netherlands is also abroad for the acceptance of rights of sexual minorities and
combating homophobia. The Netherlands believes that discrimination based on sexual orientation in the EU
not acceptable. Therefore Netherlands within Europe should take a leadership role to gay
emancipation within Member States of the European Union and to foster far beyond.

We're going to do this:
•

•

•

•
•

•
•

Discrimination is prohibited on the grounds of sexual orientation in the Netherlands. We therefore propose this also so far anchored in the constitution. In Article 1 of the Constitution, we add sexual orientation to the list of characteristics of people when you can not be wrong
treated.
No school may refuse or dismiss students and teachers because of their sexual orientation. Everyone should be able and dare to come to his or her sexual identity.
High school students should receive educational information about LGBT. At this moment, gets 2/3 of
the students not for education about LGBT in school. The Labour Party believes that this should as soon as possible
change. It is already in the core goals of education.
The Labour Party will promote the openness about homosexuality in religious circles
where it is traditionally difficult.
Extra attention to asylum applications must be provided for people who are prosecuted for homosexuality. Still gay people being returned to countries where they make their orientation
To be prosecuted.
The Labour Party believes may refuse to connect a gay couple in matrimony no marriage registrar.
We want a special registration system is where homophobic violence can be anonymous

PvdA election parliamentary elections in 2012

31

•

reported, so there is more insight into the background of homophobic violence. This not
only the probability of detection, it also makes the development of targeted policies easier. In Utrecht
they already launched a dedicated App.
To ensure that gay, lesbian or heterosexual couples have equal rights, it must
Bill lesbian parenthood quickly enter into force. This makes lesbian parents have the same rights as a heterosexual couple that parenting concerns in the case of a sperm donor. The donor plan which agreements are made about the care and upbringing of children,
given a legal status similar to the parenting plan.

5. Integration
Last reign, many groups of people in society put aside. Differ
between people are made larger. Rights of ancient migrants by the previous Cabinet on many
affected fronts. Measures such as illegal quota, the burqa ban and the approach of dual passports have led to that not everyone feels welcome in our country.
Real problems on the other hand remain. New Dutch and their children still fall
more often at school than average, are more often unemployed, more often dependent on benefits, and more
victims of violence behind the front door. Also, there is unfortunately a case of over representation in crime and nuisance of certain groups.
Integration is essentially a task of citizens themselves. Find a place in a new society means letting go, sometimes more than you bargained for. In our Netherlands builds everyone participate in a common future.
Of course, by adhering to the laws and rules. But also as citizens to participate actively,
by speaking the language, by learning and work. If no one is left on the side, we worry
together for a strong and especially diverse society in which everyone can come into its own.

We're going to do this:
•

•

•

•

•

•
•

32

Dual citizenship has nothing to do with loyalty to the Netherlands, nor with an integration problem. There are, in all countries of the world, more and more people with multiple nationality. Where yields that problems need to be addressed. But it is up to people themselves to
to decide if they drop their (old) nationality or retention. Netherlands must be
legislation, as many other countries did, adjust accordingly.
A full burqa ban goes against the fundamental right to freedom of your own life too
focus. The PvdA does not fit the burqa in our free and emancipated society. It deprives women of the ability to develop and participate. Where face-covering clothing such as in education or in public transport is a real problem,
it just needs to be banned. This can also al.
Rights of old immigrants affected by the previous Cabinet on many fronts. The discriminatory measure in the EMEA of the previous Cabinet, we turn back. This limited the fee for long-term care to EU countries, allowing people who winter in Torremolinos
and would be ill indeed their health care costs would be reimbursed, but who exactly
pay the same premiums and temporary care needed for example in Turkey, Morocco or
Suriname is not. A sheer plague measure, which does not belong in a decent legislation.
The pest control of the last Cabinet, which will put someone back with an incomplete state pension at the level of assistance, but eight weeks you are abroad and no claim
more can make additions to the purchasing power, is discriminatory and should be reversed.
Integration remains mandatory for new migrants who settle permanently in Netherlands
and still do not speak Dutch. The Labour Party is in favor of a dependent compulsory education
which includes Central and Eastern European migrants who settle permanently in the Netherlands.
There should be a nationwide provision of integration which pass strict quality requirements
funds. It should be done a good education.
The right to family life is an essential right, but can the excesses of partner migration
also put a brake on integration. The PvdA is therefore the income requirement of 100% of the
and a minimum age limit of 21 years. In turn guarantees that the partner in Netherlands
his new partner from abroad can maintain. An increase in the age and
income requirement would create too great an infringement on the right for families to live together. The
Labour will also find that the newcomer as well corpse may need to prepare for the coming to

NETHERLANDS STRONGER AND MORE SOCIAL

•

•

Netherlands and the Dutch language. Fraud and abuse of marriage migration must be
contested. The duty to have to marry a foreign partner (and no longer sustainable cohabitation) must be reversed.
We want tighter controls on sham marriages. Forced marriages we want to explicitly criminalized. We will also examine the possibilities for the phenomenon of repeated marriage migration, a man with great frequency new women wishes to bring out of the country
of origin to address.
Integration of refugees admitted remains fully borne by the government.
Refugees who receive protection in the Netherlands should be able to make a good start with
building a new life and can connect with the Dutch society.
It also means that refugees are the first period - regardless of their dwelling place forever
social supervision are insured. People who pay voluntarily come to the Netherlands
self integration.

Minorities
We must also continue to focus on the position of minorities in our society.
Minorities now form part of our post-war history, as well as of our common future. We find that there is always that a close eye must remain current developments in society. Thus the story of the Moluccan continues to demand attention. The Labour Party stays sharp
look and does not foot Stoots that everything is fine. We see positive developments such as the performance of (small) children of immigrants in education. These young people seize opportunities and climbing
through education up the social ladder. But the party do not look away to the problems that still occur. So end up there above average Moroccan and Antillean
Boys in the crime. And unemployment among Somali men alarmingly higher than
among other groups. We take this kind of arrears addressed to, with knowledge of the specific situation. Focus here is local, with active support from national policy.

We're going to do this:
•

•
•

•

•

On the labor market and in education is still specific policies necessary to also give minorities equal rights and opportunities. Discrimination in the labor market must be actively combated.
It should also be possible to discuss with employers and employee organizations.
Within education should be packed with language delays in early childhood
education, and must be countered school dropout.
We give more attention to the problem that many highly educated Dutch people with non-Western background after training leave for Turkey or China. Netherlands as a knowledge economy
have these people desperately need and highly educated immigrants are good examples for others.
Relatively few young migrants coming into the (voluntary) youth, while average
taken overrepresented in juvenile detention. The youth reaches these families thus still not timely and effectively. More effort is being committed by this group by example.
early detection and targeted older approach.
Older migrants become increasingly socially isolated. They are often less integrated and find their way in our healthcare facilities not. This group emphatically deserves attention.

Attention to the position of Central and Eastern European labor
The huge influx of migrant workers from central and eastern Europe demands our special attention. The Labour Party is to selectively admitting migrant workers. Opening up our labor market for workers from new EU Member States should not have a distorting effect on the
Dutch society. Therefore there must be a greater focus on the social impact on the neighborhoods where new migrants settle. We watch, locally and nationally well on compliance
rules, for example regarding overcrowding or circumvention of the minimum wage. Prevent
must be that people get paid too little and that Dutch face competition unfair.

We're going to do this:
•

In the future, will be the first large, sometimes very large differences in wealth and employment
must be caught on, before there can be a free movement of persons. The
PvdA wants a mandatory permit for the group of Bulgarian and Romanian workers also
extend beyond 2014.

PvdA election parliamentary elections in 2012

33

•

•

•
•
•
•

For fraudulent employment agencies and recipients of workers who break the law is a
administrative fine of a few thousand euros a joke. The PvdA wants serious penalties
80,000 euro for major violations. We want mandatory certification for employment agencies,
with high standards and strict enforcement. A buyer who has been fined twice for exploitation, exclusion from public procurement.
We want a special rapporteur on the ministry that controls the additional health and safety inspectors, and
constantly has open lines with the unions and aldermen of the so-called
"Poland Municipalities. Maintaining employment is necessary for exploitation, competition and displacement on the labor market to counter.
The evasion of minimum wage via ZZP-constructs must be countered.
Agencies are required employees to learn Dutch if they are more than three months
work in the Netherlands.
Housing associations are used for temporary housing for migrant workers who temporarily come to work here.
Also migrant workers from Central and Eastern Europe can be expected to have the Dutch language they understand at a basic level.

Asylum and migration
Asylum and migration always provide lots of emotions and dilemmas. Netherlands does not escape strict admission rules, but it is always our duty to protect refugees and foreigners to live in dignity
treat. For the PvdA, the best interests of children paramount.

We're going to do this:
•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•
•

34

Roots in the Netherlands children of asylum seekers and only standing minors
We do not put out. If the government by errors or slow to act fails to provide asylum seekers within five years clarity about their stay far, children should not be the ones to suffer. Along with the CU we had undertaken back in a private member.
The Labour Party supports a strict but fair admissions policy for asylum seekers. People who are truly persecuted in their country, should enjoy protection by the Netherlands.
In addition, we stand for the Convention on Refugees, human rights conventions and EU asylum directives.
Protection of refugees means that they can apply for asylum, they will not be returned to an unsafe country, they are given the rights to be and have the opportunity a full citizen as soon as possible to build up a new life in the new country .
The Dutch asylum procedure must be faster and simpler. Speed ​​is the highest priority because of the great human interests and the agony of prolonged uncertainty. Applicants should have clarity about their stay permanently within one year. The family reunification procedure of refugees eased. For this purpose, the criterion "actually belong to the family '
deleted from the Aliens and three months nareistermijn more refugees
used.
Asylum seekers during the waiting time on their admission language classes and the opportunity to
Gaining skill work and volunteer work. The validity is at this time
Netherlands investigated by the country of origin diplomas.
The shelter for foreign nationals must be dignified and tailored enough for children. Families with minor children are not put on the streets, because children have a basic right to adequate shelter. Foreign nationals who are ill deserve care.
Children are not locked.
Asylum seekers and other foreigners who are not entitled to stay in the Netherlands, should be as
soon as possible return to the country of origin. How quickly a rejection is final, how
earlier return to work can be. Here, the human dimension must be respected
taken.
The Labour Party believes that asylum seekers who have obtained a permit under the general amnesty, should be able to fully participate in Dutch society. Therefore must
naturalization them are not impossible. The, for many of them, impossible condition to get identity documents in the country of origin, should be deleted.
European court rulings on high Dutch fees will of course be carried out; these fees have to be reduced.
Cooperation in Europe brings the immigration policy further. We therefore want equal
European licensing rules, jointly guarded borders and dignified care at all
EU member states. Fraud, abuse and illegality we address jointly, all States shall take here
their responsibility.

NETHERLANDS STRONGER AND MORE SOCIAL

6. Attention to dependency relationships and honor killings
Struggle for emancipation means to combat all forms of oppression. Violence in dependent relationships is unacceptable. This applies to domestic violence, but also for eerwaak, drop-in
the country of origin, forced marriage, forced prostitution, genital mutilation, pimps and human trafficking. Unfortunately, it is much more common than we think. Prevention, detection and care go hand
in hand to combat these practices. The focus therefore is to protect victims and tackle perpetrators.
Violence against women is still the most common in the home. The fight against them must
I too have high priority. Also, children here are directly involved. With better protection, taking seriously declarations, good shelters we must ensure that women can at us
count. An effective EU exchange of protection orders, proper implementation of the EU legislative proposal on this subject, can ensure that people, especially women, feel safe as they travel across borders throughout the EU. There are still girls who are at risk of becoming circumcised. These harmful traditional practices such as Female Genital Mutilation should be stopped. These practices are one of
the most horrific forms of violence against women.

We're going to do this:
•

•

•
•

•

•

Maltreated, abused and neglected children and their parents have specialized care
required. Therefore, the children and their parents. There will be a mandatory reporting code for professionals as well as a medical certificate in order to protect girls from genital mutilation.
Laws and rules should not stand in the way of a rapid and effective approach to child abuse. Again, the focus is on protecting the victims and addressing the
perpetrators.
There are plenty of specialized shelter places for victims of trafficking and
pimps.
There are several Dutch police regions profitable collaborations between
municipalities, police, care and support to tackle human trafficking. In a number of which is even
not good. We want all police regions to tackle human trafficking, so that no one in the Netherlands
will get away with these unsavory practices and good shelter victims.
Special attention in the form of information, guidance and, where necessary, protection is needed
for honor killings, forced marriages and abandonment in the country of origin. The penalty for honor killings and forced marriages is significantly increased.
Together with civil society organizations, police and assistance we help victims of honor-related violence to build an independent life and prevent future violence.

PvdA election parliamentary elections in 2012

35

OUR CHOICES
FOR A
SAFE
NETHERLANDS

1. The front line to move
2. Perpetrator and victim
3. menace and
Tackling alcohol abuse
4. Digital Security and Privacy

Security is a precondition for freedom. A safe neighborhood is a precondition for entrepreneurs to free
to undertake, for children to play, citizens to live and for gay men to
may live. We stand firmly behind victims. They deserve more attention in criminal proceedings. Perpetrators
should be significantly addressed. It is a good police contingent. Rapid and can occur quickly
justice. Safety also means that people call each other on the street in behavior that parents and children speak to various organizations such as housing associations with police and municipalities join forces for a safe environment. In addition, we are constantly looking at what works. Security
has two legs to be able to run; repression and prevention.

Bottlenecks
To address the growing violent crime and becoming a nuisance is safety for us
great importance. The man or woman in the street should be able to better get to work. Good working conditions
for agents in the front line, the rule of freedom to approach woonoverlast and effectively and, where necessary, hear tougher punishments that. Shoulder to shoulder against crime.
Nuisance, intimidation and criminality we address in three ways. We support the home culture and
speak to parents on their own responsibility. Cause children harm, then we set the
parents liable. We will fight against the tough street culture. And we strengthen the school culture. Truancy may be the beginning of the wrong kind of career. Young people need during the day at school or
are at work. Good cooperation between child welfare, police, mental health, rehabilitation, school and community
is therefore indispensable.

OUR SOLUTIONS
1. The front line to move
In the neighborhoods of Netherlands are many people hard at work. Coaches street, neighborhood police officers,
recherche, city guards, city marines, you name it. They provide residents with a better safety. The coach street that perfectly appreciates the macho culture of a group of boys reared and
plays and every confrontation settled in its favor without the other loses, is invaluable. They
The space should be free to do their job well.

36

NETHERLANDS STRONGER AND MORE SOCIAL

We're going to do this:
•

•

•
•

•
•
•

•

•
•

•
•

•

Professionals in the front line should be better rewarded. Now they have all too often behind a
office sit for a better salary, while they hear on the street. Our maxim: people
on the street to earn more than at least the first two management levels in the organization.
By eliminating red tape, a higher proportion of people can work in the police sector, into the street. More police on the streets. This is an important role for the local policeman.
More priority to enforcement.
The risk of being caught should be increased. All reports must be dealt with quickly and investigators should be deployed more accurate. Investigators should be rewarded and all
space getting their police chief and mayor.
Police must engage in serious crime and nuisance. For this, the politics must
Police do not impose illegal quotas and guinea pigs.
The quality of education needs to be raised: investigative techniques, skills and arrest
interrogation techniques.
Criminal profits must be kept away from me. The "pick-it" legislation remains
be better utilized. This also applies to white collar crime. We have seen too often
these cases with settlements were dismissed. Also, this approach should be a deterrent
get operation.
Loutish 'behavior is counteracted by the imposition of higher fines in the public space
for example dirt street or insult police. There will be tough action against threats to aid workers and government staff.
The police is violation by scooter riders stringent penalties; higher fines and increased
machines rather be confiscated.
Woonoverlast is a major annoyance. Illegal occupation, uncontrolled woningsplitsing,
nuisance and crime, the enjoyment verstierd in some neighborhoods. Decline strikes.
A collaborative approach between housing, fire department, municipality, police, tax authorities is necessary. This cooperation is rewarded by increased powers to really
by creating to get hold of. Eviction, deal with illegal activity and alleged money laundering roll needs to be simplified.
Municipalities must maintain sufficient say in the police deployment.
Residents should be asked what they experienced and how this should be handled as the biggest problems. They can also indicate their satisfaction annually. The Rotterdam safety triangle does this actively by holding public meetings in the district.
We shape prevention by offering quality education and by ensuring a
Youth functioning. A local police officer or road coach also plays an important role in prevention.

2. Perpetrator and victim
The victim gets lucky increasing attention in our system. During court hearings, but also
aftercare is important. Perpetrators are always adequately punished. Punishments serve to protect
society as justice for the victim and for the prevention of recurrence in offenders. Well
forensic care, TBS and rehabilitation are essential in preventing recidivism.

We're going to do this:
•
•

•

•

The criminal process must be completed quickly. The time between action and punishment is thus
shortened.
Better legislation to combat football hooligans is necessary. Current legislation focuses
on nuisance, but we also want to tackle the hooligans themselves harder. The Labour Party has taken the initiative to tighten the football; thus it is for the real supporter
more attractive and safe to visit undisturbed and happy football.
Justice and municipalities work together in the final stages of detention one direction or internship
job gain. Then get the (former) criminals the chance to build a new life. Too often
someone comes out of jail without work and fall back into crime or is dependent on a
benefit. For us true: from the bin, the bin
The penalty imposed by the offender and victim must be experienced as real punishment. In sexual abuse cases
the sentence to be increased.

PvdA election parliamentary elections in 2012

37

•
•
•

•

•

•

A victim deserves a full place at the trial of the perpetrator. We support the right to speak for victims and for the parents of young children in the lawsuit.
Victims are supported in the recovery of their damages. Victims of crime receive within one month after the declaration a feedback on the progress of the procedure.
During detention, and then must actively working to prevent relapse. This also requires
Treatment with particular attention to the problems of people with such a
limited mental capabilities or addiction.
In addition to or in place of the custodial, the penalty, however, at derailed young people may be a new
measure imposing: making available to education. If the criminal court measure
imposes the juvenile criminal in a closed institution will serve his sentence and
at the same time have an education.
The Labour Party supports the announced proposal to allow anonymous report it to health care workers. In tackling loutish 'behavior towards people with a public task
be possible to report the address of the employer. The lawyer for the perpetrator does not get more information from the victim or witnesses.
The court is open to everyone. The thickness of your wallet may not be decisive
or you can bring your right. Therefore court fees remain affordable for everyone and legal assistance available, also for anyone who can not pay for itself.

3. menace and tackle alcohol abuse
The tolerance on the back of the coffee causes nuisance in neighborhoods. It leads to illicit cultivation at home and attracts organized crime to.

We're going to do this:
•

•
•
•
•

•

•

Cannabis cultivation, we want to regulate and treat as coffee shops Catering. Strict enforcement of the shops and information to young people about drugs remains necessary. Products subject to excise duties in the coffee shops.
A weed pass is a false solution which does not make the country safer. Therefore, we abolish the weed pass.
Regional experiments are set up modified crops.
Successful policies guided heroin continues in those municipalities
where this is necessary.
People who have been found guilty repeatedly to get public drunkenness in the nightlife area for a long time a ban. The cost of destruction will be recovered from the perpetrators.
One of the biggest health threats is the alcohol abuse among young people.
Parents have herein the first and greatest responsibility. Retailers and hospitality providing public services to people under the age limit or by donating to drunkenness are sharply
fined. Municipalities are supported in their enforcement and prevention tasks.
The age limit goes for low-alcohol beverages from 16 to 18 years.

4. Digital Security and Privacy
Organised crime, radicalization and terrorism, financial fraud, they do not care of
boundaries and make full use of the digital highway. Police and prosecutors should therefore be able also
the virtual world to act appropriately. Provision of adequate knowledge and skills should broadly be present in these organizations.
Targeted data should thereby always be proportionate to the protection of privacy
stand. The Dutch Data Protection Authority has an important role here.

We're going to do this:
•

•

38

Legislation that drastically restricts citizens' privacy applies only to a time
limited period and before the expiry of this period the measures will be evaluated.
They continue only if the need has been demonstrated convincingly.
The Dutch Data Protection brings before the entry into force of
laws and regulations that impact on the privacy of citizens advice on the privacy implications of these laws and regulations.

NETHERLANDS STRONGER AND MORE SOCIAL

•

•

•
•

•

•
•

Radicalisation early and active combat to prevent terrorism. Data,
people bond with society, education, job prospects and living his ways
to bet. The environment should be alert to signs of particularly young people at risk of radicalization.
People need to better understand what they share online and get more control over the
use of data they leave behind online. Companies may data of Internet
use only with permission and clear information.
Nor may not filter or block Internet information providers. The principle of net neutrality should be strictly enforced.
Digital security are no false sense of security, but must be designed on the basis of threat and risk assessments. Citizens' fundamental rights are hereby acknowledged.
The protection of communications between citizens must be improved. The text of the
Constitution now only deals with letters, telephone and telegraph. That text should be adapted so that modern communications are protected.
The fingerprint is given the passport.
The European obligation to retain telecommunications data required telephony and internet
to store up to two years where people were, and who is with whom contact
had. Thereby infringing on the privacy of communications and millions
Dutch. This rule makes the Netherlands are not secure, and should therefore as soon as possible
Netherlands and will be abolished in the rest of Europe.

PvdA election parliamentary elections in 2012

39

OUR CHOICES
FOR
LIVING

1. The mortgage interest deduction is
honest reformed
2. Starters deserve support
3. Sufficient and appropriate social
homes
4. Viable villages / neighborhoods
crimp
5. Corporations old style
6. Accessible housing

Good and affordable housing for everyone
The PvdA wants to return to a fair housing policy, where there is sufficient social housing available,
where homeownership remains accessible to broad groups, with government support
takes place in a fair way. A good and affordable home in a nice neighborhood must weather
everyone are reserved. Including young people and starters!
The reality is different. Currently, the Dutch housing market is fully locked. A renovation
is urgently needed. There are rarely more houses and houses are still for longer. For
tenants and first-time buyers have no affordable housing available. A growing number of people
get into trouble through a combination of high debt and falling house prices. The debt burden of homeowners thanks to the unlimited mortgage interest up to record levels and the
its cost to the exchequer walk ever further. The stagnation in the housing market is one of the
causes of the current economic recession. To get the housing market back on track, encouraging the flow and pulling the construction industry out of the doldrums, structural reforms are needed.
Where the previous Cabinet declared the mortgage taboo and let the tenants pay adamant,
let the Kunduzpartijen the first-time buyers pay the bill; only they are obliged
pay off. This puts the housing market even more solid. It is also unjust: people who have been the
deduction have benefited preserve him and starters get from the beginning far fewer deductions. All of this
leading to further division in the housing between tenants and buyers, between existing and new
mortgages. It is therefore time for a fair reform of the housing.

OUR SOLUTIONS
1. The mortgage interest is fairly reformed
Initially designed to promote home ownership, mortgage interest is now overshot. First, the mortgage has become priceless. The cost rose from 7.3 billion in 2004 to almost 12 billion in 2011. There is now a penalty to pay off and this must
be broken. The total debt of homeowners in the Netherlands now amounts to over
600 billion. Especially now fall in house prices for the fifth consecutive year, this is a big
risk for owners and a big risk for the Dutch economy as a whole. In the second
Instead, it is an extremely unfair system. Half of the tax advantage of the mortgage interest deduction goes to the 20% of households with the highest incomes. This is not only a consequence of the
fact that higher average incomes have a higher mortgage, they may also be at a higher

40

NETHERLANDS STRONGER AND MORE SOCIAL

subtract rate. Third, the housing market is seriously disturbed. Prices are driven up; houses are on average three times since 1996 has become so expensive. Fewer and fewer people can
buy or sell. We are going to reform the housing market in a fair and social way. We do
which gradually to disturb the housing as little as possible.

We're going to do this:
•

•

•

•
•

The PvdA wants to gradually adjust the mortgage. Disruption of the housing needs
as far as possible be prevented. Homeowners should be able to adapt. From 2013
will be gradually introduced a new system. Eventually attracts everyone at the same rate
off; from 2013 the maximum rate is 52% which we can now deduct incrementally
for each similarly lowered to a deduction rate of 30%.
The amount of debt for which the interest can be deducted is limited. In 2013
the mortgage debt on which interest may be deducted frozen up to 1 million euros.
Then, this maximum reduced annually, the average house (now 237 000
euro). Over thirty years and ensuring everyone can still deduct his interest but for a debt
up to the then current average house price and all at 30%.
For new mortgages will continue to be that the tax is now based on a flat rate
annuity mortgage. That means that the deductions allowed for the term of 30 years
decreases because the Treasury assumes that the mortgage will be repaid in 30 years.
The transfer tax is at risk. This fine move we buy on down to start immediately. For all other buyers we reduce it to 2% (6%).
Government and banks need to come to their own joint proposals to finance
homeownership for improving small businesses. The PvdA also calls on the banks to remove barriers that hinder additional interim payments.

2. Starters deserve support
Unlike the Kunduzpakket, the PvdA believes that starters deserve support. It is on for them
Currently, very difficult to get a mortgage or find an affordable rental or owner-occupied. If she
regain access to the housing market, they bring a chain of relocation started. The
PvdA wants to promote and consumer and and collective commissioning.

We're going to do this:
•
•

•

The transfer tax for starters will be abolished immediately whole.
The Foundation Housing Stimulation may, with the involvement of the Dutch Bank
Municipalities, providing the next three years Starters loans at very low interest rates. The government is taking a deposit. The aim is to support 25 000 start-ups and to launch as 100 000 relocations.
There should be more affordable rental and owner-occupied homes in order to rent the gap between (social)
and buying overcome their own homes. For new construction projects will be at least 30%
the housing should be available for starters.

3. Adequate and good social housing
Many people need a good, affordable rented accommodation. And fewer residents per
home, the aging population and the major problems in the sale market this number will increase further. There are
more and more freelancers and flex workers who have great difficulty getting a mortgage. The growing
need for affordable rental housing is thus a major societal challenge that far too little attention for it. It is not only built little but what is being built is often
too expensive. In 2003 a new house cost on average 240,000 euros. Now that's a ton more.

We're going to do this:
•

•

The PvdA has taken the initiative for a parliamentary inquiry into soaring
cost of a new house. This play with high land prices, land speculation and unnecessary costs in the construction process. Here is much to be gained.
The intention of the Cabinet to housing to 75% of their social ownership
have sold, must table. These plans only to improve the social housing sector
to undress and also letting market forces take over here.

PvdA election parliamentary elections in 2012

41

•
•

•

In the coming years a lot of good rental housing to be built, with the possibility
to which later turn into houses.
High energy bills now form a substantial part of the housing costs of people. There
is much to be gained, for wallet and the environment. Investment in energy efficiency and energy generation are therefore encouraged. Corporations also have a major role.
Innovation and greening, also for renovation, encouraged through the Building Act.

As part of the overall approach to the housing market, will also be necessary in the rental policy
happen. All income must be a good and affordable range and the choice to buy or
hire a livable neighborhood.

We're going to do this:
•

•

•
•
•

•

•

•

To begin the Labour Party running the hefty rent increase in the so-called shortage areas
back. This measure leads to vacant rental housing to very substantial rent increases and
the effect that tenants stay where they are sitting at. A move it fills a significant
rent increase. We must abandon this move fine.
The PvdA opt for a moderate rent policy. That means that corporations get space for a
limited rent increase above inflation, taking into account the local housing, and their
residents through the so-called Hire Charge Approach.
Lower incomes naturally retain their housing benefit.
The rent increase should not exceed the deregulation threshold. Thus, we maintain adequate affordable housing.
To address skewing we advocate an additional rent increase for people with
higher income. In case of a decline in income, also reduces the rent again. This measure will only work as part of a reform of the entire housing market so that people
the opportunity to move to an affordable owner-occupied.
The shortage of good rooms for young workers and students is addressed by smart
Using the high vacancy rate of offices and homes. In order to accomplish this will
the blank in front of office buildings be fiscally unattractive.
The Labour Party is in favor of people in agreement with the landlord, the possibility for
buy their own home or a similar property in the neighborhood get. There is no obligation to sell or purchase obligation.
By European regulations threaten people with incomes over about € 34,000, - no longer
Eligibility for social housing. Even in areas where private offer
is missing, this is a problem. This rigid income is too tight and brings a lot of people in
the problems and therefore the table.

4. Viable villages / districts and shrinkage
The neighborhood approach of recent years has produced good results. Liveability, quality
housing, social cohesion and education are improved. Although the previous Cabinet, the neighborhood approach
stop put, the work is far from finished. In fact, it's never finished. We must continue to invest in
the quality of life in towns and cities. The Labour Party seeks a review of the model building code after
such that all impediments to sustainable building that contains still be removed.

We're going to do this:
•

•

•

42

The Labour Party has allocated funds for an urban and village renewal fund to continue work
to safe and livable neighborhoods, such as the national program to reduce the arrears
Rotterdam South tackle.
Shrinking population requires timely adjustment. Homes must therefore be adapted
to the new demographics, such as the elderly. Too many vacant homes
inevitably means demolition. New, intelligent solutions must be developed to facilities, eg bundled into community schools, to preserve as much as possible. Regions
herein ahead should be given the space through customized regulation.
The Labour Party stands for a strict approach to slum landlords. After a first offense will generate a
administrative penalty, then a rental ban and a third offense, the landlord
forced to sell his properties. We also want a municipality will have the opportunity
the cost of maintenance and management of dilapidated dwellings to recover directly on slum landlords.

NETHERLANDS STRONGER AND MORE SOCIAL

5. Corporations old style
In recent years, several corporations by their drivers in the problems brought by mismanagement. For the Labour Party is clear. Corporations have to do again what they were set up: the
construction, management and leasing of good affordable housing. The government must ensure there.
Commercial adventures and taking crazy risks (social) capital not fit in there. Also
Operating expenses of many corporations are still far too high. Investing in livable neighborhoods and in social real estate suits the task for corporations. This is good for the value of the property
and for residents.

We're going to do this:
•

•

•

•

Corporations can now engage their loans through the government through the so-called
treasury banking. At the same time the unique mutual guarantee system should be retained. Can so
the sector to borrow at lower interest rates, which means lower construction costs and lower rents.
The remuneration of directors and managers of corporations must be curbed. The
law standards top incomes is now in the Senate and must be implemented quickly. At the suggestion of the Labour Party is there also arranged a ban on bonuses.
The larger corporations need to be split. The larger the corporation, the greater the
distance to the tenant. Corporations have to go back to human scale, focus on
focus their social mission and tenants. The corporations should be only allowed to operate within the boundaries of a region. Corporations go again accountable for their social mission at the municipal or regional authorities where they are located.
The internal and external oversight by corporations must significantly better. The number of additional functions should amongst regulators curbed. External oversight by the Central Fund
for the Housing should be timely (to) intervene. The Labour Party has already submitted a private member to separate the advisory and monitoring role of auditors.

6. Accessible housing
In the Netherlands homes are built adaptable and lifecycle resistant, partly because of the
aging and because of the importance of cost control. All government offices and buildings
public function must be fully accessible, that is accessible via ground entrance ramp or lift and a wheelchair-accessible toilet facility. Devices must be provided also for
people with sensory disabilities.

PvdA election parliamentary elections in 2012

43

OUR CHOICES
FOR THE
CARE

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

All care close to people
Not the market, but people
Fair distribution of the costs
The concern is ours
Chronically ill and
Disabled
6. Better care for youth
7. Right to Self-determination
medical-ethical questions

People do care, care makes us better
Care is not a product; it is a bond between people. The focus is on people and the system it is
at the service. That is the starting point for the Labour Party. Care close to home, such as the efforts of many volunteers,
carers, district nurses, GPs and care at schools, leads to pleasant and familiar care, and
a smaller relying on expensive medical procedures.
Good care, the care we are used to and which we all expect, is precious. In addition, care
essential and there must be concern for everyone. Health should be no financial barrier. That
is a matter of principle. The Labour Party believes that the government accessible, affordable and good quality care should
guarantee. It is unacceptable to us that in our country prosperous and less educated people
less money die earlier and have more illness than people who earn more money and are better educated. Where people themselves affect their health, we need a
promoting healthy lifestyle where we can.
There is a lot of work in healthcare. That's important and beautiful work, work that really means something for someone else. And
so it should remain. For anyone who is already in his or her heart to the work, but also for all those
young people and people from other professions that we need to work in health care.

The bottlenecks
The expansion of the market has to care less human and definitely not made cheaper. The
cost of care rise sharply irresponsible. That is bad for the spending capacity of people, public spending, and maintaining the quality of care for everyone. The PvdA wants
counteracting unnecessary costs and erroneous priorities. In addition, the salaries of medical specialists have to be reduced and working conditions of workers in the health care improved. We are convinced that things can change. We are convinced that with more attention to people with care
organize close to home and closer look at what people want and what they really need,
eventually everyone be better off. That patient and caregiver are both happier as a round care is not ruled by the clock, and a litany of administration. That good and trusted care
not promoted by approaching a disease as a sum of treatment. And that care there
nor affordable by.
In addition to the medical care required, there is a rapidly increasing range of medically unnecessary
or ineffective treatments that care consumption strong chase. For the controling
The cost is therefore necessary to assess all reimbursed care in the basic package of clear criteria,
guidelines and protocols. For all falling out treatments can make consumers insure themselves or their own income / assets speak.

44

NETHERLANDS STRONGER AND MORE SOCIAL

We therefore direct the care in a different way. We introduce the basic services, which the insurers and not the market, but citizens, government, health care providers and health care providers decide together
the provision of care. The government sees to this. We also make the fundamental choice for the fair sharing of the cost of care; care should be accessible to everyone, including people with a small wallet.

OUR SOLUTIONS
1. All care close to people
Everyone would prefer to stay at home as long as possible in their own familiar surroundings. If it succeeds
To arrange this, people also make possible later and less use of aid. Therefore we arrange care or
customized help as much as possible and as close as possible. And to everyone's eye; space and flexibility for
who himself wants to organize his support, all well arranged for those who can not. The nurse, volunteer, caregiver, doctor, health insurers, the welfare and the community work together by region. To support all the care providers we make smart
use of new innovative capabilities that own more control and better care at home is possible.

We're going to do this:
•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•
•

In the coming years to counter socioeconomic health inequalities in Netherlands
a priority. We find it unacceptable that there are currently large differences in the
health of people with different socioeconomic positions.
By care at regional and local level with public health, welfare, education,
work and live connect many health problems can be prevented and more
are detected. On socio-economic health differences can respond more effectively. In this way we move from treatment to prevention.
Effective prevention measures belong in the basic package. An effective tobacco sont encourage policy is a good way to make our country healthier and reduce disease burden. We
invest in a system of selective prevention: population groups at high risk
certain diseases are targeted approach.
The personal contribution for secondary mental health so we turn back people who desperately need care
have, but often tend to stay away from care, there are no financial thresholds
are retained.
Municipalities are fully responsible for the long-term care and support. The number of district nurses, a Labour initiative will be extended. We also persevere with
the separation of housing and care.
Municipalities make sure that everyone gets the long-term care is needed. With care, support and
Treatment aim is for as many people as fully as possible to let them
do in society. In national legislation, the rights of clients and patients are clearly arranged and recorded for the care involved. Municipalities decide how they
then organize. Because of this concern can be optimally adapted to the local situation and
need.
The Social Support Act (WMO) provides an important framework to enable citizens
set to participate in the (local) community. The WMO is implemented at municipal level, but the national government sets a number of conditions and budgetary constraints. There should be a balance between the personal responsibility of the citizen and
his or her environment and the responsibility of the government. The compensation obligation to
its citizens must be protected by the municipalities. The Labour Party will follow this asset.
The use of the personal budget (PGB) is maintained as a possibility. This allows people to itself, often in their immediate environment, to choose the care they want.
The different budgets for social participation, ranging from healthcare to employment, the barriers between and transferred to the municipalities. The transferred funds should remain jointly benefit participation.

PvdA election parliamentary elections in 2012

45

•

•

•
•

Caregivers are invaluable. In the Netherlands, every year 2.6 million people
caring for someone in their immediate vicinity. And though they often do with love care an arduous task, 20% of carers is overloaded. To protect them is good, accessible day care needed. Also, caregivers should be able to always go for their municipality
support.
More and more people have to deal with dementia. Itself, or in their environment. Dementia is a
disease that evokes a lot of sadness and impotence. Personal tutors, such as case managers, can provide professional emotional and practical support. They can also help make all well
to vote each other off.
The so-called IQ measure, allowing people with lower mental capacity not
have more right to social assistance, must table.
The keeping an organization of volunteers structural deserves support from the government. This should be facilitated by the government, so that all volunteers
the care given the support they deserve.

2. Do not the market but the people
With the overhaul of curative care by 2006 the Basic Insurance but also the market
introduced. The PvdA is for the basic insurance, but also resisted when already on the market.
The idea was that the patient care consumers would choose a health insurer providing the best care for him
bought at the best price. Health insurers were with their purchasing power, in turn, encourage the hospitals, clinics and institutions to efficiently conduct. Thus, the best quality at the lowest cost would be reached. That is the theory.
The practice is proven otherwise. People hardly change of insurer. Competition
insurers comes off the ground. Partly because four companies 90 percent of the market in
hands have and therefore have more or less regional monopolies in hands. For example, they determine which hospital which can offer care. With the introduction of market forces in the care
health care spending rose further. Part of it comes from waste. For example because hospitals and medical specialists get paid more as they perform more medical procedures.
And while it is not always about what is medically necessary and efficient. Much can be
saved.

We're going to do this:
•

•
•

•
•

•
•
•

46

Market forces will end in healthcare. Healthcare institutions, in collaboration with citizens and care workers an optimal range of health care services by region. The
government sees to that. This is called the Basic care.
Given the inflationary effect releasing the dentist rates will be reversed.
There is for each region - based on the need for care - optimal layout and distribution for
including the number of primary care organizations such as health centers and general practitioners (posts)
general hospitals, emergency treatment and the services of the public
health care. In an optimal arrangement is achieved a balance between dispersion, whereby
everything remains easily accessible and concentration, making quality and increase efficiency.
The Labour Party remains committed to the position of regional hospitals.
To organize care tailor-made around the living place municipalities will also care providers
should involve the performance agreements, with corporations under the Woonvisie
are recorded.

For example, an MBO level 2 to level 4 MBO. Money we stabbing in there is better
spent than on benefits.
Costs should youth no reason to stop his education. The height of the
school fees and parental contributions shall not constitute a barrier to participation in education.
Contributions are voluntary and older who can not afford the fee, should be able to fall back on
and suffered a charitable fund of the school. We do not want division in the classroom on the basis of income. All children have a right to participate in additional activities in and around
the school.
Stacking in education must remain fully possible. All barriers and penalties on those rights
be cleared. That means that the final exam in high school such
quality should be that students, once passed, in principle, have a right to access the
further education. The MBO diploma must give access to an adjoining further education
on HBO. And so on. Where necessary, so the level up to get a good connection
possible to make.
Stacking can also later in life. But of 'lifelong learning' in the Netherlands is still too little justified. The labor market flexibility means that there is too little investment by
employers, self-employed and bees training. The regional deployment of the resources of the R & D funds, which can break through.
Cut back on 30-somethings in the MBO is the purpose of labor shortages very unwise. The government must ensure good and accessible part-time education.
8. Careful selection
Our system of education must be coherent. This means that school types fit together properly and that the successful completion of one school in principle gives access to further education.
This gives certainty about the possibilities that are open to you if you work hard on your education. The
makes accumulation of training possible. Many people in the Netherlands'd
By region will have received a budget. This should in the coming years a number
regions are experimenting.
Operating regionally, not competitive, insurers get into our future an executive role in the organization of this regional Basic care.
Through collaboration and coordination, there is an optimum range of national facilities
such as highly specialized clinics, top hospitals and academic medical centers. Government
monitors here. Better use of this very expensive care, not only will the quality
of which significantly improve care but will also yield significant savings.
NETHERLANDS STRONGER AND MORE SOCIAL 3. Fair distribution of costs
Health care costs rise sharply. Partly because proper care is now once costly. In addition brings
aging greater recourse to care with them. But part of that rising healthcare costs can
be prevented. Our proposals for care to this. A better organization of care leads to better quality care at lower cost. Unnecessary packages are addressed and the
Available care services are better utilized. By selecting 'close care' and better
collaboration between various disciplines in health care is also saving money. The local synergy between housing, welfare, labor and care can lead to medium-term expenditure control. So we keep our good care, accessible and affordable.
But that is not there yet. We restrain not only the cost of care, we split the cost of care also fairer. For those who need care that care must also be accessible. People with
low incomes or people in need of care have to rely on the security of
good care.
We're going to do this:
•
•
•
•
•
•
The PvdA choose an income-related premium for the basic package. Thus the bureaucracy of the allowance is no longer required and the burdens are distributed fairly. Here, the will
PvdA take into account the additional costs that people with disabilities and the accumulation of the various personal contributions WMO and AWBZ.
For extra care, people can, if desired, (continue to) additional insurance.
The PvdA choose income-related contributions and deductibles. The Labour Party will also
consider the accumulation of extra contribution WMO and AWBZ. That's a lot
fairer alternative than increasing the deductible to 350 euros for everyone.
For long-term care institutions in the capital income aggregation is introduced.
Herewith the home does not count for power. Savings may in this capacity
For example, children living at home under 18 years are not counted.
End up in a hospital is bad enough. An additional punishment in the form of demurrage of 8
euro per day does not fit there. This measure threatens another bureaucratic monstrosity in the
care should be packed and very disadvantageous for the chronically ill who already quite costly.
Access to GPs should be free. So no excess or deductible. The GP can
timely intervention, and thus prevents many costly hospital treatment later.
4. The care of us
Our health care system is there to serve us as a society. The concern is therefore for us, but also from us.
We therefore want to say that people get the care. We eliminate the market from basic care. The quality and financing of health care must be clear to everyone. Patients now know
not where to go when things go wrong. Complaint procedures are too slow and cumbersome and patients often feel taken seriously.
Also, people who work in healthcare must regaining control of their work. Their work is valuable and as
they are given the opportunity, they make the difference between genuine concern and care. They are badly needed. We put
go all out to retain and attract new people these powerful forces for care.
We're going to do this:
•
•
•
•
Health care institutions must not be profit-oriented enterprises, but social organizations. The
involvement and participation of citizens and clients should be increased. In our vision a health care institution is a cooperative in which citizens can participate and influence
exert on the board.
Local initiatives are encouraged for decentralized care. We monitor the human dimension by working close focus and relieve the concern. Preferably by cohesion between community work, Buurtzorg and neighborhood management.
Medical specialists are employed by hospitals at a reasonable salary. Because
they are part of the organization of the health care is matching (chain) care
simpler and investments and sales are better coordinated.
Those institutions are required to make their results public. There are still
care institutions doing here shadowy about.
PvdA election parliamentary elections in 2012
47 •
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
Introducing a merger test for healthcare institutions. Sometimes it is necessary for cooperation
maintaining quality, but sometimes large scale will also be at the expense of quality. The quality of care and the demonstrable added value for the region at the forefront of the fusion test. Therefore
in the opinion of clients, patients and employees are compulsorily exported.
The Labour Party is committed to healthcare facilities on a smaller scale.
Wants an ombudsman for health care, so that patients can quickly turn to someone
if committed wrong in healthcare.
Citizens and professionals are given scope to devise solutions. Participation for
clients and patients is strengthened.
We must rely on the professional judgment of nurses and auxiliaries.
Endless an obstructive rules and administration must be reduced as much as possible.
Every health care organization receives a "Nurses Advisory Council 'who actively
interferes with the policy on patient care. Healthcare workers deserve a fair reward.
Therefore, no 0-line for people in the workplace to care.
In order to have enough people in the future who work in health care, it should work
are attractive.
We invest in training and sufficient internships
Many young carers and nurses leave care in the long run because their growth prospects are limited. Therefore, we want better career paths in health care. We aim for function differentiation, so that instead of transferring to the management or any other sector
step forward can be put in the workplace.
Mandatory tendering in home care had serious consequences for people who work in home care. With every tender they saw rising workloads and decrease their salaries. We are
Rejects the municipalities are obliged to spend on home care. When a municipality that do choose, working conditions of all workers should be considered.
The position of home helpers in home care is worst. They are not insured against disability and unemployment, and do not accrue pension. All homecare workers
right to that collateral. We therefore believe that they should all be able to work in paid employment.
Innovation and E-health can mean a lot for the independence of people and can be a part
of the additional demand for prevention staff. Healthcare innovation must therefore be given the space and
are not unnecessarily held up by red tape. Is the quality of care
always paramount.
5. Chronically ill and disabled people
The position of the chronically ill and disabled people requires special attention. In various chapters of this program, such as housing and mobility, we go in there. The rights of people with
limit must be firmly anchored and chronic diseases must be addressed forcefully.
We're going to do this:
•
•
•
48
The UN Convention on rights of persons with disabilities signed by the Netherlands,
but has not yet become effective. Netherlands this is very much behind the rest of
Europe. It must be ratified in 2014.
4.5 million people in the Netherlands have a chronic disease and this number is increasing rapidly. Chronic
diseases provide much suffering, € 20 billion in health care costs and less labor. The general
Audit recommends a Delta Plan chronic diseases and resolutions in the UN context for addressing the most common and fastest growing chronic diseases: chronic lung disease, diabetes, cardiovascular disease and cancer. The Labour Party believes that chronic diseases
must be vigorously combated by strengthening prevention, integrated care, scientific research and a national action plan aimed chronic diseases.
The Labour Party has tabled a private member's bill for a nationwide scheme for parking
the disabled, including free parking along the road. This will facilitate their mobility and participation.
NETHERLANDS STRONGER AND MORE SOCIAL 6. Better care for youth
The Youth in the coming years will be organized in a very different way. Now we stop
all the money in severe forms of youth care, such as custodial placement in institutions, and we try a brake
to put on the growth of the youth by heavy bureaucratic procedures. The consequence of this is that
we have lots of opportunities to help children and families earlier. There are therefore children
late or do not get help. So that has to change.
We're going to do this:
•
•
•
•
•
Many children and families face multiple forms of assistance. We bring all
arrangements for various forms of assistance to each other, so that all the different organizations work together. This is done under the responsibility of the municipalities.
Youngsters from 18 years are entitled to transitional arrangements, focusing on self-reliance, education and support for freedom of choice.
We organize the help and support as much as possible about the family and avoid the
situation gets out of hand. In particular, children whose parents (mentally) ill or addicted deserve extra attention.
When security and the healthy development of the child is in real danger, there must be a
careful way be timely and adequate provision has to be available.
To recognize signs of child abuse must be better and earlier in all organizations
where one has to do with children, work with a child abuse reporting code.
Also one must be trained to recognize child abuse timely.
The PvdA is also argued that if the court takes away the custody of a child at
parents, the government is directly responsible. Market forces or contract this task
we reject. The same goes for a contribution in these situations.
7. Self-determination in medical-ethical questions
Technological change, increasing self-confidence among citizens and the rise of new diseases
(such as Alzheimer's disease) may lead to new medical ethical questions. For the PvdA, the principle
of self-determination leading, always in conjunction with human dignity, proper care and protect dignity of life. The position of doctors and other health care providers must carefully when there
be concerned.
We're going to do this:
•
•
•
•
•
To promote organ donation, we support a system where basically everyone donor
unless you actively objection have been filed against. The government approached anyone actively
to make a choice.
In the coming years there should be more focus on the quality of life in the last
life, including a voluntary end of life and palliative care.
The Labour Party welcomes the debate the Initiative Uit Vrije Wil has cranked into the
future to achieve legalization of assistance in dying to the elderly who consider their lives complete,
at their express request and on conditions of care and accountability. The Labour Party
will use the results of this debate, if necessary, to adjust the current legislation.
The Labour Party does not allow the current legislation on abortion, euthanasia and treatment time is adjusted in the sense that there is a limitation with respect to
the current regulations.
The Labour Party will work to art. 294 paragraph 2 Penal Code, which criminalizes assisted suicide, modernize.
PvdA election parliamentary elections in 2012
49 OUR CHOICES
FOR
DURABILITY
1. To fully sustainable
energy supply
2. Nature for everyone
3. Accessibility and strategic
interest
4. Spatial planning
5. Animal welfare
6. Agriculture
Netherlands has in recent decades become increasingly cleaner. Since the alarming reports of the
Club of Rome are major steps put forward for re-read our society more sustainable. We
took joint acid rain and managed to close the gap in the ozone layer. The smog in the years
eighty cities like Rotterdam regularly choked, thanks to strict standards and technological advances has become a rarity. We made a start with the prevention of the destruction of the
biodiversity and created valuable new nature.
Renewable technologies are the future. But to prove himself in the conventional economy, they need a helping hand. Gezwalk with subsidies for renewable energy does a
breakthrough of wind, solar and geothermal against. Thus, the sustainable society is nowhere near.
Climate change poses a direct threat to our low-lying land. Our unhealthy
dependence on fossil fuels like oil and coal is much too large. This is not only bad for the
climate, but also makes us sensitive to fluctuations in the oil price. Particulate emissions in cities still affects the lungs of our children. And countryside is becoming less accessible
through the clutter of urban fringes with desolate industrial estates.
The Labour Party believes everyone has the right to a clean environment. This access is in our affluent
land not fairly distributed. Those who can afford it, goes out or settled in a leafy
area. Poverty is often accompanied by dirty air, lack of greenery around the corner and poorly insulated homes. In the old quarters of our cities grow still children who rarely or never in a
forest come. City and nature must therefore be reconnected. A clean environment now and for
future generations remains a major challenge for us all.
1. To fully sustainable energy supply
Climate change threatens the livelihoods of future generations. Energy Stocks are
scarce and therefore prices of electricity and fuel will only rise. But sustainability offers
in the first place odds. Opportunities for new growth and new jobs. On innovation, which the Netherlands can
excel. Our country has the best engineering firms, offshore companies, builders and water ports in
world. We can be a global player in the field of renewable energy. Netherlands currently remains stabbing at a paltry 4% sustainable in our total energy consumption. The Labour Party strives to Netherlands
in 2050, a 100% renewable energy and comes with a clear roadmap for the short,
medium and long term to achieve this.
We're going to do this:
•
•
50
Political fickleness and depletion of funds, the scheme leads Sustainable Funding
Energy (SDE) currently to investment security. One of the best ways to this
downsides to lift, is to reduce the SDE and replace it with a mandatory share of renewable energy to be a (annually increasing) percentage deliver renewable electricity.
For coal plants shall in any event required co-firing of (renewable) biomass. New
coal plants only get a permit if they store their CO2 emissions.
When using energy-saving measures also looks at the environmental
such measures themselves.
NETHERLANDS STRONGER AND MORE SOCIAL •
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
Subsidies and tax incentives on polluting fuels are phased out.
Nuclear power is not part of the total renewable energy supply that we
strive for the Netherlands. We are therefore against the construction of a nuclear power plant in
Netherlands. The Netherlands is in Europe for the use of renewable energy sources
as elsewhere to make nuclear power unnecessary.
The PvdA wants to improve the investment climate for wind energy by the arrival of a wind energy network in the North Sea. Grid operator Tennet must start planning, construction and management,
with the same reliability requirements, for example as in the country is. Citizens get
more rights and opportunities to participate themselves and invest in a wind farm in their neighborhood.
Grid operator Tennet shall ensure that by 2020 our energy network Decorated
for decentralized power generation.
In the European context the PvdA advocates a super grid. This ensures that
electricity from wind turbines in the North Sea to southern Europe and solar power from Spain to northern Europe. That leads to investment in employment and sustainability in Europe. policy
is being developed so that owners of rental housing and authorities are obliged and other owners are encouraged to insulate their buildings within 15 years, according to the
demand for new housing in the Buildings Decree 2003.
Small-scale generation for own use: energy for their own use must in all
cases are entirely exempt from energy tax. The energy tax on electricity
and gas for consumers will be increased. This is included in the financial section.
For new construction and major renovation of homes are solar panels from 2015 standard must be incorporated into the Building by the Building Regulations to adapt to
take it in new construction and / or renovation of houses and other buildings have to be constructed energy-efficient as possible. The aim should be that at least all new homes in 2020 energy neutral.
Gas suppliers have the obligation to mix natural gas with biogas into the gas grid, therefore we propose a blending requirement 'for Green Gas for.
Rules should be adapted to promote the recycling of waste heat and waste, for example, from the port of Rotterdam to greenhouses in the Westland.
Genuine ingredients. With a rapidly growing world population, are commodities like petroleum
rapidly becoming scarcer. Also leads to scarcity of resources becoming more common as water and oil
to conflict. Consumers therefore choose more consciously than before, for example, the origin of the raw materials in their mobile phone. Production chains must be transparent for this. The PvdA wants mandatory fully transparent supply chains and consumer information in 2020.
Innovation in the field of sustainable technologies is encouraged.
Production processes are smart and 'circular' so that raw materials as efficiently as possible
manner can be used.
The PvdA wants small-scale cooperatives or municipal utilities which sustainable
energy to produce and supply can make use of existing and new stimulus measures. The Labour Party is committed to eliminate any restrictive legislation.
2. Nature for everyone
Man can not live without nature. Every man and certainly every child has the right to nature, simply close and accessible. Yet this is not standard. There are more and more children who almost never in a forest
or get on the heath. We must therefore in the cities connect with nature. We need to
man again connect with nature.
The previous Cabinet saw nature primarily as a drag on the economy. All protection was
demolished so that farmers and developers need increasingly to take account of nature
and landscape. Thus threatens the very nature restoration in our country to disappear.
We're going to do this:
•
•
A new law Beautiful Netherlands, along the lines of the private member's bill that
Labour had tabled with D66 and GroenLinks. This law protects both wildlife and plants and animals, with clear and unambiguous rules. Because this law replaces several old nature protection laws, the proliferation of rules decreases.
The National Ecological Network (EHS) must be completed. That means that we are existing
natural provide more space and interconnection, as with the Oostvaarderswold.
PvdA election parliamentary elections in 2012
51 •
•
•
•
Both with regard to the increase of the areas, and in terms of the construction of the
Robust communication routes, including the Oostvaarderswold.
The majority of the Dutch nature is in a poor condition and should be in the interest of
people, animals and plants are being renovated and restored. The massive cuts in maintenance, accessibility and management are largely reversed and supplemented by including turn by funds from the Green Investment Scheme, and low-interest loans through the National
Green Fund.
We need nature in better condition to transfer to future generations, than we found it. Therefore, we will always compensate for damage to nature as we should be doing interventions for the benefit of the economy. We are therefore for the reclamation of the Hedwige polder.
The Netherlands has many wetlands. And there are many opportunities. Think of the plan
Wadden marker in the Marker, wet heathland in the Dwingelderveld, or bog at De Peel.
Natural can be fully utilized to protect the country from flooding.
We invest in the quality of nature. The Programmatic Approach Nitrogen is so fast
possibly executed. The drought is seriously considered in water management in accordance with the
Water Framework Directive and addressed as accelerated.
European agricultural subsidies we reduce considerably. Otherwise they will be used to pay farmers for 'green services', such as landscape and nature conservation.
3. Accessibility of strategic importance
Accessibility is crucial to our economy and is thus essential for growth and the fight against
unemployment. For companies are fast internet and good road, rail and waterways crucial. By rapidly
Internet is combining work and care an extra boost and further reduce environmental impact commuting. Public transport and the car have to quickly, safely and reliably from A
to B. All that in a densely populated country with the densest road network and the busiest
track of Europe. Dutch relatively still spend a lot of time commuting. Time
So is lost to family or social activities. Good accessibility is not only good for growth
and jobs. It also makes for a more pleasant life.
We're going to do this:

•
•
•

•

•

•
•

•

•

•

52

The PvdA wants the tax exemption of the travel allowance commuter traffic is maintained.
We carry the NS, as envisaged concession for the main rail, to realize briefly across the border by 2015 transboundary IC trains with TGV stations.
The regulations surrounding, the OV chip card, before the abolition of the paper ticket,
be adjusted so as to provide an adequate solution for public transport providers and users in the border regions.
The cost of driving should be paid much fairer. So pay to use instead
car ownership. Now grandma who pays no 1000 kilometer drive as much tax as the lease driver that makes 50 000 km. The Labour Party is committed to a fair price per kilometer.
Truck toll is entered, the system that Germany already has. The Labour Party is committed to
a fair price per kilometer. Road tax will be abolished simultaneously. The advantage of
Maut is that foreign carriers will contribute significantly and will result that there will be fewer trips with empty trucks.
Excise-free fuel (red diesel) will be abolished.
The road widening, supported by the Labour Party, has been successful. By cutbacks in the
years less money available for road construction. The least sustainable road projects to be postponed. For funding public-private partnership allows the
necessary (rail) roads fast-track recording and thus contribute to growth and jobs.
When choosing to increase the speed limit on motorways represents the Labour Party first
ahead no deterioration of road safety and the environment. The PvdA wants the maximum
speed on Dutch motorways back to 120 km / h. The current 80-km zone
around the big cities are maintained.
The Labour Party has tabled a private member's bill for a nationwide scheme for parking
the disabled, including free parking along the road. This will facilitate their mobility and participation.
The entire public transport should be accessible to everyone, including people with
restriction.

NETHERLANDS STRONGER AND MORE SOCIAL

•

•

•
•
•
•

•

•

•

•
•

•

•

To tackle the problems on the track sooner do we want to go along the NS and ProRail back into one organization. Coordination and cooperation must be improved, whereby the minister
bears ultimate responsibility.
Railway safety must be guaranteed again and train accidents have to the past
should go. Therefore, the PvdA advocates the accelerated introduction of European rail safety system ERTMS.
The barge is promoted as a sustainable form of freight transport, including by limiting unnecessary waiting.
The procurement of public transport in the cities is not an obligation.
The rates for public transport should be adopted nationwide by the government. There
is an annual test of the performance of public transport.
The OV must be friendly travelers. Stations must be safe, clean trains and buses, and the
trains must be equipped with a toilet and Internet connection. Public transport must be accessible to people with disabilities and travel information should be available in time.
Good P + R facilities, including cyclists, are indispensable.
The Labour Party stands for the importance of good footpaths and green areas in and around the towns and villages. Therefore we want to commit ourselves to create a national and walking network
good connections with local walking routes and trails.
MBO students are the future engine of our economy. Therefore, we conduct a public transport season ticket for the MBO in, along with the provinces, to be financed from the BDU Policy mobility.
Road safety could be much better. Further separation of slow and fast traffic hear
thereto. Think of safe cycle tracks, separating bike and scooter traffic, proper arrangement of 30-km zones, especially around schools. Also there to get much profit on provincial roads.
The PvdA wants the loutish 'behavior in traffic tougher approach, by increasing the possibilities for rijontzeggingen or seizure of vehicles.
In order to maintain its leading international role, must work the ports in Netherlands
instead of competing. Growth and employment should this be the absolute goal. The port
Rotterdam plays a leading role.
Schiphol is one of the engines of our economy. We choose quality growth which contributes greatly to the economy and explicitly takes into account the quality of life in the region. Other
airports in the Netherlands as Lelystad, in the long term can be a part of the quantitative growth
Schiphol account for.
Aviation can be cleaner and more energy efficient. The PvdA wants to phase out the subsidies on kerosene
and introduce a fuel tax in the European context.

4. Spatial planning
Netherlands is a beautiful country, with its views, cutting-edge architecture and beautiful nature.
The interior of our country is still far from being 'finished'. So should still thousands of houses built
be, will here and there a piece of road or railway should be constructed and we want insulated
natural connect with each other. The decades of unprecedented (population) growth are, however,
behind us. New challenges are emerging, shrinkage is one of them. In large parts of the Netherlands, the
population is aging and rag or even shrinking.

We're going to do this:
•

•

•

•
•

The government must take control in the field of housing and spatial planning for our country
to maintain quality of life. Competition between municipalities or provinces is harmful. The Dutch
urban landscape is closely interwoven and that requires coordination at the state level.
We are committed to connecting businesses and homes on high-speed internet in both urban and rural areas. Digital quick accessibility is also strong economy in more remote
areas critical.
Vacant offices and business will have more opportunities for temporary or not
for other purposes such as housing should be used. Unused building rights should not exceed 5
year lapse so that land not lead to an unnecessarily long fallow.
There should be a single new Environment to replace dozens of other laws that
much clearer what role citizens can play in the phase of planning and execution.
Spatial planning is a lot of time lost through lengthy procedures without
A substantial gain is achieved, for example for the environment. We want to work towards a ontwikkelingsgerich-

PvdA election parliamentary elections in 2012

53

to approach. Under long-term objectives set out for example in the field
air quality and clean water, and all the initiatives that have a balance to contribute
plenty of space. In this way, we are no longer on the brakes, but we just stimulate progress.

5. Animal welfare
The Labour Party attaches great importance to the protection of animal welfare. In recent years, - co-
on the initiative of the Labour Party - on many fronts to improve animal welfare. The coming years we will continue to work along two lines. Firstly, through close cooperation with civil society organizations
animal welfare and consumer interests and the Dutch retailers. The other by
Netherlands in European and international level make the leader in the field of animal welfare and animal protection.

We're going to do this:
•
•
•

•

•
•
•

•

The livestock must be animal friendly. Illegal and inhumane practices in slaughterhouses we tackle. And we put an end to the selling and trading flop chickens in the Netherlands.
There is an initiative of the PvdA and the SP a ban on mink farming.
Preventive use of antibiotics in livestock farming must cease. Reduce the number of animal experiments
we further back. The transport of animals across Europe should be reduced significantly and
where still needed to meet requirements veelstrengere so that abuses are eliminated.
Animals Beulen get a ban on keeping animals. Traders animals must be certified. Livestock dealers or transporters who commit repeat guilty of cruelty to animals lose their license. Gezeul with animals over long distances in
bands are laid.
The PvdA wants to introduce a star system (Better Life Feature) for livestock. How
more stars for the providers of meat the animal-friendly production.
Recreational hunting should be banned.
The PvdA is for sustainable fishing. Overfishing brings more and more species on the brink of
extinction. Stricter and more intensive monitoring of compliance with existing fishing rules
necessary. For species where it really goes wrong with it, such as the eel fishing ban is extended. Efforts should be made to retraining and alternative employment for the
profession. Existing fishing will be encouraged to innovate and to switch to
sustainable and certified fishery.
Sport fishing is still a popular way to spend leisure time in the nature by. All fishermen benefit from a diverse ecosystem. Poaching can disrupt the natural balance of the ecosystem and should therefore be addressed.

6. Agriculture
Agriculture and horticulture with all upstream and downstream industry remains a powerful economic
sector that provides many jobs, for which innovation and efficiency improvement are necessary.
But food can and should be sustainable. Economy, ecology and social conditions have everywhere, even in the countryside, go hand in hand.

We're going to do this:
•

•

•

•

54

The precautionary principle is leading to ensure food safety. This means that the importance
public health takes precedence over economic interests. There should be much more alertness
come on the relationship between livestock and human health. Concentrations of animals lead to
more risks. We therefore oppose the further intensification of the construction of mega stalls.
We must work towards a vital, healthy and sustainable agriculture, where we efficiently deal with
soil, raw materials and energy and contribute to a landscape that knows characteristic value
to keep.
We want a sustainable livestock that fits in size and design to our whole country. A
livestock with the ground is binding: where the cow regularly stands in the meadow. We want
demands on animal welfare, degree of soil bondage, environmental health effects
people and, if necessary, size.
The PvdA wants to promote regional food chains.

NETHERLANDS STRONGER AND MORE SOCIAL

•
•
•

•

•

Biological and ecological experiments in salty vegetable and marine fish farming in previously
suitable areas is supported.
We want to continue to promote the growth of organic agriculture (crops, livestock and dairy industry) and sustainable fisheries. It contributes to a healthy living and sustainability.
Preventive use of antibiotics in livestock farming must cease. Reduce the number of animal experiments
we further back. The transport of animals across Europe should be reduced significantly and
where still needed to meet requirements veelstrengere so that abuses are eliminated.
We maintain a system of compartmentalised animal rights until proven alternatives
in the field of nature, environment, health and space that have the same effect.
The Labour Party is in favor of lowering European agricultural subsidies. We have got the
European farmers are desperately needed, but in a different way. Ancient income and export subsidies
and the generous purchase schemes must make way for European policy aimed at
strengthening of rural and sustainable agriculture. That's good for the
landscape, ecology and biodiversity and prevents us distort international agricultural trade. This will benefit many developing countries suffer from.
Waste = resource. Resources become scarcer and more expensive, which drives up prices for consumers. The earth gets drawn out for raw materials like oil and metals essential
for our economic development include IT and mobile communications, energy, construction, clothing and food. Reuse of resources must therefore internationally, nationally and locally organized. With the business need to be agreed
made for ambitious recycling targets. With municipalities can work towards agreement on a commodity agreement aimed at recovering raw materials from households
(Flemish for example, where substantially more valuable materials from domestic waste
recycles). Systems aimed at rewarding people for valuable materials, such as the deposit system should be expanded. In addition, sustainable initiatives from the
business for the preservation of materials are stimulated in the chain, and scaled up.
Also in Europe, measures aimed at boosting recycled materials promoted new products.

PvdA election parliamentary elections in 2012

55

OUR CHOICES
FOR
EUROPE

1. A European agenda for
growth and jobs
2. Restore democracy and
trust
3. Together strong in the world

Honestly from the crisis in Europe
The Labour Party is strongly in favor of European cooperation. Europe brings us peace, freedom and prosperity. Now it gives us the chance to make a stand together against the fast money and against short-sighted
speculation without regard for social consequences. Together, we can restrain the banks and bonuses and Europe began a hopeful project provides perspective on current and future
generations. The importance of Europe for the Dutch economy and jobs can not be emphasized enough
in these times of crisis. Europe could include a future perspective by stimulating
an innovative and green European economy, and act as a strong economic partner for other regions in the world. For an exporting country like the Netherlands, with other European countries as a market,
gives European cooperation for employment and prosperity. Together, we must honestly come out of this crisis and prevent another crisis. Further economic and political integration in the European
union is possible only if it is accompanied by an agenda focused on growth, social safeguards and democratic strengthening.

Bottlenecks
The one-sided austerity across Europe threatens the jobs and purchasing power of workers, self-employed and retired persons and leads to shrinkage. This increases further debts and postponed business investment. Speculators and financial institutions have played with our future by
taking unacceptable risks. Only Europe can, in international cooperation, again curb the financial markets. Another problem is that today's Europe too few of us, citizens, is. Especially
Since the euro crisis, Europe is too much in the hands of the government with little influence of national parliaments and the European Parliament. That has to change, we want to restore confidence in Europe. Too often pull European countries still separately on in the world. We want Europe's strength
to let her come right in the world, it is necessary to speak with one voice. However true
that further economic and political integration is only possible if it is accompanied by a broader agenda aimed at social and economic strengthening of the EU.
In short, it is time for a new Europe. A Europe that creates jobs, good working conditions
and enforces a decent salary to everyone. A Europe where we preserve our identity and where we stand in solidarity with each other. A democratic Europe of cooperation. Because we are together
are so much stronger in the world.

56

NETHERLANDS STRONGER AND MORE SOCIAL

OUR SOLUTIONS
1. A European agenda for growth and jobs
Europe is at a crossroads. There is an agenda is needed that growth, new investments and more jobs
balances with sound public finances. Are we going to continue to unilaterally heels with
the blunt, causing unemployment to further pan out rice? If we strike a new path, a
away from the finances and work to bring growth and jobs? We opt for the latter. That
means that we will protect the purchasing power and restore consumer confidence by investing in
sustainable and fair economy. We are strengthening the social dimension in Europe by protecting public services against market cold, people get quickly to work and wages
keeping fit. We're hard for servile financial markets and restore stability and
solidarity between countries in Europe. It also means that should the Treasury in order in all Member States
are being brought. Social democrats across Europe support proposals that promote growth. That
offers hope. Hope for all those youngsters and the elderly who are without work. Hope to come back quickly from the crisis. Hope to work again to get the European, and therefore the Dutch, economy.

We're going to do this:
Investing in growth
• The fiscal pact is too much an accounting instrument, and focuses one-sidedly on budget deficits and debt. There must be new Growth Pact: a pact that is the engine for the
job creation and reforms in all Member States.
• Within the Stability and Growth Pact is scope to take account of exceptional
economic conditions of the countries. The pact's main rule that countries
their structural deficit placing order, so taking into account the business cycle. The Labour Party
adheres to this and focuses on a fiscal policy that offers the prospect of a structural balanced budget in 2017.
• We increase revenue by Member States by a European action plan to combat tax fraud, evasion and avoidance-flight. It is too easy to evade tax by lack of
exchange of information between Member States. Tax havens and tax competition are
addressed by seeking common understanding on income taxes.
• We put on full employment by allocating EU funds for investments
in education, research, innovation, energy efficiency, infrastructure and digitization. These investments will be financed or guaranteed by the relevant EU funding programs
European Investment Bank, European project bonds, making better use of structural funds and the European Social Fund, and redeploying agricultural subsidies.
• Investments that benefit the development of green jobs and sustainable
society are given priority. This crisis also offers us an opportunity to the economy poised to
Making the future.
• All EU member states in the coming years should bring their finances in order. The European
budget should therefore also down. The Dutch contribution can be lowered and the Dutch
net payment position should improve. EU payment discount of 1 billion euros after 2013
continued. The EU must cut spending, including by substantially shortening the excessively high
salaries of European officials and the disproportionate allowances
MEPs. Moreover, the abolition of the traveling circus between Strasbourg and Brussels can also yield hundreds of millions of savings.
Strengthening the social dimension
• End to the national competition in public services such as health and
social housing. These sectors should be shielded from the European single
market rules. The same applies to pension schemes.
• Protection of workers by agreements on minimum standards, including a (relatively)
minimum wage and freedom of association.

PvdA election parliamentary elections in 2012

57

•

•

•
•

Tackling the growing youth unemployment through the exchange of expertise on successful policies (Austria, Netherlands and Finland) and the creation of youth employment projects. Funding for projects is made available from the European Social Fund, which currently there is underspending.
Wage Dumping is unacceptable. Who works in the Netherlands, is to get a decent salary to
Dutch standards, where applicable in accordance with the applicable collective agreement. Equal pay for equal
work within Member States.
We're going exploitation of immigrant workers and repression of unfair competition on wages and
other conditions of employment against. The labor inspectorate should be there at full deployment.
Netherlands using food surpluses in Europe to maintain the supply of food banks up to standard and ensure varied food parcels.

Service Bare financial markets and restore stability and solidarity
• Banking supervision needs to be European. Banks in the euro zone must all be adequately capitalized and subject to effective supervision.
• Bonuses in the financial sector are limited to a maximum percentage of 20% on top of it
fixed salary. This applies not only to top executives, but for everyone working in the sector.
• The financial sector will have to contribute to the costs of the financial crisis. To this end, we conduct
a financial transaction tax (FTT) in. Our pension funds are here emphatically
excepted.
• In our Europe, eventually introducing Eurobonds possible. With Eurobonds, we can force
Using the joint European economies to the financial and economic stability
increase.
• The financial and euro crisis have shown that problems with banks in other countries simply
about may spread to other countries. Now the control is regulated by national legislation, but banks are
very international, mainly European oriented. Poorly supervised in another country thus creates risks for the Dutch economy. We therefore strive towards a European banking union
and deposit guarantee scheme. In this way, to better regulate the financial sector and can
the risks to be addressed wherever it is most effective.
• To ensure stability in the euro area is a strong and reliable emergency fund needed
(European Stability Mechanism, ESM). The emergency fund provides loans to countries with large
financial problems. Countries wishing to take advantage of the emergency fund commit to reforms aimed at bringing the economy in order.
• An active role for the European Central Bank as a last resort. The ECB can contribute to the financing of the emergency fund or by buying up debts of countries in crisis.
• The Euro is very important for the Netherlands. For a stable Euro should the countries
Eurozone economic and financial converge and have to clean up public finances
are being brought.

2. Restore democracy and confidence
We want to build our future in a Europe where more and better cooperation, then it is high
time to strengthen democratic control. A vote in the European elections should be much more than
Now get real meaning. The European Commission should be more a reflection on the future of
the outcome of the European elections. People should have a real choice. In a democratic Europe,
to render account to citizens, big decisions are not made in back rooms. The urge
to replace technocratic government must resist the parliamentary democracy. Also
Decisions on financial markets and the economy are political decisions, decisions with major
consequences for ordinary people in ordinary neighborhoods death. Europe is not only a responsibility
politicians in Brussels. National politicians should be more involved, act as watchdog and contribute
the politicization of the debate in and about Europe.

We're going to do this:
European elections with meaning
• It's time to make serious efforts to democratize the European Union. The European
Commission in the future should reflect the outcome of the European elections. Hereby
give voice to real significance in the European elections. Simultaneously, the position of the Member States must be guaranteed.

58

NETHERLANDS STRONGER AND MORE SOCIAL

•
•

•

At the next European elections in 2014 makes the party is the largest in the Netherlands
by the Netherlands to nominate a member of the European Commission.
The largest party in the European Parliament gives the President of the European Commission. The
European Socialists (PES joined in) lead the way and get to the next
European elections in 2014 with a Social Democratic candidate for the Presidency
of the European Commission. This is a committee that has a majority in the European
Parliament can count.
Introduction of European electoral lists: It must be possible, in addition to a choice of one of the
Dutch candidates, you have to vote for candidates from other countries. To begin
Candidate presidents of the European Commission.

A transparent and effective European Union
• The European Council has too many powers drawn to themselves and dominated by
Germany and France. Decisions should take place under greater scrutiny by the European
Parliament and national parliaments, including parliament, to serve actively involved
be in the decision of Council formations, and Dutch ministers in their direct responsibility to address and assess the Dutch contribution. The hole in democratic accountability can be further as closed.
• The registration of lobbyists by the European Parliament and the European Commission is mandatory and extended to lobbyists by the European Council.
• Abolition of the monthly traveling circus to Strasbourg: one meeting place of the
European Parliament in Brussels.
• The strengthening of the position of the Secretary of State for European Affairs as a central player
legislative decisions in the Council and by placement at the Ministry of General Affairs.
• The principle of subsidiarity is leading: decision-making should be as close to the people.
Only cases that can not be just as good or better at national, regional or local level
arranged to be tackled at European level.
• Conversely responsiveness to issues that are not effectively regulated at national level
can be dealt with at European level.

3. Together strong in the world
With 27 countries we are stronger in the world beyond. Especially now that other powers, such as India and
China play an increasingly important role and global issues are increasingly interrelated, it is
important to pull together. Europe is more than just a single market. It's also a community of values ​​which stands for human rights, rule of law and democracy. Those values ​​must always be reflected in
EU foreign policy.

We're going to do this:
Speaking with one voice

• Raw materials policy is explicitly included in the EU's foreign policy, to the
own provision to secure and to achieve sustainable mining in developing countries
while safeguarding the interests of vulnerable countries.
• Learn to speak with one voice in order to better achieve results in the areas of peace, climate, environment
and the economy: about positions henceforth be decided by majority except
Decisions on contributions to military interventions and peacekeeping operations.
Fight injustice
• Contacts between the EU countries should be used to violate human rights on a
critical dialogue. When serious violations to sanctions in the European context. Development and trade benefits are used as positive incentives to promote respect for human rights.
• Europe should also critically at itself and its Member States dare look and faster intervention and possibly impose sanctions if a member of the EU is going in the wrong direction with regard to democracy, rule of law and human rights. The Netherlands must remain constantly aware of the we
desired side analogous with respect to democracy and human rights.
• Fair trade actively encouraging and the opportunity for developing countries to share their
own market, such as food production by small farmers, to protect free trade. Europe
must stop imposing trade liberalization that we have never accepted.
PvdA election parliamentary elections in 2012
59 •
Relief and Development to better coordinate and make more coherent, so money
is better spent and national policy and European policy are complementary and mutually reinforcing.
Stable and prosperous neighbors
• An ambitious neighborhood policy towards the neighboring countries in the Arab region, including
significant economic benefits to these countries and assist in building the rule of law.
• Also in other neighboring countries in Eastern Europe and the Balkans, the EU continues to invest in transformation
processes, for example by strengthening the economy and democratic constitutional state.
• Netherlands and the EU respect the commitments made by the countries in Southeast
Europe and Turkey. In case of accession countries must fully meet the conditions
and the EU should also be ready for new accessions.
60
NETHERLANDS STRONGER AND MORE SOCIAL OUR CHOICES
FOR A
SOLIDAIRE
WORLD
1. Strong and fair
world economy
2. Human rights, rule of law,
democracy and international
legal
3. A safe and peaceful
world
4. An effective armed forces with
attention to staff
5. Future of
Development
Fair sharing of knowledge, power and income is at the heart of social democracy. Whether your cradle now in Almere
State or in Juba; everyone is entitled to a safe and dignified existence. With enough food and water.
With a job and a roof over their heads. Education for the children and care for the sick.
The basic conditions for a dignified existence should be in order. That is not only in the
importance of people far away but also for stability in the world. It thus contributes to job creation and a secure life in our own country.
The world is changing rapidly. Many people manage to escape from poverty, or not
helped by a micro-credit. Formerly poverty-stricken countries such as Brazil, China and India are on the rise
and report with confidence on the world stage. In totalitarian states of the Arab world
Days youths, armed with social media, the incumbent power with demands for freedom and democracy.
But injustice in the world remains stubbornly. Access to natural resources and wealth is not
for everyone a matter of course. Wealth is unequally distributed. Still life over a billion people in abject poverty. In countries such as Syria, Afghanistan, Somalia, Congo and Mexico are their people
life not sure. Respect for human rights, a functioning rule of law and a safe living environment for many countries are still a utopia.
In recent years, we are finding it at first hand that the world is getting smaller. What in one country
takes place, has an impact on the other side of the earth. The economic crisis affects us all.
Causes and effects of climate change and scarcity of resources across borders.
Violence and human rights abuses provide large groups of people adrift. Therefore, we
us not shut down the world.
The world a safer and better make a choice - and we do passionately. Have in recent years
we should be ashamed of the Netherlands' role in the world. The PvdA wants the Netherlands international will again play a leading role. With new energy we are going to commit ourselves to solidarity
world. Global problems of today and tomorrow, we will assess together and fight. The
Labour Party makes international cooperation a priority again.
1. Strong and fair world economy
A dignified existence for all begins with a strong and fair global economy. It goes
social justice over quick profits. In it we are wise with scarce resources.
In it we save nature. Because a strong and fair global economy ensures that current and future generations can have a decent life.
PvdA election parliamentary elections in 2012
61 In the present economic system often applies to only one law - and that is the law of the jungle.
Vulnerable groups and their interests under snowing. That is not only bad for the poor, but
too bad for the growth and stability of the global economy. The rapidly growing world population and
increasing wealth in emerging economies and industrialized countries makes good management
natural resources and fair distribution of wealth even more important. Exploitation and careless
dealing with scarce goods and resources, are still not to the past. It is thus
not necessarily good. A strong and fair world economy does not arise if we leave everything to the market.
It's time for new coalitions emerge stronger interests of citizens worldwide. Not only
governments and international institutions like the United Nations, but also knowledge institutions, companies,
civil society organizations and trade unions have a key role. Only together can we
ensure fair trade, good management of scarce resources and to eradicate modern
forms of slavery.
We're going to do this:
Fair and sustainable trade
• Companies should take social responsibility and open about it. Report
on payments to developing countries and dealing with employees and the environment is mandatory.
• Decisions in the fields of trade, agriculture and migration is taken into account
the interests of poor countries.
• Emerging companies and local food producers in developing countries, we help by
Open European market for them. Themselves they be free to choose to gradually liberalize their own markets.
• The WTO and the G20 Netherlands systematically argues for strengthening international trade
with respect for people, environment and nature.
• The Netherlands is against tax evasion by multinational companies and is committed there (inter) nationally for it.
Good management of scarce resources
• The Netherlands is taking the lead for a global food and agriculture strategy that prevents speculation, land grabbing occurs and provides good food for the whole
world population. Countering issues like desertification and felling of forests are a priority to combat climate change.
• A Delta Solidarity Fund comes to the great knowledge of Dutch businesses in the
field of adaptation to apply climate change in poor countries. So we put our
water sector on the international map. Emerging powers win as Brazil, China and India to influence on the world stage. It is important that we maintain a good relationship with
these countries and, where possible, enter into cooperation.
• At the same time, the Netherlands is in the interests of vulnerable countries in Africa. They threaten
by raw material hunger of emerging powers and their industrialized countries
losing scarce resources without requiring economic benefits in return.
• Emerging powers such as Brazil, China and India are becoming more influential on the world stage. The
it is important that we maintain a good relationship with these countries and, where possible, enter into cooperation.
Fight against modern slavery
• Every country has to respect trade union rights. Netherlands speaks out forcefully to violations.
• Companies have a clear and statutory duty of care for the working conditions in
the production, even if they play well outside the Netherlands. Companies that make use of child or forced labor are punished.
• To combat human trafficking and child pornography, EU Member States should cooperate closely.
In addition to penalties, this requires a greater focus on prevention and protection of victims.
• In the Netherlands and in the EU context a significant expansion of the vice squad and detection capacity to combat sexual abuse and sex tourism.
62
NETHERLANDS STRONGER AND MORE SOCIAL 2. Human rights, rule of law, democracy and international law
Human rights are universal and inalienable: they apply everywhere, for everyone. A good
functioning democracy, with different political parties and social organizations, provides
people the opportunity to stand up for their rights and for a fairer distribution of wealth. Yet
continue the struggle for the democratic rule of law worldwide speaks to the imagination. Not for nothing
demands courageous protesters in the Arab world control over their future. At the same time
farther away and close to home freedoms continue to be violated and people because of their
attitudes intimidated, imprisoned or tortured. That the struggle for human rights all support from us
deserves part of the world, sounds obvious. But the Netherlands has in recent years shown a wavering advocate of human rights. We can not accept.
The Labour Party stands firm on human rights, rule of law and democracy. We leave that resound in our whole
foreign policy. We do not measure double standards, increase the pressure on regimes that abuse human rights
flout and reward countries that make progress. Netherlands to be credible
act as our own house in order. Therefore, we take a critical look at ourselves. With The Hague as the seat of a growing number of international courts and tribunals, Netherlands presents itself as a pioneer in the promotion of international law.
We're going to do this:
Human rights always and everywhere on the agenda
• To promote human various means are used, ranging from quiet diplomacy to boycotts and sanctions. The latter is especially true when there are serious human rights violations, such as in Syria. With good behavior, we take positive measures such as
additional aid or trade benefits.
• The Netherlands is not hypocritical. We propose to denounce human rights violations, regardless of the
country where they occur.
• The Netherlands actively contributes to the promotion of social rights and access to health care,
water, sanitation, education, food and housing, among others through the support of the Social Protection
Floor of the United Nations Initiative.
• The Netherlands is also abroad for the acceptance of rights of sexual minorities and the fight against homophobia.
• The Netherlands complies with the Refugee Convention, human rights conventions and EU asylum policies and has a humane asylum policy. The situation in the country of origin and personal traumas
we taken into consideration when asylum applications. Refugees are not criminals. Therefore we develop
alternatives to detention and turning criminalization of illegal residence (via
the entry ban) back.
• Children's rights are an integral part of our human rights and foreign policy because
our investments therefore fairer, more sustainable and more efficient.
• International efforts to combat violence against women during conflict is very necessary. Especially sexual violence is used against women as a weapon of war. Women's and
bringing the perpetrators is of great importance.
Active role in international democracy promotion
• Civil Activists, civil society organizations and political parties are actively supported. The
basis for democracy is indeed in the countries themselves. That is particularly true for emerging
economies where poverty is a distribution issue and where Dutch bilateral aid
finished.
• extra Netherlands is committed to supporting women's rights and participation of women
in building democracies in the Arab region and everywhere else in the world where women are prevented them to play an active role.
• Without any constitutional democracy. For countries that we help build up the development of the rule of law a priority.
• The Netherlands is free internet and condemns restrictions and suppression of online activists.
We encourage Dutch companies to develop software that safeguards users against
censorship and blockades.
PvdA election parliamentary elections in 2012
63 Effective compliance with international law
• Netherlands hammers constantly on respect for international law and prevent impunity.
• The Netherlands supports the International Criminal Court and continues to urge countries to participate in and
extradition of suspects of serious crimes to the International Criminal Court.
• The UN Security Council the 21st century should be guides. The veto should be curtailed. Developing countries deserve greater representation. And France
England give up their permanent headquarters for a permanent EU voice.
3. A secure and peaceful world
A safe environment where you can go without fear to work or school, is a prerequisite for human dignity and self-reliance. A safe and stable world is not only
in the interest of people far away, but also contributes to our security. The threat of pirates off the coast of Africa is also exposed the crews of our ships.
Conflicts are increasingly complex. Traditional wars between nations still occur, but always
often find bloody conflicts within states and between different groups. Increasingly
scarcity of raw materials is a cause of tension. As many as one billion people in fragile states are caught in a vicious circle of violence and poverty. Trade in illicit weapons poses a
major threat to the civilian population. More than two decades after the end of the Cold War there
still more than 20,000 nuclear weapons in the world and the dangers of further proliferation and nuclear
terrorism are increasing.
Tough action is sometimes necessary for a safe world - even by ourselves. But for a truly safe
world, we must first tackle the causes of violence in context. Choose the PvdA
for a focus on fragile states and conflict regions. Under strict conditions, and basically always in
international level with a mandate from the Security Council, we are willing to participate in international military operations to protect civilians. This requires a modern, well-organized army, which may also protect the Netherlands. Therefore, the Labour Party supports the internationally accepted concept of 'responsibility to protect'.
We're going to do this:
Active approach to fragile states and conflict regions
• When dealing with dangerous and unstable regions we focus on human rights monitoring, building of governments, companies, civil society organizations in the countries themselves. In
Together with our allies we make this approach for coherence between defense, migration and development.
• Netherlands to stop the one-sided support for Israel in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. We go
walk again in the European passport and use our good relations with both Israel and the
Palestinian Authority to better support the peace process.
• Netherlands draws in EU and UN context on major international crises such as the nuclear threat from Iran, the escalation of violence in Syria and faltering of democratization in the
Arab region.
• The Netherlands is a leader in the fight against illegal and controversial weapons and for stricter international regulations to round- arms. Netherlands helps poor countries to combat illicit trafficking of arms and tightened the arms export policy so that no weapons are supplied
repressive and authoritarian states that violate human rights. Netherlands is actively involved in
NATO relating to the further reduction of tactical nuclear weapons, and in coordination
with other EU countries the initiative to the United States to remove the short term of these nuclear weapons from the Netherlands.
• Raw materials such as coal, sometimes serve as a source of funding for wars. The import of these
Blood coal is punishable. Netherlands take the lead to organize this in Europe and at global level.
64
NETHERLANDS STRONGER AND MORE SOCIAL Netherlands active in international missions
• Only with an adequate legal mandate deployment of troops and equipment is acceptable. The use of military force must fit into a long-term structural political solution to the conflict.
• The Netherlands is and remains an active member of NATO and meets its international obligations.
• The checklist for the House for decision-making on military deployment, called
Assessment Framework is to be reviewed. A mission must have a clear purpose, approach and resources have associated with them. There must be a realistic substantiation of the probability of
success and an exit strategy. And the protection of civilians must be clearly regulated.
• International peace missions we perform according to the Dutch model. It is not the military approach leading, but the political structure, the development and peacebuilding,
focus on human rights and the involvement of women in decision-making processes.
Soldiers receive focus, within international and national guidelines, the confidence and freedom to carry out their tasks.
4. An effective armed forces with a focus on staff
The trends and challenges in the world call for an international approach, also for the safety of
To ensure the Netherlands. An international commitment of social democracy is more urgent than ever.
One of the principles that comes with it is a fairer international order and a willingness to
joint international action. All these questions and ambitions for a modern army equipped for these tasks.
The Army must continue to specialize in being able to deliver rapidly deployable combat troops. Air Force focuses on the deployment of combat aircraft and contribute to strategic
and tactical transport. The main task of the Navy is secure connection in EU and NATO
Ensuring sea transport and surveillance of trade routes around the world. A modern military demands such a high level of investment that this should not be a national but an international ambition. Task specialization and economies of scale across borders are necessary.
We're going to do this:
Provide staff
• The cuts inevitably lead to further contraction of the defense organization. There must be
quickly cleared out of the perspective of people in the armed forces. Well
guidance to new features, such as the police, is a priority. Staff at the
armed forces are the backbone of the organization and deserves all the attention in order to do a good job and to be adequately paid and supervised, even if the career in defense
expires.
• In a new round of cuts includes a strong social plan, which is determined in consultation
with the Civil Service Personnel.
• We have chosen to maintain employment as far as possible in places where the
regional economy and employment because most benefits like in Leeuwarden, Assen
and Den Helder.
• The Labour Party is Veteranenwet concluded. The Veteranenwet is short term
implemented with a two-year evaluation.
International cooperation and organization
• The Labour Party for extensive European defense cooperation. Netherlands participates actively
the consultations in NATO and the European Union. This should lei the short term to
merging existing capacities and concentrate more in concert these tasks
where we have added value relative to other countries.
• Some parts of our armed forces are merged with those of other countries such as
Belgium, Germany or the United Kingdom. As with neighboring countries, there would be a much greater naval cooperation could be established, with the Netherlands and other current jobs repels
duties of neighbors takes retaining capacity. This far-reaching cooperation
means that we have to take more and more decisions jointly with partner countries.
PvdA election parliamentary elections in 2012
65 •
•
•
•
The efficiency of the Dutch armed forces must be increased through further streamlining of the Defence organization. There is too much overlap of tasks between the army and navy for
regarding the special forces. We bring all rapidly deployable and specialized combat troops,
So airmobile brigade, corps and commando Marine Corps entirely under one command structure.
We focus on supporting (rapidly deployable) combat units. Air support is
of great importance. However, the number of fighter aircraft can be reduced, especially because we
in this respect strive for closer cooperation with, among others, the Belgian Air Force.
Extending the life of the F16 is possible and we prefer. In due course
we make choices show presence of the desired type of device, based on the then available
supply and prices, fitting into our vision of the future of the armed forces, without leaving
there is a preference for the JSF.
In the Navy we focus our attention on securing trade routes benefit
our merchant. The submarine is lifted.
5. Future Development
The one billion poorest citizens of the world deserve a chance to escape from poverty.
It requires collaboration across borders needed. Much has been achieved with development aid.
The Labour Party is proud of it. Millions of people have, thanks to the generous hand of Dutch and private initiatives, gained access to education, health, clean drinking water and sanitation
Services. The UN Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) remain for the next cabinet period the premise of the Dutch development cooperation policy.
The global threats of tomorrow asking for weapons other than the fifty year old development from now. Development is not possible without a strong and fair global economy, respect for human rights, democracy and international law and peace and security. Yet too often, this is separate from
seen each other. To promote trade to improve human rights, resolve conflicts without
bringing the democratic process underway, capital flows triggering without destroying
nature to stop.
Half measures that will ultimately left empty-handed. It's time to more global issues
in conjunction with each other to fight. Therefore, the Labour Party calls for a new form of international
collaboration. We reserve the right of the old familiar development. We put
innovation in the world of development aid through. And we're making international cooperation a
priority for the whole Cabinet, so we are seriously working towards a fair and sustainable world.
We're going to do this:
Preserve and enhance what is good
• Development is and will remain essential. We focus on enhancing self-reliance
by investing in areas where we have experience: law and security, women's empowerment, agriculture and food security, water and basic health care, including
reducing mother and child mortality.
• There must remain focus on the position of women and children. Women and children are in the poorest countries and regions often those that a balancing of economic
and form social development. At the same time women, if given the opportunity, including the motor
behind agricultural development, entrepreneurship, trade, social cohesion and responsible family planning if they can develop and be given opportunities.
• Within primary health care, more attention is paid to reducing child mortality and investments in sexual and reproductive health and rights. This causes the
Combating malnutrition, premature birth and diseases such as diarrhea, pneumonia, HIV / AIDS and
malaria more effective.
• We fully exploit by professional support private initiatives, the strength and commitment of the Dutch society. We support diaspora organizations
strengthening capacity building, so that the diaspora can play an important role in the reconstruction of their countries of origin.
• Civil society contributes significantly to worthwhile projects. They have
in decades of accumulated knowledge and invaluable experience, which must be preserved for the future.
66
NETHERLANDS STRONGER AND MORE SOCIAL •
Netherlands does not cut corners on further development. We comply with the international agreement to spend 0.7% of GNP for International Cooperation (ODA) and
is once there is a balanced budget, back to 0.8% (ODA).
Renewal of the development sector
• Development organizations embrace new themes, in which the interests of developing countries remain the starting point. Bringing collaboration with industry and research institutions
we are on a higher level. In addition are new financing models and stimulating economic growth center. Not only the traditional medium-sized enterprises, but also medium-sized companies must
qualify for microcredit.
• Also new actors, such as Southern civil society organizations and sustainable businesses, play
a significant role in promoting global sustainable development. These parties
should be able to claim subsidies for good ideas, different approaches and
to stimulate innovative projects. In the selection will be the development interest of the population
in the developing countries themselves remain paramount
• We will make aid more transparent through open data, so that everyone can see where the money
going and what results are achieved. And there will be an international mark of quality that encourages professional development and quality improvement.
International cooperation priority for the Cabinet
• The whole Cabinet focuses on fair trade, good management of scarce resources,
peace, security, human rights, rule of law, democracy, good management of scarce resources, combating climate change and promoting the use and development of sustainable
energy.
• The one billion poorest people should have a voice in the Council of Ministers. There is a minister for
international cooperation.
• The Netherlands will appoint a team of sustainability diplomats within the EU framework and international institutions lobbying for sustainable policy on global common goods, climate change and green economy.
PvdA election parliamentary elections in 2012
67 OUR CHOICES
FOR
DEMOCRACY
AND GOVERNANCE
1. Unleashing
civic involvement and
social initiatives
2. More direct influence and
democracy
3. A service-oriented politics, governance
and semi-public sector
4. An efficient and open government
Freedom means that we can do undisturbed in our private domain what we want and can. But freedom also means grip on life, the ability to independently and jointly direction
our existence. Freedom for us together to set a goal and pursue it. Freedom and responsibility to society go hand in hand.
The freedom to profess religion goes hand in hand with the right to take leave of faith or
to criticize here on out. Freedom of expression includes the right to criticize religion. There is
no reason to treat differently in the Penal Code blasphemy than other forms of
libel, offend or insult.
The PvdA wants a strong society and a strong democracy, in which citizens and communities help shape the public interest and in which citizens can exercise real influence
on the board. In the small nearby, at work, school and wholesale at the municipal,
Dutch and European policy. People and their social networks often devise their own solutions
problems and are highly willing to help each other. The PvdA wants to better reflect this
citizen power, by tackling the persistent fragmentation of the provisions of the welfare and by giving citizens a greater role in the development and implementation of policy. The Labour Party does
people more control over their lives by constantly and in various ways and places
work on democratization. Democracy must be maintained. Firstly, by learning it, at
school and in a club, on the other hand by adapting time to the democratic institutions in themselves
changing circumstances.
1. Make way for civic engagement and social initiatives
In many places is exercised power over us with no accountability over.
For instance in hospitals, educational institutions, pension funds and housing corporations. Through forms
of social self-government we wish to avoid concentration of power and increase the voice of people about their daily working environment. That finding is made periodic accountability.
We're going to do this:
•
68
The PvdA wants citizens have more influence on our public services such as education,
care, public housing, welfare. Students / parents, patients, tenants, all users of these facilities should be represented in the supervisory bodies and
in user councils with appropriate powers on financial and organizational. To this
is taken at least once a year at a general meeting accountability.
NETHERLANDS STRONGER AND MORE SOCIAL •
•
•
•
•
The PvdA wants pension fund boards are assembled differently.
















We're going to do this:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

















The islands of Bonaire, St. Eustatius and Saba are part of the Netherlands. The process by which the islands are placed directly under Dutch rule expires despite all efforts fail
well. The PvdA wants to improve this by making better use of local knowledge. Too much with
a European-Dutch glasses on looking for solutions. What can local, be local
done. Furthermore, the Minister of the Interior must firmly in hand to take command, on behalf of

PvdA election parliamentary elections in 2012

69

him on the spot by the state representative. The only way to prevent all ministries apart with all their officials simultaneously implementing their plans. The aim is to
fruitful cooperation with the minimum of intercontinental travel. The PvdA wants the false start
quickly convert into a successful path to increased prosperity in the BES islands.

3. A service-oriented politics, government and semi-public sectors
In the semi-public sector, the professional and the user centered. The scale of the organizations to connect to a logical catchment. The government is in a state of law in
its relations with the citizens themselves to abide by the rules and new laws and regulations
Dutch and respect for international law principles.

We're going to do this:
•
•

•

•
•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•
•
•

70

The law Sustainable Government Finance does not feed.
The Labour Party is not in favor of institutions such as the housing, education or
care, which are active in scale throughout the country to go. The distance between the boardroom and the public has become too large. Chances of scaling in future years
be actively used.
The people on the front line are central and are fairly rewarded, overhead and management
must be reduced to the bare essentials. Our maxim: the people on the street
must earn more than at least the first two management levels in the organization.
"A culture of thrift", service, and efficiency are paramount.
Accountability must be rendered to the users, staff and the most involved public administration (collaborating) municipalities, provinces or rich. These play a role in the
appointment of supervisors.
All services that are paid largely from taxes or contributions or taking public
the core tasks is the salary of the Prime Minister indicating the salary ceiling.
Bonuses and golden handshakes in the public sector no space. Society expects relevant commitment and dedication of each employee in the public sector. That dedication
let us not depend on bonus.
Representatives and directors must meet the highest standards of integrity and
servitude. The legal status of political office holders is further cut back for some
governs redundancy: shorter duration and a higher age limit for continued redundancy.
Access to justice is not hindered, either by excessive increase in court fees nor restrictions on legal aid. In a constitutional state, every citizen within the
reasonable limits to his right to come.
The government gives the employer a good example. They accommodate disabled
and promotes diversity by age, sex and ethnicity. The government actively promotes an inclusive work environment within their organization. She uses social norms in procurement.
Cleaners are again just engaged; they are also an indispensable part of
any organization.
At any outsourcing or outsourcing of public tasks must be sufficiently substantiated that
Market participants can perform them more effective and efficient and do not provide for the
government lost valuable knowledge. The public officials concerned should be given the opportunity to act under similar working conditions in the relevant market in services.
Institutions that receive subsidies from the government, should check with their procurement or purchasing projects will make demands on the commitment of people who are otherwise difficult to get started, such as
disabled and long-term unemployed.
Provinces and municipality must wherever possible award contracts to sheltered workshops, unless there
compelling reasons for not doing so.
Upon reorganization of the government as much as possible sparing regions with relatively weak labor market. But the party recognizes that the government will have to cut into their own flesh.
The Public Administration Act provides the government currently a lot of work. The solution for this
is not to again limit the right of access to public information. When governments
more information by itself make publicly available, the number of specific inquiries will automatically start to decrease. As long as privacy and security not be compromised, disclosure is the rule. Initiatives that may want to ensure that the support of
the PvdA.

NETHERLANDS STRONGER AND MORE SOCIAL

4. An efficient and open government
The Labour Party is committed to an efficient and open government. Here's an important role laid out for ICT. There
Not only are there a lot of problems we must address, such as with the major ICT projects, but there are also many opportunities. The Labour Party has chosen to exploit these opportunities, and to make our government more transparent, more efficient and more effective. Here, the local knowledge economy further
stimulated.

We're going to do this:
•

•

•

•

We set up firmly on the stimulation of the release of so-called "open data '. This arguably promotes local knowledge. There are now initiatives but these are too fragmented and marginal. The PvdA sees considerable opportunities for public-private partnerships and encourages this.
The PvdA wants the company's ongoing policy of open standards and open source software further
intensify. There are many good initiatives have arisen in recent years, especially among our own
State Secretary. However, a further intensification is needed.
The purchasing policy of governments must substantially better. The government too often unnecessarily high costs driven by poor patronage. This we must greatly improve and put on here so
in.
The knowledge of ICT needs to be raised among local governments. The government too often by suppliers
put the wrong foot. Too often fail (large) projects due to insufficient knowledge and lack of awareness of safety. Too often the ICT supply is contracted with the idea that it then
will be fine. The Labour Party is committed to a strong government which has sufficient knowledge. The quality
outsourced work will increase sharply as the government has knowledge.

PvdA election parliamentary elections in 2012

71

OUR CHOICES
FOR
CULTURE
AND SPORT

1. Culture accessible
everybody
2. Culture begins at school
3. Media policy and internet policy
4. Sport

Art and culture is all of us!
Netherlands is big in arts and culture. Dutch design, fashion and modern architecture conquered and conquer the world. Our museums, monuments, landscapes and mills attract large numbers of tourists.
Visual arts, dance, opera, musicals, orchestras but also our DJs and films homegrown
are among the best in the world. This offers great opportunities to learn and understand, to elevate and expand. The economic importance of the cultural sector is undisputed, with large numbers of visitors from our own country and abroad.
Cultural institutions need to be a member of the society. They should, as artists themselves, a
own public search and new groups interested in their work. They have basically their own money
deserve. Cultural entrepreneurship should be more valued and be clearly measured.
But there must also be room for talent and experimentation. Therefore, an active government policy in the field of art and culture is crucial, in order: quality, a solid infrastructure, a broad-based strong top talent, adequate diversification, promote international cooperation, and where necessary the support of new developments.
The Dutch pop culture, the youngest and most dynamic sector in the culture thrives on all fronts.
Pop music is, in all appearances, become an export product. The pop sector is a model
entrepreneurship in the culture sector. Talent should continue to present themselves (in stages) and
itself optimally to develop institutions that are part of the basic cultural infrastructure or
have access to the Arts Fund. In this way the culture can provide a platform
which is also new, innovative artistic genres and groups to develop and present themselves.

1. Culture accessible for all
The culture sector the consequences of a government feels that quickly withdraws because of cuts
hard. Moreover, the VAT increase was in addition. This will allow fewer people to theater and
go to festivals and fewer companies will buy or rent art. To the creative
motor to keep running is commitment and vision from the government. Cultural institutions must
increase efforts to involve the public to bind and new groups in their
work. Institutions that earn more own income, are entitled to compensation. We continue in our cultural policies seek broad accessibility. Cultural institutions must be physically accessible.

72

NETHERLANDS STRONGER AND MORE SOCIAL

We're going to do this:
•
•
•

•
•

•

The PvdA wants the VAT increase for performing and visual arts rollback final.
The PvdA wants to continue to support the Culture Card for young people.
The PvdA wants the Fund for the Performing Arts and cultural support additional education.
O
The Jeugdcultuurfonds should be actively supported both nationally and locally. This fund ensures
that children living in poverty still have the opportunity to get involved with, for example ballet or music lessons.
O
More and more artists feature their work in their own income. When temporarily
fails, an appeal can be made to the Assistance Decree Independents.
O
Cultural entrepreneurship requires new forms of demand-driven funding, such as crowd funding, fund raising through networks of citizens. For this is a clear
legal and fiscal framework.
Subsidized cultural institutions use the code cultural diversity.
Our excellent reputation in the arts and design has a positive effect on foreign trade contacts and tourism in our country. To the cultural image of the Netherlands across the border
strengthen a tighter control on the international cultural policy is needed.
Cultural diversity and cultural traditions reinforce the society and will be in force
promoted.

2. Culture begins at school
Education in arts and culture has a huge importance for the personal development of the child.
For both learning and social and emotional development. Cultural education has also
great social significance: the transfer of our cultural heritage, we know where we come from. This provides a basis for encounter between different cultures.
Cultural education also means actively participate in self-learning culture, stimulating curiosity
and experimenting. Playing music together is an example.
Artists and cultural institutions can boost through various forms of cooperation
the artistic and cultural education. Cultural education can only be successful and affordable as the subsidized cultural institutions partly responsible for this.

We're going to do this:
•
•
•
•

To get the education network better and more efficiently for each government must work with
provinces and municipalities develop a vision for cultural education.
Education and culture must work together for good structure of education (in and
extracurricular) in primary and middelbaar- education.
The government needs a portion of the grant to cultural institutions earmark for education purposes in relation to primary schools.
All subsidized cultural institutions (theaters, museums, etc.) must be one of education
record their core tasks.

3. Media policy and internet policy
Media inform, entertain and connect. It is in any democratic society is of great importance
that there is a diverse media supply exists. Change media. We want to see the news or read as it is
occurs, not only in the evening at the Journal or the next morning in the newspaper. Free unfettered access to the Internet is a civil right for the Labour Party. Together with other parties, we made sure
that right was enshrined in law so that no Web sites or applications providers may block or delay. Also stipulates that your internet connection can not simply be shut down. This also suits the
leading position of the Netherlands in the internet world.

We're going to do this:
•

An independent, broad public broadcaster for our pluralistic society is of great importance.
The public broadcasting contributes to public values. She informs all of us about what's in the
society happens. Many watched events such as the European Football Championship may not
disappear behind a decoder. The ongoing collaboration between the broadcasters must be
through put. Public broadcasting should also be on the internet to fulfill its public role as independent news provider.

PvdA election parliamentary elections in 2012

73

•
•
•

We want the regional broadcasters, as Omrop Friesland, L1 or Omroep Brabant preserved and not absorbed into the national public broadcasting as the Cabinet wants.
Through the so-called universal service, everyone is entitled to a high speed Internet connection.
The PvdA wants to keep free the internet. That is why we voted against ACTA. We go
strive for a modern copyright. It no longer fits with the digitized
society. Repressive measures against citizens is no solution. No download ban
but research into new payment and distribution models for artists. Stimulating culture goes beyond the prosecution of ordinary people. Blocking websites belong there so
not at. All legal information on the Internet should remain accessible to all Dutch. That
means that websites can not be forced to information without judicial review
to delete. Permanent prior checking or filtering of information on the Internet
is intolerable.

4. Sport
Sport brings people together. It teaches young children playfully important social skills. In sports, everyone against each other, after all, sports are open to all. Thus promoting sports integration.
Sport is not only fun, it is also healthy. It ensures that you stay in good shape and thus has a preventative effect in care. So sports - for kids - the best medicine
overweight. It is therefore of great importance that as many as possible sports. Good sports facilities in town, district and village are indispensable. Like fields, and a good gym in schools: every child in the Netherlands is entitled to gym class.

We're going to do this:
•

•

•

•

•

•
•

74

Exercise and sport for young people in communities and neighborhoods we find important. The PvdA therefore imports
the 'Johnny Beton'-standard: for setting up new districts 3 percent of room for sports and
game reserved.
Sport and exercise should be accessible to everyone. Gehandicaptensport hear for anyone with a disability in the neighborhood are offered. Associations should be equipped to do so.
Everyone can take part, but that is not the case. At present there are to
an estimated 380,000 people who can not participate in sports because of poverty. Rural and
locally we take the initiative to break through that, primarily for children. We put here
funds such as the Youth Sports Fund in.
Elite sport is not only great to look at, it also encourages people to self
sports. In the Netherlands must therefore be room for professional sports. The Olympic
Games and Paralympic Games bring in would be great! We will reject it if the
benefits can not exceed the costs.
Sports clubs run by volunteers. It is great that so many people are working, which is the great strength of the association. But it makes sports clubs also vulnerable. The Labour Party
therefore wants to structurally support sport infrastructure through collaboration between schools and
promoting sports.
Sport deserves, besides good numeracy and language training and cultural development, a prominent place
at school. All students have a right to sports and gym class of teachers.
There will be an action plan to promote gay acceptance in amateur and professional sports. Everybody
should be welcome.

NETHERLANDS STRONGER AND MORE SOCIAL

OUR CHOICES
FOR
FINANCES
Context
Public finances need to be put in order. This means that in the coming years, large
savings should be achieved and reforms must be put in motion.
Thus we begin from 2013. At the end of this Cabinet period will view again
at a structurally balanced budget.
That requires caution. Now the Dutch economy in recession and unemployment finds
per month continues to rise, it comes down to proper dimensions in order to give the economy a chance to recover and build confidence from which new growth can come.
Economically, it is better to structural reforms, with revenues in the medium term
to realize than radically cut spending to revenues in the short term as possible
to Realise. A better illustration is the policy of the moment: reduced confidence, increasing deficits and rising unemployment.
The focus must therefore be on a structural improvement in the economic base of our country, which
new wealth and jobs can occur. Not short-term balance control. We present
Therefore, a package of measures to business investment, crucial for new economic growth, weather to improve in this program.
Central starting point for this program is that we are the productive power of the Dutch economy
not to attack but to strengthen. So we directly target investment in education, we reduce
costs of labor and we get the housing of the lock.
Participation is encouraged in the labor market and poverty actively combated. That's good for the
people hitting the right and for our economy. So we encourage healthy people to work longer, we reduce school drop further back and we pay special attention to the rehabilitation of debts.
When it comes to savings, our priorities are to combat inefficiencies
and inequities in the use of taxpayers' money. So we cut back where possible, for example, bureaucracy, administrative pressure and too ineffective subsidies; and we correct tax systems
so by the strongest shoulders actually the heaviest burden is borne. Finally, it is
sometimes impossible except that we also adjust ambitions. For this reason, we argue, for example,
recalibrating the tasks of the armed forces and we advocate a smaller civil service.

PvdA election parliamentary elections in 2012

75

Assumptions
When financial policies stand for the Labour Party the following principles:
•
•
•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•
•

We opt for a fiscal policy that offers the prospect of a structural balanced budget in 2017.
Necessary cuts should be chosen so that the economic growth and
society are affected as little as possible.
We share honestly, the strongest shoulders bear the heaviest burden. Everyone should have a fair contribution may be required. Teachers and police officers are therefore not for another two years
put on the zero line.
Work represents the Labour Party first. Everyone contributes to their ability to keep the running of the economy and society. Work must continue to pay, and so should remain childcare and commuting affordable.
We propose structural reforms in the housing market, employment and health care;
reforms contribute to sustainable public finances and the foundation of the
Dutch strengthening economy.
We will immediately commence a gradual reform of the housing market. The
mortgage interest is retrenched and will all homeowners in the future offer similar facilities. The rents are moderate increase, with room for customization. Skew Living
is tackled directed. For starters, the transfer tax will be abolished immediately. There are starters loans to support 25 000 starters and put 100 000 people move in motion.
On the labor market we choose to increase the retirement age, in the WW for continued payment of wages by employers during the first half while limiting
the sick pay from two to one year. The dismissal remains intact, but procedures are simplified and the severance pay will be deployed as soon as possible
to get back to work. The position of the self-employed is improved. The hyper-flexible
the labor market we address.
In the care competition and market forces are being curbed. The ever-rising health care costs need to be better controlled. We therefore opt for a redesign of care: Care
close and local or regional customization are thereby guiding principles. The bill is also here
fairly distributed through an income-related premium and income-related personal
risk.
We give businesses the engine of our economy, the space to undertake and prosperity
and create jobs. With fiscal investment is encouraged new business investment and entrepreneurship, particularly towards sustainable economic development.
The tax system, we focus is stimulated so that employment. We are increasing the burden on consumption, property and environmental pollution and reducing taxes on labor.
The financial sector is restructured. The banks contribute to the costs of the crisis; the
Bank tax increases. To reckless hot money to tackle put social democrats across Europe are in for a tax on financial transactions. Pension funds
excluded. Bonuses are restricted.

The CPB is on June 14 with an estimate for the economic developments in the next cabinet period and the expected (structural) balance in 2017. In late August following the passing on of any election.

76

NETHERLANDS STRONGER AND MORE SOCIAL

www.pvda.nl
