Not
by sliding
but
tackle

Election VVD 2012-2017
Parliamentary elections September 12, 2012

But not by sliding tackle
Election VVD 2012-2017
Parliamentary elections September 12, 2012

Composition election commission:
Jan Anthonie Bruijn (Chairman), Frans de Graaf (secretary / secretary)
Ina Adema, Michel Bezuijen, Sander Dekker, Dimitri Gilissen, Herman van Hunnik,
Tjibbe Joustra, Martijn Schut, Anoushka Schut-Welkzijn, Dick Sluimers

Where in this program, he or persons are referred to him,
of course, also she or her can be read.

Preface
Our country goes to the polls had hoped earlier than the VVD. The government led by Prime Minister Mark Rutte could not finish off that they had begun. That does not mean that in these
short reign all necessary reforms have been put in motion and difficult but much needed
cuts are made. That work must continue.
The new elections VVD offer the opportunity to continue what we were doing and
the voters to show once again that a vote for the VVD is well spent. One possibility to demonstrate
the VVD defends the rights and interests of every Dutchman. That the VVD for that very reason
public finances will put in order. That the VVD believes in the power and responsibility
people themselves. That the VVD stands for a society in which every person realize their true potential.
That for the VVD government is for the people and not vice versa.
The VVD is proud that freedom and democracy from the very beginning, the key words of our
party. Freedom that only ceases when that of others is compromised. Democracy
as the only political system that allows us to give to live in freedom and shape our society. Inextricably linked to democracy, the rule of law that guarantees the rights and equality of every human being and the minority, if necessary, against the tyranny of the majority
protects. For the VVD is that within our constitutional everyone always feel safe inside
and outside, at home and on the street.
Freedom and democracy, however, does not speak by itself. They always ask for care and awareness of their vulnerability. Together with our allies, we will defend our freedom and democracy against threats
the outside. Within our borders, we are responsible. The VVD takes that responsibility and
acts accordingly.
The Netherlands has an open, trading economy and partly depends on what parts of the world
happens. The focus on our own borders is therefore not an option. On the contrary, it is necessary that
Netherlands make its voice heard at the international level and international developments so far
affects possible. That may be more when we have our own house in order.
Netherlands faces a significant challenge. The state finances must be put in order.
The government should focus on what is strictly necessary and may not solve all problems
offer. A smaller government with an eye on the future, where the improvement of our education and the
promoting innovation high priority. At the same time we need old-fashioned virtues like
hard work and personal responsibility to keep alive.
We may our problems anyway not pass on to future generations. Requires the
now measures, even unpopular. Politics and our politicians should voters in our adult
democracy expect that they do not make false promises and they do not pretend easy
to provide solutions to difficult problems.
The purpose of the VVD is a leading and economically strong Netherlands with our own power
driving engine. If the government cuts and invest. If the government to expect
everyone put shoulders to the wheel and work hard out of a sense of pride and self-esteem to the
'Reconstruction' of our country. If the government only to perform the tasks that are really needed and a
provide a safety net for people who really can not. Thus we create a future we together with
Confidence can expect.
On behalf of the Board of the VVD,

On behalf of the election commission,

Benk Korthals
chairman

Jan Anthonie Bruijn
chairman

Page | 3

Index
Preface

3

Index

5

Introduction

6

1. Economics

10

1.1 Government Finance

10

1.2 Perspective offer entrepreneurs

11

1.3 Paying sector

13

1.4 The EU and the Internal Market

13

At 1.5 Taxes

14

1.6 Dynamic labor market

14

1.7 Pensions

17

1.8 Innovation and settlement

17

1.9 Raw materials and energy

18

2. Education, health and development

22

2.1 Education

22

02.02 Culture

25

2.3 Media

26

2.4 Youth

26

Healthcare: 2.5

27

2,6 Sport

32

3. Environment

34

1.3 Investing in mobility

34

2.3 Housing

36

3.3 Mounting development

38

3.4 Nature and environment

39

3.5 Agricultural sector

40

3.6 Animal Welfare

40

4. Government

42

4.1 General government

42

4.2 Safety and Justice

44

4.3 The integration

48

04.04 Immigration

51

5. abroad and the promotion of international justice

56

1.5 Foreign Affairs

56

5.2 The EU: Not more Europe but a better Europe

57

3.5 Development

59

04.05 Defense

60

Page | 5

Introduction
This is how we want to convey to our children Netherlands: as a free country with a strong economy.
Without unnecessary regulations and low taxes for people who stabbing their hands dirty -
such as entrepreneurs, police officers and health care workers. A safe country, where you unthreatened on street
you and where crime is combated vigorously. And a country with a small and efficient government
which does not do more than is needed and does not spend more than it receives. But what does the government,
she is doing well and efficiently.
Our achievements - care for all, a safety net for those who can not work, good education and
a safe society - are under pressure. It is our duty to preserve them and ensure
that our children and grandchildren can enjoy it too. To maintain our achievements, requires changes.
A smaller government is desperately needed. In recent years, the government powers and taking on responsibilities that belong to us as free people. Such as donating to charity
and taking care of yourself and your surroundings. Those responsibilities we must reclaim again.
The government should be serving again to all those Dutch who, responsibility and
together, give shape to their lives.
Economy
The Rutte government I have already put important steps to strengthen the economy and to put public finances in order. The VVD wants to pursue it. Netherlands is, after all, still in a
economic crisis. The VVD wants now to tackle the problems and not pass on to our children.
The VVD has therefore opted for a number of measures to make the economy stronger now:

•
•
•
•

The VVD wants everyone who can work will work. And making work pay. The VVD does therefore
proposals to increase the earned income sharply. Benefit all working people in the Netherlands
this burden;
In recent years we have seen more and better roads lead to less congestion.
Because everyone benefits from. The VVD wants to continue to do so annually and 250 million extra
invest in our infrastructure;
Good education for our children is the best guarantee for economic growth in the future.
Therefore, the VVD is investing in vocational schools, focuses on better teachers and takes measures
education and labor market to better coordinate close;
Getting rid of the budget deficit has for the VVD priority. We do this to reduce government spending, not by increasing the burden. If the government spends less,
it need to raise tax less and borrow less in the private sector. If the government its
eliminates debt, they need to spend less money on interest and leaving more about education,
care and infrastructure. Knowledge, innovation and application of effective use of energy and
raw materials creates jobs and challenges entrepreneurs. Opportunities for a more powerful,
Forward-looking economy, we must make even better use.

In this program, the VVD therefore presenting a package of savings to the government in 2017
has a structurally balanced budget. In the following period we are working on a surplus so
Netherlands can pay off his debts and there is still more room for tax cuts.
Euro Crisis
In recent years we have seen that it is in Dutch interests as other euro countries
bring their public finances in order. Countries which do not fined as laid down in
the Stability and Growth Pact. Has no effect, then the country will eventually have the eurozone
abandoned. Possible support for euro countries can only be enforced if the country takes all measures
to bring its budget in order and strengthen the economy, and should be ended
repaid.

Page | 6

Furthermore, the European Union must work for the Netherlands. The European Union is, after all, for the benefit of its
members. For our country means the further development of the internal market. There lies before us as
exporting country's major added value in European cooperation.
Safety
A safe environment is perhaps the most important condition for the free society that
VVD pursues. The VVD wants to strengthen confidence in the rule of law and enhance security.
To those who threaten the safety, acted tough.
• The VVD wants an extra 250 million euros to spend more officers on the street and at the trial
of the additional suspects will yield;
• There will be tougher penalties for criminals who are repeatedly the error;
• The damage to victims is always recovered as soon as possible to the perpetrator (s).
Integration
The VVD is not about ethnicity but about future. Not to believe but to behavior. Not to mention the
group, but for the individual. From these principles, the VVD wants the - still - to combat major integration problems.
• Without knowledge of the Dutch language, immigrants have no chance to make a life here on
build. Learning the language is a responsibility of migrants themselves - and so goes on own
costs. Who does not speak Dutch, will not receive assistance allowance;
• The VVD wants to reduce immigration disadvantaged. If EU regulations hamper these efforts, a must
opt-out advocated. EU rules are less or not applicable;
• If an asylum seeker enters the Netherlands, should be finalized as soon as possible or
he / she is a refugee or not. If so, then there is room for reception in the Netherlands. If not, then he /
they leave our country as soon as possible.
With these and other proposals VVD wants to fight the crisis, strengthen the economy and Netherlands
safer for everyone. The VVD wants it as soon as you started. The challenges
Netherlands be no less if we extend this for us. The VVD wants therefore to tackle now.

Page | 7

1 Economy

1. Economics
Behind the figures on economic growth or crisis is a hidden world, a world of people.
A strong economy creates jobs, prosperity and opportunities for citizens to entrepreneurs.
Economic growth does not come from government, but from the hands of men. Entrepreneurship and hardworking citizens are the engines of our economy. It is important that entrepreneurs
given the scope and are not hindered by high costs and excessive regulation. The VVD
always pursued an economy where performance is rewarded. The government should economic
growth not hinder but support. Especially now that the economic adversity, this is desperately needed.
The VVD opts for a small and powerful government with low taxes and without unnecessary rules.
At the same time the government creating the right conditions so that the economy can grow.
The VVD will pursue at a favorable business climate, excellent education and a good infrastructure.
The end of 2011 has quickly Netherlands for the second time in a recession. Threatens our economy
to fall behind. A country that earns its money with the export can not afford.
Dutch are concerned about their jobs, the survival of their business, their pensions and their
savings. They are asking the political solutions that restore confidence in the future.
The VVD provides these solutions. To solve the crisis, but to emerge stronger. That will
not go without painful measures, but the VVD thus opens up for a healthy and
strong post-crisis economy.
The Rutte I have done a lot over the past year and a half to put public finances in order
to get. The VVD wants to continue this policy: fixed rate and with vigor. A government that more
spend more than it receives indebtedness. Interest on that debt must be paid. Money that is not
can be spent on health, increasing the safety or building
roads. Therefore, the VVD wants to sharply reduce public expenditure. But the VVD wants to do more than
put public finances in order. We want to strengthen the economy so that it opportunities and
employment to be generated.
Economic growth is badly needed. The Dutch population is aging and ontgroent. This means that a
ever smaller proportion of the population earns the money. There is also a worldwide trend: countries
as Brazil, Russia, India and China have in recent decades experienced tremendous growth and the
It is expected that these countries in the coming years will grow. And while the Netherlands in a
economic recession finds, books neighboring countries or economic growth. This raises the necessary
questions. How we react and how we are going to earn money in the future?
It is naive to think that we can isolate these developments. Therefore the Netherlands as
trading country dependent on foreign countries. But it is equally naive to assume that the Netherlands
can adapt without a struggle to the new economic conditions. The Dutch
economy needs to be stronger to survive in an increasingly tough competitive global economy. This is possible by focusing on entrepreneurship, lower costs, innovation and jobs. In this
chapter takes the VVD here measures.

1.1 Government Finance
Last spring it became clear again that the government lives on oversized feet. In spite of the
savings which has implemented the Rutte I give it this year still more than 23 billion
euro more than it receives.
If the government carries no savings, the amount of the debt in 2015 74% of our gross
national product. That can not continue. No one can keep giving more than he deserves -
therefore the government does not.
Page | 10

A responsible government tackles the problems now and not slide it on to next
generations. The VVD wants to move swiftly towards a structural balance between revenues and
government expenditure. The combination of the household budget in order and the other measures to get on top of the economic recovery, Netherlands shows a view of more jobs and
greater prosperity for all. On the initiative of the VVD the Rutte I made the proposal
to end subsidies default after five years. Only if the House prior to expiration
that has decided five years that the grant can be put, it is extended. The VVD wants
also that all governments publish all subsidies annually. This approach also ensures that the
operating grants will be evaluated in due time. Inset subsidies must demonstrably contribute to
government objectives and are tested for output. Where possible, examine cost-saving measures.
The VVD has always been a frugal government. In recent years we have seen that in the
Dutch interest as well as other euro countries have their household accounts in order. Therefore supports
VVD objectives of the European Stability and Growth Pact. This ensures that other
euro countries reduce their deficits and contributing to a stable euro. If eurozone countries not to discipline their public finances should be no hesitation to sanctions from the Stability and
Growth Pact impose. Initially, these countries should be fined. An independent and
strong oversight by the European Commission in this matter. If that does not help, it is ultimately
inevitable that the country will have to leave the euro. The VVD sees nothing in Eurobonds
because it removes the main incentive for troubled countries to put their fiscal houses in order
and to hold.
The coming years will have many decisions to be taken to the peace and stability around
bring back the Eurozone. The VVD will assess the proposed measures along three lines.
First, we weigh what is in the Dutch interest. If, for example with a view to
the financial risk for the Netherlands is cheaper to help eurozone countries with loans from an emergency fund, then we do that. We will also take into account the financial and economic prosperity
throughout the Union. The second condition is that countries unenforceable take all measures to get their public finances in order as soon as possible. Third, this situation will be an opportunity to improve the management of the euro. Before that no power has to be transferred
Brussels. Indeed, the agreements must be enforced who have made the euro countries in the
start of monetary union. This is stipulated in the new fiscal treaty, which then also supports the VVD.

1.2 Perspective offer entrepreneurs
Entrepreneurs are indispensable for a healthy economic future. It is the entrepreneurs in
and small (medium) large companies that invest in new ideas and innovative techniques.
Small and medium enterprises (SME) is the driving force for jobs in the Netherlands.
Like other Dutch make many business owners are worried about the future. The VVD wants them
offer perspective. We do this through the public finances in the short and long term back on track
bring, without compromising on growth. In addition, the VVD makes a number of specific proposals
entrepreneurs give more space.
The VVD has chosen to not unnecessarily burdening entrepreneurs. Starting with the cost of care and
Employers growing burden of the entrepreneur. The VVD proposals for affordable health care
restrict the employer's costs. Employers need the first six months of unemployment benefits not
pay. Later in this program, the VVD is taking measures to simplify the dismissal.
The VVD wants to offer entrepreneurial perspective by bringing lending going again.
This is important for people who want to start a business or a company
want to take over. The bulk of the demand for credit from businesses relates to loans to 250,000
euro. Banks are currently reluctant to provide such loans. The VVD wants the

Page | 11

Surety SME loans (BMKB) is oriented so that the flow of credit flow again. In addition, the VVD remove barriers so that pension funds can invest in the Dutch economy. The new sustainable economy offers opportunities for enterprising Netherlands. Green
growth is catching on in the business world, as evidenced by the increase in sales, employment and profitability.
Dutch companies have presented the international tone. Innovation must be followed by implementation, and therefore the government should, if necessary, as a launching customer. The government, however, does not send the renewal, so does the market. The approach of Green Deals and the top sectors policy must
better coordinated.
The shortage of new professionals is a major threat to enterprising Netherlands. Much
entrepreneurs' director and major shareholder "are worried whether they when they retire
now it can transfer to a successor. Later in this program choose the VVD therefore
a substantial investment in education. In this way there will be more and good acquisition candidates.
The improved credit provides more opportunities for business transfers.
The VVD is to abolish rules that hinder entrepreneurs. An example of an administrative
costs are the costs that SMEs make to wage garnishment (seize wages of a debtor).
The VVD wants entrepreneurs - as bailiffs - the ability to get these costs by
Calculating the debtor. The VVD wants to make it easier for entrepreneurs to debts
to recover. If between creditor and debtor is no dispute about the debt and the payment is made, there would be no legal proceedings should be required to a bailiff to
switch.

The VVD is against rules that restrict businesses to open their case on Sunday. This is a choice
of the entrepreneur and not the government. To arrange this final is the Shop
withdrawn. Municipalities can send entrepreneurs than one invoice per year when all
local charges are listed.
The VVD is for a government that relies entrepreneurs. As an entrepreneur checks and inspections
state by properly, these can be reduced. These inspections where possible by one
authority performed. If the government an employer owes money, the amount concerned must
be met as quickly as possible. There is still room for improvement. The government pays an invoice
average 19 days late. In that case, the entrepreneur should receive compensation, based
the statutory rate. The VVD wants the tax authorities to communicate as well as possible
entrepreneurs. Contacts with the government the employer must minimize time costs.
Besides noticeably fewer and better rules for the VVD is a smarter implementation of those rules
make standard use of the business case for all entrepreneurs. This government make
and entrepreneur share arrangements on the way of cooperation and information.
Legislation is often directed at the larger (SME) companies. Therefore this legislation is often unworkable
for the smaller butcher, greengrocer, bakery, catering establishment or barber shop. The VVD wants to test
beforehand whether legislation is applicable to all entrepreneurs.
The VVD wants to offer new entrepreneurial opportunities. Complicated licensing and regulations and a
limited access to credit deter people from starting a business.
The VVD believes that the government one who has the guts to start a business should not
harassment but should support.
Who 'venture capital' investments should be able to use this to 100,000 euros without box 3 levy.
Any losses may be deducted for tax purposes with income. In the Netherlands
it takes an average of ten days to start a business and have an average of six procedures
be followed. The VVD wants this period and this number will be reduced. Like a
(starting) entrepreneur applying for a license and the government does not respond within the
agreed period, the permit must be issued automatically.

Page | 12

More and more people are self-employed (freelancers). The Netherlands has over 700 000 freelancers.
These entrepreneurs are invaluable to our work. They take responsibility for their regular income and grow into successful entrepreneurs. However, they have
dealing with a huge line mash and uncertainty about their rights. The VVD wants legal
improve arrangements for freelancers. The recent period has been arranged for freelancers connected yet ten years old can stay with their pension fund at the moment they are self-employed. The VVD wants to
go by freelancers to allow themselves to unite in a collective pension scheme.
In the case of bankruptcy of the freelancer can power is accumulated in a group pension scheme can not be sued by creditors. In addition, it is possible for freelancers
to join a group disability plan. They should also facilitate access
get to the National Mortgage Guarantee (NHG). The VVD wants the distinction between large, small and
parttime reduce entrepreneurs. They need to get a more equal tax treatment.

1.3 Paying sector
The financial sector in the Netherlands plays as an important economic, credit and service
function. A well-functioning financial sector is essential for lending and efficient
market forces. The starting point must be that the customer comes first. To financial stability
to ensure a crisis, temporary public sector can be justified on financial institutions
are. However, public support should be phased out as soon as possible. Drivers of financial
institutions which are held up by the government are not entitled to variable
rewards (or an unreasonable increase in fixed remuneration), as long as these institutions depend
of state aid. The financial crisis has shown that clear, strict rules and strict
market master are necessary. Financial supervision should be strengthened. In the future should
it possible to separate high-risk activities of so-called utility functions of banks.

1.4 The EU and the Internal Market
The European Union has been to a large extent an economic cooperation. Many Dutch entrepreneurs export their products and services, and benefit from a large market. Therefore, the
European internal market for Netherlands so important.
Netherlands therefore benefit from the internal market is further liberalized: postal,
telecom, railways and energy, but above all the services. The internal market is now being unduly restricted. So in the EU are about 4600 protected professions, acupuncturist in Malta to marble works
in Belgium. In most cases, these are borrowed and disguised form of protectionism.
In addition, it should be easier for companies to provide services in other Member States,
in compliance with the labor laws of these countries. States should delays in the
introducing European legislation calories. New legislative proposals aimed at the internal
improve market should be accelerated adoption.
It should also be made to speed the creation of a digital single market. This makes it
easier for consumers and companies to buy or sell something online in another Member State,
without running into problems. This growing market, the European economy can yield a bonus of between 500 and 1500 billion. Netherlands benefits directly from here, since we are on the
e-commerce and infrastructure ahead of other member states.
The further completion of the internal market, unnecessary regulations as unwanted side effect. Some 50%
all pressure in the Netherlands now comes from 'Brussels'. In that respect, the VVD sees the EU as a
'normal' level of government: reducing regulatory burdens must take priority.
The program for reducing administrative burdens should therefore be accelerated and be put after 2012. In addition, there must be through a better test the effects of regulation
(the so-called impact assessments) and better control by the European Parliament and the

Page | 13

States General be prevented be deleted with the right rules while with it
Left be credited. It is not just the responsibility of the EU to unnecessary regulations
delete, but also to prevent new ones.

At 1.5 Taxes
At this time, the loads in the Netherlands, are high. The VVD is for tax relief because hard
employment and entrepreneurship should pay. The VVD wants people who earn a larger share
it on hold to devote himself. That is better for the economy because it encourages
people to work harder. That way there is more money, so the cake
becomes larger, and consequently, there is more to divide. In time, the VVD towards a system where the employer pays its employees gross. This creates an understanding of the difference between
gross and net wages.
Performance on the labor market are now too little reward. Therefore, the VAT increase is to 21%
compensated after 2013. To this end, the income tax is reduced, for example by increasing the earned income sharply. All working Dutch take advantage of these tax cuts. The tax-exempt travel allowance is maintained. For entrepreneurs the SME profit exemption will be increased and the
SME rate cut in the corporate income tax. Older people are met through the elderly discount.
The VVD is opposed to layering schemes that deny people their own responsibility and
based on an engineered society. The life, the so-called vitality package, the deduction for
livelihood of children and parental leave are therefore eliminated. beside
VVD choose later in this program of action to bring order to the tangle of
child arrangements.
To keep the job engine in the Netherlands must speak for an employer affordable
continue to employ someone. Therefore, the VVD wants to reduce employers' contributions. Also get
employers a tax break on labor costs for the (indoor) retraining (new)
staff for example through apprenticeships.
Saving is important. Whether it is for buying a home, a long vacation, retirement or
extra help and care in old age. The VVD wants to encourage this through the tax exemption for savings
increasing to 35,000 euro.

1.6 Dynamic labor market
The labor market in the Netherlands is changing rapidly. Life expectancy rises. In time, through
The aging population has a huge shortage of manpower. This development raises
shadows in some sectors are already ahead. More people need to work. This requires not
just need more people to work, but also that people work longer. Only then can
the sustainability of our social security system, including our pensions are for the future
assured.
Here are underutilized opportunities. Who can work, work. About half a million people in
Netherlands have a benefit while they indeed could work entirely or partially. Youngsters
and over-55s still do not get enough opportunities, education and the labor market does not close
good enough and there is insufficient mobility and flexibility on the labor market. This is social,
economically and financially unsustainable.
The VVD will therefore work on a package of measures which stimulates people to work more and longer,
which promotes flexibility and mobility that whoever barriers in the labor market
remains that enhances the link between education and the labor market and raise the retirement age.

Page | 14

There are too many people in the Netherlands who do not participate in the labor force. For people who only
really can not work there long-term support. In too many cases there are people who have (partially)
able to work along side as a result of bad policy - or because they are lazy use
social arrangements. The VVD wants this group (again) goes to work. The VVD wants to start from what
people can indeed instead of what they can not. A benefit should there be a way that people
as soon as possible again go to work.
Making work pay. Because of the many means-tested schemes, many people are financially
backward as they benefit from going to a job. Unemployed single parents in the four days
week at the minimum wage will go to work in the Netherlands more than $ 1,000 per year on backwards.
This finds unacceptable the VVD. The income-related measures that create these'armoedeval',
be abolished or amended. The remit of local and regional taxation contributes to
the poverty trap. The VVD therefore want these amnesties as little as possible occur.
The VVD wants to reduce the twelve arrangements to four, each with its own logical target: the child
and the child budget for income and the combination tax credit and the child care allowance for the promotion of participation. Child benefit helps parents giving good
opportunities to their children. To support parents VVD wants the child benefit for the first two
children unchanged. The advent of the third child has limited impact on the financial and economic situation of the parents. Child benefit is therefore reduced from the third child.
There will also be three instead of tax rebates for beneficiary parents one new
single-parent allowance on the child budget. This new fee is independent of the
whether or not to receive a payment, allowing lone parents no longer disadvantaged
be compared to non-working single parents. Parents with a disabled child living at home receive an extra allowance.
Who can work, but the employer still has to provide adequate, must demonstrably fulltime
efforts to eliminate its shortcomings, to improve themselves sufficiently and a job
search. Who does not cooperate sufficiently lose the right to benefits.
It must also pay to work more. Because many arrangements to employment
promote income depend, feels more work sometimes as punishment.
People who lose their jobs through no fault of their own can of course rely on the social
security. But we want to avoid being on the sidelines for too long. The VVD wants to therefore increase the unemployment benefit for the first three months and shorten its duration. Thus, people whose jobs
lost unnecessarily in trouble and will at the same time as quickly as possible back to work.
Training plays an important role.
Too many people get caught up in a benefit program. The VVD wants therefore the Work and Social Assistance Act (WWB),
the Work and Employment Support for Disabled Young Persons Act (Wajong) and the Sheltered Employment Act (Wsw) merge into a participation and its implementation lay with the municipalities.
The number of reintegration schemes is strongly limited. This allows municipalities with less money
increasing. Regarding the budget for social services (WSW, WMO, youth services) municipalities have the freedom to utilize them optimally. Municipalities can thus ensure that people who now
are amortized quickly, get a job.
Many young people in recent years in the Wajong ended. Chances are they of their retirement
benefits depend. In order to prevent this is to the VVD that this group is periodically reinspected
so that they - if possible - as soon as possible can get to work. Youngsters whose clear that
they never had a regular job can have this are obviously excluded, therefore only receive
fully and permanently disabled people to access the scheme.

Page | 15

The VVD wants all people who are now re-testing in the Sheltered Employment Act. This will prevent people unnecessarily
sit this scheme and the waiting lists for Wsw can be eliminated. The VVD wants
occupationally offer more job opportunities through the potential for No-Risk policies for
entrepreneurs to expand and invest in Job Coaches for more guidance in the workplace.
No-Risk policies also make it more attractive for employers to older (long-term) unemployed
to employ. Re-integration programs are only for specific target groups (such as disabled persons) deployed. This allows to municipalities with less money.
The crisis also comes to young people from over. Youth unemployment has now risen to 12%.
Although this is low compared with other European countries, the VVD thinks that everything must at all
be put to enhance the chances of young people on the labor market. Later in this program
The VVD is taking various measures to better align education with the labor market.
Through these measures, people are encouraged to participate in the labor force.
But they must be given the opportunity to do so. The VVD wants to make it therefore easier for entrepreneurs to hire people. That can be done by ensuring that an entrepreneur who forced
to dismiss anyone not with the person enters an expensive and very long and costly procedure. This originally was to protect people with a job, but causes
in practice that entrepreneurs take less people, so many people unnecessarily
the side stand. Kantonrechtersformule and the corridor to the UWV make dismissal very expensive, and should
therefore be abolished. Through into law a permanent severance of one week per year worked
record (with a maximum of half a year's salary), the dismissal fairer and simpler. These measures apply to the entire labor market. Employment of officers is equivalent to that of other employees. Finally, the VVD making one or more contracts for a maximum duration of five years is possible.
Benefit fraud is theft. Wrongly paid benefits serve to the last cent
be recovered, on top of the fine that can be imposed. The VVD wants no threshold below which is not recovered. Who is guilty of fraud loses its benefit. The VVD
fraud prevention a high priority by carrying out checks on legality, partly due
improve collaboration within the government. The VVD wants to also stop the export of
fraud-sensitive social services, such as child support, outside the EU.
The VVD wants to get rid of the possibility that collective agreements concluded be imposed on companies found to
the creation of the collective agreement were not party.
Babysitting
The VVD find good, affordable and safe child care is very important. The interventions in the
childcare allowance under the affordability of childcare for hardworking Netherlands
busy. The proposals of the VVD fix this. Inter alia by cutting less on childcare and childcare allowances to divide more evenly. People should have a choice while
what care they think is best for their child. The VVD wants child care arrangements parents plenty
the scope to make the choice between nurseries and after-school care or childminding which provides flexibility. Day packages where daycare, school, sports, games, nature and
cultural activities are combined, must respect what the VVD be encouraged. Further wishes
VVD fewer rules that lead to unnecessary bureaucracy. The childcare sector is good
in a position to make together with parents appointments. Employers and employees are in practice
out together when it comes to holidays and flexible working.
Divorce
Divorces have even financially, a great impact on the lives of parents and children. The VVD
wants one can calculate faster and easier aware of child and partner maintenance and wishes
limit the duration of the alimony. This encourages people after their divorce again
take life into their own hands.

Page | 16

55+ and work
Many over-55s who are looking to have trouble finding a job. The VVD wants this group
opportunities of employment. This can be done by entrepreneurs more space to their staff
reward to add value rather than age. In addition, people need more space
are converted during their careers or further training. Someone who is unemployed get - regardless of age
- Requires access to a student loan system. Now, in many collective agreement that workers on a
certain age are automatically dismissed. The VVD wants to get rid of it. As employees and employers
want to continue together this should be possible. This is done at the same time with the simplification of
dismissal.

1.7 Pensions
In recent decades, life expectancy has risen rapidly. This is obviously good news.
Especially since we our 'old age' by bringing in more and better health. But there is also a downside.
The pension will be due to increased life expectancy by many tens of billions
increase. The VVD wants a strong pension system that provides adequate guarantees for long-term
sustainable and affordable pensions, even as life expectancy continues to rise in the future. To this
To reach it is inevitable that we modify the current system. The VVD believes that the so-called
discount rate should incite intelligent risk management and should not lead to distortions in
the market for hedging purposes. The opportunistic adaptation of this interest must be avoided.
First of all, this applies to the state pension. The VVD believes that there are short-term measures should be
taken to safeguard the future of the state pension. We do this by accelerating the retirement age in
steps to increase to 67 in 2018. To also secure in the future in the state pension it is after 2018
linked to life expectancy.
Although supplementary pensions fall within the domain of social partners, wants the VVD
harmonize supplementary pensions with the changes in the state pension. This means that the age for
supplementary pensions increases equal to the increase in the retirement age. The tax treatment of
premiums for supplementary pension can be harmonized with this. The VVD seeks greater choice in the pension system after. The VVD define its position on the average premium partly on the basis of fundamental research that is carried on now. The VVD is
balanced representation on boards of pension funds.
A group of working people who can not fully benefit from the collective pension system,
the freelancers. Obstacles are those which exclude voluntary participation in group pensions
removed. For multinationals, it should be possible to place all their pensioners in a general pension institution in the Netherlands.
The VVD considers that the Dutch pension system is a Dutch case, which the European Union
no interference should have.

1.8 Innovation and settlement
The VVD is convinced of the innovative power of enterprising Netherlands. By selecting the right conditions
can create our country are among the leading group of European countries. The VVD wants the top sector policy, the recent period has been established, continue. Innovation benefits from stability policy.
This requires good collaboration between government, knowledge institutes and industry is required. The sector
beta technology it needs to lead the way because these people we desperately need.
The government annually invests approximately 2.5 billion euros in innovation. The VVD wants companies and private
investors will contribute more and more money that we call on the EU budget.
The involvement of educational and research institutions and the ICT sector is important. The VVD wants
there is enough space for basic research at universities. It is extra
invested, because these are the innovations of the future. Education gets the chance
close to the developments to be in practice, so that curricula are aligned.
This contributes to a better connection between education and the labor market.
Page | 17

The VVD wants to retain the SME + Innovation Fund. This fund offers opportunities for entrepreneurs who want to
grow, but the crisis did not have the resources for.
Furthermore, the VVD thinks that the government is more committed to the establishment of foreign
companies in our country, which adds extra employment. This requires establishment rules,
permits and visas are improved stability and should be an important principle in the
fiscal policy.
The VVD wants foreign companies to feel welcome in our country. This is because the necessary
procedures of the Immigration and Naturalisation Service (IND) for foreign companies easier
be. Also for the children of foreign workers must have good facilities.
International schools should be given a space.
This arrangement of innovation will make the Netherlands more attractive for companies in our
country to invest.

1.9 Raw materials and energy
The VVD wants to pursue a responsible energy policy. The coming decades fossil fuels
become even scarcer than it is today. This leads to rising prices which our competitiveness
can corrode over time. We will also in the future for oil and gas increasingly dependent
are from abroad. We can therefore not afford us new forms of
energy to be wasted.
The Dutch economy is increasingly dependent on raw materials, while the circular
economy (cradle to cradle) is also a major opportunity. For entrepreneurs it is important that the VVD this
acknowledges.
By focusing on different energy sources, we are less dependent on the regions
fossil energy comes from. Clean and renewable energy are key components of the
innovation and settlement. The transition to renewable energy sources is an opportunity to new
to develop economic activities and as a country to acquire a leading position in the field of knowledge and innovation. In recent years more and more people take the initiative themselves, because by decreasing
cost more and more interesting and more profitable to invest in renewable energy and energy efficiency. Good examples are the use of geothermal energy in greenhouses, better
utilization of waste heat and private initiatives with solar cells.
The VVD wants to encourage local initiatives by the potential for energy generation on
to broaden decentralized level. This creates an incentive for smart decentralized energy networks
(Smart Grids), which invest it more attractive for private individuals themselves. The VVD wants to get rid of
protracted subsidies of all forms of energy. Ultimately, not the government
but the market which energy is the future. If this occurs in a gradual manner, the can
transition be made without businesses and entrepreneurs to drive the wheels. The VVD is committed
that in 2020 14% of the energy is sustainable. When placing windmills and other "energy generators" taking into account the implications for other economic sectors.
Nuclear power is, as long as there is no better form of energy is available, a major
and inexpensive source for generation of clean and safe energy. In the Zeeland Borssele mag
VVD to build a second nuclear power plant. This should be an exchange of the latest type.
Such power plant must be built without government payments. Furthermore, the VVD will
Research of energy companies to the responsible extraction of shale gas in the Netherlands is not in the
stand out.
The VVD wants to focus on energy efficiency and sees this as an opportunity for our industry to develop
a profitable sustainability technology. The VVD wants to reduce energy consumption in homes and commercial buildings. Government policies to make existing buildings more energy efficient is

Page | 18

better with each other brought into coherence. Internationally, we want to strive for ever
efficient and cleaner equipment and vehicles. Sustainable business is eventually promoted
by applying the principle that 'the polluter pays'. To make this effective must be internationally agreed. The VVD wants, based on a level playing field, continue
the system of emission pricing (ETS) and comply with tough, realistic international agreements.
Principles are a real issue pricing and a level playing field within the European Union.
In view of the growing scarcity of raw materials therefor also will be a sustainable
must be formulated. The aim is that our business continues to maintain global access
adequate raw materials. The best guarantee is therefore provided by a joint approach
European context.

Page | 19

2 Education, health
and development

2. Education, health and development
2.1 Education
Good education ensures that our children develop and learn a profession that
suits them. Good education creates opportunities for success in life and is also the foundation for a strong economy. The VVD is committed to good education - whether you are studying for a plumber or doctor - because every child
should have the opportunity to develop his talents. The VVD wants schools of excellence where every child in his
own pace given the space to develop. Poor education is unacceptable.
The VVD is ambitious when it comes to education. We have to, as the Netherlands wants to keep up in a smaller
world where the competition is increasing knowledge. Education is not only in the
interests of pupils and students; benefit from a good and highly skilled workforce
We all are. The VVD wants therefore fits that education better in the labor market.
To improve education is not always necessary extra money or new legislation; the number of lines
should be reduced even considerably. But it also involves a change in mentality. Many schools
perform well with the current rules and resources. The quality of the teacher and the organization of
the school are in fact critical to student achievement and many schools and teachers
perform very well. So it is especially important to talk to the poorly performing schools and teachers
and to stimulate. There is no reason why they could not do what their colleagues work.
Despite the poor state of public finances, the VVD wants to invest in education. That is, in the
sake of our children and in the interest of our economy.
The pupil
Compared with other countries our children are becoming less well in literacy and numeracy. The VVD wants
therefore, that schools will be more emphasis on literacy and numeracy. Who with too little knowledge
the Dutch language at the primary school begins, is at a disadvantage which is not easy at present to
bridge. Children with language delay will therefore be required to pre-school education and
compulsory education is advanced to four years. Parents need at the school for their children emphatic and non-binding question. It is an attack on illiteracy of the parents
great importance. The VVD wants to reward schools as they give good education. This is possible by funding
from primary schools to make part depend on the quality they provide.
The VVD is against education factories. Scaling has resulted in too many cases, to a deterioration of the quality of education. The VVD has no problems with school collaboration while
but this benefits the quality of education. And larger schools may never result in more
bureaucracy. Cooperation must never result in small-scale educational environment in which
teacher and student really come into their own, disappears. Especially in areas where the population is declining
(shrinkage areas) will expand its cooperation necessary quality and accessibility of education
to assure. Barriers to collaboration and experiments to this end should be here
removed.
For all students applies: special talent deserves special attention. Every student deserves
education that suits his talents. The VVD appreciates professionals. We need in Netherlands
Not only can think of things but they can make. Craftsmanship Routes throughout
secondary education must become more attractive.




Page | 22

education deserve special attention in order to improve their chances on the labor market and develop self-reliance. The recently initiated reforms of special education be
continued.
It is important that vocational education programs flush with HBO programs and the labor market.
MBO institutions can now decide their training offerings. The VVD does not want to meddle with it.
But institutions must be clear and honest about the chances of finding a job after the training.
Business must be more closely involved in this training, for example by
to let more people from the business instruction. Such education can better respond
labor market. To encourage this further wants the VVD finance training is partly
determined by the probability that gives a training for a job and the extent to which MBOs cooperate
with entrepreneurs. The VVD wants the introduction of integrated training programs at VMBO and MBO. This excludes
much more to the skills of the students and preventing school.
The failure of pupils and students across the education is a big problem. The educational process
is aimed at encouraging students and his failure to prevent pupils and students.
Performance of schools should focus on the development of students. Good teaching needs
lead stand and regulatory burdens should be reduced in education.
Pupils are, among other things due to a wrong choice, mass education and lack
attention. School dropout is wasting taxpayers' money and leads to social problems
unemployment and crime. The VVD wants students advance much better to know what training
means and what you can become it. School dropout in primary and secondary education often begins
with truancy. Schools, parents and communities therefore have an important task against truancy
to go. If schools fail to report truants, they are fined. Truancy can we avoid by going against cancellation of lessons and to provide meaningful lesinvulling. School boards must
this will be settled. The responsibility of pupils will attend classes
stimulated, possibly through financial incentives.
Too many young people are stuck in an educational process because they have the wrong discipline
selected. MBO institutions should therefore have more space to test students on their suitability and motivation before they begin training. Also wants the VVD which students get better information about what work they can do after completing the training. We want to
late bloomers allow again the VMBO through highschool to flow through the secondary school. Even after the
MBO heaping must remain possible degree. In addition, the number of short training, leading to a
Associate Degree, be expanded.
The Dutch educational system should fit in well with the international environment. Therefore,
attention should be paid to internationalization. Bringing in top foreign students
and researchers will succeed only if the education here is sufficiently internationalized.
The teacher
The quality of education is largely determined by the quality of the teachers. Well
Teachers explain clearly, create the right atmosphere and engage students actively in education.
Fortunately, many teachers do it well. But in primary schools performing one in eight teachers
substandard. In secondary schools it is even one in five. Therefore takes the VVD, together with
the education sector, a number of measures to improve the quality of the teacher and the
must make profession more attractive.
The VVD believes that teachers need to do structurally training. This is regulated through registration in
The Teachers Register, as with healthcare professionals. Teachers' organizations are energetically here
it started working. Teachers Register this may lead to longer term that the Education Inspectorate can be smaller. If one improves one another, then is less external supervision. This also means
that there are consequences for poor performance. If a teacher teaches well, is not sufficiently open to peer review and updating and do not register in the register of teachers, there is
in teaching no place for him. Our education deserves the best teachers.
Page | 23

Teachers should be encouraged to make the best of themselves because they like the best
pick up children. The school supports this goal. The school is a key person for
a school. His commitment, quality and skills largely determine how a child experiences the school and how
effective teachers can do their work. Without good school no good school.
School leaders are responsible for the conduct of professional personnel. It's coming
Too often teachers have never had a performance review. Also, the reward
teachers who make the most of the pupil is too little for. The VVD believes in a professional
environment also demands should be made on the quality of the pipe. The coming period
must be a battle here.
Good teaching starts with a good teacher. The level of teacher training is the last
years fortunately improved. The VVD wants to continue this improvement. In time, the VVD teachers as
high possible trained, this will increase the prestige of the profession.
Higher education
Good colleges and universities allow people to develop their talents.
Our society needs skilled highly educated, well to remain competitive internationally. The VVD wants the coming period give higher education a quality boost. Courses in higher education should meet international standards of quality. Students
can be stimulated and challenged more during their studies. Education should better
the demands of the labor market. The inflow and outflow in the science and technology education should be increased in particular.
The student
The past few years have shown that there are institutions which issue diplomas for courses whose
quality of debate. For the VVD is unacceptable. Students work hard and are entitled
to a degree that actually provides perspective on the labor market or further education.
Studying is not just a right, it is also a privilege. The government is investing heavily in students.
That is right, but we should as a society some questions back. This may be the by
replace a student loan system. The income of the
invested in the quality of higher education. If the loan system is fully established can
the additional earnings disappear and the long study regulations are lifted. It is up to the student
themselves to make choices how the study is organized. By entering the loan system
will the students interesting to sponsors during their studies. For companies it may be interesting for all the graduate with the right student to get in touch and to him
bind to the company.
The student can assess the quality of an education best when he can compare this with
courses at another institution. The VVD wants to make this possible through the use of progress tests. The progress test is drawn and tested at similar courses at different institutions. Each program must also honestly inform prospective students about the opportunity
to finding a job and the salary to be expected.
Even for people who are already working, access to universities and colleges of interest. The VVD wants it
part-time education therefore boost. This is sorely needed, because the last ten years, the influx
halved in part-time studies. Therefore we want, based on the current budget, provide scholarships
studies for occupations where there is a shortage.
Colleges and universities
The VVD wants the quality of colleges and universities is guaranteed. They must be challenged to deliver top education. This can primarily through the funding of these institutions
to fit. The money given institutions of government should not only be based on the number of
students but also on the quality delivered, and linked to labor market developments. The measures taken recently in this area, we want to continue and

Page | 24

expand. To colleges and universities to give more opportunities to provide quality
they select prospective students (selection at the gate). Colleges and universities should
In addition, given the space to provide special training for the best talent. For this
training institutions are free to determine the level of tuition fees.
Universities and colleges must exploit their strengths and choose a clear
profile. The VVD is looking into cooperation between institutions when choosing the profile critical.
Scaling in the past has led to large institutions. If there is cooperation must
be clear what the added value and choices must be made that no courses
more must be given. The time when everyone else offers all training is over. Better education
depends not only on the amount of money made available by the government. The way it
money is managed, is also decisive. The VVD wants administrators in higher education accountable for educational quality and financial performance. There must be an end to the
permissiveness that has led to less quality.
Research and Knowledge
Netherlands is not only stronger from the crisis by putting public finances in order. There must be
Furthermore, investment in our flexibility and our future growth potential. New insights and
scientific breakthroughs enhance our growth and competitiveness and contributing solutions
for social issues and challenges. Therefore, the VVD is investing extra in addition to the leading sectors
in fundamental research. Universities and colleges are encouraged to valorize their more developed knowledge (to sell or use).
Netherlands is successful in the European scientific co-operation, for every euro invested
comes almost a euro return. That's because Dutch researchers note in fine
the excellence-based European competition. The VVD therefore puts in a shift of funds within the EU Multiannual Financial Framework for research and innovation.

02.02 Culture
Art and culture are valuable for the Dutch society. There is much beauty in Netherlands
created, designed and brought into the scene. In the past, artists were too dependent on
subsidies. Thanks to the VVD has recently come to an end here. This was not easy,
but a necessary change. The industry has responded and is vigorously pursuing new initiatives
to develop. Opportunities in cultural entrepreneurship are also in the interaction between the cultural sector and creative industries. This rate is put through. The share of own revenues (compared
grants) artists should be in the next period up faster.
Every cultural institution is responsible to enforce increasingly on its own right to exist and to
to show. A thriving sector knows visitors, donors, volunteers and sponsors to bind.
This is possible by a clever way to offer people opportunities to show culture through sponsorship, funds, sponsorship and private contributions. The VVD has a good purpose with the Geefwet
laid foundation.
The VVD sees a role for government to play in the transfer of knowledge from the past and the
preservation of our national heritage. The Netherlands has a rich supply of good quality museums
special collections that have a large international presence. To make consumers aware culture
To make the actual costs of cultural products subsidized institutions will grant a visitor a specification on the card. Concentrate and combine forces are
motto for the museum sector to make optimal use of collective resources and the further sector
develop.
Good art schools are a major attraction for potential talent; talent that otherwise
would probably go abroad. Also this education should better reflect the labor market. The number of art schools should be reduced considerably. In addition, the VVD wants an equal

Page | 25

playground for the film industry. In mainstream education will again focus on culture transmission
as part of the so-called core objectives.
The VVD wants to get rid of the 'private copying regime'

2.3 Media
In recent decades, society and the media landscape has changed dramatically, but the
public broadcasting is structurally unchanged. The VVD wants the public broadcasting further
adapts to modern times. The reform of the public system will be continued.
The role of publicly funded broadcasters should be smaller. They should only programs
offer a social added-value not by commercial broadcasters
offered and thus contribute to the diversity of the Dutch television offer.
In time, the public broadcasting may change further. The VVD wants eventually to a public
employment agency that makes a program based on social accountability.
Subsequently, both public (broadcasting) organizations as well as commercial media
subscribe to these programs.
Will suffice for exercising the public function with a maximum of two general TV networks
and four radio stations. In addition, the VVD proposes to centralize the funding of the regional broadcasters. Salaries of employees and directors of public broadcasting must also be socially acceptable.
Commercial media must be given every opportunity to develop on the Internet and
develop new revenue models. Initiative of private media should not be limited
be competitive (free) offerings from the public domain.
The freedom to use the Internet deserves protection. No undue restriction should be
imposed in relation to receive services and the nature and content of the data (neutrality).
Providing grants for Internet projects for media companies, such as through the Fund for the press, are unnecessary and can be eliminated.

2.4 Youth
Every child has the right to grow undisturbed in a safe environment. The VVD believes
parents and guardians have the primary responsibility for the upbringing of their children. The government does not interfere in principle with raising children. The vast majority of parents
give their children a good and loving upbringing. Sometimes, however, goes painfully and have
parents need support. If the parents can harm the interests of the child and the government must
intervene to ensure that the situation improves. The VVD wants more attention to the Convention on the Rights of
Child, because it is the basis for a preventive integrated youth policy.
It is in the Netherlands, too fast and too often called upon the youth. More and more young people
it is considered that they need help while not actually the case. At the same time, parts
the youth turned into an unwieldy bureaucracy. The result is that young people who really need help
which do not always get. This problem will not be solved by more money, but smarter and more
organizing more efficiently and to operate based on trust rather than distrust.
The VVD wants stabbing more energy into prevention. In addition, the VVD wants efficiency in youth care
and increase -reclassering by laying the director of child welfare in municipalities. Municipalities can provide custom service to find people with a solution to their request for help. This is
the compensation principle. The VVD believes that the treatment must contribute to the normal participate
our children and young adults in society. Here, we look for connection
sports, education and work. Where the jobs are transferred frameworks are applied to municipalities, to be confronted with many different non-transparent procedures. Youth-

Page | 26

and adult probation should be connected. The VVD with this, the bureaucracy
reduce and improve the transparency and quality.
The VVD has respect and appreciation for those who work in the sector. They try - often under
very difficult circumstances - to give children a better life. The VVD wants employees in the
youth get more space to receive training that allows them to develop further.
By training, a registration requirement and disciplinary we can get the professional sector
make. Child maltreatment and abuse, we must vigorously oppose. The VVD wants a reason
obligation to report child abuse and abuse.
A family is designated as risk families when there are demonstrable problems of development
harm the child. The VVD wants there a risk but one family counselor with perseverance is power
appointed. This prevents people working at cross purposes.

Healthcare: 2.5
Besides love and friendship is good health for many people the most important thing in their lives.
For people who are ill or disabled, it is therefore essential that they receive good care. The VVD
in favor of a health care system where the care needs of the patient and client-centered. Free
choice can not without taking a personal responsibility of patient and client.
The care in the Netherlands is of a high standard. We live longer in good health and able to more
remain active and continue to care for ourselves. Of the eight years since 1950 we are all living longer,
six are due to our health. We live this extra years, generally with a
good quality. That is amazing. It allows us to enjoy life more.
In recent years it has become clear that - if we do nothing - the cost of our health care
so hard that they do not rise more to bring up. Already, families pay more than 11,000 euros per year
to care. If we do nothing, this amounts to half of a family's income in 2040. Further increases in contributions at the expense of the holidays, spending on the house and car. The impact related to our care
on labor is growing steadily. Both at the expense of other important issues, such as education,
roads and safety.
The aging is only responsible for a quarter of growth. Mainly technology
developments that make the care treatments less invasive, ensuring growth in the number of
patients for whom such treatment is appropriate. New developments mean that a disease
rather lethal, becomes chronic. This requires lifelong treatment and medications.
Our basic package annually expanding substantially in new treatments, devices and drugs.
The number of people working in health care over the past 10 years has increased by 35%
to over one million people.
The VVD wants our health care remains accessible for sick and healthy, young and old,
for people with high and low incomes. In the future it is important that someone,
which has the misfortune to get a serious illness also has access to the best care. So we have
intervene to keep care affordable and solidarity. Healthcare costs should be transparent, so that
can control the costs charged.
The VVD wants the problems are not advancing, but tackling. Doing nothing is also a choice: it leads
namely to rising premiums and taxes that end up almost half of the income of a
take average family. That is not to spend more. Therefore, the VVD intervenes heavily in, need our care
remain good and affordable and thus be delivered in the most efficient manner possible.
Care Close
Care that is provided in the neighborhoods and villages must have good and affordable. The folder that is
used to organize the basic care back close to people and needs to be substantially accelerated by put.
Care that is displaced in the course of the years to the hospital, chronic care and a lot of mental
Page | 27

healthcare come back to the neighborhood. Simple specialist care can and should thus
be arranged near as possible to the patient. The number of beds in institutions can be reduced.
The GP is the pivot in this care, he deserves our trust and respect, but he can
of course, not alone. Practice nurses, nurses and other caregivers will this
extra work to catch. Their remit is so weighted (task recast). The VVD wants
continue to invest in this so that they can pick up those jobs well.
It is important that we avoid fragmentation and that all parties work together, also with the specialists at the hospital. This requires good information exchange through ICT is necessary. The nurse comes back around. This will have an independent funding for which existing resources
be freed.
The VVD wants to prevent people from getting care they do not need. Waste is tackled.
Here we should listen more to the people who do the work in healthcare. They see where money
is wasted. A good example are the bandages, incontinence products and medicines
to be hundreds of Euros in people unused at home and end up in the trash.
The doctor knows what his patient is being treated or cared for and determines whether a person
getting a referral to a specialist. These so-called 'gatekeeper' role is reinforced.
Who can be helped by a general practitioner does not need to see a specialist. And if a medical home
intervention can restore does not have to continue to be unnecessarily long time in the hospital. As general practitioners, specialists,
pharmacists and nurses work together to treat the patient (care) must
they are rewarded based on the health outcome.
In order to prevent freedom of choice of the patient is affected too much, there will be a ban on
mergers between healthcare providers and health insurers. Not every merger picks equally favorable. In cooperation will be sought from the parties to explain any good cooperation and to involve all relevant parties there. It is important that there is sufficient choice left for basic care. Finally, it should
the government care funds merge as much as possible (ontschotten).
Only if there is no other example in complex medical procedures, treatment is
Carried farther away. These complex, with a small patients, to be concentrated.
A doctor who regularly does a certain difficult medical procedure, knows more about it, has
more routine and make less mistakes. This applies to his entire team. Also, it is wasteful to all
hospitals and private clinics to have expensive equipment used too little.
We have more urgent aids in the densely populated areas than necessary. It is important that
we become far more efficient here and join emergency care. Many people go to a
emergency room when it is not needed. Better cooperation with GP prevents this.
Medical care
In many hospitals and independent treatment is delivered care that is unnecessary. Examples include medical interventions not have to happen, studies wrongly again
be done, scans that are not necessary, costly drugs where cheaper also work. In which
cases is not sensible and economical carefully handled. For everyone to be able to provide care
We must combat this waste. Medical specialists often determine the choice for medical
tools. If a hospital brings together the various procurement processes, preferably with other hospitals, can save a lot of money. Hospitals should have more opportunities
sound alternative funding from pension funds and other long-term investors.
Medical specialists now receive a separate fee. The VVD wants to pricing, where everything is,
also the fees of the medical specialist.

Page | 28

That also means that we reduce that insurers afterwards settle their medical expenses with each other
(ex-post settlement). Insurers have to buy care based on objective and transparent
criteria. This gives providers equal opportunities. Importantly, the contracts are not only about the
price and quality of care, but also on the amount of care they purchase. In 2012 here
the first time agreed on, the VVD thinks that volume should always be part of any contract.
Patients with a kind policy limited to the choice between the health institutions where the insurer has a contract, and therefore they pay a lower premium.
The patient
For many issues around the care that we solved earlier in their own circle, we now look to the government.
We will, where possible, should rely more on the self-sufficiency. Asks this
, where possible, greater financial responsibility to the citizens for their medical expenses.
New technologies such as e-health allow us to do much more self and home, more directed to
hold on our lives and our care. It must be clear for the patient in which high-reliable
information stands. The government speaks with one voice and communicate at the level of the target.
Health care revolves around the patient's interest. The VVD wants people to do so as long as possible
be self-reliant. It is important that a patient can choose from several providers. The VVD
want people to know what the quality differences between the various insurers, GPs
and hospitals, and insight into the costs and health benefits of treatments. Patients
must have confidence that they will get quality and safe care. Monitoring inspection
the quality and safety of care and be able to do this better.
Overuse of antibiotics, including in animal husbandry, provides resistance development
bacteria to these antibiotics. This poses a serious hazard in the treatment of infectious diseases
by people. Administration of antibiotics in livestock should be minimized.
In addition to rights, a patient also duties; personal responsibility of patients should be explicitly addressed in treatment and counseling. Everyone must responsibly
worn in hospitals and doctor's offices. Fees are charged if someone does not
show up for an appointment. A "third opinion" is also paid. Who is aggressive
against health care personnel, is arrested and prosecuted. Any damage caused will be recovered from the
perpetrator.
What we collectively pay and what people can pay for itself?
Everyone needs insurance for the basic package. This obligation entails that
basic package consists of necessary medical care, which is active (sense) and cost effective (efficient).
Anything not comply, must be the basic package.
The VVD chooses to allow or medical innovations let the package. Anyone who seriously
disease has, of course, wants soon as they can have access to the best drug or the best
therapy. We therefore invest in research and development of new therapies.
The insurer must declare each year before 1 November, which he care providers in the next year
has its policy. The insured person can then in November and December to decide whether he wants to switch or not.
The insured should be able to better see what quality it delivers.
Too expensive care must be accessible to everyone who needs it. A deductible is the amount
for which people are up extra excited when they use healthcare, pay above
society collectively account. Therefore, the VVD asked of anyone more personal payments, so
increase in the premium may be limited. The GP is part of this excess. The separate private
contributions to mental health and expire for the lay days in the hospital with it.
The VVD is in favor of preventive body scans in the Netherlands can be done privately,
provided that at his own expense.

Page | 29

The care benefit is that people with low incomes can still pay their health insurance.
The VVD wants to change the health care benefits so that only those who really need it get it.
Care workers
The VVD has much appreciation for people who work in health care. They determine for the most part
quality of care for patients. Care workers should be given more space to develop through training. The next few years the demand for care staff expected
increase.
The VVD has recently ensured that the nursing profession in the Netherlands
position has been that it deserves. Because nurses have been given more tasks by law
that were previously reserved only for physicians, the attractiveness and the career prospects of
the profession significantly enlarged. The opportunities for nurses to specialize his
broadened. The VVD wants to continue on this path. For example, nurse specialists, physician assistants
and nurses take over tasks from doctors. Through flexible training and work schedules can
we also make the care more attractive to transfer students. Also good employer helps.
Care is nowadays a part for digitally delivered to the patient. Also communicate
caregivers themselves become increasingly automated over the patient. The VVD wants to have clear agreements
come to the conditions required for this new form of care. Then need to be
insurers binding agreements to be made to these new efficient forms of care
to compensate.
In a European context is and remains health care in principle the responsibility of Member States
itself. Added value lies in cooperation in the field of transboundary diseases, infectious diseases,
tools and drug and admission. In other cases in health
the EU should not interfere.
Long-term care and participation






















Page | 30

First, we follow through with the separation of housing and care. For the VVD, the cost of living
a personal financial responsibility. People want to choose where they live. They have to
also can do when they need care. It must therefore be organized around the living
and not vice versa. The healthcare provider is hosted by the client. HMOs will go better quality
supply and will have to do their best to satisfy customers.
Second, we will continue to fight unnecessary rules. We see good results in the
care organizations that work on this. Spend less time form means you have more time
holds for care or a call. Employees get their job back, and patients receive better care.
Third, we commissioned the EMEA, where possible, by health insurers for their own insured. The time of the lumbering care offices is definitely over. A clear policy in the EMEA so you
know where you stand, coupled with the ability to go to another insurer on
steps, an impulse will indicate the quality of care.
For people who want to organize complex and long-term care all by yourself, it puts the VVD
Personal Budget fixed by law.
The VVD puts in long term care and in the WMO in independent client support. Thus we ensure that people with a mild intellectual disability to live as independently as possible,
even when they can not rely on family and friends. Unfortunately, people who depend
are of concern also to deal with unpleasant situations. That may be because they relate to coercive measures
get. The public outrage is deservedly great when we see images of children
are being put because of their behavior. The VVD believes that compulsory measures of care at most one
emergency measure and not a terminal.
Unfortunately we read more and more about mistreatment or exploitation of the elderly by caregivers or
caregivers in the family atmosphere. The VVD emphatically sided with the victim and accepts
elder abuse is not. We make the subject taboo and opt for harsh penalties.
The generic reimbursement by the Chronically Sick and Disabled Persons Allowances Act (WTCG)
should be abolished. The VVD has chosen to support chronically ill targeted.
Ethics
The coming years are expected significant breakthroughs in the field of serious now
untreatable or incurable diseases. The VVD believes that if there is meaningful steps put
research should not be blocked. Within well-defined limits must
possible to conduct such research. The VVD is not in favor of selecting embryos
in a non-medical purpose.
Self-determination is an important principle for liberals. This means for the VVD also that older people -
if well in mind can choose -self for a dignified life. The VVD supports initiatives
contribute to this life as clinics. The coming period will investigate how these VVD
developments may exclude other legislation and get this right.
The VVD wants to ensure that all people consciously choose to donate their organs after
death. They can also choose to leave here with their families. One's own choice must
at all times be respected.
Paternalistic government oversight of the private lives of people is inappropriate and undesirable, how well
the intentions are. The VVD is against punishing unhealthy behavior with higher health insurance premiums. It is the explicit task of the government to provide targeted information
in terms of prevention and the role of personal responsibility in it. This in particular also
young people about alcohol, tobacco and drug use, sex education and nutrition to behavioral and
weight problems to avoid and make healthy choices. The government must ensure that it
arrangements are maintained in this area. The purpose of prevention must therefore be to reduce the pressure on the
healthcare through avoidable illnesses and / or risks to take leave off.
Page | 31

2,6 Sport
Exercise is important for your health and for social contacts. Sport is stimulating for the development of the strength of the individual. Public space must be utilized as effectively as possible
sports, games and exercise.
Sports clubs, schools and after-school care should be encouraged to work together
to have more children and especially good move. Buurtsport Coaches connect school and sports club.
Research shows that children have better learning when they get gym class. The VVD bet
in good physical education and proper guidance of exercise and sport situations around the
school. Students in elementary, vocational and secondary education must therefore exercise sufficient,
at least three hours per week, taught by highly trained specialist teachers. Possibly
organized in conjunction with a sports club.
The VVD is proud of the athletes that produces Netherlands. They put our country on the map and give
good example for our youth. Top talent who combine study and sport, earning a
exceptional position with a greater facilitation to achieve their ambitions. Together with
educational institutions and the business community, the government can achieve this expansion.
The objectives set out in this sport section are part of the ambition
Get Netherlands at Olympic level. If worn financially sound and wide among the
Dutch VVD population shares the ambition to be in the Olympic and Paralympic Games in 2028
Organize Netherlands. For the VVD is bringing the Olympic Games and the Paralympic Games not an end but a means to the sport environment for every Dutchman structural
improve and provide better opportunities for development. By increasing the remittance to the sport
from the proceeds of gambling we can shape this ambition.
Moving at a later age, the mobility, social participation and human health benefits.
More needs to be developed knowledge about the older athlete and move his needs. Find the VVD
positive that government, sports, education and health insurers make together policies to keep older people vital. For employers and employees, it pays to sports.
Those who misbehave or to be punished the field. The VVD initiated by the "Action Plan
Violence on the field "worth following. Vandals pay. With heavy criminal misconduct must
prosecution occur. The VVD supports fair play initiatives and harsh sanctions of the
sports in abusive violent behavior. The football should be tightened.

Page | 32

3 Environment

3. Environment
The interior of the Netherlands - nationwide and close to home - has a major influence on our lives.
They largely determines the enjoyment and wellbeing. People need a place
pleasant to live, work and relax. Also for the economy and the environment play
spatial a major role. Entrepreneurs looking for a place to settle, which space
offers to grow well and quickly accessible for customers.
In a dynamic and economically strong Netherlands we want as quickly as possible from A to B, whether it is
by car, public transport or bike. The VVD believes that we even in times of economic crisis
continue to invest in infrastructure need. A pleasant living environment and recreation means
nature close to home and adequate public facilities.
In the busy Netherlands, the trick is to give everything a good spot. And it is the challenge
people who want to invest in cities, villages and a beautiful landscape as much space as possible to
give certain preconditions.
The housing market is in dire need of reform. The debacle with Vestia showed that a
part of the housing from the drift. The rental market should be less dependent
of subsidies and rental rates should better reflect the market. The sale market benefits from
clarity around the mortgage. The VVD wants to keep the mortgage. However, it should
they are used only where it was intended: to promote homeownership.
The repayment of mortgage debt is stimulated.
Woonoverlast is a serious violation of people's lives. The VVD wants therefore crackdown
nuisance givers. This includes a hard line against cracking. Squatting is a violation of the property rights of owners of property. Thanks to the VVD is crunches become punishable. Mayors must
actively maintain the squatting ban.

1.3 Investing in mobility
Everyone in the Netherlands should be able to move freely in the way he wants. A good
Infrastructure is the backbone of our economy. Therefore, the basic capacity in all cases
order to be. The VVD wants to continue to invest in all forms of transport: road, water, rail
and by air, in this good relationship.
Netherlands lies on the North Sea and is the main gateway to Europe. The opportunities
offering, we must exploit. Good infrastructure for the transport of persons, goods and
information required to achieve this. Since 2000, the quality of our infrastructure has been improved considerably.
But new investments are needed to maintain the current level and further increase.
Files cost money and are bad for the economy and the environment.
The VVD wants to expand the road network every year 250 million euro extra pull. On a
map or a navigator seems like Netherlands largely been paved. In fact
only 2 percent of our surface for infrastructure. As the main bottlenecks
to be addressed, there is only a fraction, and reduce the environmental damage is negligible
congestion considerably. To get Netherlands away again wants the VVD in the coming period include the
ring to finish Utrecht, by pulling the Blankenburg Tunnel and the A15, A8 / A9, the Dune Polderweg, the
Realize Rotterdam court and the southern axis. In addition, the VVD wants substantially more lanes bets
as striker strip, and pay attention to innovative transport systems. On roads true that in recent years has happened leads to a significant improvement in traffic flow during rush hour.
Not only expand the road network leading to less congestion. Even "minor" measures soften the
congestion. Such as Park and Ride facilities (P + R), transfer points, good cycle paths, car sharing, incident management and the intensification of telecommuting.
Page | 34

The procedure to be followed for the construction of a road or railway line is to be
simplified. The construction must be able to start faster. The public-private partnership
by building roads, we need more efficient. New infrastructure should also
private parties can be financed. The VVD is opposed to tolling.
But if there is no other, rather than toll than no road.
The VVD is to separate local, regional and inter-regional traffic, allowing through traffic
is less affected by traffic, for example around cities. Adaptations of ring roads around the
major cities and expansion of the regional road network are necessary.
The maximum speed must be adapted to the actual circumstances on the spot. The speed limit should be on more highways up to 130 kilometers per hour. Speed ​​checks
especially there where they held the greatest contribution to road safety.
The VVD wants public space such a way that motorists can drive through. The VVD
but also of great importance that are considered in the planning and design of infrastructure
with road safety. Especially in the vicinity of schools and other places where children
be present, we should pay attention to road safety. The VVD therefore advocates
from entering the school zones: areas around the school where the safety of parent and child is paramount.
Public transport should be a good alternative to other forms of transport. The VVD
wants to give a quality boost to the public transport. This may be by a larger proportion by
allowing private companies to run. Public transport is required in the three major cities
tender. The interests of passengers being enshrined in performance contracts (concessions). The
transport by bus, tram and metro will carry out the VVD entirely by private companies. Herewith
Over the past few years achieved good results. Public transport in big cities has
so be arranged. We want more competition on the track, so we can train travel cheaper
and make better. The NS will continue over the next 10 years, responsible for the train on the main rail network
(intercity). The regional trains (sprinters) be auctioned along with other regional services
so there are good connections. The VVD wants the international connections to Belgium and Germany
improve. Public transport by rail can still make a big improvement in quality and clearer
who is responsible. The VVD wants therefore the responsibilities of and the relationships between
NS, ProRail and the Ministry keep coming period critically.
Good public transport is very important for people with disabilities. The VVD wants therefore all
trains, buses, trams and stations accessible for people with disabilities. These requirements
should be included in the tender. New projects must address both
bridges between different forms of transport.
Public transport must not only good, but also safe. Freight track is
led much as possible about the Betuweroute, so we inconvenience to local residents along existing lines
limit.
The waterway is a key transport. It is an alternative to transport by truck
which can contribute to reducing congestion on roads. The VVD supports further sustainable inland. The use of shore power contributes to this. The Port of Rotterdam
and other larger ports can be further developed by the transfer of part of the
freight to inland waterways and rail.
The VVD is committed to an efficient network for the movement of goods through the Netherlands
transfer stations, so that can be made for each part of the journey the best choice between transport
by ship, train, truck and pipeline.

Page | 35

Netherlands is committed to achieving a global level-playing field with regard to the
protection of the merchant fleet and its crew against piracy.
Our aviation contributes to the economy of the Netherlands and should develop.
The port of Rotterdam and other ports are vital to our economy and should
get space to grow, as does the regional seaports. To the main port function of Schiphol also
the future to maintain Schiphol gets to grow the space. For example, to compete with other Schiphol
international airports. We take into consideration for a good living environment: growth
Schiphol should not mean that there is no place in the area for homes or businesses.
The further development of viable regional airports welcomes the VVD.
Different modes of transport should be mutually reinforcing. With new infrastructure
Projects should focus on transfer options.
Who morning in the car or train gets to travel to his work adds a bit to the
economy. The VVD wants no more heavily these hardworking Dutch. The tax exemption
of the allowance commuting therefore retained. VVD remains from the
introduction of road pricing.

2.3 Housing
The VVD believes that people should decide where and how they live. We want home ownership
stimulation. This is a solid investment in the future and enables people their wishes
itself to be realized. The VVD is a free housing with support to those who really need it.
The VVD wants to create three parts, to address the entire housing market. In the first place
We want to revise the rental sector and role of housing thoroughly. In the second place, is to the
VVD make the mortgage future-proof, but the current mortgage is not
questioned. Thirdly, the VVD an 'Offensive Starters' to make it more attractive for young people
involve first home.
Rental Sector
In the Netherlands too subsidized rental housing, this distorts the housing market. More than one
third of the Dutch housing is subsidized while a much smaller proportion of households
in the Netherlands have an income with which they can not themselves pay a home.
Most rental properties are even doubly subsidized: the price is artificially low
held and there is paid housing allowance. People move with a subsidized rental
with rising incomes do not fast because they suddenly go much more to pay for their home. This works
'Skewing' in hand. The result is a rental sector which is locked. Therefore, there are too few low-cost rental housing available to people who really need it. They often come in a long-
waiting list and are subject to a bureaucratic allocation system. The VVD believes
unacceptable.
Housing play an important role in the disruption of the market. The non-market rents they make the gap between the private rental market and subsidized rental market too large. The VVD wants to put an end to it.
The debacle with the housing corporation Vestia shows that the system of housing
organizationally on the shovel needs. The VVD wants to concentrate again on housing
their core task: to ensure adequate housing for people with a small budget (under the housing allowance limit). Housing must therefore considerably shrink. The independent monitoring
corporations should be strengthened, with attention must be paid to the political and democratic accountability line. This line will also regulate executive pay.

Page | 36

'Back to the core "means that corporations depending on the local / regional situation, gradually (over a period of five to 10 years) repel a large part of their housing stock (in the Netherlands means that half). Sitting tenants have the first right to buy. The number of homes
must eventually be adjusted to the number of people who actually have an income to the rent allowance limit. That means that the housing sector will shrink considerably. Housing must also go rent their homes at competitive rates. The Rutte I have
therefore taken the first steps. For existing tenants, who in those measures yet
are spared, the rent increases in annual steps of 3 percent rent increase above inflation.
The income-related contribution to the target with a low income can then
only instead by a rent allowance, which is determined annually in arrears on the basis of income.
Revenue from competitive lease and sale of properties can be skimmed off and then used to ensure adequate housing benefit for people with low incomes.
With this reform of the rental market we achieve different goals. In the first place
we put an end to the double subsidization of rental housing. People with low income
henceforth only be compensated by the rent subsidy. In the second place, we will make a
eliminate the differences between subsidized rent and private rent. That leads to fairer rents that better reflect supply and demand, a trend which is additionally enhanced by
the abolition of rent and commissions points systems. Thirdly, the VVD is with this change end the skewing. Who will earn more, after all, is a gradually
normal (market) rent paid, regardless of the house in which he lives.
With the release of rents put the VVD, the relationship between landlord and tenant again central.
Side and not the government - should determine how high the rent. Also, it is for private
interesting developers to build affordable rental housing, because there is an end to the
disturbance on the rental market. Thus we create a rental market that is fair to everyone. Landlords
receive a reasonable rent, people who really can not get a financial rescue
allowance and housing again be concentrating on the tasks for which they
once established.
Owner-occupied sector
The VVD wants to promote owning their own home. For this it is important that we trust
recover in the housing market and stimulate this property in a responsible manner. The economic
crisis has highlighted the importance of reducing our debt back, which applies to the
government, but also for people themselves. The crisis has reduced the value of many homes. As a result, the
mortgage debt relative to the value of homes in the past five years by about 6.5%
increased. As a result, the mortgage market has become more vulnerable.
The premise of the VVD is to preserve the mortgage interest deduction. However, it should again
be used where it was intended: to promote home ownership and repayment
mortgage debt. Therefore, we make the interest rate after January 1, 2013 only mortgages
deductible based annuity repayments. It is thereby a mortgage-free homeowners
to choose, but the deduction of interest based on an annuity repayment (starting point is
the fixed deduction). That stimulates gradually paying off the mortgage. Because of the VVD
a reliable state government, will change for mortgages taken out before January 1, 2013
nothing.
Furthermore, the possibilities to tax-free donations for the purchase or
financing a home or paying off an existing mortgage on a property. Moreover
these are not limited by an age limit. This promotes a lower mortgage debt. Gives too
the people a legitimate way to pay less inheritance tax by a specific housing
donate.
The VVD also wants the standard is possible that home buyers a slightly higher mortgage
then take the purchase price of the property. In this way, buyers can make the part of the 'buyer's costs'

Page | 37

and minor adjustments to the property or a small residual debt from the sale of the previous home in
co-finance the mortgage. This prevents people must first save before a house
buy, which would put the sales market further locked. Further, a small fault on top of the
value of the property not directly problematic because repayment for new mortgages is correct
promoted and debt thereby gradually decreasing.

Starters Offensive
The VVD considers it important that especially starters better access to the housing market. A first
home ownership for young people is an important step towards independence. Especially beware of them
VVD therefore additional measures to bring the first home closer. This also helps
The housing market as a whole. Once the market picks starters will move up the rest
of the housing market can return to normal.
The VVD wants to abolish stamp duty for first-time buyers' market. Thus we lower
the threshold to buy a house. In addition, the VVD make it easier to get a mortgage
get. In determining the amount of the mortgage banks may involve the labor market and wage prospects for young people again. When determining the 'loan-to-income "it should be possible
age differentiation to apply and sober look at the possibilities for income development of young people. Thus, young people who are at the beginning of their careers again and mortgage
close. Because they have a long working life ahead of them wants the VVD that starters younger than
35 years old can take out a mortgage with a term of 35 years. In addition, they get the first 5 years
possibility to deduct the full amount of interest (based on redemption period), the remaining 30 years
applies an annuity repayment. Thus, housing costs in the first years of primary and will own first
housing nearer.
The NHG should focus more on ensuring mortgage starters, with special
focus on self-employed who often difficult to close a loan. Finally, the VVD for parents
attractiveness to support their children when buying their first home, by a
broadening of the tax-free grant for the purpose of purchasing a home.

3.3 Mounting development
The VVD wants the Netherlands is in motion, that also applies to the design of public space.
The VVD wants more space for housing in the Randstad. They must be able to develop into a
metropolis in which to live and work are central. The VVD does not want at all costs all green
areas retain only special green areas must be protected. Others also
urban areas must be given the space to develop. Belonging to a densely populated area
good facilities. Outside the urban areas, space for rural living and farming
nature.
The VVD does not want the government in detail prescribes how the environment should look like, but they
must establish frameworks. Provinces and municipalities make choices about their planning.
Therefore comes another space for development of both residential and nature and agriculture.
The government encourages private clients by providing space on their own initiative and
by removing barriers in legislation and implementation. This also gets the housing market
a boost.
The VVD wants to reduce the existing environmental law into one basic law. The Environment Act supersedes
existing laws, including the Water Act, the Crisis and Recovery Act and the Law on Spatial Planning.
This means fewer regulations, shorter procedures, more flexibility and transparency and fewer research
and cost.
The VVD considers that the current vacancy rate of office space and commercial worrying.
The government should give market opportunities to make profitable again obsolete sites.

Page | 38

This can be done by extending the temporary exemption from zoning to maximum
ten years. Also, the building regulations must be relaxed in more features and destinations
a building, to allow without following procedures.
Water safety is the Netherlands - which, after all, is largely below sea level and has many large rivers - essential. As financial resources are limited, there should be sharp
choices. The VVD has therefore opted for a risk: both the probability of a flood, as the impact on the area behind the dike must be central. Where possible
can flood and nature and recreation go hand in hand, but the flood
priority. The VVD therefore a critical look at the expenditures from the Delta Fund.
The need for sufficient water can be covered by choosing beside the IJsselmeer for a
Freshwater second device like the Haringvliet, the Biesbosch and / or the Hollands Diep.
The plans regarding the wastewater chain of the Rutte I maintained and the
agreements must be implemented without delay.

3.4 Nature and environment
The VVD is committed to our nature. This contributes to our well-being, providing people places
recreation and provides valuable resources. In addition, nature is an increasingly important factor
for entrepreneurs who wish to establish themselves. Large contiguous natural areas provide a clear
advantage: they are better for the conservation of nature, cheaper to operate and offer more
space for recreational use so that people can enjoy. A sustainable nature is for
VVD especially a realistic and feasible nature. Involving government, conservation organizations and the
Agriculture collaborate on an attractive landscape in which to live and work.
Develop the network of nature reserves in the Netherlands is behind schedule. Because of this sit
entrepreneurs and residents in those areas too long in uncertainty. The VVD wants to amend the National Ecological Network (EHS) and reviewed the pace of development. Activity must be maintained,
while areas not yet purchased and developed. The rate at which the network is realized
can realistically without compromising the ultimate ambitions. The VVD believes that environmental compensation
within the EHS redesigned to be realized.
In realizing and managing the EHS cooperation should be sought between environmental organizations, individuals and agricultural nature. The VVD wants to individuals and environmental organizations more opportunities to develop their own models for the management of areas such as
by allowing residential or hospitality that fit the nature reserve. We also need to investigate how nature can contribute to water security, for example by serving as a water retention area.
The various European and Dutch laws of nature and protection regimes, there is a forest of
rules arise. Here are regularly made to counter the abuse of economic development
hold. A new nature is needed to the patchwork of rules and regulations in the field of
nature and landscape tackle. This law should simplify the policy and sensitive areas
protect, yet make less likely to abuse the rules. Ultimately, this
natural blend into the Environment Act, so that there is one clear law on spatial planning in
our country.
Netherlands has gone too far in the implementation of the European Natura 2000 policy into national legislation. The VVD wants to determine the short-term management plans for areas so entrepreneurs
know where they stand. The VVD wants to reduce the number of Natura 2000 areas to
realistic and workable number, for example through relverkaveling, and hereby return the rules to
European minimum so with minimal rules of nature can be strengthened and preserved.
The starting point for the management plans is that they leave room for things like agriculture, recreation and activity.

Page | 39

The VVD wants an effective environmental policy, rational and based on facts, with the result that counts.
Because improvement at source is often more efficient than fighting negative environmental impacts,
is an important key to solving environmental issues in technological innovation.
More emphasis on development and export of new knowledge and technology, for example on
waterbeheeer and energy, is a key driver for future economic growth.

3.5 Agricultural sector
Netherlands is mainly due to the agricultural and horticultural sector, the second food exporter in the world.
This sector is responsible for a large share of the total Dutch trade surplus, the
GDP and employment. Country- by global population growth and horticultural products
an increasingly prominent export agent. In addition, the agricultural sector plays an important role in managing our typical Dutch landscape, our culture and traditions. The VVD opts for a strong
agricultural sector that can compete on world markets. At a worldwide level playing field so without distorting competition because different demands are placed on production
and products in the field of bio-based economy - are agricultural subsidies
abolished.
Services of the agricultural sector to the community (for example, landscape, nature or
recreation) should be rewarded and restrictions compensated adequately.
In areas where there is special landscape agriculture will have to adapt.
Only one service may verify that farms there. Companies that well to the
rules shall, require fewer are controlled.
The agricultural sector can not afford to walk at a disadvantage compared to other
countries in the development of genetically modified crops (GMO). The research possibilities
should be extended. Here we must bear in mind the potential risks to public health.

3.6 Animal Welfare
From society critically explores production methods and animal welfare. Government
should wish to translate this area in clear and achievable objectives. The content of this
objectives according to the VVD fine to be completed by the sectors themselves. It is not the task of
the government to formulate a range of additional measures on top of the already existing objectives without
further substantiation. In addition, all of these additional regulation leads to a reduction of economic
development of enterprises. The VVD is therefore, where possible, in favor of a receding
government, which is limited to enforcing the law.
We must also remain aware of the competitive position of the Dutch animal husbandry at
rest of the world. Agreements on improving animal welfare and the improvement of
production should therefore be made in an international context so that in time
there is a level playing field internationally. The VVD remains committed to this. The ban on
fur farming is reversed.
The vast majority of pet owners go lovingly and responsibly with their pet. The VVD
therefore against all patronizing measures for people with a pet, such as mandatory
microchipping of dogs and cats. An owner will indeed take care that trace his pet.
People who mistreat their pets or otherwise deal with irresponsible, some are
VVD concerns dealt with harshly. This can be through higher penalties or by imposing a ban on keeping
for animals.

Page | 40

4 Government

4. Government
4.1 General government
The VVD wants a small, powerful government. Public administration is there for citizens, not vice versa.
Officials should adopt a service-oriented and customer-friendly. Decisively and in time
act largely determines the effectiveness of a small government that of serving
citizens.
At present, the distance between the citizen and the government too big. There is an in Netherlands
crisis of confidence. People have little confidence in the rule of law and activities
government. The government is reliable? The government is not a 'party', the extension
of general interest?
The VVD wants to end this crisis and the confidence of citizens in the government recovering.
The solutions for the breach of trust, we must look not only in structure but also in
the culture of government. The government is not the representative of a small elite but is there for
and from everyone. The government's effectiveness is very limited by administrative pressure.
The government should be cautious regarding new tasks and existing tasks critically.
A compact and easy-organized government needs a reliable partner for citizens
that honor agreements and enforces rules. A service and customer-friendly
method contributes to the recovery of the lost confidence. These principles must in all
governance are the starting point.
The VVD means fewer drivers, fewer politicians and fewer civil servants. Netherlands functions
better with a third fewer administrators and officials. That also means fewer MPs
(from 150 to 100) and fewer First MPs (75 to 50).
The number of ministers and state secretaries has already been reduced by the Rutte I. This should be
maintained. If possible, the number of government must be reduced further. The VVD
remains opposed to ministers without portfolio and program ministers. Also at European,
provincial and local levels holds: fewer MEPs, States members, councilors and administrators.
The ability to appoint local 'shadow civil or duo councilors' must be
limited. To ensure minimum staffing may suffice one support officer.
The VVD wants to tackle the administrative pressure in the Netherlands. Too often, policy making, the
implementation of this policy and oversight fragmented among different administrative levels. The VVD wants
per policy a clear delineation of responsibilities and involvement of
various administrative levels, which may take into account the regional situation.
Governments should be monitored by their parliament, not by other
governments.
The VVD is thereby a core tasks of government. If every layer of government itself to its core tasks
limited there is less administrative burden and - most importantly - more freedom and responsibility
For people themselves.
In addition, the VVD supports capturing the strict fiscal rules (Salmon Norm)
in the law (Act Sustainability of Public Finances). This law must ensure that their governments
already accumulated reserves can invest in such as roads or schools.
On the initiative of the VVD has the Rutte I made the proposal to subsidy standard
to terminate after five years. Only if the House decides it, a subsidy will be continued. This approach also ensures that the effect of subsidies timely assessment.
In addition, the VVD supports transparent public finances and therefore wants online
subsidy register.
Page | 42

The VVD wants to make a clear dividing line between the public and private sectors. There is often
uncertainty whether an organization falls under public responsibility or not. This is particularly the
case with the so-called independent administrative bodies (independent administrative bodies). This does not fit with the powerful government
which the VVD stands for. Therefore, the VVD wants an organization either under public domain and
thus falls under the ministerial responsibility, or is part of the private domain.
We also want to keep the existing advisory structures around departments to the light and where
necessary to abolish.
The government can save money by working better together, confining itself to core tasks more
joint purchasing and fewer people to hire. The government of the property is optimally
used. New property can be developed as this is beneficial in the short and long term.
All government agencies must go at least a quarter hiring less. Also, with regard to the
expenses the government should cut its coat according to its cloth. The salary of civil servants is in any
case until 2014 at the zero line. Where possible, this also applies to public or publicly funded
institutions. The fringe benefits of civil servants to be harmonized with the private
sector. This also applies to procedures around dismissal. Political directors are expensive,
obligations and conditions of the redundancy scheme harmonized as far as possible with the
WW schemes.
Provinces should confine themselves to their tasks in the field of space, mobility, culture and
regional economy. Other tasks - such as child welfare, labor market, education and homeless care
be sold to the State or municipalities. The VVD wants to capture this law.
Our country has some strong regions such as Brainport Eindhoven and economic centers
North and South Wings of the Randstad. The management structure should reflect "economic
logic 'of these strong regions. Only then can they remain in the pace of global economy
develop. The initiatives to achieve metropolis around the Amsterdam region and between
Rotterdam and The Hague regions should therefore be given space.
Traffic and transportation as we see the engine in a Transport Authority as proposed by the
Rutte I. In addition, the VVD remains in favor of fewer provinces. The government must therefore
take initiative to reclassify provinces, and the combination of (parts of) North-Holland,
Utrecht and Flevoland establish as soon as possible. In the other parts of Netherlands
encouraging mergers between provinces. Having always customized commands on the differences between provinces.
The VVD wants to encourage municipal mergers and cooperation. If it appears that municipalities inadequate
to be able to carry out their tasks, a fusion initiated from above. Provincial boundaries
may no longer be an obstacle to a municipal reorganization. In addition, the VVD wants to see
more room for administrative co-operation between municipalities. For example, it should be possible
be that one person alderman in various cooperating municipalities.
All existing specific grants and decentralization benefits are transferred in 2014
General Payment to the Municipalities. That gives municipalities the discretion to match the
decentralization movement.
The VVD wants to eliminate unnecessary administrative and bureaucratic interlayers. Boroughs are
therefore eliminated, while municipal services will be improved in the districts.
The VVD is in favor of lifting the WGR plus regions.
The water boards in the past year significantly scaled up. The policy-making and the provinces
water authorities can complement each other. The VVD wants the water boards now immediately
and simultaneously elected by the municipal councils.
At this time, organized a separate election for each level of government. As a result, there
on average per one election year. The VVD wants the elections to municipal councils and provincial councils

Page | 43

now that same day. Modernization of the electoral process, both in the Netherlands and for
Dutch voters abroad is desirable. Even before the upcoming municipal elections is removed the possibility to enter into a connection list of the Elections Act. A party
gets the first seat at least until the quota is reached.
Aruba, Curaçao and Sint Maarten have become autonomous countries within the Kingdom of the Netherlands. They have to
financially in their operations. Netherlands supports an adequate monitoring of the quality
governance, justice and finance. The VVD wants preferably in a commonwealth relationship with Aruba,
Curaçao and Sint Maarten maintained. Independence and personal responsibility for these countries
assist the VVD priority. The Charter for the Kingdom of the Netherlands must be revised.

4.2 Safety and Justice
Ensuring a safe and secure society is a classic task for the government. The inhabitants of
Netherlands should be able to go wherever they want. The VVD believes that people's safety
undermine a powerful and energetic action by government need to find before him.
Therefore harnessing VVD 250 million for additional police officers on the street. The chance of being caught is
increases, especially for crimes that affect people hard, such as housebreaking and assaults.
Who deserves punishment punished. The limitation periods are extended in criminal law.
Preventing crime and reducing recidivism are very important.
Police and justice focus on suspects and offenders and stand up for victims of crime.
The VVD does not accept that the good suffer the evils. It must be crystal clear what is and is not
is acceptable. Thus the VVD wants to eradicate child pornography and human trafficking, root and branch.
Jurisdiction
The law guarantees that the Netherlands is a constitutional state in which the weak are protected
against the strong. Therefore, the law should be on the most efficient and user-friendly
way function. The VVD is committed to staying in an independent, accessible and efficient
law. The VVD wants to simplify the procedural and obstacles to efficient digital
litigate away. Administrative law should be organized for people too. Merge
of the College for Business and the Central Appeals Tribunal will increase the clarity of the Administrative Law. In time, these colleges will be merged with
the Administrative Jurisdiction Division of the Council of State and housed in a separate court.
The advisory and judicial functions of the Council of State are strictly separated until that time.
The VVD sees an important role for mediation, in both civil and administrative law and in
criminal law.
Fair and effective criminal justice system
Without security there is no freedom. Working for a safer Netherlands does not just mean "more security", but also that we restore confidence in the rule of law and safeguard our freedom.
Procedures should be clear and brief and measures are consistently implemented.
Nuisance and criminal behavior must be tackled quickly and hard. Upon arrest immediately following arraignment and trial. The VVD is a proponent of the ZSM-handling. Penalties So Fast
Possibly implemented (tit for tat). Criminal profits should where possible be taken away.
The offender is liable in all cases for compensation to the victims.
The VVD believes that revision to the detriment of wrongly acquitted defendants should be possible.
This should apply in any case false statements, false evidence, improved forensic techniques and new evidence. It is applied to all serious crimes are not barred.
The criminal justice system (police, prosecutors and prisons) to be controlled unequivocally. Exchange of information should take place within the optimal range. Efficiency,
equality and legal certainty are key. The fight against bureaucracy remains
here a spearhead. The Ministry of Security and Justice will remain. Further cost
Page | 44

We can achieve this by next public also introduce private operators of prisons.
In relation crimes convicted offenders have fewer rights to visit their children or
parental authority to exercise.
People who need to defend themselves or a home or business against a perpetrator of violence
use, receive protection. At sentencing should be clear how the sentence is executed
laid. The VVD wants the court for multiple offenses (meerdaadse coincidence) gets the freedom
an appropriate penalty to impose a maximum of life imprisonment. The so-called
look back period for repeated infringement is five stretched to ten years.
Victim Care
The VVD wants to do justice to the interests of victims and survivors. That is why we want to expand the right to speak for victims of serious crimes and improve guidance in lawsuits. Also, the information to victims is improved and the VVD wants their victims
damage as soon as possible and always be able to recover from the offender (vandals to pay). Also, the cost
of victim itself must be recovered from the offender. If the offender is a minor be
parents held financially liable. The threshold for return must be reduced further.
Also during the (criminal) trial be possible for the one that needs a referral to remain anonymous. To this end, a general victim counter will be set.
Reducing recidivism
Apart from repressive measures like imprisonment is imperative that repeat offenders
receive a mandatory treatment in order to prevent them from re-entering the error. This can be in the
Under the program Reducing Recidivism (TR) and by applying other judicial and civil
measures. Institutions concerned thereby not work against each other. Detainees must in
Future work fulltime. Those who are of good will, may with good behavior and hard work
earn extra facilities. Incorrigible criminals serve their sentence in full. Indecency and heavy
violent offenders should be held under supervision for life.
Minimum Penalties
People who commit serious violent or sexual offense within 10 years for the second time
(eg life crime, mugging, robbery, rape) be subject to a minimum penalty.
The judge may take into account exceptional circumstances.
Organized crime
The VVD sees organized crime as a major problem of our time and want this powerful
is tackled. In all areas, both administrative-, tax and criminal law, we must intensify
occur. Prevention and repression in one hand. In the Netherlands billions in drug money
laundered. Our economy is already infected with criminal assets. This harms not only the
integrity of society, but leads to disruption. The VVD realizes that the crime
rapidly globalizing and digitizing. This, law enforcement authorities must respond quickly.
Cyber ​​security
Securing digital systems and networks is important to our economy and society
to keep running. Both the cyber threat as dependence on cyber infrastructure increases.
This makes us vulnerable: power failures, Internet or direct payments delivers major problems. The strengthening of the capabilities and tools for government and industry to
to better protect systems and business and personal information of vital objects
is therefore necessary.
Cyber ​​crime
Criminals are increasingly using the Internet for their criminal activities. The VVD wants here
strong action is taken against on the basis of the actual threat. Education and research, but
also specialist teams that take charge of investigation and prosecution, along with banks,
industry and other countries, are needed.

Page | 45

Police
The work of police officers is critical to a safe Netherlands. They maintain order, provide
relief and detect criminals. For years there has been talk about the creation of a
National Police. The VVD was and is in favor of the national police. This brings the management
in one hand. Declaration follow-up, fast to tackle nuisance and traffic enforcement to be effective.
As a result: more capacity for the real police work. We want a declaration tracking
develop, where victims of crime the progress of their declaration (online) can
follow the police and judiciary.
Also in the new police structure, the police must be a visible presence on the streets, in the neighborhoods, villages
and cities. National security after all, begins locally. The mayor sends the police in maintaining public order and security in his municipality. The council plays an important role
in the determination of the priorities of the local police.
The public prosecutor, the police will continue to manage the enforcement of the criminal law.
This local effort is still needed to make the National Police a success. Illegal prostitution
Amsterdam, youth nuisance in Rotterdam, weed barns in Brabant: the call for an
'own' approach and thus decisive action of the mayors (which since then the
must have) powers.
With the formation of the National Police, the VVD calls for an accelerated reduction of management layers
and bureaucracy. The professional must be central again, this applies to the whole of government and civil society.
The VVD sees in store security guards (known shopping BOAs) an important link to the
Dutch stores and make shopping more secure. To be able to do their job properly serve this
security guards - if approved - be equipped with include handcuffs and pepper spray.
In addition, wardens are given the possibility to impose fines for pollution, and minor annoyances
traffic congestion.
The VVD wants the police accountable for results and considers it important that the performance of the police
be internationally comparable. The clear-up rate and the probability of being caught must thereby
the red are wire.
Visible supervision and enforcement on the streets is important for our safety and security experience.
The police plays an important role. The major security there is by definition much
available police, municipal supervisors / officers and CCTV have high added value.
Some tasks can also be performed by private security guards. This relieves the police
allowing more time for the real police. However, the police must always keep control.
The information position of the police on the street is crucial for both the maintenance of public order
as the detection of crimes. Operational cooperation between the police, local supervisors /
enforcers and private security should therefore be enshrined in law.
The action against cruelty to animals is one of the regular tasks of the national police.
The police are doing this in cooperation with the National Animal Protection Inspectorate and the Food and
Authority.

The VVD wants to further strengthen the position of police officers by improving their education.
The training should be a real vocational school that considers customization. The skills
Agents need the street are central to the program. This vocational school should be an integral part
be the national police, so there is a good link between theory and practice. Must also
the negotiations conducted by the Rutte I initiated renovation of the voluntary police.

Page | 46

Safe public task
Aid workers and employees with a public function play an important role in our society.
The VVD is right for these people. Violence, aggression and / or intimidation is unacceptable.
It should respectfully stand before the people acting on behalf of the government. Violence against persons
which is acting on behalf of the government, in principle, always be punished with imprisonment.
Disaster and crisis
To combat disasters and manage crises VVD wants the various emergency services
safety regions get better together. The fire services and medical assistance
must be optimally organized. Therefore, we want the regionalization of the fire service
continue, so that a better fire fighting will and the resources available as efficiently
are issued possible. The VVD cherishes the fire department volunteers. Scaling up should not be at
compromise the operational effectiveness of the fire therefore continue embedding and local
involvement of the voluntary fire service a prerequisite.
Drugs
Blurs the distinction between hard and soft drugs, with all its consequences. Also, soft drugs
Youth lead to addiction problems or mental illness. Additionally coffeeshops cause
sometimes much discomfort and inconvenience for local residents. The VVD wants nuisance coffeeshops immediately
close. Foreign users are attracted by the Dutch drug policy.
Club card remains government policy. There is consultation with the mayors of the municipalities that now
have no club pass. Thus, it takes account of local views. In coffee shops
only scriptural can be paid. The criminalization of soft drugs offenses, we want to increase. Against
street trading firm action and drug houses are closed. Damage caused by the
cultivation of cannabis is related to the last penny on the perpetrators. Just like public drunkenness
is also punishable in public under the influence of drugs.
Gaming
If gambling lead to addiction or crime such as money laundering, the government should
occur. But this should not lead to paternalism and patronizing. For the VVD is true: true freedom
which can and protection where necessary. The VVD advocates regulating online gambling, sports betting and poker events. The current restrictive gaming policy is no more of this
time. Regulation of online gambling is to protect the government better enable consumers and
to prevent addiction. Illegal providers tackle hard. Licence holders who
repeatedly misbehave lose their license. The government can sell Holland Casino. The VVD
want to spend more permits for lotteries for good causes, including those of the benefit culture and
sport.
Fraud with government regulations
Many government regulations and provisions are (no matter how carefully designed) sensitive
fraud and abuse. We see this happening everywhere. Think with their parents resident students
receive a scholarship for living away from home, hospital personnel not acts performed
will charge and welfare fraud. Such abuse is theft and we must vigorously address. The VVD wants
therefore record a central fraud article in the Economic Offences Act. All fraud cases,
be prosecuted accordingly. Who is guilty of fraud will be temporarily excluded from the allowance. The judge determines the duration of the exclusion.
Privacy
The protection of the privacy of citizens is very important. Freedom is for liberals
a great thing. Internet and digital technologies make it possible to collect large amounts of personal information, whether it be the patient record or counterterrorism. Too often have to
but we rely on the good intentions of the government and large corporations, without adequate
guarantees and safeguards against abuse. 'Privacy by design' is for the VVD
starting point. That means that one in building automation and the creation of

Page | 47

databases reflects on the protection of (personal) data. We want a Privacy Impact
Assessment is held in building automation and legislative processes.
Breaches must be equipped by the government of a horizontal evaluation and determination and always
based on a law. The bill Hailing data breaches must be dealt with urgently.
Unauthorized access should be identified at an early stage and also to the citizen
are reported. The VVD wants clear rules about what is and is not allowed and technical guarantees incorrect
prevent use. For these are guarantees of the liberty of the citizen. The use of social
media has become an essential part of contemporary society. The security around personal
data, we must also guard here.
Breaches of privacy are allowed to protect people and to combat crime, including terrorism. Shall be involved to criminal investigation or intelligence operations, not to make it accessible from any building or entire databases.
The government monitors the freedom and protects citizens against arbitrariness.
Internet Freedom
The VVD is against ACTA (global standard for the enforcement of intellectual
property rights) as it now stands and at similar trade agreements. These treaties
offer too much room for interpretation to restrict internet. Internet freedom is a great thing, because
We should be careful it is mismanaged. Protecting copyright is important, but must
be designed in a manner appropriate to the modern reality. Internet provides ample scope for
new revenue models, such as iTunes and Spotify have proven over the years.
Discrimination
The equality of all human beings is one of the main principles of the VVD. Against any
discrimination we must be tough. Violent Crime discrimination as background
should be punished more difficult.
The VVD liberal party also stands as guarantor for the further emancipation of lesbians, gay men, bisexuals and transgenders. Achievements must not be compromised and relentless attention is needed for the cases to be settled. As the rapid emergence of lesbian parenthood and legislation that makes it easier for transgender people to their
gender designations on the change of the birth certificate.
Schools should provide information about sexuality and sexual diversity. Schools can teachers
not exclude or dismiss any way because of their sexuality, the so-called 'fact' construction
will be deleted. The VVD wants to get rid of the refuse official, because the government does not discriminate.
When blood donation, the safety of the receiver first. To identify risks not count sexual
orientation, but sexual behavior.

4.3 The integration
The VVD stands for a society in which everyone participates (regardless of religion, race or background).
The VVD excludes no one. For us not descent but future central. Not faith, but behavior.
Not the group, but the individual. We do not accept that people are put in a corner - but also
not that people do themselves.
The VVD expect people to seize the opportunities offered to them. Because we have not only
equal rights but also in duties. We act where it goes wrong, but encourage everyone
to participate.
From this perspective, the VVD wants to go even still considerable integration problems tackled. Newcomers
are stimulated to acquire a full place in society. Many newcomers
come from a culture very different from the Dutch. To properly function in the Netherlands, understanding and acceptance of Dutch society is necessary. This has to be at both the

Page | 48

integration test as in education receive firm attention. Individuals and organizations that
integration are addressed consciously oppose. The VVD wants people to each other open and recognizable
meet. For this reason we are in favor of a ban on face-covering clothing.
The VVD appreciates and acknowledges people who manage on their own to make their way in our society
find and integrate. And there are many. This is not the government; Integrating do people
itself. The VVD expects that anyone who makes the choice to live in the Netherlands itself
takes responsibility to participate fully in society.
Immigrants can simply be reminded of their responsibility, like any other
Dutchman. Combine with any government that takes the responsibility off their shoulders through numerous integration projects and grants. That, however, do seem sympathetic. But behind it is a deep
derogatory, stigmatizing attitudes lurking. The VVD wants therefore put an end to subsidized integration industry.
Integration of accepted asylum seekers and migrants at an adequate level for themselves and their
children the key to full participation in the Dutch society. They are above self
responsible. Immigrants now choose a course provider with an offer to them
fits. This creates a more customized and will be the price-performance ratio in integration courses
improve. The required training and examination shall be borne by the immigrant / asylum seeker.
If they are not here to be able to use is made of a loan system. Government
monitors the quality of the exams. Who the exam should not make or does not complete successfully,
must leave the Netherlands.
Integrate by working
Having a job as the VVD is the best way to integrate. Do you work, then you learn
the Dutch language, you give a good example to your surroundings and you invest in yourself and in the
society. Therefore, the integration portfolio is now housed at the Ministry of
Social Affairs and Employment.
Who can work should work. Before finding a job is one in principle responsible.
If anyone can find a job, it must be demonstrably committed to his fulltime
to eliminate and improve themselves to a sufficient degree shortcomings. And work should pay,
So who should really work in progress there.
The VVD wants to limit access to social security for foreigners. We think it is not fair
people by the wrong incentives to quickly arrive at a benefit and thus be condemned to
a life in an often lengthy backlog situation. In addition, the contributions are in the construction of
our social security is often disproportionate to the claims on it. The first ten years after arrival
in the Netherlands is not entitled to assistance granted; Unemployment benefits are based on actual
premiums paid. Being through fraudulent procedures still relied on the assistance, will
residence permit will be revoked automatically. People who do not have a good command of the Dutch language, what the VVD is not a right to assistance.
Central and Eastern Europeans
The current immigration to our country currently exists for a large part of central and
Eastern Europeans. In addition, we may be affected by migration from other EU countries.
Most of them works and is making a positive contribution to the Dutch economy.
The free movement of persons within the EU is a great thing and contributes demonstrably at
our prosperity. But immigration also poses serious problems for which the VVD
does not close the eyes. People who behave criminally worry or inconvenience are not welcome in
Netherlands. We want to use every opportunity to return these people to the land
of origin.

Page | 49

Migrants who lose their jobs, we want to encourage them to return to their country of origin.
Furthermore, they have limited access to social security. The VVD wants to go to a European
ingrowth model, where benefits are based on actually paid in the Member States
premiums. Against slum landlords, fraudulent employment agencies and others who abuse the Central and
Eastern Europeans we must be tough.
Language Delays
An important prerequisite for successful integration is that people have access to good
education. It creates a fair chance, even in later life. We therefore want all at age 3
impose a compulsory language test in order to ascertain whether a child has a language delay. Is that it
Otherwise, parents are obliged to leave their children for their own account via preschool education
brush up. This will prevent the VVD that children first go to primary school
speak enough Dutch and thus incur a permanent disadvantage.
If students in primary schools still have a language delay, they get through or kopklassen
active support summer school to learn the language. Who in group 8 not enough Dutch
speaks, can not with a recommendation to secondary education.
Only mastering the language, though essential, do not appear to be enough to be successful
integrate and participate. Knowledge and understanding of Dutch values ​​- such as equality
all people before the law, freedom of speech and tolerance - is essential. The VVD wants here
in education more attention to. Parents must present a great education and
play an active role. They do not work properly with it, then the child can be reduced or come
expire.
Apart from the already mentioned preschool education for children with language impairment must also
ancestors clearly what is expected of them (speak Dutch, work, educate, active
involved in education) and how they can be helped (parenting, finding employment).
Religion
For many people, religion plays an important role in their lives. The VVD is respectful, but neutral
towards religion. Subsidizing religious activities, inter-religious dialogues, mosques,
churches or religious communities is not a task for government. This neutral stance is in the interest
religions themselves. This will prevent the government party in a competition between
religions and that one religion is favored over the other, or is disadvantaged. It is these
neutrality guarantees everyone freedom in our country to believe what he wants, or to believe anything.
The VVD meddling in principle, not by religion, but accepts under no circumstances under which the
flag of religion infringed upon our core values, our democratic system and the
its institutions and laws. Sharia Judiciary is fundamentally inconsistent with our constitutional and
is unacceptable to the VVD.
Core values ​​of our society - such as the equality of men and women, heterosexual and
homosexuals, believers and unbelievers - are correct by liberals and hard-fought for the VVD
not negotiable. The government should not be an instrument to curtail the freedom of religion and equality of individual citizens.
The VVD therefore do not accept the pressure from religious circles for women and men, boys and
girls separately hold or separate treatment in public spaces, such as public transport,
pools or hospitals. The VVD stands up for the rights of women and homosexuals in tribulation. Culturally determined violence and genital mutilation, honor killings, abduction or abandonment is
tracked down and severely punished and can lead to the loss of the residence permit of the offender.
A mandatory reporting is introduced for child abuse and genital mutilation. Religious
institutions that actively oppose integration, do not fit into Dutch society and should
be closed.
Page | 50

Foreign ministers of whom there is evidence or reasonable grounds for believing that they will
incitement to non-acceptance of Dutch society, are no longer allowed.
The VVD wants to scrap the ban on offensive blasphemy in the Criminal Code.

04.04 Immigration
The VVD wants a fair and restrictive immigration policies. The VVD sees opportunities for highly skilled
skilled migrants to strengthen our country and our economy. But the uncontrolled influx
of disadvantaged and low-skilled migrants in recent decades, led to serious problems in the
neighborhoods, schools, the labor market and in terms of crime.
The continuing influx of poor migrants working to solve integration issues at
and should therefore be stopped. Thanks to the VVD have taken important steps since 2002 to
asylum and immigration policy rigorous, fair and consistently applied. This policy wants the VVD
continue. Good monitoring and control of Europe's external borders are important.
If these borders do not prove sufficient to achieve our objective must
Netherlands intervene by allowing arrest on our borders.
Marriage Migration
If you as a Dutchman met the love of your life abroad, it must of course possible
are to live together in the Netherlands. But under the condition that the foreign partner
has a view of a full place in society. Marriage Immigrants are therefore only
admitted unless they are adequately trained to Dutch standards and the Dutch language
master writing and speaking. They should also be able to demonstrate sufficient knowledge of the
Dutch society and to be welcomed here. There is no residency
granted if the partner is younger than 24 years or if this is a cousin of the applicant, or
the applicant has an income of less than 120 percent of the minimum wage.
Abuse of marriage migration - such as marriages - must be hard fought. Even to this
The VVD wants to avoid the term for obtaining a permanent residence permit
Stretching for ten years.
Purchase of old age pension is based on an actual cost. We put an end to the export of family allowances outside the EU. Youngsters under 27 can as the VVD is now no entitlement
Create more assistance. These measures prevent people falsely claim our
social services and encourage people to integrate through labor.
The VVD wants to change the European Directive on family reunification. The age and income requirements must
up. If this fails, the Netherlands should advocate an opt-out that the Netherlands is partly his own rules
can determine.
Immigration from overseas
Also from the former Netherlands Antilles and a stream of underprivileged migrants to the Netherlands. The VVD wants to prevent the establishment of underprivileged migrants from Curaçao, Aruba and Sint Maarten
by connecting criteria for permanent residence in the Netherlands. This is in line with the conditions
these countries have set for Dutch nationals who wish to establish (a certain income,
no criminal record). These conditions shall henceforth vice versa.
Knowledge workers
The VVD wants to invite active knowledge and talents to settle in the Netherlands for our
to enhance economy. We therefore need to facilitate the procedures for knowledge, but also the
Rules of marriage migration and integration. Companies and research institutions need talent with a
minimal bureaucracy can get to the Netherlands. Permits for knowledge workers we want
assigning faster.

Page | 51

Asylum seekers
Refugees are people who are demonstrably not safe in their own country. For them, place in Netherlands
to the extent that they can not be accommodated in their own regions.
If we want to give space to genuine refugees, we need economic inflows
restrict disadvantaged migrants. Therefore, the VVD wants to asylum seekers quickly and definitively clear
whether they are refugees or not. In the latter case, they must leave the Netherlands immediately.
The VVD wants to stop the stacking of asylum applications and further streamline procedures.
Accumulation of procedures leads to uncertainty, and draws heavily on asylum services and
the judiciary. The VVD strives to ensure that each applicant may submit more than one application
for a residence permit 'asylum' or 'regular'. After a rejection has been legally established,
there can be no repeated application is submitted.
Residence permits will be refused at prior illegal stay in the Netherlands. Medicalization of
The asylum procedure is prevented. A residence permit 'asylum' the applicant only if he gets to
good faith. Who commits fraud at his request, receive a residence permit. Is the applicant
expected to provide accurate and complete information and have the proper travel or identity documents. The VVD is a careful, individual examination of asylum applications. At the same time must
this test result as soon as possible a final decision as to whether someone is actually an asylum seeker.
The so-called categorical protection, allowing individuals from certain groups,
countries or regions are guaranteed asylum status remains unacceptable.
The government is responsible for an effective removal and sheltering rejected asylum
asylum seekers, to the point that they must return to their country of origin. Moreover, the VVD wants to put an end to the 'window shopping'. Ask someone for a residence permit 'asylum', then it can
not simultaneously or subsequently apply for a residence permit 'regular'. Does anyone
Netherlands on a visa inside, he must after the expiry of the visa period Netherlands directly
abandoned.
The return of failed asylum seekers is often hampered by the country of origin
uncooperative. The VVD wants the Dutch government strongly advocates that these countries have their own
Record nationals. That could be done through a cooperative attitude as a condition for closing
of treaties.
Unaccompanied Minors may, if the security situation permits, the best in
the own region be taken care of. So these children can return directly to their country of origin
and we avoid rooted in Dutch society.
The VVD wants to tighten the deportation of criminal aliens. Too often happens
that criminal aliens who should have been deported are at large. The VVD
wants all convictions within the first three years of residence in the Netherlands leads to undesirable explanation and expansion. These connect directly to the detention in order to prevent crime
stranger disappearing into illegality.
The VVD believes that refugees should be accommodated initially in the region. This should, as
need to be promoted at European level. Only if that option does not exist, can the asylum
EU be requested. Anyone who wants to apply for asylum in the EU must immediately upon entry
do. This happens at sea borders (especially in Southern Europe), on the borders (especially in Eastern Europe) and at all airports with international flights. De facto, the Netherlands still takes only
asylum at Schiphol treatment. Those who do elsewhere in the EU for asylum questions will be referred back to the place where they entered the EU.

Page | 52

Illegality
A large number of people residing illegally in our country. Illegality can lead to exploitation, crime
and forced prostitution and to be hard fought. The VVD wants illegality - and able
set up residence - criminalization and advocates an active detection and deportation where the priority should lie in illegal criminal aliens. Municipalities serve
accommodating to end asylum seekers and illegal immigrants. As long as municipalities continue collecting
offer, there is no incentive to leave the Netherlands actually. On the contrary, it just encourages
as long as possible to remain, hoping still to obtain a residence permit.

Page | 53

5

Abroad and the promotion
the international legal order

5. Foreign and promoting
the international legal order
1.5 Foreign Affairs
The VVD wants the Netherlands to pursue a firm and assertive foreign policy for more prosperity,
more peace and more security. That makes our country with financial, economic, diplomatic or military
resources. The Netherlands also has to work for the promotion of the rule of law and
protection of human rights.
The Dutch economy is almost 70% dependent on foreign countries. Global growth
free trade, freedom and democracy stimulate our economic growth. The VVD wants the Dutch
Government opposes tariff barriers, state aid and other forms of foreclosure.
We also value the Dutch reputation as host of institutions that peace,
promote human rights and democracy. The Transatlantic cooperation is an important
starting remain of Dutch foreign policy.
The VVD believes'vrede and veiligheid' and'bevordering the welvaart' the two main objectives
of the foreign policy should be, because that the Dutch interest is served. The Ministry
Foreign Affairs should therefore focus specifically on ensuring free trade,
commodity and energy security, international security and counterterrorism. Netherlands sets
themselves to the realization of a global level playing field with regard to the protection of the
merchant fleet against piracy.
The embassies, consulates and other Dutch institutions abroad for work as one team
economic diplomacy, particularly export promotion and investment in jobs
in the Netherlands. Export promotion is the third main priority of the Dutch diplomatic
service.
Netherlands plays still not adequately address the enormous power shifts in the world. The trade
with China and other emerging countries may still be greatly expanded and also our diplomatic
efforts must move from old areas, in to emerging economies
the Far East, South America and Africa. Netherlands can with an alert and active foreign policy here
seize opportunities.
The VVD wants the Netherlands to stand up for international law, human rights and responsible
governance in other countries. This as much as possible in the European context and in the context of the United
Nations. In addition, countries can be held accountable for their actions and policies, including on human rights.
But not everything can be anywhere and it does not always wagging finger. It is more effective to
human rights policies to create more than 25 countries, with priority to countries
where violations are most severe.
The power of diplomacy is also determined by concerted action by countries and responding
new balance of power. The VVD wants the scope of the postal network critically
light is taken into account. By working with friendly states, a more selective choice of countries can
be made for our diplomatic representation. The VVD calls for a significant
further reduction of the postal network, both in number and in size. In this redistribution will
emphasis will be on the merging of embassies and consulates with those of other EU Member States.
NATO is the cornerstone of the foreign security policy. We attach a lot in that respect
value on strong ties with the US NATO and the EU complement each other effectively in the political,
military and diplomatic field. The VVD wants the EU whenever possible draw up a united with the US
to create a common security policy within the UN and NATO. For this, the would
UN Security Council must be reformed.
Page | 56

The Israeli-Palestinian conflict must come to an end through balanced and law
direct negotiations aimed at a solution that can accommodate two states.

5.2 The EU: Not more Europe but a better Europe
European cooperation is crucial for the VVD. The Netherlands and Europe has a historical
brought unprecedented period of peace, security and prosperity. As a relatively small country with a very strong
trade tradition, the Netherlands has particularly benefited from the open borders and the common internal market. Strengthening the internal market and the common commercial position
of the EU in the world creates opportunities for Dutch industry and is the first for the VVD
priority in Europe.
In other respects does the VVD liberal Europe. That means that in Europe the government
small to be economical and efficient. Not more Europe, but a functioning Europe. And there is still a
world to win. For the VVD, the Netherlands is in the middle of the European Union. The VVD wants Netherlands
remains committed to a better and more effective European governance. Netherlands so there previously for
ensured that a European Budget Commissioner has come to countries that are not on their budget
have discussed the possibility of effective approaches. In addition, the VVD has strongly criticized the Brussels bureaucracy: the proliferation of rules, wasting money, inefficiency and how the European laws and regulations in
many Member States are carried out. The European Commission and the European Parliament should above all
must perform their present tasks better. Unnecessary regulatory burdens caused by European laws and
rules can be prevented by setting up an independent regulator which precedes here
on tests.
Two thirds of the EU budget goes to agriculture and cohesion policies. Those are expenses
relatively few contributions in the Netherlands. Large parts of the agricultural sector in our country do without
European funding and for our poorer regions we make in the first place itself. Why pay
Netherlands unprofitable for agriculture in France? Why The Netherlands contributes to poverty
Southern Italy and Northern Italy is one of the richest regions of Europe?
There is much less money to Europe as Europe available resources better bet. There is too much
win. Still manages Europe there unjustifiable good spending. Still the is
Internal Market unfinished. And still the Member States are insufficient to meet their financial commitments
held. Although this ancient VVD position now under pressure from the euro crisis also by other countries
is endorsed.
The European Union is a unique partnership that step-by-step built up with
concrete measures. The VVD does not need vague views about Europe. We are
economic cooperation, but against the European Union superstate. We gladly decide themselves
our benefits and taxes. The European future should be aimed at practical and concrete
collaboration. Do not talk, but do. The VVD is in favor of an alliance as
independent, sovereign states and opposes forms of federative cooperation within
Europe.
The financial and euro crisis the EU have shaken to its foundations. If these crises something
have made clear it is the importance of economic growth. The VVD sees therefore as
the main task of the EU, contributing to what Europeans and Dutch freer, more prosperous and
safer. The EU Netherlands is the most profitable as it focuses on the common market and on real, cross-border problems and opportunities. The VVD wants at EU level made
execute agreements on co-ordination and surveillance of economic policies to the austerity and
make growth possible agenda.
The internal market for us as trade and export country the most important aspect of the European Union.
Netherlands earns a lot of money with exports to the southern Member States. So the Netherlands exports more
then to Italy to Brazil, China and India together. It is therefore important that this in Dutch
countries do not go bankrupt. In Chapter 1 (economy), this is clarified.
Page | 57

Enforcement
In recent years, we can see that not everywhere is equally serious in the EU rules
taken. That is partly because there is no proper enforcement of the costs (financial)
appointments. Many countries in the Council hold hands above the head. Therefore, more there
automatic sanctions must come when rules are not respected. This applies, for example,
for fraud involving European subsidies. Countries that mess things get any more money.
Also for the FTA is important enforcement. Countries that do not comply with the rules and
their affairs are not in order, thereby penalizing the Netherlands and the other Member States. What the VVD
concerns can be set with this type of land border controls. Is then not yet there
the rules are met, then a (temporary) Schengen exit should be an option.
Method European Union
Europe is far-reaching decisions to which everyone has to deal with daily. The VVD wants to be sure
know whether those rules are meaningful or that countries can handle it better myself. Therefore,
we keep usefulness and necessity of new European regulations sharply against the light. The VVD wants
the Representatives and the Senate continue to look at the necessity and proportionality of proposed
European regulations. Where necessary, we will provide together with other countries that superfluous European regulations reversed. The advisory department of the State Council must be European
timely proposals on subsidiarity and proportionality tests and indicate which means a proposal
the regulatory burden.
Equally important that the House of the attitude of the Dutch government in Brussels
effectively controls. The Lower House also must first discuss what positions the
Dutch government in Brussels should take and this critically test afterwards. The VVD wants
Netherlands is not implementing stricter than required European directives. If there are still
need for additional rules, this should be done in a separate proposal that the regulations are not
'Unnoticed' increases.
National parliaments are crucial to strengthening democracy in Europe and the
Protecting national sovereignty. We can have better early on and his influence,
then later complain that we do not like. Many proposals are being prepared in committees
experts. The VVD wants Dutch people who serve on these committees in addition to their expertise also contribute Dutch interests.
The VVD wants more transparency in the spending of EU funds. If Member States are not spending their EU
can justify, they are deducted from their income from EU funds.
The seat of the European Parliament in Brussels. The monthly traveling circus to Strasbourg must
be deleted. The VVD wants the Netherlands will continue its efforts to this precious appointment as soon
possible termination. The European Parliament meets, as it lies on the VVD, now only
but in Brussels.
EU enlargement
In the past the EU has been too quick expansion. The VVD has, successfully yoked
for a more stringent procedure for new Member States. This will, after the accession of Croatia,
the coming years, no other country join the EU. It is now time to consolidate the EU before
it is able to incorporate new members. No country joins until it for a hundred
percent to the EU accession conditions (Copenhagen criteria) and meets all EU Member States
have expressed their support for accession. Moreover, the accession negotiations must with
Turkey be put stop as long as Turkey refuses to recognize Cyprus by the Ankara Protocol not
ratify.
The VVD considers it necessary that in addition to the accession protocol is also an exit protocol.
This should be a possible resignation and expulsion from the political and monetary union in an orderly manner
settle.

Page | 58

EU budget / Dutch contribution
The European budget is hopelessly outdated and is not in the character of what the EU is on
should focus: everything Netherlands and Europe safer, more prosperous and more free. Determining the
new Multiannual Financial Framework provides opportunities to turn around the EU budget.
The expenses must be reduced to below 1 percent of gross domestic product, to the
To make the EU more efficient, more modern and more effective. In the new EU budget for 2014-2020
still an amount of 800 billion earmarked for cohesion policy and agriculture. The VVD wants
a reduction of these items in favor of investment in innovation, including the strengthening of
the Digital Single Market.
The VVD believes that the Dutch contribution to the EU must significantly down and only have to walk with
that of countries like Germany, Denmark, Sweden and Finland. This provides an advantage in Netherlands
2 billion. We must avoid in any case that the Dutch contribution per inhabitant in the EU
rises again.

3.5 Development
Central to development available under the VVD: emergency aid, food security, water management and HIV / AIDS prevention. What the VVD is concerned, however, no development core task of government. If people here want to give money to can they decide to.
At present, the government provides by far the largest contribution to the funding and policy
Development. The VVD wants to review it thoroughly.
Too much of our development aid ends up in corrupt governments and does not
contribution to economic, social and humanitarian situation of the people in those countries. Development assistance in its present form does help perpetuate addiction and power in hand. The VVD wants therefore all
form of direct budget support to governments in developing countries stop. Additionally wants
VVD reduce the number of partner countries from 15 to 10. The budget for development is therefore considerably shrink. Relationships help should be temporary and assume an equivalent
relationship. Moreover, assistance agreements from the outset to include agreements on the reduction
of aid.
Following a series of disturbing scientific studies and publications about the low
effectiveness of spending development funds adapted development. There is more
focus on themes where the Netherlands has added value, such as the fight against AIDS, agriculture, feed water management principles. More attention is paid to the development of the economy.
The development budget is not sufficiently focused on the priorities identified.
Moreover, there is still a lot of money to international aid and charity organizations (NGOs).
The VVD wants to contribute drastically reduce and stop contributions to NGOs. People can
Always decide whether they wish to make a donation to a development; which need not be
"Enforced" through taxation. Moreover, the VVD has more confidence in charity organizations with their own rank and file members, than in large NGOs that exist solely for the sake of a goal.
Civic associations have the advantage that they do not so much care about political power,
but accountable to their members and are able to adapt to criticism. The new
Geefwet providing favorable regulations for citizens to transfer money to charity.
The VVD wants to finally evaluate the Dutch development cooperation policy periodically. Bureaucracy must be reduced by implementing no longer to settle all kinds of private
organizations, but one agency of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. If we implement these measures the government budget for development cooperation can be significantly reduced.

Page | 59

04.05 Defense
The VVD attaches great importance to our defense equipment and personnel. Together with our allies
in NATO, the EU and the UN, we defend our freedom in democracy from outside threats.
But our defense also serves to defend our interests and influence in international fora
definitely set. Netherlands can and wants to be no "free rider". The VVD takes that responsibility and acts accordingly.
In recent years, significant cuts and reforms in Defence, which painfully
were for the organization and the employees. These were aimed Defense to form at
expeditionary, globally deployable and modern armed forces. This was capable of new threats at home and abroad to cope. There are many important improvements successfully
made, but in 2012 there are new opportunities for Defence to make a correct stroke,
including by Navy, Army and Air Force to work together as a whole. The merging of existing locations can be given only if, in both the short and longer term yields financial benefits. Modern peacekeeping missions, and protecting our trade interests demand a
armed with strength that has sufficient units and high-quality equipment, but
above consists of adequate, well motivated, trained and experienced personnel.
The Dutch armed forces must be deployed on land, in the air and at sea. Particularly specialized and globally deployable infantry units should not only on land but also at sea
can be used. Internationally, the Netherlands must show targeted contribute to the
quality can still compete at the highest level. Defence needs to look ahead and invest
in the armed forces of the future. Especially in areas where the Netherlands can make a difference, such as
special forces and missile defense. Armed parts that are not used for new modern
Missions need to cut or reform.
The VVD is opposed to further cuts in the armed forces. The armed forces should be given time to
To run the current reorganization and to restore order after the reforms
In recent years. But mainly because further cuts in defense an immediate negative effect
have on the deployment of the armed forces and thus directly harming our interests. In this time that
the government should make marking time, it is important that the Defence gets more support in the
society. This support requires recognition for citizens and professionalism. The volunteer also
reservists of the armed forces can contribute by supporting regular forces.
In addition, reservists have much specialized knowledge whose defense flexible and relatively
low cost as going to use a lot of potential. The VVD wants therefore recruit more reservists and
bets. The armed forces can actively support emergency services in the Netherlands and therefore safety in
Enlarge Netherlands. Veteran Care deserves our continued attention.

Page | 60

Colophon
VVD General Secretariat
Laan Copes van Cattenburch 52
PO Box 30 836
2500 GV The Hague
T 070 361 30 61
F 070 360 82 76
E info@vvd.nl
