Government Plan
2011-2016

Force 2011

STRENGTH OF GOVERNMENT PLAN 2011

1

www.fuerza2011.com

Government Plan
2011-2016

Force 2011

BY PERU TO ORDER AND SAFETY
GROWING MORE AND SHARE GROWTH
IN DEMOCRACY

2

www.fuerza2011.com

Government Plan
2011-2016

Force 2011

COMMITMENTS TO FORCE 2011
MAKES ALL THE PERUVIAN
The recovery of the economic collapse of the 1980s and
average growth of 7 percent annually experienced by Peru
the last five years are a direct result of the economic model
Constitution of 1993. This model established the basis for a policy
sustainable-absent during the decade of 1980, he eliminated most tax
the numerous formal protectionist barriers that isolated our
economy, strengthened the protection of property rights, and linked
our market economy. The reforms of the Constitution
1993 are those that allowed the development of the financial sector, opening
commercial and infrastructure improvements. No maintenance
stable macroeconomic environment and policy continuity
established in the 1993 Constitution throughout the 2000s, not
It has been possible the emergence of agro-export industry, or
investment in mining and energy projects, mostly initiated
in the 1990s.
In designing the model of the 1993 Constitution and reforms
structural and social programs had a long-term,
essentially it has continued, making it possible to move from being a
country with a GDP of 45 billion dollars in 1990 to a 150
billion today. The macro-economic model and reforms
3

www.fuerza2011.com

Government Plan
2011-2016

Force 2011

who opened the Peru and its entrepreneurs to markets has continued and
deepened. Today no one doubts that in the last 20 years have
advanced consistently. However there are still large
inequities that have not been overcome.
Our vision is that while these differences persist, Peru can not
continue to grow steadily, because poverty with its attendant
malnutrition, truncated and low quality education as well as risks
insecurity and violence will constitute a severe obstacle for it and for the
legitimacy. We have a moral obligation to reduce
Poverty dramatically it is not acceptable that some Peruvians
enjoy growth and remain outside the suffering that
other Peruvian represents indigent. But also we have to overcome
because poverty is not possible to continue to grow steadily if the
medium term we will face costs that poverty today
Incubate: young people with fewer skills due to start work
poor nutrition or education, or an adult population aging
suffering from poor nutrition and disease, aspects that limit
our human capital and to increase, among others, the fiscal costs
of health. For those who just want to see aspects of productivity and
profitability will be clear that these costs have poverty
to pay the fruits of future growth. Therefore, for all
Peruvians must be essential to combat poverty.
In our 20 years of political experience we have accounted for a
political choice that understands the needs of the entrepreneur Peru
It grows and wants to follow doing it, and that it has thanks to reforms
we implemented in the 1990s but also understand and
we have always been leaders in addressing the needs of that other
Peru marginalized, isolated and forgotten. Peru demanded that our more
deep commitment and crying just for a chance. That
our Peru Puno, Apurimac and Huancavelica, where two out of three
people only speak Quechua, where only one in five people
has potable water in their homes, and where more than 18,000 women
4

www.fuerza2011.com

Government Plan
2011-2016

Force 2011

under 14 already have children. Or that our Peru in the VRAE where
the state has the monopoly of force and control of violence,
It is still exercised by armed groups which prevent the peaceful development
farmers. For them, the word does not exist and when growth
hear about the great figures of Peru in full swing,
They feel that reality is alien.
Our vision and commitment is to eliminate this inequity between
these two worlds that Peru and therefore our challenge is Share
Equating growth and development, so that the virtues of the model
society began to take shape in the 1990s can benefit
all Peruvians and the model that most Peruvians today supports
I can finally consolidate its social legitimacy.
A. PILLAR 1: SHARE GROWTH TO REDUCE
Poverty and ensuring that all Peruvians
Have equal opportunities.
Eradicate extreme poverty and reduce
GENERAL POVERTY based on five pillars:
1. SHAFT 1. IMPROVING THE QUALITY OF EDUCATION
STRENGTHENING
OUR
TEACHERS
Y
THE
CAPACITY EVALUATION MECHANISMS
LEARNING TO OUR CHILDREN AND
MORE COMPETITIVE YOUTH.
2. AXIS 2. ACCESS TO UNIVERSAL HEALTH INSURANCE
Reach all Peruvians.
3. PILLAR 3. Dramatically reduce MALNUTRITION
CHILDREN.
4. 4. Create a network AXIS OF SOCIAL PROTECTION
EFFECTIVE, TRANSPARENT, FAIR AND
PROTECT
TO
THE
SECTORS
SOCIAL
MORE
VULNERABLE.
5

www.fuerza2011.com

Government Plan
2011-2016

Force 2011

5. 5. AXLE HOUSING SAFE TITLES
PROPERTY, WATER AND SANITATION AND ACCESS
CREDIT FOR CONSTRUCTION.
B. PILLAR 2: CREATE AN EFFICIENT GOVERNMENT
RESPONDING TO THE NEEDS OF ALL
PERUVIAN
RUN institutional reforms
There remain for a State
EFFICIENT regain its legitimacy among
CITIZENS
PILLAR 6. 6. REFORMING THE PUBLIC SECTOR TO
COUNT
WITH
PICTURES
PROFESSIONAL
SELECTED FOR THEIR COMPETITION AND
BEST
PAID, whose good is officially MANAGEMENT
RECOGNIZED.
PILLAR 7. 7. BE intolerant of corruption.
8. axis 8. the country will have a development plan
NATIONAL GOALS WILL WHOSE RESPONSIBILITY
SHARING OF ALL LEVELS OF GOVERNMENT
DOING
THAN
THE
GOVERNMENTS
CENTRAL,
REGIONAL
Y
MUNICIPAL
CONTRIBUTE
COORDINATED AND EFFECTIVE DEVELOPMENT
ALL regions.
C. PILLAR 3: SAFETY FOR ALL
PERUVIAN.
AGAIN CRIME AND DEFEAT
NARCOTERRORISM TO GIVE ALL
PERU PERUVIAN A SAFE AND VIOLENCE.
9. 9. AXIS DEVELOPMENT SOCIAL INCLUSION AND CULTURE
CITIZEN.
6

www.fuerza2011.com

Government Plan
2011-2016

Force 2011

10.
HUB 10. Mechanisms of coercion and control
eleven.
HUB 11. IMPROVING QUALITY AND QUANTITY
COVERAGE OF POLICING
12.
HUB 12. INFORMATION SYSTEMS
CONTROL AND DECISION MAKING
D.PILAR 4: Promote the creation of more jobs
QUALITY.
CREATE MORE JOBS FOR MORE QUALITY
PERUVIAN:
13.
HUB 13. STRENGTHENING INSTITUTIONS
Macroeconomic TO BELIEVE THAT THE PERU
GROW AND PROMOTING INVESTMENT AND NATIONAL
FOREIGN.
14.
HUB 14. CREATING THE NECESSARY INSTITUTIONS
FOR
INCREASE
THE
PRODUCTIVITY,
OUR INNOVATION AND COMPETITIVENESS
Companies and our workers.
fifteen.
HUB 15. Building more roads,
Ports and airports.
16.
16. SHAFT DRIVING OUR ADVANTAGES
COMPETITIVE IN TOURISM
17.
HUB 17. ATTACKING THE CAUSES OF POVERTY
RURAL, increase productivity, THE
E making it competitive rural economy
Integrating them into the markets.
18.
AXIS 18: SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT OF OUR
NATURAL RESOURCES AND ENVIRONMENT
19.
AXIS 19: ENERGY PERU
20.
AXIS 20: MINING

7

www.fuerza2011.com

Government Plan
2011-2016

Force 2011

Pillar 1
SHARE GROWTH FOR REDUCING
Poverty and ensure that all Peruvians
Have equal opportunities.
Eradicate extreme poverty and reduce
GENERAL POVERTY AROUND FIVE AXES
AXIS 1: IMPROVING THE QUALITY OF EDUCATION
STRENGTHENING OUR TEACHERS AND
MECHANISMS FOR EVALUATION OF LEARNING
DO OUR CHILDREN AND YOUNG PEOPLE MORE
COMPETITIVE
Education of Peru ranks last in Latin America
international program for student assessment - PISA - which
confirms that although it has improved enrollment and retention levels
in school, the quality of education that the State provides to our
children and young people is very poor. It is impossible to make sustainable the
economic growth, eradicate extreme poverty and reduce
overall poverty if we do not increase investment in education until
to 6% of GDP. The improved productivity that the country for
keep it growing only be possible if our children and young people
get a good education; but will lack the human capital
needed to sustain growth. Our proposal rests on the
experience have transformed the educational infrastructure of the country
INFES building through FONCODES and a school day
for all educational giving ninety thousand classrooms
communities throughout Peru. Now we continue educational reform
prioritizing the needs of our teachers, the content of the
education and the conditions in which our children attend
school. This new stage of reform will focus on the following
policies:
8

www.fuerza2011.com

Government Plan
2011-2016

Force 2011

1. Teachers committed to good teaching and paid
with good pay. Teachers will not be seen as
opponents or opponents of education policy but as
State active partners in improving the quality of teaching. For
Therefore, following the international experience, we will prioritize policies
Public improve teaching skills of our
Teachers:
to. We will create training programs focused on the
school curriculum, ie what teachers should teach,
adapted to the different realities of the country, constituting
tools accompanying activities
education provided our teachers.
b. The remuneration policy must improve to reward
teachers who are committed to improving teaching and
learning of our children and also to attract
into the teaching profession to the most outstanding graduates
secondary education to the educational career. For that
We will raise the salaries of teachers to
attractive enter and remain in the teaching profession.
c. We will implement a program of scholarships for the
best alumni of the schools have access to the
best faculties of education in the country, in exchange for teaching
in public schools in the early years of his career
professional.
2. Growing Healthy and learning well. The strengthening and expansion
Primary early stimulation and early education, along with the
policies elimination of malnutrition and health are fundamental
to lay a solid foundation for the development of our children. Since
birth to age 8 children develop essential skills
to keep learning. Our goal is that the percent
percent of children in this age group have coverage of these services
so that complete the third grade levels
9

www.fuerza2011.com

Government Plan
2011-2016

Force 2011

satisfactory reading comprehension, mathematics knowledge
scientific and technological,
3. Assessing learning. The aim of our education should be
children learn prioritized by the Nation contents. He
purpose of the evaluation must be to know if children are
learn and discover what must be done to help teachers
achieve this goal. Evaluations of teachers and continue
They focus on assessing the results of student learning. This,
not in order to threaten teachers who fail results
expected, but in order to define which content should be
priority in our education policy. Teachers will be
evaluated by the results obtained in teaching children.
Accelerate the evaluation process through the participation of
duly accredited universities.
4. Teaching with quality content. They will adapt curricula
schoolchildren, teacher training programs and texts
school to the realities of each region. The latter should be useful
for teachers in their teaching to motivate children
read not only in class but also in their homes. Remove the
current practice of keeping books in schools, such as that
We identify in a school in Santa Maria in Ate. Books must be
permanent fellow students, who will have full access to
they.
5. Education to help our young people to get jobs. The
secondary education curricula tailored to the demands
labor in each region, by incorporating electives
to develop skills that are directly
related to productivity and labor needs of each
community: farming in Cajamarca, Ica agribusiness or tourism
in Cusco. This will help to channel labor alternatives
our youth, aligning the teaching contents demand
10

www.fuerza2011.com

Government Plan
2011-2016

Force 2011

labor. In our government Peruvian children exceed the average
Latin America in the international comprehension tests
reading and math. Technical education will be redesigned so
that its management and administration is the product of a partnership between the
State and business associations, so that education is directed to
the actual demand for labor.
6. Equip the opportunities for our young people. Implement
an innovative program of state grants that allow young
talented low-income sectors of study at top
universities
and abroad to train as
professionals working in exchange for a specified period, the
finish the race, for the state and contribute to strengthening the
public administration. To do this, we will establish a scholarship program
for undergraduate and postgraduate.
7. Raising children with values. Include in the curriculum elements
designed to teach children the benefits of acting based on
values ​​that contribute to the coexistence and social solidarity. Of the
same way as European countries instill values ​​to children
Global (the fight against poverty, the need to protect the environment
environment, etc.) Peruvian school curriculum include content
for fundamental values ​​such as freedom, tolerance,
solidarity, respect for our culture, and environmental protection
ambient.
8. Internet for all information to learn more and better. The
interconnection of our schools is an urgent need. Internet has
changed the way we communicate and find answers to our
questions in all fields of knowledge. The amount of
Internet information is equivalent to 37,000 times more than
It has the world's largest library and increases by 30% each
year. Peruvian education can not ignore these developments. Yes
really we want to be a competitive country we can not leave out of
eleven

www.fuerza2011.com

Government Plan
2011-2016

Force 2011

this interactive world, for example, children of Cutervo
(Cajamarca), Pichanaki (Junin) or Masisea (Ucayali). Because
will promote an ambitious program to, based on the
rural telephony programs successfully implemented since the
ninety, internet access.
9. well fed and healthy children, ready to learn more and
best. Many children in Peru as the village children of Putaca
Anta, Cusco normally only breakfast tea and toast court,
walk more than an hour to get to school in Mollepata and
They return home to eat a potato soup after many
hours. These children often fall asleep in class; hard time
effort to keep the attention and learn very little in the classroom.
We change this sad reality by implementing a Program
Comprehensive school feeding the poorest people in the country,
that includes breakfast and lunch SCHOOL. This us
It will incorporate vitamins and proteins necessary for your menu
daily, giving the traditional breakfast but also LUNCH
SCHOOL. Such programs will provide an additional incentive to
TOGETHER Program provides assistance to school children
but more importantly they will help to reduce child malnutrition,
disease and improve learning abilities of our
children.
10. Equating the opportunities for all our children. He
Public spending on education has to improve distribution and
targeting. Clearly, the opportunities to get ahead in the
life for children Putaca are lower than for a child
lives in San Juan de Lurigancho and has its school only five
blocks away and there you receive school breakfasts. As
mentioned the lack of good nutrition, for example, Kid
Putaca will learn unless the child of San Juan de Lurigancho.
Therefore, public spending on education should compensate for these differences
12

www.fuerza2011.com

Government Plan
2011-2016

Force 2011

and invest more in places like Putaca to improve conditions
access to education and learning.
AXIS 2. ACCESS TO AND THE UNIVERSAL HEALTH INSURANCE
Reach all Peruvians.
Public health continues to face significant challenges and citizens
using state services are those who suffer limitations. In
Echarate, where the Camisea gas wells and extract
this immense wealth of the country, the health post has only one doctor
Generally, a dentist and a nurse, medicines are scarce and no
emergency equipment. However, compared to the medical post
Municipal mayor has built a five-story complex with moons
Polarized including two heated pools with water slides, despite
the city lacks drinking water. This is another evidence of how the
irresponsible bureaucracy, acting for reasons of political and inmediatista
without any technical background, it has harmed the country. The MCH and school insurance created during the Fujimori government laid the groundwork
to expand coverage to poorer by Integral Insurance
Salud (SIS). In addition, the Local Health Administration Committees
(CLAS) improved access to health and quality in favor of the sectors
poorest. However, now more than forty percent
Peruvians do not have any health insurance coverage. In
the poorest third of the population can not access the
health due to lack of financial resources, while sectors
less poverty that limitation comes only six percent. The differences
also they expressed regarding the type of diseases affecting
every socio-economic sector and every region. The lack of equity
Access to healthcare is also a problem faced by the poorest and
our government will implement policies to ensure all
Peruvians access to quality health.

13

www.fuerza2011.com

Government Plan
2011-2016

Force 2011

1. Create an Information System for Health Management. The
public health information tools will aimed at
improve the performance of its staff, so that the
health authorities to ascertain the incidence and risks of
specific disease per socioeconomic sector of the population
and region in order to improve the targeting of services and spending
public. We establish an Information System for Management
Health to identify disease outbreaks and
attention to preventive, curative and rehabilitative health required
for every socioeconomic segment of each population and region. From
Thus health authorities can allocate resources
human, medicines and equipment needed to respond to such
specific demands, and also better target subsidies
respective, improving the distribution of spending and the provision of
service. In addition, the information system will be the basis for collecting
information on the costs of providing health services,
which in turn are a prerequisite to meet the
real possibilities of expanding insurance coverage and financing
Integral Health. Finally, the information system will enable
define goals and standards of health issues of equity, quality and
efficiency, tailored to the specific needs of each sector
population, which will monitor whether all levels of
government budgets allocated to the needs required
specific health and if they expected objectives and goals for the
sector in the National Development Plan.
2. Ministry of Health that guides and promotes objectives and targets
nationals. The National Development Plan set goals
whose health national regional specificity should be
It monitored by the Ministry of Health, for which its role will be reinforced
regulator. The decentralization of health functions not only
They include the transfer of roles and resources but, more importantly,
defining objectives and goals whose implementation will
responsibility of each region. Thus the regulatory role and
14

www.fuerza2011.com

Government Plan
2011-2016

Force 2011

financier of the Ministry of Health will prioritize its supervisory role
applied to providers-providers at the regional level.
3. Expand the Comprehensive Health Insurance. Reliable data
collected through the Information System for Management of
Health and Ministry strengthened its regulatory role, it will be possible to define
guaranteed benefit plans of health services, with costs per
capita known through an actuarial study of services to be provided
and beneficiaries, which in turn help to define the amount of resources
budget needed to fund its operation. Only in this
so we can consolidate a sustainable SIS, that beyond
political or legal statements, really have the resources and
efficient operating mechanisms.
4. Rescue Local Health Administration Committees (CLAS).
Our experience in improving public health is among its most
creating clear evidence CLAS, in which the community
organized directs and oversees the delivery of basic health services.
Several studies have confirmed the virtues of the CLAS including
better access and greater satisfaction of the population served by
CLAS that under the traditional system. Despite these evidences rate
CLAS growth fell from 45 percent in 1998 to 3
percent in 2004 will reverse this trend to expand CLAS
most communities. The State shall promote
conformation of the CLAS supporting community organizations and
establishing additional incentives for doctors and nurses
agree to work in rural and poor communities.
5. More doctors and nurses to the needy.
We establish economic incentives and career advancement
Effective public health, so that the effort required to
our health professionals serve the population in rural areas
and poor country is adequately compensated.
fifteen

www.fuerza2011.com

Government Plan
2011-2016

Force 2011

6. For a better quality control of the medicines. Strengthen
supervisory and punitive functions in order DIGEMID
performing a better quality control of medicines and to avoid
consumption of bad products. We propose the elevated
criminal drug counterfeiters sanctions.

PILLAR 3. Dramatically reduce MALNUTRITION
CHILDREN AND IMPROVE ACCESS TO OUR
Poor to good nutrition
In Peru, one in four children under age 5 are malnourished
according to the indicator height for age (stunting) of the
World Health Organization estimated by INEI to 2009 1.
Infant mortality was 25 per thousand in 2006 according to the MDG Monitor
Nations of the Organization of Unidas2 but reaches 64 per 1,000 in the
poorest quintile. 50 percent of children under 5 and 69
percent of children under 6 years are anemic (DHS 2001).
In the region present high rates of malnutrition such as
Bolivia, Ecuador, Haiti, Honduras and El Salvador, in these countries,
geographical distribution of malnutrition correlates with poverty and
rural residence. Malnutrition is five times higher in children
Peru's rural highlands (40%) than in Lima (7.7%).
In the period 1990-1996 a drastic change in this trend
and malnutrition rates were reduced from 37% in 1991 to 25.8% in 1996,
then remain almost stable at 25.4% until 2000. Between 1991 and
1996 the reduction was twelve percentage points to an average of more
2% per year. However, in 2000-2005 there was
no substantial improvement in child malnutrition, even to
1

The Statistical Information System of the World Health Organization indicates that in 2000 the percentage
of malnourished children under five in Peru, according to the size indicator for age- reached 31%
while for 2009 the INEI estimated at 24.2. Taking the latter figure to malnutrition canzaría $ 25
children under 5 years.
2
http://www.mdgmonitor.org/index.cfm

16

www.fuerza2011.com

Government Plan
2011-2016

Force 2011

increased from 25.4% to 28%, although this trend has been reversed
since 2006. Despite economic growth and tax revenues
Since 2000, spending on programs Power fell 1 point
of GDP, from 0.48 of GDP in 2001 to 0.37 in 2005.
Beyond ethical reasons and human rights be ordered
intolerant of this problem, child malnutrition is severe and
negative consequences for economic development and therefore the government
Fujimori's dropped from 37% to 25%. Children suffering from malnutrition
Chronic will face limitations in their physical abilities and attitude
Learning will also have a greater propensity to contract
diseases. It is at that early age where inequality starts
opportunities that not only has social consequences, but in a
medium and long term, it diminishes our competitive potential as a country.
At the end of our government there will be more malnourished children in Peru.
Along with that, the poorer segments of population have no
sufficient income to meet their food needs. This is a
fact unacceptable for a country that grows at such high rates as the
Peru and the state can not be insensitive to it. Establish policies
aimed at ensuring public access to quality food,
in order to reduce the incidence of anemia and diseases
related to low or poor nutrition:
1. drastically changing eating and hygiene habits in
population, especially in rural and deprived areas.
Redirect part of the resources resulting from adjustments
multidimensional proposed actions: education of the mother
nutritional practices, access to health services, cleaning habits and
food preparation, improving access to infrastructure
health services and education, communication adapted to the environment of the
intervention, empowerment of communities in action
to eradicate malnutrition by aggressive campaigns
information, reinforced by training programs for mothers
through health centers and grassroots organizations.
17

www.fuerza2011.com

Government Plan
2011-2016

Force 2011

2. Expand and strengthen the Wawa Wasis. The expansion of this program,
also initiated in the nineties, will train parents, give
quality food to children and through programs
early stimulation, strengthen their learning capacity.
3. Repeating soup kitchen program. Canteens
Popular constitute an effective strategy for social protection
the poorest in the 1990s, however, successive
Governments in the 2000s and currently not prioritized which
They do continue to operate with the same kitchen equipment
delivered more than 10 years ago. Relanzaremos Program
Kitchens, prioritizing proper focus for
benefit of the poorest segments of the population, so that
these programs can contribute to adequate food
our population.
4. Continue improving the targeting of programs
food in order to reduce levels of filtration
not exclude poor and poor sectors. The
food programs prioritized care for children under 2
years, pregnant and nursing mothers, adolescent girls, children between 2 and 6
years, and people living in extreme poverty and poverty.
5. Implement a communication strategy tailored to each
cultural reality and responsive to the customs, language and
population characteristics. This should include the creation of
coordination mechanisms with grassroots organizations and
community where the target population is concentrated, of
so that the channels of social organization are used for
promote good nutrition practices, health, care
health of children and mothers. Community participation has been
widely developed and contributed to the positive results
social programs initiated in the nineties are as
cases of community participation mechanisms used in
18

www.fuerza2011.com

Government Plan
2011-2016

Force 2011

FONCODES, COFOPRI and Rural Roads. These programs that
participation was an element of its operating design
It empowered the communities in the target and created programs
mechanisms of accountability of state authorities to
citizens.
6. Establish national goals for reducing malnutrition and
anemia, and linking social investment in water, sanitation and
health infrastructure and education to those goals. With the purpose of
promote the participation of regional and municipal governments
the implementation of nutrition programs and the provision of
social infrastructure necessary to support the reduction
Malnutrition, the National Development Plan will propose a system
national targets of malnutrition establish incentives
regional and municipal governments to use their resources
investment in actions to reduce malnutrition. These
incentives must meet the following criteria: (i) coordination of
subnational investment plans with the national strategy
reducing malnutrition; (Ii) execution of infrastructure works
social, according to the national strategy will help to achieve its goals;
(Iii) effective reduction of child malnutrition.

AXIS 4. CREATE A social safety net
EFFECTIVE, TRANSPARENT, FAIR TO PROTECT
MOST VULNERABLE SOCIAL SECTORS.
The social safety net to protect our segments
most vulnerable population needs to improve its performance so
substantial. This network includes programs to reduce poverty,
malnutrition and improving access to basic infrastructure in
poorest communities, such as food programs, programs
19

www.fuerza2011.com

Government Plan
2011-2016

Force 2011

labor and social funds as FONCODES. Public expenditures
these programs reached almost 1% of GDP in 1999 during the government
Fujimori, but in 2006 it fell by successive governments over
30% reaching only 0.68% of GDP, representing the
half the average spending in Latin America reaching 1.5%. The
decentralization promoted since 2002 also contributed to the
reduced spending on the Web. The rural municipalities did not increase
infrastructure investment which was previously served by
FONCODES, not always by negligence or lack of interest in their
authorities, but by lack of regulations and special processes
used by social funds for the procurement and execution of such
works.
World Bank estimates conclude that resources would be needed
to 6.3% of GDP for the poor could afford the basket
consumption or 1.1% of GDP for the extreme poor could
pay a food basket with minimal food intake. In
It is therefore essential to increase spending aimed Network
Social Protection to benefit the poorest Peruvians segments.
Our Government will promote the following reforms:
1. Establish a results-based management. The safety net
composed of social programs in education, health, child nutrition
and food will have specific objectives, quality standards
in the provision of services and targets for each program. This will
to follow up the various programs, to establish
common methods and operating procedures for moving towards
the integration of different programs. Goals should not
limited to the inputs of these programs, as
tons of food distributed, or number of servings and
beneficiaries of each program, but refer to the expected results
by such programs such as the incorporation of higher
targeted population segments, the quality of the benefits
20

www.fuerza2011.com

Government Plan
2011-2016

Force 2011

distributed and how these benefits altering condition
poverty of targeted sectors.
2. Improve the targeting of spending. We establish as priority
the social safety net care of children, youth and their
families living in poverty or even extreme poverty.
3. Overcoming welfare policies to strengthen the creation of
human capital. It is essential that these new policies
attack malnutrition, the most frequent diseases in
poorest, poor academic performance and dropout
School coordinated manner. Therefore, interventions
food programs and conditional transfer as
Together, they will be implemented in coordination with policies
improving education and health described in this Plan to be
run primarily in places where they are the
most vulnerable segments: so that we protect
our children from malnutrition, we improve learning quickly
and school performance of children and youth, and we guarantee their
stay in school, and the diseases that we reduce the
affected. In the case of adults in poverty and extreme poverty, the network
social protection will ensure that they have access to food and
quality health care. These policies are complemented by those of
social and rural infrastructure to help improve conditions
of life and create sustainable employment opportunities to bring this
people out of poverty, such as access to safe water as well as the
generating employment opportunities, by building
roads and other rural infrastructure.
4. Retrieve the experience of FONCODES. FONCODES executed
nearly 40,000 works of social and rural small-scale infrastructure
throughout Peru. This includes medical centers, classrooms,
water and sanitation infrastructure, roads and small
mainly rural and poor people around the country. Is
21

www.fuerza2011.com

Government Plan
2011-2016

Force 2011

Infrastructure is a cornerstone to ensure access
poor to basic services. The leading role of communities
in the selection, implementation and monitoring of projects was an element
critical to the success of the program. But so was the set
processes and mechanisms used in the brewing cycle and
implementation of their projects, including design mechanisms
projects, contracting mechanisms evaluators, supervisors,
trainers and project implementers, or disbursement mechanisms
resource. Decentralization assigned more responsibilities to
municipalities in implementing this type of work but did not give them the
tools with which account FONCODES. We will rescue the great
experience, skills and processes used by FONCODES and
will transfer to municipalities in order to strengthen their capacities
management and that are able to replicate and enhance the experience of
FONCODES in implementing social and rural infrastructure
small scale.
Without this support, only municipalities with more resources and would
able to execute and provide services to its citizens
suitable. This difference of institutional capacities with
, smaller and poorer, rural municipalities will help further
increasing inequality gap and opportunities today
faces about 30% of Peruvians.

5. SHAFT safe housing property titles,
WATER AND SANITATION AND ACCESS TO CREDIT FOR
CONSTRUCTION.
In the nineties we offered solve the problem of the lack of titles
Property of one million families throughout Peru and deliver.
We deliver more than 1 million registered property titles in the
public records benefiting 6 million Peruvians today
22

www.fuerza2011.com

Government Plan
2011-2016

Force 2011

They have land and safe housing and legal protection.
We offered also create a mechanism for access to housing and create
MIVIVIENDA which it has been the main driver of construction
housing for the country's media socioeconomic segments. Without
But since 2000 no new policy was created on
housing help graduates improve by COFOPRI
conditions of construction of their homes, or to extend access
MIVIVIENDA credit to low-income sectors. Of the same
how we fulfill our offer of land holder and 1 million
create access to credit to purchase homes, implement the
following policies:
1. More credit for new housing, expansion and improvement of
existing homes. Titration is executed by COFOPRI
coincided mainly in big cities with increasing
employment, creating a new middle class that, in addition to
resources, has a property. This is a unique opportunity to
facilitate those 20 or 30 years ago acquired plots of land,
where they built their houses and then received his bachelor's
property, can now direct their earnings and savings to improve their
housing and enlarge. This will help meet the demand for
Around 150 000 new homes annually and improve
living conditions of most Peruvians. To this end and in order to strengthen
and expand the demand for credit:
to. We will promote lending and banking sector
microcredit private housing for homeownership
new or improved housing through enlargement
MIVIVIENDA access.
b. To facilitate access to credit for the expansion of housing,
to allow the construction of new flats will launch a
Factories registration program that allows those who
received title to their land, enroll in the registry
greater value given to the property by construction
2. 3

www.fuerza2011.com

Government Plan
2011-2016

Force 2011

made and employ this increased value as a mortgage guarantee
for loans for the expansion of housing.
c. To promote private investment in building
housing and have an offer that can satisfy the demand,
We will support municipalities in identifying areas
Urban expansion where the provision of water services,
communications and more profitable ways for public investment,
so that housing developers have to
land suitable for housing development.
2. Housing programs for the needy. With the purpose of
meet the demand for new housing sectors can not
access to credit from the banking sector and microcredit will
operation program with lots of housing modules and services
basic. To access this program will establish a system of
coordinated focus to be used by the social safety net,
so that only access those actually lack
revenues to finance the purchase or rental of housing.
3. Conclusion of urban qualification. COFOPRI will again
composed of technical and professional staff, selected by their
merits and knowledge. Based on re-engineering
processes used by COFOPRI and in order to adapt them to the
new challenges of the degree, we deliver title
registered 800 thousand families throughout Peru.
4. Water and sanitation for more Peruvians. The sanitation sector
Peru, has an investment gap estimated at 2008 US $ 6.306
millions of dollars. Most investment gap corresponds to
potable water infrastructure with 42.3% (2.667 million dollars)
sewerage infrastructure with 33.3% (2.101 million dollars) and
infrastructure wastewater treatment with 24.4% (1,538
millions of dollars). According to the National Survey
24

www.fuerza2011.com

Government Plan
2011-2016

Force 2011

Households3, in 2009 only 74.1% of the population has
access to potable water and 62% have access to the
sewerage services. This being so, only 61.7% of the population,
It has access to sanitation. The main
issues presented sanitation sector in Peru is the deficit
coverage of potable water and sewerage, which is
further aggravated when one considers that 40% of water is lost
obsolescence of the network. This situation adds poor coverage
in the treatment of wastewater, which by 2007 reached only 24%
situation that causes a potentially serious health problem and
serious environmental problem, whose solution is of interest
national. For those who do not receive water services
through companies providing Sanitation Services (EPS) or
SEDAPAL, the cost of water is high end. In the case of Lima,
it is estimated that people who do not get service SEDAPAL pays 5
7 times more than it pays a family in the urban area with
these facilities. It is inexplicable failure to follow the experience
concessions positive treatment and use of the
private investment that started in the nineties with the grant
treatment of the waters of the Chillon River. Execute the following
policies:
to. Provide water and sewer to the millions of Peruvians who lack
of these services. This will mean increasing the minimum
nationwide coverage to 83%.
b. 100% treatment of sewage as they are today
source of contamination of the country, encouraging the re-
these different uses for human consumption.
c. Ensure a permanent source of water by
location of new water sources and building
reservoirs previously developed the ability to
accurate forecasts regarding climate change.

25

www.fuerza2011.com

Government Plan
2011-2016

Force 2011

d. We solve the problem of water shortage in Lima and other
coastal cities permanently, via the construction of
Mantaro transfer and construction of trans-Andean tunnel.
e. Reorganize the PRONASAR (National Water Program and
Rural Sanitation) in order to ensure coverage and quality
water service and drainage in rural areas and small
locations.
f. Convene the private sector to make partially or completely
investments that are required to optimize services
providing water and sewage SEDAPAL and providing companies
Sanitation Services (EPS), to improve coverage and
service. We will promote their participation in treatment plants
water and sewage, and the rehabilitation of systems
to maximize the use of installed capacity.

26

www.fuerza2011.com

Government Plan
2011-2016

Force 2011

Pillar 2
CREATE AN EFFICIENT GOVERNMENT IN WHICH THE
CITIZENS CAN TRUST
RUN institutional reforms
They are pending for a State
EFFICIENT regain its legitimacy among
CITIZENS
PILLAR 6. REFORMING THE PUBLIC SECTOR TO
COUNT
WITH
PICTURES
PROFESSIONAL
SELECTED competitively, better you paid
GOOD MANAGEMENT AND WHICH BE AWARDED.
Yes, it is possible to improve the quality and conditions of officials
Been. In addition, it must do to have a
Civil service that responds to the challenges that growth puts the country. He
government of the 1990s has among its virtues of being
It recognized as a highly technocratic government with boxes
quality that made possible the reforms that laid the foundations of
Peru takeoff. It is essential to establish the conditions that allow
quality technical staff to return to serve the state and see in this
a space for professional development. Therefore, we will promote the following
State policies:
1. Increasing the salaries of civil servants to
progressively make them competitive with the private sector, and so
to attract and retain professionals in the public sector solid
training, experience and moral quality.
2. Consolidate a "Quality Management". Strengthen the program
SERVIR progressively and in those places that are open to
From the beginning of our government, promote the competitive selection
public officials for representing the layer ranges
27

www.fuerza2011.com

Government Plan
2011-2016

Force 2011

middle management of state institutions at management level,
sub-address, managers and sub-managers throughout the executive branch.
These selection process will be based on objective criteria
professional training and management experience, opening the
opportunity for new professionals and private practitioners
they see attractive integrate the public sector. The remuneration of
these levels of government selected under the scheme SERVE
automatically have competitive levels with industry
private.
3. Public Carrera. We will respect the rights acquired by those
who hold public office. In the case of new places or
those that need to be filled but do not have to go through the
scheme "Quality Management" to promote SERVE,
We refund competitive access systems, where it is privileged to
officials who are developing a public career and
they can demonstrate merit based on their performance to justify their
promotion.
4. Good Protection Officer. Our experience in government
of the 1990s shows that, beyond the undoubted debt
we have with the country that we will be demonstrating against radicals
corruption, our system does not legally protects the good
public officials and can reach only reduce abuse
incentives for good people to make a public career
with dignity. Therefore, we will establish a system of legal protection
especially for those officials whose responsibilities may
involve legal questions from those affected or the
own state if such functions had been exercised
according to law. In coordination with the Comptroller General
Republic will establish a system giving protection
officials acting according to law, not undermine the protection of
State interests
28

www.fuerza2011.com

Government Plan
2011-2016

Force 2011

PILLAR 7. BE intolerant CORRUPTION
We have noted with persistence and humility that Fujimori has a
outstanding debt to the country that thinks settle. But we will not stand in
fiery speeches and media poses. Our policy aims
establish a set of mechanisms to reduce corruption:
1. Do not allow the recurring conflicts of interest.
We will present to Congress a bill that clearly defines
all potential conflicts of interest to prevent people
should safeguard the public interest and the state priorities, represent or
end representing undue private interests.
2. Promote the Political and Administrative Simplification Plan
to cut red tape and costs, so that citizens,
companies and investors do not face the discretion
bad public officials. Will expedite and simplify the
administrative procedures, by interconnecting
State entities. The information before Registries and Databases
Data from the Central Government will be "online" and available to all
other State agencies, especially the Local Governments and
Regional and the judiciary, through the Internet. During our
Most government formalities shall not attended (the Internet) and
low cost to the citizen and businessman. Our Government
it will favor the creation of single windows in shopping centers
throughout the country to bring the state to the citizen, schedules
extended. They will be placed in the windows decentralized
Committee on Elimination of Bureaucratic Barriers for INDECOPI
in partnership with the Office of the Comptroller General of Colombia and
Ombudsman solve problems immediately
that citizens can face in any proceedings before the
State and, if applicable, punish the corrupt officials.
3. Protection against political or economic pressure. Positions
key constituting the intermediate layer management state will
29

www.fuerza2011.com

Government Plan
2011-2016

Force 2011

competitively selected through SERVE, stability
officials will be ensured if their performance obtains
inherent results so that they are not subject to
risk of losing their jobs for refusing to political pressures or
in making economic decisions.
4. The transparency of public administration will be strengthened by giving
compliance with the obligation to publish the agendas of senior
officials, government agencies, and through web pages
show updated information on the responsibilities and
decisions of the institutions.
5. Improve the system of procurement, in order to provide it with
greater flexibility in exchange for greater efficiency, transparency and
competition.
6. Public officials transparent. We establish a system of
financial information for public officials, so that the
State to monitor the equity and financial information
declared by public officials during their career in the
Public Sector and then leave.
AXIS 8. the country will have a development plan
NATIONAL GOALS WILL WHOSE RESPONSIBILITY
SHARING OF ALL LEVELS OF GOVERNMENT
MAKING THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT, REGIONAL
Y
MUNICIPAL
CONTRIBUTE
COORDINATED
Y
EFFECTIVE DEVELOPMENT OF ALL
Regions.
1. A plan with goals for all and all Peruvians. The only one
how to guide the management of the state is expecting a Plan
National Development consider the objectives and goals that the
Government must meet during his five years in office, in which,
30

www.fuerza2011.com

Government Plan
2011-2016

Force 2011

also all Peruvians see reflected our priorities
developing. The history of governments of Peru is full of deals
election you will ever meet and why never elected
are accountable to the voters. Our government intends to revolutionize
the concept of management and accountability of the rulers against
their constituents. For this, the Government will prepare a Development Plan
National to propose a set of targets and indicators to country
measure their achievement. The Government shall be bound by those goals against
country. Goals as the elimination of malnutrition in our proposal
Government Plan will be national goals, with all
programs, projects and public resources must be aligned. This
how the Government will be able to assess how these contribute
programs, projects and public resources to achieve goals
national and possibly take corrective measures to achieve
an effective contribution.
2. A budget aligned to the results of the plan.
Deepen the modest progress implemented on
results-based budgeting. Thus, assigning
all public resources must respond to results
expressed in the national goals of the National Development Plan.
This requires the ability to monitor the executive branch will be strengthened and
evaluate programs and projects. Also implement the
multiyear investment budget, so that goals
National Development Plan are reflected in the projection
budget several years.
3. National targets will at all levels of government. The
regional and municipal governments should answer for their
contribution to national goals. Decentralization has delivered
functions and resources to regional and municipal governments. It is true
that they are now responsible for delivering health services,
nutrition or education, but that is no excuse for the Power
Executive sits released from the obligation to meet the needs
31

www.fuerza2011.com

Government Plan
2011-2016

Force 2011

citizens. Regardless of which level of government should
provide a service, is the right of citizens to receive it. The Plan
National Regional Development will encourage governments and
Municipal count with specific goals aligned to the goals
nationals. If the regions should be responsible for achieving coverage
100% vaccination on their territory, it must be accountable to
citizens, and compliance or non-compliance with those goals
You should consider new incentives and sanctions in the framework of the
decentralization. For example, a region or a municipality that meets
promptly with their obligations to provide services
could, as an incentive, have greater freedom to use their
because resources have been shown to have management skills.
4. Strengthen the management and investment of regions and municipalities.
to. Supporting professionalism in regions and municipalities.
We establish incentives in the legal framework of the
decentralization to enable regions and municipalities have
greater freedom in the use of funds to cover expenses
currents when they are intended to finance posts
government whose officials have been selected
competitively based on the criteria defined by SERVE.
b. Strengthening management capacity and cycle
Public investment. Through Improvement Agreements
Public Management establish management goals
enforced by municipal governments in
improving public management systems, Power
Executive provide technical assistance to municipalities. The
management goals include the commitment of municipalities
implement reforms in their financial management systems,
acquisitions, investments and tax administration in order
to improve expenditure management, tax collection and prioritize
quality investments to bridge infrastructure gaps and
improve service delivery. These agreements constitute an
support mechanism of the executive branch to municipalities
32

www.fuerza2011.com

Government Plan
2011-2016

Force 2011

they have the capacity to achieve the results they
apply in relation to the fulfillment of the Goals
Nationals of the National Development Plan.
c. The Bank of Investment Projects. Capitalizing on
accumulated experience programs in the nineties
as FONCODES, PRONAMACHS and Rural Roads,
We create a Bank of Investment Projects containing
models of social infrastructure (classrooms, health posts, centers
communal irrigation channels, drinking water) suitable for each
region and pre-approved, so that their technical documents and
Financial are available to municipalities when
they decide to execute such works and do not require major
pre-investment requirements.
d. Cofinanced projects. Create incentives for better
use of public resources and systems "joint venture"
by which the central government provides resources
complementary to those municipalities with fewer resources
decide to implement infrastructure to reduce
unequal opportunities for its people and improve their
life conditions.
5. Reducing inter-regional disparities. It has moquegua
per capita income twice the national average and twice the spending
average audience across the country. Meanwhile in the Puno
per capita income and spending are half the national average.
But the situation in public spending disparity remains even if
not canon is recorded, which means that decentralization has not
helped reduce disparities between regions and that the canon
He has accentuated. Our policies establish mechanisms to
compensate these inequalities so that the resources that the
Central Government allocated to poverty reduction and investment
priority public respond to the real needs of each region.

33

www.fuerza2011.com

Government Plan
2011-2016

Force 2011

Pillar 3
SAFETY for all Peruvians.
CRIME AND AGAIN defeat
Narcoterrorism TO GIVE ALL
PERU PERUVIAN A SAFE AND VIOLENCE
The lack of security in daily life is the main problem
our population, but contrary to what might be assumed investment
the State public safety is not sufficient and operational capacity
police forces is limited. This has resulted in the
generation of alternative security offerings (Serenazgo, Surveillance
Private), although this only works in those districts or provinces
they can afford, what about those who can not afford these services
complementary?
Although in fact the lack of security harms everyone, crime
becomes a prohibitive tax for the development of the poorest.
The loss may suffer a poor family of a victim
offense may be unrecoverable and condemn their members to
extreme poverty or limit its development for more than a generation. He
current scenario presents a situation of inequality of access to
security services, such as health and education are
essential services to achieve the country's development and rights are
key of the person. Our government will develop the following
public politics.
9. AXIS DEVELOPMENT SOCIAL INCLUSION AND CULTURE
CITIZEN.
It aims to create conditions and mechanisms to improve
peaceful coexistence, through support to a set of
interventions at the regional, provincial and district levels aimed at promoting
peaceful coexistence and prevent and control violence and social
Domestic as well as to promote protective factors in communities,
3. 4

www.fuerza2011.com

Government Plan
2011-2016

Force 2011

families and individuals at risk of violence and crime. Promote a culture
peace that allows a company oriented conciliatory spirit
solve the problems of civic manner.
1. We propose reducing any expression of violence, whether
It is within families, in communities, in the
schools. Also we propose, promote self Agreements
regulation among the media, to reduce
exposure to violence. We will promote the use of mechanisms
Alternative conflict resolution, such as negotiation and
reconciliation, avoiding reaching the Judiciary. Equally
will promote mechanisms to ensure respect for rights
Human of all, starting with the victims of violence and
crime. Promoting the culture of peace seek the elimination
weapons between citizens and the eradication of illegal possession of
Firearms.
2. For a safe city, fostering active participation
citizen. Observatories create Crime and Violence, with
active citizenship, to encourage a culture of
complaint: (1) simplified mechanisms, (2) promotion and
communication of these mechanisms and (3) result from them. For that
We will promote simplifying procedures and
elimination of the cost for processing complaints. Also,
We will promote community participation to increase
obligation of accountability to the institutions involved in
public safety and a real and timely support to children and
youth at risk. We believe that local problems
require local and timely solutions.
3. Promote the design or redesign of safe environments.
Actively promote good design practices
architecture to achieve safe environments (creating awareness
Concept of easy and effective surveillance lit environments, with
35

www.fuerza2011.com

Government Plan
2011-2016

Force 2011

good eye, clean and destugurizados) field; incorporate
techniques and strategies as CPTED (Crime Prevention Through
Environmental Design), which promote the design of spaces
safer urban (reduction of fear), joint work
state-enterprises to improve the surrounding areas of banks,
markets, shopping centers, universities and research centers,
public institutions, among others, to ensure spaces
surrounding insurance and the recovery of public spaces.
4. To promote a culture of inclusion and economic reintegration
social. Ensure that mechanisms to promote employment
youth and social inclusive offers, especially of young people
risk available and integrated programs
public safety, to promote social rehabilitation and reintegration
social gang members and juvenile delinquents (the social cost
economic of a young offender is tremendously high)
develop preventive work in neighborhoods and vulnerable areas and
identify trouble spots. Also to be included
communication strategies to promote changes in attitudes and
values ​​in children and young people, especially vulnerable groups.
Promote sports, cultural and artistic expressions in all
level.
HUB 10. Mechanisms of coercion and control
1. Safe City, center of attention. We are designing
mechanisms and legal systems and social protection for victims.
We will provide resources, will promote and strengthen the
Ombudsman to act ex officio in situations of
obvious injustice and abuse management system
justice. It also will increase the sense of justice on the
legalistic, in the administration of justice. As always we
insufficient financial and human resources, promote
36

www.fuerza2011.com

Government Plan
2011-2016

Force 2011

public-private partnerships for the construction of prisons, collaboration
incorporation of technologies, and electronic surveillance.
2. Bringing justice mechanisms to citizens.
We incorporate the concept of minor offenses courts, a level
police stations and district municipalities to promote
resolution quickly and timely manner, to increase the sense of
justice. Design review and clear mechanisms of intervention and
responsibility central (regional government and territorial authority
local). Will promote regulatory changes that allow
decriminalization of minor offenses in exchange for community work,
but strengthening the criteria to the regularity and severity
recidivism.
3. Stronger Laws. Increased penalties for specific offenses
as rape. Reduction or elimination of benefits
prison depending on the severity of the offense (a felony, unless
benefits). The penalty must take into account the recurrence
crime. You also need to create measures for extracarcelarias
misdemeanor, especially for young people who have committed
misdemeanor for the first time should be given alternative penalties
community work
4. Community Work. We establish criminal sanctions work
Community for certain crimes such as gang violence, no theft
and aggravated misdemeanors, in order to facilitate the reintegration of
those who have committed these crimes by showing the advantages and
importance of values ​​such as social life and work, without
expose them to risks currently it accounts intern in
criminal.
5. Increased number of prisons. The application of
heavy-handed policy requires building more jails
better and safer, these are priorities to be set out in
37

www.fuerza2011.com

Government Plan
2011-2016

Force 2011

through public-private effort. Overcrowding in our
prisons, which on average is about 43%, is not an excuse for
release for lack of capacity to address them or process them
the same reason. Should increase the number of centers
prisons to accommodate the population currently overcrowded and
which come in the future.
HUB 11. IMPROVING QUALITY, QUANTITY AND COVERAGE
Police Services
1. The formation of a technical and police will be oriented
progressive professionalization. We will review the practice
training programs of the police, looking for training
Basic Short incorporating subsequent specialization programs,
standardizing university academic standards based on
expertise and promoting a real merger with
specialized academic training college. We must also
encourage cooperation with serenazgos and mechanism for
add them to a system of public safety, subject to proof of
competences.
2. A policeman must have a decent pay for decent,
adequate family tranquility. Surely improving revenues
Specialty Function and results will be a policy that we will
top priority. We seek mechanisms to review and redefine
schedules and working hours (24x24), and the incorporation of
civilian personnel for the care of administrative processes in the PNP,
to rid the body of bureaucratic police work.
3. Create a social recognition and protection system
honest cop. Implement anti-corruption programs in the police
eliminate the bad elements, strengthening systems
police intelligence and generating a final political support
force of law and the police force. Incorporate legal mechanisms
38

www.fuerza2011.com

Government Plan
2011-2016

Force 2011

police protection for actions taken in fulfillment of
their work.
HUB 12. INFORMATION SYSTEMS AND CONTROL
DECISION MAKING
One of the main problems faced by police forces to
planning the fight against crime is the lack of information
timely, reliable, representative and above all useful. It has been estimated that in
average number of crimes that are reported represent 20%
of full .4 How are decisions taken in this context?
It proposes forming a cooperative information system
Inter generate timely manner, local information,
regional and national levels. System that is reliable and useful for planning
prevention and control of crime and violence and the
development of policies and programs in various fields.
1. To promote maximum use of technology
information to improve public safety. Achieve
unified crime statistics, criminal information, systems and
registration systems. Also systems for geo-referenced
crimes and tracking trends, identifying risk areas
and causality analysis. Strengthen the capacity of the security forces
order to have criminal databases, including
biometric information and the design of effective mechanisms
integration, cooperation and sharing of data between institutions
public (PNP, PJ, RENIEC, etc)
2. For a serious problem, high-tech solutions. Crime
not have space or truce, as the force of law will
specialized laboratories crime, access to technical and
equipment for crime prevention and monitoring by means
mails, use of video surveillance systems, with recognition
4

Support (2005) Victimization Survey

39

www.fuerza2011.com

Government Plan
2011-2016

Force 2011

tracking of faces and license plates, to design
early response mechanisms (crossing against blacklists:
stolen cars, counterfeit plates, requisitoriadas people), as well
maximum technological control in prisons: inflows and outflows
people and communications, scanning systems for detection
weapons, drugs and phones.
3. The authorities who ensure our public safety
They have better communications. Systems achieve
integrated communication between the police and the
strengthening systems and toll-free numbers for calls
emergency (fixed and mobile telephone lines, SMS, e-
electronic, emergency buttons on streets). We will have a
intensive program to provide media committees
neighborhood watch and actively promote the interconnection
Private surveillance cameras central emergency.

40

www.fuerza2011.com

Government Plan
2011-2016

Force 2011

Pillar 4
Promote the creation of more jobs QUALITY
CREATE MORE JOBS FOR MORE QUALITY
PERUVIAN
AXIS
13.
STRENGTHENING
THE
INSTITUTIONS
Macroeconomic TO BELIEVE THAT THE PERU
GROW AND PROMOTING INVESTMENT AND NATIONAL
FOREIGN.
The recovery of the economic collapse of the 1980s and
average growth of 7 percent annually experienced by Peru
the last five years are a direct result of the economic model
Constitution of 1993. This model established the basis for a policy
sustainable-absent during the decade of 1980, he eliminated most tax
the numerous formal protectionist barriers that isolated
our economy, strengthened the protection of property rights,
our economy and linked to markets.
Recent studies by experts conclude World Bank5
macroeconomic stabilization and structural reforms
the model established by the 1993 Constitution are the factors
key to boosting economic growth in Peru since 1990
the date. The reforms of the 1993 Constitution are what allowed
financial sector development, trade liberalization and improvements
infrastructure. These, together with the stabilization policies
Macroeconomic, which eliminated inflation and financial crises
systemic, they allowed the Peruvian economy to grow over the decade
1990 at a rate of 1.3 percentage points above the average
those of the 1980s and that this growth will continue in rates
Similar in 2000-05 (only 0.72 percentage points
high) to more than double from 2006. The model
5

Loayza, Norman. 2006. "Growth in Peru." Draft, "Peru: The Opportunity of a different country." World Bank. 2006.

41

www.fuerza2011.com

Government Plan
2011-2016

Force 2011

1993 Constitution was consolidated through measures such as the Act
Fiscal Responsibility and Transparency and the Organic Law of the Bank
Central Reserve, all of which also began in the 1990s.
Without the maintenance of stable macroeconomic environment and continuity
policies established in the 1993 Constitution throughout the
2000s would not have been possible the emergence of agro-industry
exporting or investing in mining and energy projects, the vast
Most started in the 1990s.
Fujimori is not mean to recognize that governments
2000s have continued the model of the 1993 Constitution and
They have been employed to attract more private investment or signing free
trade, but in turn we are emphatic and we are proud to be
the direct perpetrators of the reforms that are allowing the takeoff
Peru. As evidence of our commitment to model
1993 Constitution to propose a set of country
institutional locks designed to ensure that all Peruvians
This institutional framework will be maintained to ensure continuity
growth. Only ensuring the steady growth not lower rates
7 per cent per annum will be progressively eliminate inequality
opportunities and eradicate poverty.
Maintaining growth. Our government is committed to
keep the model of the 1993 Constitution in order to ensure
successful macroeconomic management. Also, we are committed to
strengthen the institutional environment that encourages the private sector to lead
the growth of output and employment. Our commitment is
facilitate continued growth in fees not less than 7 percent
of GDP, to the extent that growth is a key element for
further reduce poverty.

42

www.fuerza2011.com

Government Plan
2011-2016

Force 2011

14. SHAFT FOR CREATING THE NECESSARY INSTITUTIONS
INCREASE PRODUCTIVITY, INNOVATION AND
Competitiveness of our companies and our
WORKERS.
As well as Peru and exporters have begun to access
new markets through economic liberalization under
model of the 1993 Constitution and free trade agreements,
our Government will promote the implementation of the provisions
constitutional to ensure that all Peruvians can also
access to free enterprise and free trade within the country or in connection
with leading exporters, eliminating all obstacles affecting
negatively productivity, innovation deprotected and prevent
our companies traded on formality, reducing drastically
competitiveness.
98 percent of the Peruvian business world consists of
small and medium enterprises (SMEs) in its large informal majority.
All attempts to incorporate them into the formal economy have party
classify them by size or number and seek mechanisms to promote
formality, without assessing if they have any conditions or
qualities needed to integrate business activities whose high
productivity allows them access to domestic markets and
export, and therefore require development within formality.
These capabilities and possibilities to organize and operate (costs
transaction) are competitively productive and that determine the
number and size of our companies. Market failures and
government (or regulation) determine transaction costs and
organization, which in turn does not allow the existence of the number and
size (productive and competitive) and generate business
existence of high levels of underemployment unemployment in our country.
A case that illustrates this situation is the credit market
SMEs and traditional companies. A decade ago the micro-credit was
43

www.fuerza2011.com

Government Plan
2011-2016

Force 2011

almost nonexistent, so the absence of a market for microcredit as
by the absence of public regulations. The creation of institutions like
My Bank have helped to reduce the costs of market entry
credit to small and micro enterprises. However, the spread between
Interest rates charged to a micro business and a traditional business is
abysmal (market failure). Consequently, survival
SME business in the medium term is limited because their
productivity is severely affected by the differential costs
transaction in relation to a traditional company. Another case is the
situation facing products processing plants
export and farmers producing such products. Before the
absence of proper regulation (government failures) plants
processors tend to take over the surplus of farmers due
the inflexibility of investment in agriculture (especially
case of long maturation products) versus flexibility
investments in processing plants.
In order to improve the productivity of our businesses, protect their
innovative efforts and help make them more competitive, in order
to create more jobs, our government will promote the following
public politics:
1. employment more flexible. We are aware and respectful of the
workers' rights and in particular of job stability.
We respect the right of those who have it. However, we are
equally aware that a great majority of Peruvians, who are
about 70% of the EAP, sees satisfied their right to work because
It does not have a quality employment or adequate compensation or
Nor health and pension systems. For the vast majority of
Peruvians take immediate measures aimed at making the
costs that companies must pay to hire workers
considerably reduced. Similarly as at the end of the
1990s promoted standards for labor flexibility
agricultural workers have now been incorporated into legislation,
44

www.fuerza2011.com

Government Plan
2011-2016

Force 2011

implement emergency regulations that lower the cost of
hiring in order to increase the supply of jobs and the amount of
salaries offered.
2. To facilitate the payment of taxes. Taxation should stop being
complicated. We will promote simple declaration and payment mechanisms
not to frighten entrepreneurs who want to enter the
formalization. We will stop issuing tax rules for only one
urban reality, our priority will be to recognize the different realities
in our country, encouraging the enactment of rules according to the
location and activities in which taxpayers are developed.
3. Prepare our workforce. We want workers capable of
stay with jobs. It is therefore essential that the State provide
coordination between labor profiles required by our
companies and capabilities generated by universities, institutes
technological and secondary schools. Develop programs
sets with Peruvian companies, aimed at identifying profiles
Peruvian ideal worker. So, we tailored to Peruvian worker
have plenty of employability, that is, capable of
maintain labor market value, so to win in
flexibility and adaptability, which is capable of joining different
possess high capacity environments and lifelong learning.
4. Starting to Work. We will establish the Program "Beginning
to Work "by which the state will fund outstanding students
universities to support municipal governments with limited
resources in developing their plans and investment projects; and to
support to small and micro enterprises in developing their plans
of business
5. Program Associating efforts to grow and compete. The
SME association corresponding to the same branch or branches
Additional constitutes an effective competitiveness strategy.
4. 5

www.fuerza2011.com

Government Plan
2011-2016

Force 2011

An embryonic effort to show the virtues of the partnership is the
If shopping programs "millions" of divers, shoes, etc.,
driven in 1990. Our government will promote the association
SMEs but not only to connect with the public sector, but
also identifying opportunities in the private sector. With the purpose of
identify the potential for vertical integration of enterprises through
Clusters, will make the first Census Competitiveness
SMEs in order to identify their potential for inclusion in
production chains connected to markets. Based on this census,
role of the state will focus on promoting and facilitating partnership
SMEs in order to insert them into production chains.
6. Entrepreneurial Business Programme. Studies on the success of
Asian economies have identified that the intervention in
these countries away from central planning to use what they have
fact is explicitly conditioned introduce incentives
business performance. Ie, what these countries have done is
replicate what a market economy would, only to encourage
Successful companies and penalize poor performance. Therefore to
These strategies are known as "endogenous incentives" or
"Incentives contingent". The common feature is that the
"Incentives contingent" only awarded based on performance
individual enterprise. In contrast indiscriminate incentives,
also called "industrial development policies" promote
inefficiency and rent-seeking behavior of the companies involved.
The type of "contingent incentives" departs systems
decentralized planning because the goal of the first looks
eliminate "market failure" while the planning system
centralized seeks to eliminate the essence of the free market. The goodness of
type "incentives contingent" it is that it is associated with the
businesses be successful. In Peru the best example of these programs
is one also designed in the early 1990s and whose execution was
It followed by the successive governments of the 2000s It is the
"MIVIVIENDA." program
46

www.fuerza2011.com

Government Plan
2011-2016

Force 2011

With the experience of having designed the "MIVIVIENDA" Program
We are committed to applying a similar model for the creation of
Program "Emprendoras Companies", used in an integrated manner
concepts of "clusters" and public-private partnerships to
enable the creation, growth and competitiveness of the industry
small and micro enterprises. To do identify Units
Minimum Viable micro -UMMV-, made up
sets economically structured population
micro and able to generate sufficient economic conditions
to ensure full employment of its members, as well as a
appropriate economic surplus that allows its sustainability
time under conditions of market competition and free of all
state subsidy or otherwise. These sets of micro
They will be structured in "clusters" connected markets
previously identified, through public-private partnerships. The
production of these clusters will be oriented, first, to
meet the subsistence needs of families who are
part thereof, so that the consumption of these products
and services will be the first defining factor of sustainable demand
Min. The second factor sustainability will demand
possible connection of the products and services generated by
"Clusters" with external demand to UMMV. Our government
entrepreneurial companies establish the program in order
to conduct, in conjunction with the private sector and academia
Business, feasibility studies and the organization of these
"Clusters", identifying the internal and external demand to the cluster, and
assistance for your organization; and establishing a similar fund
the MIVIVIENDA that allows "clusters" can access
private sector loans at interest rates that make them sustainable.
7. The cooperative sector will be recognized and promoted by the state.
Cooperative Sector dotaremos a modern and flexible legislation
can compete on equal terms with other companies
47

www.fuerza2011.com

Government Plan
2011-2016

Force 2011

Private sector. We recognize the differences between the
cooperatives and cooperative actions that they develop in front of the
commercial enterprises. We will promote the existence of a genuine
cooperative movement of users and workers and fiscalizaremos
penalize those who abuse the corporate form. We will provide
an appropriate regulatory framework for the development of cooperatives
workers and self-managed companies, as distinct from the
labor intermediation business enterprises.
15. SHAFT building more roads, ports and
AIRPORTS.
To keep growing, Peru needs to improve substantially the
productive infrastructure. An excellent measure allowing not only
meet our efficiency levels, but our true capacity
be competitive in the world, is the logistical cost that marks our
operations. The logistics cost is one that includes all aspects
affect the movement of goods: proceedings (essentially generated by
legal) procedures, administrative costs (including insurance, security
and losses), storage (losses, damages and storages), inventories
(Financial, stocks, goods in transit) and transport (freight). While
in Peru the logistics cost is on average 32% of the cost of a
product exports in Chile is 18% and barely reaches Singapore
8.5%.
The logistics cost is a good measure, then, to know whether the
infrastructure of a country is competitive or not.
This apparently is a disadvantage for Peru, actually
It is a great opportunity. If these rates we are exporting
the known volumes, it is clear that Peru be able to huge
advances, when the government reduced these inefficiencies.
Our goal is to lower the logistics cost at least 20% in the
next 5 years.
48

www.fuerza2011.com

Government Plan
2011-2016

Force 2011

1. Make a big effort in the construction of roads and
large infrastructure projects. We will promote this great effort
2 ways: public-private partnership models, and if the
cases have not attractive enough or high risks, with full
State participation.
2. Promote the road integration of the regions of the country, connecting
all this road platform with neighboring countries to boost
trade with them. We want to be actually three roads
Longitudinal country: The Pan-American, which crosses the Andes and the
marginal jungle.
3. Establish the connection of cities to encourage
trade, to unite coast, highlands and jungle, driving
cross roads, allowing off products
inside the country.
4. Improve access and increase operational capacity
ports such as Callao and boost the granting of
ports of Salaverry, Pisco, Pucallpa and Yurimaguas among others.
5. Expand the capacity of airports, so that the main
airports in the country have better infrastructure, improve levels
security and incorporate technology to expand capacity
operational.
6. To promote multimodal transport, seeking maximum
connectivity of the different modes of transport (water, land
and air) including aggressive investment programs in networks
railways, mainly for high traffic axes.
7. propose measures to reduce the time, such
the simplification of processes, expansion windows
unique, incorporating digital signature technologies for
eliminating paperwork, and improved mechanisms
certification.
49

www.fuerza2011.com

Government Plan
2011-2016

Force 2011

AXIS
16.
DRIVING
OUR
COMPETITIVE IN TOURISM

ADVANTAGES

Tourism contributes substantially to the economy of Peru by
income and employment generation, as well as production effects
indirect multipliers productivasagricultura in almost all activities, industry, services - that ultimately involve benefits
economic, social and cultural rights for the country. Yet today
still underutilized, with a high concentration of demand in the
southern circuit, especially in the axis Cusco Machu Pichu and low levels of
development in the North and Central zones. To overcome this situation and
competitive advantage benefits, consider tourism
as a priority strategic activity for the development of the Peru,
running strategic planning processes and will promote
and we will make the necessary investments, with the central goal of putting
in operation for domestic and foreign tourism, tourist areas
potential, considering tourism as a tool to combat
poverty and raise the living standards of the population.
1. Consolidate three macro tourist circuits. The planned operation
tourism, is performed by the travel routes or circuits
surpass the established geopolitical boundaries and are implemented in
According to the assessment of the attractions, infrastructure and
services. In the case of Peru, it is structure was established,
analyzed and evaluated in the "Tourism Development Master Plan
National "prepared with the aim of alleviating poverty and
regional imbalance, but this plan has not yet been implemented.
Update Master Plan approaches, adapting to the
new infrastructure being implemented, especially in field
transport and expedite the development of the following major
tours, covering the entire national territory:
to. Nor-Amazon Tourist Circuit: Incorporating north circuit
the powerful appeal of the Amazon.
50

www.fuerza2011.com

Government Plan
2011-2016

Force 2011

b. Circuit Tourist center: Incorporating the attractions of the
multiple ecological zones of the coast, mountains and jungle.
c. Southern Tourist Circuit: Consolidating the current use of
its attractions, improving quality and promoting
sustainability.
2. Make the Peru a safe tourist destination. Will running
a comprehensive national program for information security and tourism, which
protect the tourist and duly support, not only during their stay
I in Peru but also in the actions and procedures that could
then make their return to their place of residence. The tourist is the
main character of tourism, and as such should
provide all the facilities and services required for their
visit, at the highest levels of quality, with the main objective of which
at the end of his tour, perceive that their previous expectations
trip were fully met during his visit, perception
It will improve the tourist image of Peru. Consequently,
We will support the National Tourism Quality Plan with emphasis on
human resources, tourism service providers and destinations
tourism, promoting especially the implementation of a stamp
national tourism quality.
3. Consolidate and expand our tourism competitive advantages. The
Peruvian cuisine has positioned itself as a tourist attraction
first order in the international arena, reinforcing the image of Peru
and generating additional employment and income, based on an effort
private with government support. Following this example, by
public-private joint efforts will continue to support
development substantially by extending it to other activities
integrating the rich cultural heritage of Peru, especially in the
field of folklore, which include crafts, music, dance,
traditional festivals, fairs and markets, expressions of high value for
national and international tourism.
51

www.fuerza2011.com

Government Plan
2011-2016

Force 2011

HUB 17. addressing the causes of rural poverty
THE increase productivity
E making it competitive rural economy
INTEGRATING THE MARKET. SIERRA PROGRAM
PRODUCTION
The saw has almost 11 million inhabitants of which more than 6
million live in rural areas. Although the rural highlands has only 20% of
the country's population, accounts for about 50% of the poor. While
coastal and rural jungle not focus this number of population, poverty
these areas is similar. Forty years after the land reform agriculture
Peru is polarized, first midsize companies,
large modern are oriented to external markets, and
Moreover small farmers producing for the market
or domestic consumption, are marginalized from government attention
forming small farmers and rural communities and
native. This small-scale agriculture in Peru is still subsistence
where few farmers have surplus to invest in their land and
it is therefore not easy to improve them and they are unable to obtain
irrigation technologies and build infrastructure. Various programs have
had positive impacts on specific areas of implementation. Between
They mainly highlighted the program called private initiative
Productive Sierra has been a resounding success and we will give resources
and absolute government support. However, until today
It lacks a comprehensive strategy to coordinate all efforts
intended to banish poverty and generate growth and jobs
sustainable. The establishment of partnerships aimed at making the
external "marketable" production in domestic markets and also
successful examples have been, however, incapable of replicating
massively. Our government's strategy for growth
in the rural highlands of the country it will be based on the following policies:
1. coordinated intervention strategy. Our government used
the process of preparing the National Development Plan as
52

www.fuerza2011.com

Government Plan
2011-2016

Force 2011

tool for the creation of Regional Development Plans
identify and prioritize the needs of public services and
infrastructure and competitive advantages and opportunities
production of the different areas occupied by rural Peru. These
coordinated with the regional authorities and municipal plans
order will allow the different interventions of the state, in all
levels, in providing services and building
infrastructure so that this public investment contributes
directly to eliminate the causes of poverty and lack of growth.
As noted in Pillar 4 of our proposal, we will establish
incentives for co-investment between central government and governments
regional and municipal, in order to promote the implementation of the
priority investments.
2. Nutrition, Health and Quality Education. The provision of these
efficient public services is essential for the development of
Rural Peru. High levels of malnutrition, anemia and dropout
They focus on the population of the rural highlands and are one of the
biggest constraints to its population can take
productive activities. How is it in our Pillar 3
proposal, the actions of our government in these areas have as
commitment to the eradication of extreme poverty and the provision of
quality services.
3. Expand the infrastructure. The more than 40,000 works executed by
FONCODES, added to irrigation canals built by
PRONAMACHS are the clearest evidence of two programs created
in the 1990s that show our commitment to Peru
rural but, more importantly, they are proof that it is possible
use public resources in rural areas of the country with efficiency.
Pillar of Good Governance proposes a set of measures
to strengthen decentralization, giving local authorities
sufficient technical knowledge and skills to perform
investment in quality infrastructure.
53

www.fuerza2011.com

Government Plan
2011-2016

Force 2011

4. Associating Program Efforts to grow and compete and
Entrepreneurial Business Programme. These two programs will be
promoted especially in the rural highlands. Based on experience
developed during the 1990s, we will promote the organization
the supply of agricultural products, particularly in the sectors
poorest farmers, integrating it with the demand for programs
State food, including those who require
food supply as school breakfasts and lunches,
Wawa Wasi and Kitchens and purchases
conducted armed and police institutions. This, together with the promotion
native product consumption will increase the possibility of
integrate the rural economy to markets.
5. Farmers and community owners. Finish titling
rural and peasant and native communities, ensuring that the
it has plans to geodetic references chosen to
avoid the many conflicts that continue to occur around
ownership of rural land.
AXIS 18: SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT
NATURAL RESOURCES AND ENVIRONMENT

FROM

OUR

Peru has a geography is more than 28 million
inhabitants and a huge diversity of landscapes, species and cultures, fact
it ranks as the fourth country in the world with more diversity
biological, both ecosystems and species and genetic resources. He
Peru is the first country of native species and many endemic species
unique in the world and ranks second in forest area
tropical, has 84 of the 104 life zones that exist on the planet
because of the variety of terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems in the
territory, Peru also has abundant mineral, gas and resources
water. Everything together makes the Peruvian territory a privileged country
in international markets, they see in the sustainable management of
54

www.fuerza2011.com

Government Plan
2011-2016

Force 2011

environmental resources the planet's future, since natural resources
well managed are the basis for sustained economic growth for
the welfare of the poorest people. In today's Peru, diversity
biological supports at least 22% of our economy and 24% of
our exports, 6 Peru is the only country in the world
virtually any food product market is absent
any month of the year. n the last 11 years the national agro-export
Organic Wastes almost exclusively natives-products grew like no
another area of ​​the national economy. This boom is because it is
exclusive or almost exclusive products in the world.
1. Natural Resources, our future. Caring for the enormous wealth
natural resources with which Peru has not only benefit the
current population but of future generations, for this work
in creating a public awareness of the non-extendable
need to protect natural resources, our culture, traditions and
preserve the environment, ie priority will be the development of
person, human and social capital.
2. Strengthen environmental institutions. The institutional framework
environmental inter-sectoral in its role be strengthened, encouraging their
decentralization planned in order to achieve economic development
harmony with society and the environment.
3. Public and Private Sector: eco-efficiency needed. We will promote the
consolidation of national environmental management system that allows
implement eco-efficiency in the public sector and promote the
incorporating effective private sector participation mechanisms
citizen and consultation in decision-making.
4. Land Management as a development tool.
We will promote land use planning on the basis of the
6

Ministry of Environment. 2010. Peru Economy and Biodiversity. 47pp.

55

www.fuerza2011.com

Government Plan
2011-2016

Force 2011

ecological and economic zoning, indispensable tool for
sustainable management of extractive and productive activities.
5. Support the keepers. We will promote a pattern of conservation
and sustainable management of ecosystems through the establishment of
Environmental Services Payment for Ecosystem Services or compensation.
AXIS 19: ENERGY PERU
The energy sector is the second largest in the country. Refering to
power generation, the installed capacity of power plants
power between 1999- 2008 increased by 24% due to increased
hydraulic power source (21.3%) and thermal energy source (27.6%).
The source of wind energy has remained constant. By 2009, the potential
hydropower in Peru was 58 GW. The current energy matrix is
diverse and mostly comes from renewable energy, because 59% of the
electricity market is generated by hydropower, 31% occurs
gas, 5% residual 3% by coal and only 2% with diesel. While
we have energy sources, distribution and access to it is not
homogeneous.
1. Light for all. We give priority program source distribution
appropriate energy in rural areas and coastal areas of our
Amazon because it is a necessary basic resource for development.
2. Promote Energy Efficiency. We will promote the
diversification of the energy matrix through the development and inclusion
renewable energy, promotion of energy efficiency
industries and residential services and a better quality fuel.
3. Intelligent Development. It will be invested in transport infrastructure
massive and changing energy matrix of the fleet as
clean development tools.
56

www.fuerza2011.com

Government Plan
2011-2016

Force 2011

AXIS 20: MINING
Mining is the first productive activity. Peru is the largest producer
silver and copper second worldwide: producer of gold, zinc,
tin, lead, molybdenum in Latin America. While this activity
contributes significantly to GDP, it is also associated with higher
number of environmental liabilities and resulting risks, as well as
social conflicts of the communities for possible infringement of their
Limited resources and social responsibility of companies. In the country is
visible notoriously polluted increasing geographical areas,
due to the presence of environmental liabilities generated by infrastructure
abandoned, improperly disposed solid waste and other
factors affecting and threatening the environmental balance of spaces
urban and rural and primarily to human health. MINEM in
August 2010, published the 5553 miners existence of environmental liabilities.
Small-scale and artisanal mining activities are in
They act largely informal. In 2006, 85% of miners
artisanal and informal, generated a production of 24t (10% of the
national) production with a value of approximately US $ 390 million.
The misuse of mercury and cyanide in its processes contributing to serious
river pollution and impact on health of people.
1. Young can contribute to a big change. At the end of
our government period 100% of small-scale mining and mining
artisan will find applying environmental management tools.
2. To honor our debt to the environment. We will plan the
remediation of environmental liabilities and demand that
large and medium mining companies comply with standards
environmental and social commitments.

57

www.fuerza2011.com

Government Plan
2011-2016

Force 2011

3. Economy, Environment and Social Responsibility go hand in hand. They
They will establish principles that integrate in a harmonious way
economy, environment and social responsibility, to ensure
the harmonious continuity of mining.
4. No Fears, will give the jump. Incentives will be provided to give
the jump in the mining sector, from being a supplier of materials
a provider of premium services, machinery and inputs with value
added to the national and international markets, this will
will boost private sector cooperation with academia and industry
governmental around technology parks to boost the
"Mining clusters".

58

www.fuerza2011.com
