450 Commitments for social growth of Peru

Government Plan 2011- 2016
More and better education

450

Commitments
social growth
of Peru

With Toledo ... to Peru not for anyone!
With Toledo ... to Peru not for anyone!
1

450 Commitments for social growth of Peru

With Toledo ... to Peru not for anyone!
2

450 Commitments for social growth of Peru

"The challenge is to build together a better country for all,
an efficient State, fair and transparent government,
and an inclusive society. Working for equality
opportunities for all and for democracy
delivers results; That is my commitment. "

Alejandro Toledo
Presidential Candidate 2011

With Toledo ... to Peru not for anyone!
3

450 Commitments for social growth of Peru

With Toledo ... to Peru not for anyone!
4

450 Commitments for social growth of Peru

CONTENT
P.
Vision, what do we?

7

Principles and Objectives

8

1. Growth and Development for All

9

2. The Education Revolution

eleven

3. Infrastructure Development

fifteen

4. For a productive, competitive agro Costa, Sierra and Selva

19

5. More mercadovs, more investment, more development

21

6. Strategic Alliance between State, Business and University

2. 3

7. Towards a state that meets the less fortunate

25

8. All Peruvians are equal

26

9. Health care is a civil right

27

10. What we did well, we will do better

29

11. Clean energy and at low cost for all

31

12. decent and well paid

33

13. Authority and Leadership to crime: Zero Tolerance

3. 4

14. Towards the modernization of our Armed Forces

36

15. A Peru admired and respected in the world

37

16. Full respect for the rule of law and the Constitution

38

17. Young to work!

40

18. A Peru Verde, sustainable country

41

19. Our cultural diversity is our strength

43

20. territorial development decentralized and democratic

4. 5

21. Towards a modern, efficient and competitive State

47

22. Commission of the Government Plan

49

With Toledo ... to Peru not for anyone!
5

450 Commitments for social growth of Peru

With Toledo ... to Peru not for anyone!
6

450 Commitments for social growth of Peru

View

Growth for all
It behooves us to build the next stage of growth
competitive decentralized, with greater added value and
greater participation of the people in its benefits.
This new stage of growth must be eco
environment, eliminating extreme poverty and exclusion,
a democratic state, guarantor of the rights and safety
citizens, and respected in the international community.
At the end of our government we aspire to leave a country
more prosperous, more just and more inclusive, with citizens
better educated, with more and better jobs, with a
high national self-esteem, prepared to deal with
optimism and determination the bicentennial
national.

What we want?

•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

New growth reaches everyone.
Quality education.
Worthy and well paid jobs.
Citizen security.
Eradicate extreme poverty and inequality.
Protect the environment.
Decentralized and competitive.
Building a Republic of citizens.
More and better Justice

With Toledo ... to Peru not for anyone!
7

450 Commitments for social growth of Peru

Our Principles

•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Democracy
Effectiveness
Transparency
Growth
Inclusion
Security
Decentralization
Justice
Human rights

goals

1. Build the new competitive and decentralized economy,
with greater participation of the population in its benefits.
2. Eliminate extreme poverty and exclusion.
3. Social policies for competitiveness.
4. To protect and improve our environment and biodiversity.
5. The citizen and national security.
6. Construction of the Republic of citizens

With Toledo ... to Peru not for anyone!
8

450 Commitments for social growth of Peru

ECONOMY
Growth and Development for all

• Economic policy leading to a
growth not less than 6%.
• To improve efficiency, it is proposed
simplifying and streamlining regulation
exemptions.
• To improve equity it is proposed
Based on direct taxes.
• To improve the neutrality it is proposed
heterogeneity lower rates
tax.
• Reduction of Tax Evasion
at least 20%, considering
new measures to be implemented by the
tax administration, under schemes
Similar to shrink, tax perception,
etc.
• Reducing informality by 10%.
• Review expenses deductible payment
Income tax in the fourth category,
must endeavor greater tax equity
regarding legal persons.
• Rationalisation of exemptions
tax, diminishing them from 2%
GDP up to 1.6% of GDP.
• Reduction of smuggling by 50%.

• Public policies continue to improve
the business climate and reduce costs
in procedures before companies
State agencies and development
basic research.
• Creating transfer centers
technology.
• Public policies that promote sectors
with competitive advantages and intensive
labor, such as tourism, agribusiness,
confections, biotechnology, among others.
• Public policies to give greater rating
to labor to make it more
employability, make the labor supply
is more compatible with demand,
which seeks to reduce underemployment
at least 50% (47% to 23%) and
Open unemployment from 8% to 5%.
• major constraints will be established
authorization for public funds
travel abroad by public officials,
and the allocation and use of vehicles,
operating and advertising expenses.
• it will continue with new initiatives
re profiling the public debt
initiated in 2003.
• Redesigning regulatory mechanisms
State, so that guarantee
quality of services, competition and
protect users.

To access the digital document
go to:
www.alejandrotoledo.pe or from
a smartphone scans the image
Download the application to your smartphone in http://gettag.mobi

With Toledo ... to Peru not for anyone!
9

450 Commitments for social growth of Peru

Map Macro-Regions

With Toledo ... to Peru not for anyone!
10

450 Commitments for social growth of Peru

EDUCATION
The Education Revolution
The Peru is growing economically. However, remains in part a primary productive matrix
exporter with pockets of poverty and marginalization in both rural and urban areas
marginal. Quality education is the engine that drives the wealth of nations and the best
strategy to overcome poverty, exclusion and inequalities.
It is a political and moral duty to transform existing educational structures that perpetuate
inequality experienced by 70% of children and adolescents of the popular sectors,
promoting democracy in what we called "The Education Revolution".
The Revolution of Education requires the joint effort of the State, teachers, parents,
family, students and civil society, acting and intervening in all levels of education:
Initial, Basic, Technical and Superior.
It implies, therefore, raise the sector's budget so that it will double at the end of the period
2011- 2016. This State Policy demand a National Pact for Education that compromises
to all national, regional and local government and civil society.

Our commitment:
• Allocate 20% of Budget
Republic for Education, reaching
end of period doubling the budget
education.
• integrating universalize preschool education
food support, health and education,
Based on the concerted action of the Ministry
Education with the Ministry of Health.
• Articulate a new model of intervention
in
Education
Rural,
managed
territorially integral way,
respecting multiculturalism and
multilingualism, with schools
polidocente, modern, well-equipped,
accommodation, meals, and
bless you.

• Project
a
Education
Primary
decentralized and based on results.
School autonomy, technical equipment
and decentralized strategic projects.
30% of schools equipped conditions
modern with incentives and encouragement to
teachers, performance goals, resources and
projects.
• Building a new infrastructure
educational, earthquake resistant and inclusive,
accompanied by gravitational centers
educational services complex
attend schools organized in networks.
3,000 new schools and 400
Educational Resource Centres.
• Reforming Secondary Education
connecting with potential

With Toledo ... to Peru not for anyone!
eleven

450 Commitments for social growth of Peru

regional and technology. An additional year
studies and organization at two levels:
a) Humanities b) Science and Technology.

• 25 regions strengthened in their teams,
programs and projects.
SECONDARY EDUCATION:

• Create the Satellite System Platform
National Public Educational information
in line connected to the needs
regional.
• Promote National Training
Teacher performance standards
Professional articulated to the Public Career
Magisterial.

• Coverage of 85%.
• 75% of high school students
They culminate.
• 40% of high school students make
the expected learning.
RURAL EDUCATION:

• Linking the Technical and Further Education
national development. Technological Institutes
according to demands of production
regional and member of the Public University
National Development.
• University Law that ensures resources
sufficient research.
• Standardize the faculty.
INITIAL EDUCATION:
• 90% of children 3-5 years old
served by the education system.
• 800,000 children 3-5 years old
now excluded, incorporated into the system
education.
• 4,000 new early education centers.
BASIC EDUCATION:
• 60% of children with sufficient level of
reading and math.
• 60% of primary schools equipped
modern conditions, with incentives
and incentives for teachers, goals
performance, resources and projects suitable
to address diversity with a focus
inclusive, compensatory and democratic.

• 50% of children in sufficient level of achievement
Learning.
• 80% of rural students served with
quality educational offerings.
• 100% coverage of bilingüeintercultural education.
• 1 million children breakfast,
lunch, health insurance, school backpack
and transportation.
• 1,800 schools and Modern
Equipped.
• 200 Watershed Resource Centres.
• Salary increase of 20% in addition to the
rural teachers.
TECHNICAL EDUCATION:
• 1,000 million soles investment
infrastructure and equipment for
technical education.
• 100 Technological Higher Institutes
enhanced with technology
linked to regional development. 5
Region.
• Agreements with the private sector to expand
the network of technical schools.
UNIVERSITY EDUCATION:
• Creation of the National Development Council
Public University that links
vocational training, research and

With Toledo ... to Peru not for anyone!
12

450 Commitments for social growth of Peru

scientific and technological development with
actual requirements of the country.
• New University Management. Choosing
Authorities, Rector and Deans in their field
optional, universal and direct vote
by teachers and students, respecting
proportionality in the third vote
student.
• Amendment of Law No. SINEACE
28740, giving powers to demand
educational institutions, information
relevant and from which you can define
Criteria for evaluation and accreditation
certification, propose policies and joint
operators organs.
• Approval of university teachers.
PROJECT HUASCARÁN repowering:
• 70% of schools in the country
Internet access.
• Satellite Interconnection 100% of districts
from the country.
• Educational Management Information System
implemented.

• 400 Basic Educational Resource Centers
- CEBRE - to serve 800,000
4,000 students located in IIEE
human settlements and rural areas.
• 100% currently regulate IIEE
state, refurbished and repaired.
QUALITY TEACHERS AND MANAGERS:
• Teacher Salary doubled in the period.
• Establishment of productivity bonuses
teachers whose students have
the best results in tests
national assessment of knowledge,
as well as the PISA.
• 100% of Faculties of Education
Higher Pedagogical Institutes
accredited.
• 100% of Directors appointed through
A national assessment.
• 100% of contract teachers appointed.
• 120,000 teachers trained at the post
degree for a period of two years.

EDUCATIONAL INFRASTRUCTURE:
• Construction of 3,000 new
Educational Institutions (IISS).

from

Wages
Masters
Wages
Teachers
16
14
12
10
8
6
4
2
0

Wages

Before

2001-2006

2006-2011

2011-2016

With Toledo ... to Peru not for anyone!
13

450 Commitments for social growth of Peru

Educational Centers Map

With Toledo ... to Peru not for anyone!
14

450 Commitments for social growth of Peru

TRANSPORT AND COMMUNICATIONS
Infrastructure Development
We need to integrate Peru, internally and externally, helping to improve our
competitiveness, providing our population with the necessary infrastructure in transport,
communications and information technology, which allows fast access, safe,
comfortable and inexpensive, both international, national, regional and local markets;
as health services and education.
Upon completion of our management, by 2016, 6,500 km. of paved roads corresponding Network
National Road; about 50% of the departmental network and about 40% of the Neighborhood Network,
They will be in good traffic conditions.
The implementation of infrastructure projects that propose to generate 70,000 jobs
350,000 direct and indirect jobs during the five years of government.

Our proposal:
•	Increase
the
Investment
Public
development and conservation
transport infrastructure and
communications.
• Promote Private Investment in
concession of highways, airports,
ports, railways and telecommunications.
• Reorganize, decentralize and modernize
the Transport and Communications Sector
Information technology
• Eradicate corruption in the sector.
• Revise the methodology of SNIP purposes
reduce cycle assessment
projects and quantify the benefits
exogenous and social.
NEW ROADS:
• The Road of the Incas - "THE Qapaq
ÑAN "Paving of 1,625 km. road.
7.1 million inhabitants of beneficiaries
Piura, Cajamarca, La
Libertad, Ancash, Huanuco, Pasco, Junin,
Huancavelica, Ayacucho.

• The circuit VRAE: Tarmac 610 km.
road: Huanta - San Francisco;
Satipo - San Francisco; Quillabamba - San
Francisco. Benefited Population: 740,000
inhabitants of the provinces of Huamanga,
Huanta, La Mar, The Convention and Satipo.
• decongestion of the Central Road:
Asphalting of the following roads:
Cañete - Huancayo; Huaura - Ambo; Acos
- Huayllay - Pasco; and Sing - Huayllay. (760
km. Population Served: 1.5 million
inhabitants) in the provinces of Huancayo,
Chupaca, Yauyos, Cañete, Huaral, Pasco,
Huaura, Barranca, Oyon, Cajatambo, Ambo
and Yanahuanca.
• Integrating the North and Center of Peru:
Asphalting of the following roads:
Canchaque - Huancabamba; Celendín -
Chachapoyas; Chachapoyas - Rodriguez
Mendoza; Chongoyape - Chota; Huari -
San Luis - Pomabamba - Sihuas; (830 km.
1.1 million inhabitants of beneficiaries
Piura, Cajamarca, Amazonas, Lambayeque
and Ancash.

With Toledo ... to Peru not for anyone!
fifteen

450 Commitments for social growth of Peru

Map Infrastructure Works

With Toledo ... to Peru not for anyone!
16

450 Commitments for social growth of Peru

• Integrating Southern Peru: Paved
of the following roads: Arequipa -
Moquegua; Moquegua - Tacna; Tarata
- Humajalzo; Abancay - Chuquibambilla -
Yauri; Huancavelica - Chincha; Andahuaylas
- Pampachiri; Puno -Juliaca. Dv. Imata -
Yauri. 1,270 km. 4 million people
beneficiaries of Arequipa, Moquegua,
Tacna, Apurimac, Cusco, Huancavelica and Ica.
• Integrating our Selva: Paving of the
following roads: Bridge Paucartambo
- Villa Rica - San Alejandro - Puerto
Bermudez; Rodriguez de Mendoza -
Selva Alegre; Chazuta - Orellana; Napo -
Putumayo; Satipo - Puerto Prado - Puyeni -
Watchtower. 920 km. 1.7 million inhabitants
benefit of Junin, Ucayali, San Martin,
Amazonas and Loreto.

new terminal and second runway
Airport "Jorge Chavez"
• Public Investment in Airports
and Airfields: We will build and / or
improve the Pisco airport;
Talara; Iquitos; Airfields and Nazca
(Ica), The Straits and Caballococha, Guepi
(Loreto) and Puerto Esperanza (in PurúsUcayali).
RAILWAYS
• The State shall promote investments in
construction of railways following:
• Machu Picchu - Quillabamba (60 km)
• The Farm - Bayóvar (300 km)
• Las Bambas - San Juan de Marcona (450 km)

• Promoting tourism: Paved
eco of the following roads:
Access to Machu Picchu (Aguas Calientes -
Ruins); Access Caral; Access to Kuelap;
Access to the Laguna "El Sauce"; Access to
Choquequirao: Saywite - San Pedro de
Cachora; Yungay - Llanganuco; Bridge
Paucartambo - Oxapampa; Oxapampa -
Pozuzo (270 km).

PORTS

AIRPORTS

• We will improve
the
terms
from
navigability of 2,000 km of the following
waterways:

• New Airport in Chincheros. New
Terminal and second runway at "Jorge
Chavez "
• The State shall promote private investment
for Airport Concession
"Chincheros" and for the construction of

• The State shall promote Private Investment
In granting the following ports:
• Yurimaguas, Pucallpa, Iquitos, General San
Martin in Pisco, Ilo, San Juan de Marcona,
Salaverry, Chimbote, Bayovar, North Pier
Callao
WATERWAYS

• Pucallpa - Nauta (1,220 km), Yurimaguas -
Nauta (210 km). Nauta - Iquitos - Frontera
with Brazil Santa Rosa (570 km).

With Toledo ... to Peru not for anyone!
17

450 Commitments for social growth of Peru

COMMUNICATIONS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGIES
The main objective that we propose in this sector is to cover 100% of the populations
services nationwide rural broadband telecommunications by
a backbone fiber optic network and domestic satellite communications system. In such
sense commit ourselves to:
???? Construct and commission its own satellite communications system (INCASAT).
???? Build and commission a remote sensing satellite system that provides
real-time information of the surface and the Peruvian sea.
???? Access to broadband internet in rural areas of the country.
???? Promote the use of information technology and communication (ICT) for
rural development, increasing competitiveness in the productive sectors and
services; and support for civil defense and public safety.
???? Continuing advances in coverage on Digital Terrestrial Television (DTT) in
close coordination with operators.
???? Strengthen competition to reduce prices and improve services.
???? Modernize the regulatory framework for the promotion and regulation of telecommunications and
information technology.

Ports and Waterways Map

With Toledo ... to Peru not for anyone!
18

450 Commitments for social growth of Peru

AGRICULTURE
For a productive, competitive agro Costa, Sierra and Selva
Agriculture has had a major boost in recent years. But primarily in the valleys
Coastal. Provision should be agricultural development in the mountains, the backbone of the country,
which we establish programs for productive coordination to improve production
and export of small and medium farmers. And we will promote varieties
Agroforestry offered the jungle.
The aim is to increase the competitiveness of agriculture for the domestic market, for which
We develop a program for the support of livestock and agriculture in the
high Andean small farmers, promoting organic farming given their best price
at the market.

Our commitment:
• Duplicate agro-exports. The agro
will grow 5% annually in its contribution to GDP.
Invest in agricultural infrastructure
improving irrigation projects in the
coast and mountains.
• Enable 80 thousand hectares of new land for
agriculture.
• Promote new 150,000 hectares with irrigation
technified, reaching 260 thousand in the
country, while reducing water stress
on the coast.
• Create one million new jobs
agro.
• Expand nationwide, the program
Sierra Productive.
• Promote trout farming in high Andean areas, making Peru the main

exporter, fish farming in the
rainforest and the coast.
• Improve our breeding genetically
camelid, promoting value
added in this production.
• Promote strengthening Andean crops
food security.
• Promote national production
fertilizers.
• Program use
reservoirs, and ponds.

from

• comprehensive reorganization of INIA to
promote training and technical support
small producers.
• Support to Sierra productive program.

With Toledo ... to Peru not for anyone!
19

450 Commitments for social growth of Peru

Map Crops

With Toledo ... to Peru not for anyone!
20

450 Commitments for social growth of Peru

PRODUCTION, TRADE AND TOURISM
More markets, more investment, more development
The President will lead the National Competitiveness Council, making the
most free trade treaties. Competitiveness Councils are created by activity
productive and region.
We must move from the reforms and economic growth to the productive development
employment generation, overcoming stage extractive natural resources and orienting
efforts towards productive transformation with added value.
We intend to turn Peru into a maritime hub for South America in the Pacific Rim.
We will promote the construction of logistics platforms, industrial zones and new media
multimodal inter-connection, repotenciando while our shipbuilding industry and
cabotage.

Our commitment:
• Promoting direct investment capital
and technology for manufacturing and services.
• Continue the policy of new treaties
commercial especially those
countries that are outside the orbit
dollar and the euro to diversify risk
our exports.
• Create "Peru Innovator" to centralize
efforts and technological services
oriented productive chains
sector and region.
• Identify and promote the various
the type of linkage regions
production that could be generated.
• Implement the "Mega-projects program
productive "creating conglomerates
oriented production by geographic area
to achieve quantum leaps in GDP
regional, articulating public actors
private.
• Restructure PROMPYME on new
foundations and actions involving
active institutional micro and small
business

• Create a fund for Entrepreneurship
contestable nature of promoting the
entrepreneurship.
• Open PROMPERU offices in Regions
strengthen its activities and relationship with
local producers.
• Diversify tourist destinations improving
transport infrastructure and access
to new destinations, promoting
Amazon tourist circuits (PacayaSamiria), Norte (Cajamarca,
• Kuelap Lambayeque and La Libertad), Centro
(Huaylas and Conchucos) and South
(Nazca Cusco, Arequipa, Puno and Madre de
God).
• Ask goal of 3 million tourists
an average of five days per visit.
• Promote the creation of infrastructure
Hotel inside the country and around
the tourist circuits.
• Create the international campaign
to consolidate and promote tourism
Peruvian enhance image abroad.

With Toledo ... to Peru not for anyone!
21

450 Commitments for social growth of Peru

Distribution Trades

With Toledo ... to Peru not for anyone!
22

450 Commitments for social growth of Peru

Science and Technological Innovation
Strategic alliance between State, Business and University
We must define the necessary national science and technological innovation, so that
the end of the government the country has made progress in creating a public-private innovation system
technological, and has increased spending and public investment - private technology no less
3% of GDP.
To do this we will create the National System of Science, Technology, Innovation and Competitiveness, which
promoting interaction between universities, business and the state, with a view to generating
new products and services for domestic and international market and to meet the
social needs of the country.

Our commitment:
• Form regional technology centers,
articulators
from
the
activities
business and research in which
High technology companies are installed,
universities and research institutes
science and technology.
• Create the Center for Scientific Research
Interdisciplinary and Technology, opened
cooperation with private companies
research new products and services
then they are made available to the
entrepreneurs.
• Create the Center for Creativity and Resourcefulness
to promote and protect inventions and
patents.
• Accompany and redesign the Scientific System
and Technology to support change
our productive matrix.
• Establish a Competitive Fund
Technological innovation has also
financial support from the private sector and
international cooperation.
• Development Fund of Science, Technology and
Masters allocating 80% of its resources
by contestable methods and 20%
according to the criteria of support to universities
less developed public.

• Empower public universities
regional, and Development Centers
• Technology and innovation and to allocate
Canon resources for this purpose.
• Creation of the digital city style
Silicon Valley in USA. To facilitate
and concentrate all creative activity
and constructive national industry
computer both for domestic consumption
and for export looking
agreements with major companies in this
technology sector.
• Promote the creation of nurseries and
potential talents in science and technology,
both primary and secondary school,
and college.
• Launch of Satellite Communications
INCASAT. The acquisition of a satellite
providing allow Internet access to the
rural and urban populations, reaching
providing this service to all parts of the
country. This communications platform
will be support for developing programs
social inclusion, competitiveness,
entrepreneurship, education, and
gather information for planning.
government which will generate

With Toledo ... to Peru not for anyone!
2. 3

450 Commitments for social growth of Peru

networking among themselves population centers.
This information will be displayed in
Georeferenced systems.
• Create, build and equip three
called campuses
QUIPU TAMBOS engaged Technologies
Information and Communications, and
They will be located in the Peruvian Andes.
•	In
are you
cities
university
Peruvian scholarships for students to study
specialize them in the management and use
of information technologies and
communications, reinforcing export
of software development services.
• Moreover, this strategy will strengthen the
Clusters establishment of companies
Foreign engaged Technologies
Information and Communications.
• Implement Data Infrastructure
Territorial allowing PERU
the inventory electronically
natural resources and infrastructure
Peru.
• Develop an efficient cadastral system,
which supported, among others, formalization
Property and municipal revenues.
• Organize and Electronic Government
develop and implement the following
actions, among others:
• Create national education network linking
the country's schools, their teachers and
students, as well as a network of
libraries and information centers
enhance the research and learning.
This network will improve the system
teacher training to enable
access to training programs

specially designed for them
Creating Health Network, which will allow
access to electronic medical records and
will network all public schools
health care in the country, improving
ostensibly service installed
an advisory center to the attention of
rural health which is accessible to
health professionals. Likewise the
ongoing training and improvements
care system, handling of stocks
medicines and vaccines.
• Create electronic file in the court
the judiciary and to have the network
the judicial decisions being transparent
work of the judges, best management
files and constant updating of
knowledge of the legal rules.
• Establish public safety network,
linking all police stations in the country and
database of requisitoriados.
• Implement the Central Emergency
Peru, integrating fire services,
police, doctors and serenazgos level
national.
• Create networks of ATMs to
that citizens can be treated in
its procedures, promptly.
• Implement governance in Peru
paperless culture by
Platform Database State
to simplify procedures performed by the
citizen with the state.
• Implement the Single System
Prevention and coordinated action against
natural disasters.

With Toledo ... to Peru not for anyone!
24

450 Commitments for social growth of Peru

POVERTY
Towards a State that meets the less fortunate
Poverty is an economic, cultural and ethical problem. Addressing the needs of the poorest
It is also a matter of justice and fairness. No democracy can be sustained on the basis
inequality and social inequity. Hence it is the responsibility of the State to meet the needs of the poor and have the goal of significantly reducing poverty and poverty
extreme.

Our commitment:
•	Remove
the
poverty
extreme,
universalizing the Together program
serving 803,000 families, ensuring
the presence of health services and
Education for compliance
conditionalities and Enter
entrepreneurial dimension by establishing
while a monitoring mechanism and
graduation.

thereby avoiding leaks in
the use of resources, and achieve a
efficient monitoring results
the implementation of such programs, so
an electronic system that will be used
Log on welfare, with the
central axes of such implementation
electronic ID and Platform for
Interoperability of the Peruvian State.

• Starting from July 28, 2011, the
Children Bicentennial program for
eliminate exclusion, inequality and
generational poverty, providing care
Integral to pregnant mothers from the
Early diagnosis of pregnancy,
nutritional and health controls until
assisted delivery, then care
nutrition and health of the newborn, its
early stimulation.

• Evaluate existing social programs
in order to empower them and improve their
impact on the population.

Poverty Map

• Then access to education
with food quality and care
health since joining the school to
the termination. This generation of
Peruvians count on the Bicentennial
best potential to improve
inclusive participation in national life.
• Create the Bank of Hope will provide
microcredits to the poor entrepreneurs.
• Develop a special program for
vulnerable groups and seniors.
• Apply information technology and
communications on social programs,
With Toledo ... to Peru not for anyone!
25

450 Commitments for social growth of Peru

SOCIAL INCLUSION
All Peruvians are Equal
• Respect, protection and promotion of
human rights in all its
dimensions as well as the institutions
democratic, in order that rape
the human rights that occurred in the past, not again
repeated.
• Strengthening the Monitoring Committee
recommendations of the Truth Commission.
• The United Nations has declared
2011 as the year of communities
afroperuanas, so we establish
specific programs to support inclusion
in national life.
• Retrieve, strengthen and create conditions
leading to the full participation of
indigenous peoples in the development of
society, in order to achieve a society more
positive and multicultural.

public and promote development projects
social and economic for indigenous peoples.
• Regulate and implement the application of
ILO Convention 169, the Peruvian State
He signed in 1994 and support the Declaration
American Peoples' Rights
Indigenous (UN).
• Revise laws enacted during the
Current government that violate the rights
territorial, cultural, economic and political
indigenous and Afro-Peruvian peoples.
• protection and defense of the right of
Indigenous peoples, indigenous communities
peasant, native to territoriality
with spirituality, according to their
ethnic, linguistic affiliation, and worldview
geráfia.

• Propose deepening democracy
through a gradual reform
legislation to make it more advanced in
the field of inter ethnic relations,
ensuring the inclusion and therefore
security, social peace and development.

• Design and implement ways to share
more directly the benefits of
extraction of natural resources with the
communities where the resource originates. The
Districts must devote a substantial portion
the fee they receive to improve conditions
life of native communities.

• To consolidate the process begun in the first
make government "indigenous issues
afroperuanos and "become part of the
Peruvian state policies.

• Prioritize conflict resolution with
communities and social organizations
based on negotiation and construction
consensus.

• The INDEPA restore the original status
which was at the time of its creation, and to
From this consolidation will boost
a permanent institutional framework for
indigenous and Afro-Peruvian participation in
State.

• Create the Superintendency of Rights
Protect the civilian population against
The discrimination; may punish
State institutions, companies or
organizations that discriminate on the grounds
race, religion, gender.

• Completing the official recognition of
territories and peasant communities
Native (1,027 communities remains owner
176 peasant and native communities).

• Submit to the approval of Congress,
Free establishment of the Civil Union
why allow couples together
free regardless of gender, to exercise their
civil rights.

• Carry out the first census of indigenous peoples
and Afro-Peruvians in Peru, as base
basic data to develop policies

• Facilitating the learning of Quechua, the
Aymara and native languages ​​in schools.

With Toledo ... to Peru not for anyone!
26

450 Commitments for social growth of Peru

BLESS YOU
Health care is a civil right
Our commitment:
• Gradually increase the budget
Health Sector Budget 8.77%
National 10% in 2012 and 13% in
2016.
•	Build
16
hospitals
regional
optimally equipped with centers
surgical nationwide.
• Raise 5,806 health posts to category
health centers via a suitable
equipment and staff necessary.
• Reduce maternal mortality, from
104 per 100,000 live births to 50 per 100,000
born alive at the end of the government.
• Reduce child mortality, passing
18 x 1,000 live births to 10 x 1000
born alive at the end of the government.
• Increase to 90% the attentions childbirth
in institutional health center.
• Improve the National Health Strategy
immunizations fully vaccinated
100% of all children under 3
years.
• Improve infrastructure and equipment
3,200 posts and health centers
areas of poverty and extreme poverty,
while establishing mobile units
free health, to address issues
related to the screening and control
major health problems.
• Improve disease prevention
prevalent childhood as acute diarrheal diseases and infections
Acute Respiratory.

• Improving mental health care in the
Primary care:
• Increased health professionals
Primary care, specialists
underserved rural areas. Incorporation
of 5000 health professionals, 7,400
Serumes and incorporation of 5000
CAS workers.
• The universal insurance will
with funding required for its
implementation. The SIS will insurer
State, serving the poor,
in extreme poverty and without independent
coverage.
• To strengthen surveillance, control and prevention
of communicable diseases: Reduce
TB cases and TB resistant
(TBMDR and TBXDR), Malaria, Dengue,
Hepatitis B and HIV.
• reduce the cost of medicines
population, concluding fighting
Prices and other measures.
• As will be increased to 800 items the
National Drug petition,
improving the quality thereof. 90%
health facility will feature
an optimal level of medicine.
• Convert the Integral Health Insurance
State insurance, serving
poor people in extreme poverty and
independent uninsured
for which resources are provided
and promoting the construction required
SIS hospital.

• Training of the population in the
prevention of these diseases.
With Toledo ... to Peru not for anyone!
27

450 Commitments for social growth of Peru

Health services

With Toledo ... to Peru not for anyone!
28

450 Commitments for social growth of Peru

HOUSING AND SANITATION
What we did well, we will do better
The housing sector was one of the most successful of our first government. It is up
Now relaunch this sector, resuming the dynamics and focus of housing programs,
promoting the construction of social housing.
This involves the relaunching of the Mi-housing programs, Own Roof, Mi-Improving my neighborhood
people, making the Banmat in the Bank technical support to the construction sector
Popular and promoting the management and the competitive development of cities and rural areas.
Relaunch and sanitation subsector to expand the coverage, quality and sustainability
service.
We assume that there is a deficit of about 2 million homes nationwide, and
More than 1 million people lack water in Lima.

Our commitment:
• Promote the construction of no less than
500,000 homes; 70% of which will
through social housing programs
State.
• Repeating Mi Barrio Program and
together with district mayors and
Metropolitan develop a Plan
Investment peripheral populations
Lima, to ensure the population,
electricity, water, sewer,
domestic gas, internet, health centers,
educational and sports. This program
It will be replicated in other cities.
• Promote pilot Eradication Programs
Slum, financed with subsidies
State, municipal participation,
international cooperation and investment
Private.
• Develop programs Transfer
Land to the private sector as well as
neighborhood associations or organizations
for social housing projects,
controlling, thus, the state,
orderly and peaceful occupation of the territory.

• Set the following for 2015
coverage:
Water
Drinkable
90%
85% Sanitation and Water Treatment
served 100% nationwide, beating
the Millennium Development Goals.
• Reorganize to improve SEDAPAL
efficiency, improve technical equipment and
overcome the high level of corruption
company. For this you need:
• Completing the project and initiate Huascacocha
Brand II to increase water reserves.
• Complete the Treatment Plant
Huachipa Drinking Water and develop
its second stage, to increase
production of potable water in Lima.
• Completing treatment plants
Chira and Taboada, and improve management
Treatment Plant SEDAPAL
to treat 100% of wastewater
Lima.
• Implement the reuse of
Messiah water project to increase
coverage.

With Toledo ... to Peru not for anyone!
29

450 Commitments for social growth of Peru

• Start building plants
desalination in the coast,
prioritizing the North and South of Lima, with the
in order to ensure the provision of water
for human consumption.
• Promoting in partnership with the Government
Lima Regional, Local Government
and the Private Sector, decontamination
Priority River Rimac and Chillon
and Lurin.
• Rearrange EPS nationally in
support regional governments,
increasing investment to establish
fair rates, expand the coverage and quality
service, improve and professionalize

depoliticize management, reduce water not
micro billed and increase measurement
and overcome corruption in the sector.
• Promote investment in sanitation
rural level through the development of
Water and Sanitation Program for
Amazon Rural, PRONASAR II and Agenda
Improvement and Extension Services
water and sanitation, benefiting not
less than a million people.
• Reorganize and Expand Water Program
for All, checking its operation,
methodology, transferred amounts,
execution and quality of works.

Urban Cadastre

With Toledo ... to Peru not for anyone!
30

450 Commitments for social growth of Peru

ENERGY AND MINES
Clean and Low-Cost Energy for All
Our commitment:
• Complete rural electrification by 2016.
• Change the energy matrix to achieve
2016, 20% of renewable energy,
promoting
for tax
their
installation.
• To promote and expedite approvals
for building projects
hydroelectric, prioritizing the generation
Power in the Pacific Rim on the
Amazon.
• Build regional pipelines,
starting construction of gas pipeline
South, and Quillabamba Thermal Station
speed distribution infrastructure
gas in cities.
• Ensure the supply of gas and
transport capacity.
• Restructure and strengthen activities
Petroperú and Perupetro Electroperu.
• To promote the importation of motor vehicles
clean technologies.
• Evaluate the performance of contracts
existing mining or energy exploration.
• Create linked production chains
the mining and energy activities through
SMEs to generate knowledge,
technologies, competitive goods and services,

ensuring the development of the regions and
Country committing companies
extraction of natural resources to acquire
goods and services to these SMEs.
• Establish strategic reserves and mining
energy.
• Create the background Remediation Liabilities
Prioritizing environmental territories
the communities.
• Strengthen the safety of mining work.
• Promote the generation of higher value
added in the use of resources
miners.
• Support the formalization of mining
informal.
• Develop a proper management policy
social license from the State,
operators and the public, promoting
consultation processes with communities
affected.
• Create a revolving fund to develop
energy projects, which will be tendered
social permits and licenses
corresponding, recouping investment
and allowing an advance projects
that the state is interested in promoting.

With Toledo ... to Peru not for anyone!
31

450 Commitments for social growth of Peru

Rural Electrification

With Toledo ... to Peru not for anyone!
32

450 Commitments for social growth of Peru

LABOR AND SOCIAL SECURITY
Worthy and well-paid employment
Given the prestige, inefficiency and corruption in the inspection of the quality of work we propose to create the "Superintendency of Labour Inspection and Occupational Safety and Health".
We seek to highlight the role of the state and organize around a body of national competence, with sufficient inspectors, use of technology, information exchange with other
state entities and oversight capacity.

Our commitment:
• General Labor Law: You install a
commission of experts to develop a
draft, which after be agreed
the National Council of Labour,
sent to Congress for approval.

• To promote a bill to
establish regional councils
Labour and Employment, spaces
conciliation of labor policies and
regional employment.

• Minimum Vital Remuneration: propose
the National Council of Labour,
increase the minimum wage.

• Ensure that the principle of
democratic management systems
social security, contained in the
Convention 102 of the ILO, including
representatives of beneficiaries in the
management of pension systems.

• Promote
Agreements
by
the
Productivity between employers and
workers to be discussed at the Council
National Labour to approve measures
aimed at increasing productivity
employment, education and training
workers in the greater use of innovation
technology.

• Facilitate the provision of pensions
eliminating bureaucratic excesses.
• Establish a Rebuilding Program
the employment history of the former workers
for granting pensions

With Toledo ... to Peru not for anyone!
33

450 Commitments for social growth of Peru

SAFETY, drug trafficking and terrorism:
Authority and leadership to crime: Zero Toleranci
Public insecurity is one of the main problems of the population. Frontally attack requires leadership, resources and capacity for action. Therefore, it is urgent to redesign processes
police service in police stations, improving infrastructure, equipment, training and
applying the model of managing for results.
Our purpose is to significantly reduce crime rates and victimization: thefts,
outbursts, pernicious gangs, domestic violence, theft of vehicles and homes, assault, fraud,
among others.

Our commitment:
CITIZEN SECURITY
• Redesigning processes services
police in police stations, with improvement
from
infrastructure,
equipment
training and managing for results within
a multi-year vision, which allows
reduce insecurity.
• Optimize and standardize the Emergency
105: National Police Serenazgo, Fire,
Ministry of Health, ESSALUD, Civil Defense.
• Integrate video surveillance systems
via the satellite link (INCASAT).
• Implement Crime Observatory,
as a management tool for decision
making and policy formulation
public.
• Define the roles and responsibilities of the
different security actors: Serenazgo
Neighborhood councils, private security, etc.,
to strengthen the participation of
Social networks public safety.
• Designing consensus with management
Local and Regional Governments, for
formulation Security Plans
Citizen, establishing goals,
indicators and targets to the
monitoring and evaluation of the police service,
and commit resources to the

improving infrastructure, equipment
and training.
PUBLIC ORDER
• Implement Operating Bases
Specials (DIROES), decentralized, to
macro-regional level: north, center, south and
Eastern, control and maintenance
Law Enforcement.
• Optimize the prevention and management of
conflict environmental, socioeconomic,
ethnic, cultural and political; as well as,
monitoring of the various agreements
solutions, having an alert State
promotes dialogue and understanding between
parts.
ORGANIZED CRIME
• Create the Central Intelligence against
Organized Crime (CICO), allowing
the interconnection of databases
References criminal, judicial and
administrative.
DRUG TRAFFICKING
• Concentrate offices with responsibility
in the fight against illegal drug trafficking
at a single institution, the same as is
by the PCM.

With Toledo ... to Peru not for anyone!
3. 4

450 Commitments for social growth of Peru

• Improve control and monitoring
actions against the diversion of supplies
Controlled Chemicals, developing a
National Interdiction Plan.
• Input monitoring crops
coca leaf nationally by system
own satellite.
• Install Drug three main bases:
two on the VRAE (Pichari and Boca Mantaro) and
one in the Huallaga (Monzon - Huanuco).
• Update the legal framework Unit
Financial Intelligence Unit (FIU) strengthening
its investigative powers.
• Lower profit margin of coca
illegal, applying different strategies
in each basin.
• Take a firm commitment to provide the
economic resources necessary for
confront drug trafficking.

TERRORISM
• Restore the full rule of law
in the areas of influence of drug trafficking and
terrorism (Huallaga, VRAE and Putumayo).
For this budget will go
necessary to equip the National Police
and the Armed Forces.
• Strengthen Police Fronts VRAE,
Huallaga and Emergency Zones, with the
Installation police use bases
of (interception, satellite technology
disturbance and electronic receipt
transmissions in the spectrum
electromagnetic), for executing
police operations against drug trafficking
and the remnants of terrorism, ensuring
Safety territorial development
sustainable alternative programs.

Distribution Commissioners

VRAE

With Toledo ... to Peru not for anyone!
35

450 Commitments for social growth of Peru

DEFENSE
Towards modernization of our Armed Forces
Our commitment:
• Implement a Armed Forces
dissuasive and operational capacity
ensure full operation
national security system.
• Develop the defense industry
public-private partnerships.
• Increase the production of intelligence.
• Prepare to FF. AA. to fulfill its
main purpose and order control
internal, according to the constitutional mandate.
• To promote the participation of the armed forces
in response to natural disasters,
preserving the environment and
missions of peacekeeping
International.
• Rearrange the remuneration system
military and police personnel and increase it
equally, in a period of five years,
economy expected to grow at 6%.

• Keep alive Schedule for staff
existing military.
• Establish a new pension system
for new revenue to the military career
and police.
• Fix definitively the situation
Pension Fund of the Military-Police in
safeguarding pensions of staff
retirement situation.
• Increase tip and rationing
Military personnel Voluntary Service
recruits, to provide them time
training
vocational
in
coordination with the Ministry of
Education.
• Provide financial support to
veterans of the Armed Forces and Police.
• To promote the construction of housing for
disabled staff of the Armed Forces

Peru in the world

With Toledo ... to Peru not for anyone!
36

450 Commitments for social growth of Peru

EXTERNAL RELATIONSHIPS
A Peru admired and respected in the World
We start from the premise of establishing a foreign policy to the service and welfare of the Peruvian people
under the principles of: sovereignty, respect for treaties, peaceful settlement of disputes, rights
human, inclusion bodies in regional and subregional levels, and integration
Latin America (Andean Pact, UNASUR, Mercosur and Pacific and Atlantic axes).

Our commitment:
Foreign policy:
• To promote the dissemination of Peruvian culture
abroad: Cultural Institutes
Peruvians.
• Provide greater responsibilities to
Commercial offices.
• Support the maritime demand in Peru
The Hague, confirming in principle the team
technical and reinforcing of the case.
• Strengthen Peru's presence in Latin
America and the world, both politically,
commercial and cultural.
• Give greater importance to the presence
of Peru in UNASUR, and the Basin
Pacifico.
• Establish a training program
as a requirement for promotion to Ambassador,
updating the program studies
Diplomatic Academy in order to meet the
new challenges of globalization.
• Promote the creation of a Centre
International Convention.
• Propose the organization of a conference
World on migration in order to
international agreements on
migration policies and rights.
• Peruvians Abroad:
Study the incentive mechanism

Peruvians definitely return to
country.
• Establish social security agreements
with the main countries where they are
residing and facilitate the purchase of assets
in Peru.
• To promote the recognition of qualifications
secondary and university access
distance university in Peru, and use
e-government for their transactions.
• Revaluation
he
passport
Peruvian
respecting
scrupulously
the
principles of reciprocity, especially
with regard to the requirements
immigration and start negotiations with
each country to eliminate the
Tourist visa requirements applying to
nationals of countries that require us
visa, obtain a tourist card.
• Ensure representation on the
Congress Peruvians abroad with
the creation of an ad hoc electoral district.
• Enhance our assistance
compatriots abroad (10% population).
• Promote the creation of the Vice Ministry of
Peruvian communities abroad.

With Toledo ... to Peru not for anyone!
37

450 Commitments for social growth of Peru

JUSTICE
Full respect for the rule of law and the Constitution
Only within the rule of law and under the pre-eminent force of the Constitution, it can be
ensure fair and dignified life for citizens, society and the country. Dictatorships
They have only brought corruption and abuse. In this regard, have sought to preserve and defend the
Rule of law and constitutional order.
The fight against corruption will be a main focus of state action, in order to
make the Peru ranking among the least corrupt countries, promoting transparency,
participation and control of citizens in this main objective.
Transparency in the actions and the relationship between the public and private will be encouraged, in
grants concessions, tenders, purchases and service contracts, and avoid the
procurement through international organizations, is a means to circumvent controls.

Our commitment:
• Provide the resources Judiciary
necessary for the struggle against the
corruption
• Establish a political pact against
corruption.
• Applicability of crimes
by public officials.
• Consolidate Operations Unit
Financial Intelligence to face
money laundering.
• Strengthen the capacity of intervention
the Comptroller General of the Republic,
as offices of internal control
All Public Sector.
• Strengthen the Fight Procuradurías
Corruption, boosting
recovery of state money
misappropriated.
• Strengthen the Public Ministry,
strengthen its operational capacity to
conduct effective investigations against
drug trafficking, terrorism and crime
organized. With the same purpose,

• will increase the operational capacity and
Research of the National Police.
• Strengthen privacy and
protection of data and information
the citizens.
• Restructure the Defense System
State law, promoting defense
specializing in national jurisdictions
and international, such as the System
Inter, and the International Centre
Settlement of Disputes
World Bank Investment Disputes (ICSID).
• To promote the reform of the judiciary,
to make it an efficient institution
and independent, to facilitate access to
justice as a condition of equality and
freedom, and ensure conflict resolution
within a reasonable time.
• We will promote real reform
Comprehensive administration of justice,
revaluing the tenets of CERIAJUS
(Special Commission for the Comprehensive Reform
Administration of Justice) and achieve
A professional and Justice and

With Toledo ... to Peru not for anyone!
38

450 Commitments for social growth of Peru

independent, incorruptible and easy
access and equality of status
citizens to justice.
• Promote the implementation of the New
Criminal Procedure Code to reduce the burden
procedural and expedite judicial proceedings.
• Strengthen mechanisms popular
conflict resolution, and justice
peace and community justice, and expedite
the use of alternative dispute resolution
such as conciliation and arbitration.
• We will promote system redesign
training of judges, leaving
without knowledge transfer
reference from reality and devoid
of constitutional values, to promote
one directed to specialized justice
conflict resolution.
• promote the implementation of
mechanisms to streamline processes
the internal 31.307 (69% of the population
criminal), which have the status
Legal indicted.
• We will have drastic separation and
dismissal of officials, police, judges

and tax that are linked to acts of
corruption.
• Establish strict control to
inside the prisons,
in order to prevent internal
planned and executed crimes.
• We will implement efficient control
visits and packages through the
installing electronic systems
control and check requisitions
the identity of visitors by
Fingerprint Verification System (
Biometric RENIEC).
• We will build
infrastructure
national.

and will rehabilitate the
level prison

• Reorganize and moralizing COFOPRI, and
State Superintendent of Real.
• To promote the formalization of property
granting property titles to
the poorest citizens of Peru.
• Modernize the Public Records using
new information technologies,
reducing costs and simplifying
registration processes.

With Toledo ... to Peru not for anyone!
39

450 Commitments for social growth of Peru

YOUTH AND SPORTS
Youth On!
Our commitment:
• Create the Ministry of Youth and
Sports.
• Create the Youth Advisory Council Chairman
composed of 10 young people in their relevant
profession.
• Create the training program
youth leaders.
• Create the Young Entrepreneurs Program
and the Fund for Youth Entrepreneurship.
• Create the youth volunteer program
• "Youth at Work" (literacy, immunization,
Wawa Wasi, eldercare).
• Provide comprehensive health insurance for
aged 15 to 29 years.
• Give priority to poor youth in the
income to technological colleges
Been.
• Provide graduate scholarships 1000
International to the best graduates
public universities.
•	Grant
1000
Scholarships
university
Youth and complete afroperuanos
Amazon.

SPORTS
• Budget for deporte.- Sport
have a budget commensurate with the
importance in the development of
society.
• Development of infrastructure deportiva.Cada country district must have a
sports complex.
• Restore Physical Education
inthe colegios.- All schools are
State or private school shall issue
physical education at least three times
per week, with teachers
qualified.
• Training Centers Alto
Performance (CEAR): Each Department
It must have a CEAR where you will
specialized training to a group of
Prior outstanding athletes qualifying,
that counted on accommodation, food,
coaches, psychologists and medical doctors,
make the most of these athletes and
projecting to the high competition.

With Toledo ... to Peru not for anyone!
40

450 Commitments for social growth of Peru

ENVIRONMENT
A Green Peru, sustainable Country
Achieving a sustainable economy, to ensure a healthy environment for all,
conservation and sustainable management of biodiversity should be recognized as a component
basic environment.
There are four key issues that should be prioritized in order to advance: a) water and
management and watershed management level) forest management and handling, and modern processing c)
land management and d) risk management related to climate change.
From these topics:
• Highlight the importance of biodiversity,
incorporating capital appreciation
Nature in the national accounts, giving
more relevant to genetic resources
and to international negotiations and
introduced with strategic proposals
payment for environmental services in areas
Andean and Amazonian.
• To strengthen the country's institutions,
assessing the needs of modernization
Additional attachments to recently
created Ministry as can be:
a) ANA (National Water Authority)
b) SERFOR (Forest Service, as
comprehensive management authority
forests)
c) IMARPE,

a) Use of renewable energies,
b) forest conservation program, with
supported by the Amazon communities
c) Comprehensive Management Program Management
solid waste.
Specific programs:
1. Rehabilitation Program and cleaning
rivers and watershed management in Costa.
2. Establish a contingency plan to
climate change.
3. Program waste disposal
in municipalities, treatment
reduce the emission of methane, and explore
serious chances for payment
environmental services.
4. Treatment of wastewater for use
agricultural.

d) INDECI.
Propel new businesses beyond
extract, such as:
a) Ecotourism,
b) Forestry, timber and non Business
timber,
c) Development of agro biodiversity and
organic products,
d) Aquaculture.
• Ensure the continuity of the initiatives
up and improve as:

5. Desalination plants on the coast.
6. Reforestation of one million hectares in 2016
Andean and Amazonian areas.
7. Recovery and Rehabilitation of platforms.
8. Protection Program parks
nationals.
9. botanical expedition in the Amazon.
10. Ordering of property ownership and
sustainable management of fifteen million
flooded forests of the Peruvian Amazon.

With Toledo ... to Peru not for anyone!
41

450 Commitments for social growth of Peru

Forest Map

With Toledo ... to Peru not for anyone!
42

450 Commitments for social growth of Peru

CULTURE
Our cultural diversity is our strength
We recognize that Peru is a multicultural and geographically diverse country and that by its very
Nature is essential to promote the respect, affection and dialogue among cultures with a view
to strengthen a culture of peace.
We believe that culture is linked to the development of citizenship and citizenship is the
way of living together.
Learning citizenship in practice means to encourage active participation of the population
develop a critical sense and the real possibility of influence. Therefore, we believe important to promote
comprehensive public education campaigns to learn to live together and banish the different
forms of exclusion, racism and discrimination.
The patterns of these campaigns encourage creativity, the principles of full and free access to
information, equity and mutual benefit, diversity and its manifestations, the social responsibility of entrepreneurship, respect and appreciation of differences, honesty and quality
personal and professional.

GENERAL STRATEGY
• It is proposed to achieve short-term sector
integrated, decentralized and efficient
effectively ensure equal
opportunities.
• This strategy must have the active
participation of the organized population
and public and private institutions,
national and local, involved in the
cultural activities.
Our commitment:
• Construction of citizenship and equal
Opportunities: The Peruvian Bicentennial
• The condition involves citizen
existence of rights and obligations
but individual citizenship is the way
to live together. Citizenship involves
active participation of the population
develop a critical sense and the ability
real influence. Citizenship is the cornerstone
citizenship and collective interest. So
as all Peruvians recognize

our food is good and trust
in it, we must also start
recognizing ourselves as good citizens
and to trust us, in our
authorities and our standards. Thus,
We propose campaigns to promote
non-discrimination, the principles of full
and free access to information, equity
and mutual benefit, responsibility
social entrepreneurship, the benefits of
taxation, respect and appreciation of the
differences, honesty, punctuality and
personal and professional qualities.
• Rephrase the course of civic education
in the school curriculum promoting
building citizenship.
•	Promote
the
investigation
about
nation building in view of
Bicentennial.
• Promoting volunteering in schools
educational and private enterprise.

With Toledo ... to Peru not for anyone!
43

450 Commitments for social growth of Peru

• Create awards to promote
values ​​promoters of development,
civic responsibility and coexistence
solidarity.
• To promote ownership and occupation
public space from the local culture.
• Promote television and state radio
autonomous with the active participation of the
civil society in the directory.
• Conservation and enhancement of
tangible and intangible cultural heritage.
• Repeating the National Museum of Anthropology,
History and Archaeology of Peru.
• Making a commitment to build the
Museum Tahuantinsuyo in Cusco
hold the recovered objects
Yale and continue the process
Recovery of the extracted heritage.
• Inventory and dissemination of the parties
employers and regional coordination
with PROMPERU.

• To promote Peru as a leader in
Latin America in terms of incentives
arts, artists and cultural enterprises.
• Establish National Competitions
Culture (dance, music, film, visual arts,
public interventions among others).
• Support the creation of the Museums
Handicrafts in Lima and provinces.
• Taking a National "Peru Lee" Campaign with
ensure and democratize access
reading, an essential tool for
that people develop as
full rights, allowing access
develop knowledge and looking
in a reflective attitude and citizenship
liable to information and
social, economic and political facts
country.

Archaeological sites

• Support the creation of museums of life
and local history.
• Strengthening management capacity
cultural.
• Create the National University of the Arts
to promote artistic vocations and
support the various manifestations of
culture.
• Strengthen offices for
culture in the regions and municipalities
promoting the development of plans
culture budget.
• Strengthening capabilities
Local officials in management
through agreements with universities
involved in the issue.
• Promotion of production, industry and
cultural expression.

With Toledo ... to Peru not for anyone!
44

450 Commitments for social growth of Peru

DECENTRALIZATION
For a decentralized, democratic Territorial Development
We will strengthen the decentralization process we have initiated for development
inclusive levels of government articulated and understanding the needs and expectations of
Peruvian citizens. This happens through the following strategies:
1. Improving the intergovernmental joint national, regional and local.
2. Apply Regionalization democratic process that respects the will and progression of
government and civil society actors.
3. Promote the development and territorial competitiveness.
4. Develop a democratic political culture of decentralization.

Our commitment:
1. Improve joint intergovernmental
Reinstall the National Council
Decentralization with participation
regional and local governments, from
lessons learned, as the body
specialized technical audience, driver
decentralization, with seat
in the Council of Ministers.

• Improve coordination mechanisms
regional and local levels through the budget
participatory.
• Recognize the towns for
FONCOMUN redistribution.

• Promote concerted public investment
between different levels of government.

2. Apply a process of regionalization
that respects democratic and voluntary
gradualness of governmental actors and
civil society.

• Increasing the participation of the centers
villages and indigenous communities
in social and economic development
districts and provinces.

• Promote coordination and integration
regional governments in the context of
macro-regions North, Central, South and
East of Peru.

• Establish a System of Public Management
Decentralized.

• Ask the Congress of the Republic,
political, administrative and incentives
tax to promote the integration of
regional governments.

• To promote decentralized management
the promotion of public services
public and private investment.
• Establish a fund for the process
Modernization of Regional Management.
Proposal:
• Promote fiscal decentralization,
promoting efficiency, fairness and
inclusive assignment for each level
government.

• Promote the creation of associations
Regional (pilot regions) and drive
Interregional Coordination Boards.
3. Promote the Development and Competitiveness
Territorial
Maps
from
Wealth
Y
Potential. Since the establishment
typology of regional territories and
local.

With Toledo ... to Peru not for anyone!
4. 5

450 Commitments for social growth of Peru

• Articulate the Territorial Competitiveness
Proposed National Development Plan.
• Formulation of territorial development plans
based on potential. Hinged to
National Development Plan.
• Identification
Y
support for
to
the
regional production chains and
local. From value chains for
development of strategic potential.
• Support for investment promotion
Private regions and localities.
• Establish joint space between
private and public sectors to establish
multiannual agenda Competitiveness
Territorial.
• Design and implementation of policy
national and regional innovation and
technology.
• Promote the development of programs
territorial character development
national urban and rural, to enable
an articulated work levels
regional and local governments.

• Promote and support the overall development of
no less than ten major cities and 35
intermediate cities, based on momentum
competitiveness and optimal use of their
most valuable natural resources.
4. Develop a democratic political culture
Decentralization process.
• Strengthen coordination instruments
between the state and organized civil society
(Colleges
Professional,
Partnerships
representative, departmental clubs) and
No Organized (youth, seniors,
among others).
• Promote transparency in the management
and promote public accountability
authorities at all levels.
• Develop a permanent strategy
process communication
decentralization.
• Review the experiences of transfer
competence in health and education,
make them compatible with the Revolution
and national education program
social inclusion.

Potential Homeland

POTECIALIDADES

With Toledo ... to Peru not for anyone!
46

450 Commitments for social growth of Peru

Political reforms
Towards a Modern, Efficient and Competitive State
STATE REFORM
1. Transformation and Management
Public Management.
• Having an Administration and Management
Peruvian public efficiently and effectively, with
structures, procedures, systems
and administrative culture and modern
public, professional, skilled career
and honestly, to design policies
solve public problems
citizens and providing public services
timely, close, rational and
quality. It must also be characterized
by its total transparency and whose
procedures are known to
citizens portals easy to observe.
• Implement in public administration
a Strategic Planning and Forecasting.
• Strengthening CEPLAN.
• Redesign, implement and monitor
public politics.
• Designing the structure of the state, to
an organization that provides processes
timely, rational, efficient,
relevant and close to the needs of
the citizens.
• Implement a new management model
Public Modernization and articulation
Management Tools.
• Procurement System
providing goods and effective services,
economic, timely and transparent,
to achieve optimal results in the management
public.
• Improve National Investment System
Public efficiently and promoter of development.

• National Budget efficient system,
effective and coordinated with national plans
and Institutional
• frontal fight against corruption
Management under a new
National Plan of public ethics and fighting
corruption.
• The professionalization of the Administration
Public: a new legal framework Employment
Public. We will have an administration
Public impartial, objective, professional,
transparent,
efficient,
honest,
adequately remunerated dunk
meet the needs of citizens
and enjoy public recognition.
• Strengthening capabilities
officials and public servants:
implementation of a National School
Public Administration: Deploying
a National Capacity Building Plan
scholarships and training programs for
officials and public servants.
• New regulations for the use of
State property.
Reengineering the Peruvian State based
in the Electronic Modernization
Public Administration and Development
Knowledge Society. The Objectives
It is to be reached in the coming years
They are:
• Develop a competitive nation based
in Information Technology and
Communications.
• Develop an inclusive society
using electronic mechanisms to
bring the state to the Company.

With Toledo ... to Peru not for anyone!
47

450 Commitments for social growth of Peru

• Develop a learning organization,
in public administration of the State
Peruvian, using
Information Technology and
Communications.
• Develop relationships with the world,
which will produce cooperation
international technology nations
They have reached a high level of development
technology.
2. Reform of the Executive Branch: .Fortalecer,
articulate and optimize decision making
and the exercise of government functions and
the executive branch and central brain
for leading the country and the design and
implementation of effective public policies.
• Modernization Office
Presidency of the Republic, the Office
President, Council of Ministers and
ministries to adapt their
organizational structures, instruments
management, public management, for better
citizen service and implements the
performance management, innovation,
improving the quality of public spending,
system of human capital management.

monitoring and control of resources
the parties.
• Financing
sets

state

according

the

• Political Parties Act.
• Creation of the State Council formed
by holders of state powers
constitutionally and agencies
autonomous.
• Reform of Parliament. It is aimed at
strengthen representative democracy
a unitary and decentralized state. At
framework of the separation of powers, the
representatives of the Nation are entitled to the functions of legislating and making
political control, working with the country's governance and its relevance to the
time requirements.
With Toledo ... to Peru not for anyone!

3. Reinstatement of ICT and
mechanisms for struggle against the
corruption.
• sectoral reforms: resizing
and reorganization of the ministries.
• Creation of the Ministry of Youth and
Sport.
• Creation of the Ministry of Science and
Technological innovation.
• Reset the CND.
Political Reform and Parliament
• Improve representative democracy.
• Strengthening and democratizing
political parties, implementation of systems

With Toledo ... to Peru not for anyone!
48

Lima, January 2011

450 Commitments for social growth of Peru

Government Plan Commission
HEAD OF GOVERNMENT AND DEVELOPMENT PLAN
THAIS LUIS DIAZ
COORDINATORS
Dr. Fredy ARAGON VALDEZ, Lic. LUIS CHAVEZ ABERTO RISCO, Ing. LEOPOLDO MONZÓN U.
ECONOMY
Dr. Kurt Burneo, Dr. OSCAR DANCOURT, Ing. DANIEL SCHIDLOSKY, Ing. Jaime Quijandria
Dr. Javier Silva Ruete, Marthans Dr. JUAN JOSE, JOSE GALLARDO KU, Dr. JESUS ​​ALVARADO
HIDALGO, JUANA ROSA GONZALES, VARGAS BERNARDO, HOOVER RIOS, ZAVALA HUGO, MIGUEL
LAURA ANGEL, ROGER ORLANDO AREVALO HAQUEHUA, RICHARD ROCK, CARLOS CASTRO
PACIFIC HUAMAN SOTO, ENRIQUE GONZALES, MAXIMUM MENA RICARDO VILLAMONTE, LUIS
Tello PHD. Jorge Torres Zorrilla.
HOUSING AND SANITATION
Carlos Bruce, Dr. RUDECINDO VEGA Carreazo, Ing. JOSE ORTIZ RIVERA, ING. LUIS CHANG,
Jorge Villacorta DAVID DE LA RIVA AGUERO, Eco. RUBEN MARTINEZ ALCALA, Arq. CESAR
ALVA DEXTRE, Dr. OTTO Eléspuru REVOREDO, Dr. GLORIA Pflucker VALVERDE, Eco. CARLOS
EAST Ortiz de Zevallos, Dr. Julio Vidal CARRIZALES, Arq. Lizzette DEXTRE AGUIRRE, Arq.
JORGE BURGA BARTRA, Ing. ELMER Rivasplata MENDOZA, Ing. TEOBALDO RED BELT, Dr.
RUBEN ROJAS MANRIQUE, CARMELA GAVONEL Perales.
EDUCATION
Arq. JAVIER SOTA NADAL, Lic. Raul Diez Canseco, Lic. Quintanilla LUIS ALBERTO
GUTIERREZ, Lic. Rodolfo Rojas, Mag. TERESA TOVAR Samanéz, Dr. WALTER TWANAMA, Mag.
KARIMA WANUZ GONZALES, Mag. BLAZQUEZ CARMEN QUINTANA, Dr. EULOGIO ZAMALLOA
SOTA.
TRANSPORT, COMMUNICATIONS
Ing. Julio Escudero Meza, Ing. LUIS CHANG, Ing. ANA MARIA MONTTI, Ing. CELIA GARCIA
AGREDA, Ing. Aramburu MARIELA GARCIA, Ing. ISABEL HERNANDEZ COTRINA, Ing. LINDBERGH
MEZA CARDENAS, Dr. LUIS ALBERTO MARAVI Pedroza Ing. Carlos Romero Sanjinés, Ing.
ROBERTO PERALTA BRICEÑO, Ing. GUSTAVO ATAHUALPA Bermudez, Dr. PATRICK ALLEMANT,
ORE JOSE, JOSE GANMBETTA, Dr. FELIPE OTOYA, Ing. MIGUEL CASTRO PEREDA, Eco. LUIS
HEADS, Ing. Julio Jimenez MATUTE, Eco. RODDY RIVAS Llosa, ROGER Carranza.
BLESS YOU
DR. Elmer Huerta, LIC. CARLOS RODRIGUEZ CERVANTES, Dr. ROBERTO SOLIS, Dr. FERNANDO
CARBONE CAMPOVERDE, Dr. OSCAR MIRANDA VALENCIA, Dra. SILVIA BUSTAMANTE, Dr.
SANTIAGO CABRERA, Ing. JORGE PERLACIOS, Lic. Alberto Cortez, CPC. MOISES ACUÑA,
Dra. SONIA RIOS, Lic. VICTOR LA ROSA, Lic. HUGO ZAVALA, Dr John Villacorta Lic. MIGUEL
BERROCAL OLAECHEA, Dr. JORGE DIAZ TRUJILLO, Dr. CESAR RAMIREZ SALINAS, Lic. EMILIO VIDAL,
Lic. GUSTAVO VIDAL, Dr. MARIA DEL PILAR Torrres, Lic. YANETH CANCHAPOMA, Lic. JUAN
CARLOS Chipoco, Lic. Lunarejo LUIS MIRANDA, Dr. Javier Tovar.
With Toledo ... to Peru not for anyone!
49

450 Commitments for social growth of Peru

JUSTICE
Dr. Carlos Gamarra Ugaz, Dr. Fausto Alvarado Dodero Dr. Antonio Maldonado,
Dr. JAVIER Belaunde ABREGU Dr. JUAN LOPEZ, CARLOS AMAYA ALVARADO Dr. Dr. MIGUEL
GOOD Olazabal, Dr. RAUL CALLIRGOS Velarde, MD. JENNY EGUSQUIZA OLIVEROS, Dr. GORKI
GONZALES MANTILLA, Dr. VICTOR GUERRA PEZO, TICSE Dr. Gustavo Gutierrez, Dr. PABLO
HUERTA CHANNELS, Dr. ROBERTO JIMENEZ MURILLO, Dr. Wilfredo PEDRAZA SIERRA, Dr. CARMEN
PILLARS SALAZAR, Dr. SERGIO SOLIS FUSTER, Dr. OMAR SUMMARY Benavente, Dr. GUILLERMO
JARAMILLO VARGAS, Guillermo Zavalaga Marino.
DEFENSE
Gral. EP (r) Chiabra ROBERTO LEON, Gral. EP (r) Marciano Rengifo Ruiz, Gral. FAP (r) Luis
ARIAS GRAZIANI.
PUBLIC SAFETY, drug trafficking and terrorism
Gral. EP (r) Daniel Mora, General. PNP (r) ADOLFO MATTOS VINCES, LEON RAMON
Oscar Murillo, RUBEN VARGAS CESPEDES, LUCIA DAMMERT.
EXTERNAL RELATIONSHIPS
Amb. Luis Solari Tudela, Amb. ARMANDO LECAROS, Amb. CARLOS CHICHIZOLA, Dr. ALBERTO
BOREA, Guillermo Gonzales Arica.
ENERGY AND MINES
Ing. Glodomiro SANCHEZ MEJIA, Ing. GUSTAVO NAVARRO VALDIVIA, Eco. CARLOS GONZALES
AVILA, Ing. CESAR RODRIGUEZ VILLANUEVA, Lic. JOHN VILLANUEVA Egusquiza.
PRODUCTION, TRADE AND TOURISM
DAVID LEMOR, Dr. Diez Canseco JOSE LUIS NUNEZ, Dr. Alfredo Ferrero Diez Canseco,
JAVIER DAVILA., CESAR GALA, LUIS BAZAN, ROSA MARIA MORAN.
AGRICULTURE
Ing. HERNANDO GARCIA WAR-Ing. Manuel Manrique Ugarte, Ing. RODOLFO EDGARDO
QUIROZ CALDERON, Ing. PEDRO ALVAREZ JOSE ESCOBEDO, Eco. VIRGIO Brenis WALL, Ing.
ARIAS ESTEBAN EDUARDO NIETO, Ing. HUMBERTO ARTURO ZEVALLOS ISLAND, LANDER PACORA,
MARIO CALDERO, Cáceda HURTADO PERCY, WILDER Trejo, JAVIER GALVAN, ARTURO
PAIRAZAMAN, Ing. ALFREDO RABINES.
JOB
Ing. Sheput JUAN FERNANDO VILLARAN, Mag. MIRANDA GUILLERMO HURTADO, Prof.
MARTIN CHRISTIAN SANCHEZ REYES, Mag. CESARIO ORE MORA RAUL Dr. ELBERT MELCIADES
VARGAS ESCOBAR, Dr. WALTER OYARCE MEDINA, CANCHARI RAMIREZ JUAN DE DIOS, Dr. JOSE
LUIS OLIVERA VEGA CARLOS HERMOZA SEMINAR Dr., Mag. JUAN MARIANO NAVARRO
Pando, Dr. PABLO ENRIQUE TARAZONA VIVAR, Dr. MARION LUNA VICTORIA, Dr. EDGAR PEDRO
Carbajal VALENZUELA, ALEJANDRO MORA ORE.

With Toledo ... to Peru not for anyone!
50

450 Commitments for social growth of Peru

STATE REFORM AND PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION
Dr. CARLOS FERRERO, Dr. Henry Pease, Dr. BALDO Kresalja, Dr. MARTIAL Ayaipoma, Dr. JAIME
REYES MIRANDA, UGARTE JAIME MONTOYA, PATRICIA ROBINSON, GILBERTO DIAZ-PERALTA,
Glodomiro SANCHEZ JULY LAO, PEDRO Huarhua, ERNESTO LOPEZ, VICTOR AMAYA, RAFAEL
PARRA, ALDO FABRICIO, VLADO CASTANEDA, CARLOS AMAYA, Guillermo Miranda, FREDDY
Sagástegui, Sergio Ruiz de Castilla.
POVERTY AND INCLUSION
Dr. RUDECINDO VEGA, Dr. Ana Maria Romero, Dr. Carlos Gamarra, ISABEL MONTALVO
ROEL ;, Dr., ALVA VASQUEZ ROSA, Lic. TANIA RODRIGUEZ VALVERDE, Soc. VIRGINIA ZEGARRA
LARROCHE, Dr. Carlos Lopez Santillan, Ing. JULIO RUBIO CASTANEDA Dr. HUGO ALARCON
CACERES, Dr. JORGE RAMIREZ QUEEN, Ing. Erikc MARQUEZ Requena, Lic. WALTER ARANA
Mayorga, Ing. FREDDY TEJADA MURILLO, Eco. EBER FIGUEROA FARFÁN.
PLANNING AND TERRITORIAL ACONDICINAMIENTO
ARQ. JULY GIANELLA, ARQ. EDUARDO GOMEZ DE LA TORRE FREUNDT, ALM. (R) Hugo Arevalo,
RUBEN CACERES.
ENVIRONMENT
Carlos Loret de Mola, VEGA JOSE SERRA, ENRIQUE TOLEDO GUSTAVO SUAREZ DE FREITAS,
DENNIS THE CASTLE, GABRIEL Quijandría ROBERTO TORREBLANCA, SOLARI LUIS R., MONICA
R. Solari, MARIA ELENA GUTIERREZ, LUPE GUINARD.
Science and Technological Innovation
ARAMAYO FRANCISCO Leopoldo MONZON UGARRIZA, IVAN Ciganer.
CULTURE
BROUSSET PORTILLO MARIA DEL CARMEN, LUIS JAIME CASTILLO Butters.
YOUTH AND SPORTS
Ing. HILDA chews, ANDRÉ ROMERO SANCHEZ, Lic. Fernando Acosta LAM, Carlos Valdivia
ALVA, Cecilia Tait, ENRIQUE CANAVAL, M. GONZALO FERNANDEZ EMILIO GOMEZ Latorre,
WINSTON REATEGUI, Alberto Tejada.

With Toledo ... to Peru not for anyone!
51

450 Commitments for social growth of Peru

This book was printed in the workshops
Aliaga graphics Graphics Corporation S.A.C.
January 2011 Lima - Peru.

With Toledo ... to Peru not for anyone!
52
