ELECTORAL PROGRAM

2011 - 2015

"DEFENDER PORTUGAL,
BUILDING THE FUTURE "
2011-2015
ELECTORAL PROGRAM
SOCIALIST PARTY
APRIL 2011

Legislative 2011

TABLE OF CONTENTS
I - FULL RESPONSIBILITY, AGENDA CLARA
1. THE ISSUE KEY POLITICAL RESPONSIBILITY

9

2. A GROWTH POLICY AGENDA, AND SOCIAL JUSTICE MODERNIZATION

11

II - 2005-2011: A BRIEF REPORT
1. GOVERNANCE reformist, modernizing ON BEHALF OF GENERAL INTEREST

15

2. 2005-2011: PROGRESS MADE THAT COUNTRY, DESPITE THE CRISIS INTERNATIONAL

16

3. CHANGE TWELVE MARKS

17

III - THE NEW CONTEXT OF GOVERNANCE AND PS RESPONSE
1. THE CRISIS OF SOVEREIGN DEBT AS NEW PHASE OF THE INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC CRISIS

25

2. RESPONSE TO THE SOVEREIGN DEBT CRISIS: THE ROLE OF PORTUGAL AND THE ROLE OF THE EUROPEAN UNION

26

3. SUPPORT ECONOMIC GROWTH AND JOB CREATION, REDUCE THE EXTERNAL IMBALANCE

28

AND PROMOTE ECONOMIC REFORMS FOR COMPETITIVENESS
4. POLITICAL STABILITY, CONSULTATION AND SOCIAL DIALOGUE: A MATTER OF RESPECT
EFFORT OF PORTUGUESE

29

IV - 2011-2015: OUR POLICY PRIORITIES
1. A DOUBLE COMMITMENT KEY: DEFENDER PORTUGAL, BUILDING THE FUTURE

35

2. PORTUGAL 2015: SEVEN STRATEGIC CHALLENGES

36

3. FOUR KEY ISSUES:

37

3.1. JUSTICE AND COMPETITIVENESS

37

3.2. INTEGRATION OF YOUNG PEOPLE IN ACTIVE LIFE

38

3.3. URBAN RENEWAL

39

3.4. REFORMING THE ORGANIZATION OF THE STATE AND POLITICAL SYSTEM

41

V - 2011-2015: GUIDELINES SECTOR
1. AFFIRM PORTUGAL IN THE WORLD

47

2. ENSURE FREEDOM, SECURITY AND JUSTICE

48

3. MODERN STATE AND ADMINISTRATION

51

4. CONSOLIDATING THE PUBLIC ACCOUNTS, DEFENDING NATIONAL INTEREST AND SOCIAL STATE

53

5. SUPPORT ECONOMIC GROWTH AND EMPLOYMENT

54

6. PROMOTE THE ENVIRONMENT VALUE THE TERRITORY, PROMOTE REGIONAL COHESION

57

7. DEFEND THE NATIONAL HEALTH SERVICE

59

8. DEVELOPING THE SOCIAL PROTECTION

60

9. PROMOTE THE QUALIFICATION OF PERSONS

61

10. PROMOTING CULTURAL IDENTITY, SUPPORT THE ARTISTIC CREATION

62

11. DEEPENING CITIZENS, PROMOTE EQUALITY

64

12. PROMOTE PHYSICAL ACTIVITY AND SPORT

65

I - FULL RESPONSIBILITY, AGENDA CLARA
ELECTORAL PROGRAM

2011 - 2015

Legislative 2011

7

8

PORTUGAL DEFENDER | FULL RESPONSIBILITY, AGENDA CLARA

I - FULL RESPONSIBILITY, AGENDA CLARA

1. THE ISSUE KEY POLITICAL RESPONSIBILITY
In September 2009, the Portuguese said and renewed, democratically, their confidence in the Party
Socialist to govern Portugal. And they did so by instructing the PS for governing a new legislature, since
2009 to 2013.
This term, however, was abruptly interrupted less than half its normal course.
In March 2011, the convergence of all the forces of opposition led Parliament to reject the update
the Stability and Growth Programme, whose guidelines were presented by
Government to the European institutions and those harvested unanimous support. The alliance right unnatural
and the far-left parliamentarians led to the resignation of the government, plunging the country into crisis
completely preventable and completely unsuitable policy.
The consequences of this enormous political irresponsibility (solely motivated by the desire to get to
power at all costs) were immediate and very serious. Interest rates on sovereign debt shot
and the rating agencies dramatically lowered their "ratings" of the Republic, the financial system and
major public companies. Portugal was forced to ask the European institutions a program
external financial assistance.
It is clear, therefore, the centrality of the issue of political responsibility. It is always a question
determinant of any electoral choice. But, at present, its importance is absolutely
And clear for two reasons.
First, voters finally have the opportunity to rule on the responsibility
and the statesmanship of the different political forces. That is, you can and should compare the behaviors
made by the Government and the Opposition. From the Government side, the construction of a coherent set of
fiscal consolidation measures, the successful presentation to the European institutions,
its fundamental guidelines and availability for dialogue with all political forces in the direction of
deepening and parliamentary viability. On the side of the Opposition, the outright rejection of any dialogue,
the rejection of PEC without any alternative idea, and precipitation of the country in a crisis which led
Direct the need to resort to outside help. The electorate therefore has the right to make their evaluation
the responsibilities of each of the current situation. And no one can forfeit that right.
Second, it is judge of guarantees that every political force is able to offer,
for the near future. Who, as the Opposition was so irresponsible in the rejection of PEC and precipitation
a political crisis, does not naturally secure liability guarantees in demanding times
that lie ahead. Who, as the Socialist Party, gave clear evidence of understanding of what is
national interest and how it should override the calculism and party tacticismo, is a firm commitment
assumption of the great challenges that lie ahead - the combination of fiscal consolidation
and fostering economic growth and structural reforms - with statesmanship and
responsibility.

Legislative 2011

9

PORTUGAL DEFENDER | FULL RESPONSIBILITY, AGENDA CLARA

The PS is well aware of its main tasks in government:
• Confront and overcome the effects of greater global economic crisis of the last eighty years;
• To reduce the deficit and control the debt, to ensure the consolidation of public accounts and sustainability
social policies, restoring confidence in the sovereign debt markets, finance the
Portuguese economy and contribute to the protection of the euro and the European project;
• To promote economic growth, fight unemployment and reduce structural factors
external imbalances, supporting exports and developing a focus on renewable energy and
energy efficiency;
• Continue with ambition, reforms to modernize the country and the state and for the competitiveness of
economy;
• Promote equality of opportunity; qualify public services, public school and the National Service
of health; ensure public welfare and to continue the fight against poverty and social inequalities,
for a more just society.
These tasks require a sense of responsibility, delivery to the common good, safeguard the national interest.
And the country knows he can count, at all times but especially in our darkest hours, with the sense of
responsibility of the Socialist Party.

10

PORTUGAL DEFENDER | FULL RESPONSIBILITY, AGENDA CLARA

2. A GROWTH POLICY AGENDA, AND SOCIAL JUSTICE MODERNIZATION
The place of the PS in the Portuguese political system is clear: we are the modern European center-left.
Public policies that we advocate are also clear: we are and we want to remain a force
change, as the protagonist of an ambitious reform movement for the modernization of society,
the economy and the state as well as to the qualification of public services, efficiency and sustainability
the welfare state and to obtain new achievements for equality in the service of a more just society.
This agenda is all known. It is transparent, is consistent, is assumed. Does not cultivate ambiguity, not
hides its objectives, no disguises.
And the next election is also the time for decisive choice in terms of policy agenda
the next parliamentary term. A choice between three main agendas. A weakening agenda
Welfare state and public services, marked by ideological prejudice against everything that is public and
the membership no less ideological privatization of essential functions and instruments of the state - the agenda
Portuguese right. A resistance agenda at any modernizing reform, unable even to
admit the importance of the issues of efficiency and sustainability of the welfare state, but as decisive
so that it continues to fulfill its function integration and social cohesion - the agenda of extremaesquerda averse to any change and too often hostage to business logic. And finally a
advocacy agenda of the welfare state through its modernization, further improving performance,
sustainability in financing, equity in benefits and management rigor - the agenda of reformist political centroesquerda played by PS.

Legislative 2011

11

12

II - 2005-2011: A BRIEF REPORT
ELECTORAL PROGRAM

2011 - 2015

Legislative 2011

13

14

PORTUGAL DEFENDER | 2005-2011: A BRIEF REPORT

II - 2005-2011: A BRIEF REPORT
1. GOVERNANCE reformist, modernizing ON BEHALF OF GENERAL INTEREST
The sense of responsibility and clarity of political agendas are therefore two key issues
next election. But will not be the only ones.
First, is concerned also, of course, led the evaluation of governance cycle since 2005
by PS. It is therefore necessary to make a brief assessment, saying the path traveled so far and that
we want to continue to go.
The policy line taken by the PS government has been focused on an ambitious vision of modernization
Country: more rights and civil liberties; more training, science and technology; less bureaucracy and more
confidence in citizens and companies; more innovation in the economy; more qualification of public services;
new social policies. And an attitude: the defense of the general interest in achieving the reforms,
rejecting any subordination to corporate interests.
This guideline has structured a coherent public policy agenda that, appreciating the initiative
entrepreneurial and merit, promoted innovation and social progress.
Virtually no area was untouched: did the social security reform and a comprehensive reform
public administration; trickiest administrative procedures with the SIMPLEX program,
we launched the Citizen Shops of second generation and qualify the care and operation of
public services; built and continue to build new hospitals, reformed health care
Primary with the new family health units and created a network of continuing care for the elderly and
dependents; promote the sale of medicines outside pharmacies, we have increased the share of generics
and we focused on health prevention, especially with the Law on Tobacco; interruption despenalizámos
voluntary pregnancy and fight clandestine abortion; invest in education, we value school
public, reformed the first cycle of basic education and reordenámos and qualify the school network;
relaunched vocational education, reduced abandonment and school failure and give new opportunities
qualification to current employees; We promote access and have aligned higher education by the rules
Bologna; We invested than ever in science and made the Technological Plan an action program for
technological modernization of the country and for the wider use of new information technologies;
We went up in international rankings of innovation and we started to lead the European ranking of services
electronic public; but we bet decidedly renewable energy and structurally reduce the
our dependence on foreign energy; reformed labor law, we unlock the negotiation
collective and increased the minimum wage; we launched new political and social measures to combat poverty
among the elderly and family support: we innovated in combating domestic violence and promoting equality
gender and even parity to ensure greater political participation of women;
fight discrimination based on sexual orientation and promote the integration of immigrants;
we completed an ambitious investment program in social infrastructure and strengthened partnerships
and financial support to private institutions of social solidarity; We reviewed the communications law
social, with increased guarantees of independence, transparency and non-concentration.

Legislative 2011

15

PORTUGAL DEFENDER | 2005-2011: A BRIEF REPORT

And it was also the sense of the national interest that brought the governance of the PS clearly linked to
European project, to hold a Presidency of the European Union praised by all and during which it was
can approve the Lisbon Treaty, to prestige of the country. A prestigious, moreover, reinforced by the realization
the Lisbon Summit, where NATO adopted its new strategic concept, and then recognized more
Again, with Portugal's election to the United Nations Security Council.

2. 2005-2011: PROGRESS MADE THAT THE COUNTRY, DESPITE THE ECONOMIC CRISIS INTERNATIONAL
The Socialist Party is not afraid to its record of achievement in government and never feared the judgment of
Portuguese.
Forward thinking, with ambition and courage made it possible to launch and implement, in half a dozen years,
a broad movement of modernization and reforms that have made the country progress enough. And it was possible
do it in two particularly difficult situations: in 2005-2007, responding to serious internal crisis
public finance; and in 2008-2011 by addressing the most serious international financial and economic crisis
for many decades.
So, despite the socio-economic indicators that inevitably record the effects of the crisis
international economic, when we compare Portugal in 2004 and Portugal in 2011, the differences are
deep and are evident improvements in critical and structural factors of cohesion and competitiveness.
Since 2005, the Government of the Socialist Party led a policy for two goals
key: correct the imbalance of public finances and remove Portugal from non-compliance
the European Union; and launch a comprehensive set of structural policies to economic modernization and
Portuguese society.
These policies have produced results. Not only in deep and rapid correction of the deficit of the accounts
public as well as the depth of the structural changes which today constitute a major
added value to face the difficulties resulting from an external insertion increasingly demanding.
Those who, in simplistic and demagogic way, seek to identify the past decade with a "decade
lost "escamoteiam two elementary facts: first, the fact that this period had junctures
well diversified to which the Portuguese economy also reacted differently; secondly, the fact that
that, from a structural point of view, the economy and Portuguese society underwent significant and positive
changes since 2005.
It is now clear that until the outbreak of the financial crisis of 2008, the Portuguese economy was recovering
gradually its growth capacity, as not seen since the beginning of the decade. At 2007,
the economy grew at the same pace of 2.4% of GDP. And it is now also clear that the economic downturn
2009 was considerably less pronounced in Portugal than in most of the European Union.

16

PORTUGAL DEFENDER | 2005-2011: A BRIEF REPORT

A summary indicator proves this dual reality and marks an important convergence movement:
between 2004 and 2009, gross domestic product per capita, expressed in purchasing power, passed
from 75 to 80 on the average of the European Union (EU = 100).
The truth is that, despite the huge size of external difficulties that marked the last years,
Portuguese economy has important transformations that allow characterize this period as
transition one. A transition operated under the slogan of modernization of Portugal and aims to create new
structural conditions for economic growth stronger, sustained, long lasting and inclusive:
• For this, the country has invested as never before in combination Science - Education - Innovation, because he understood
that there stood the structural weaknesses that most affect our future;
• For this, the economic structure and their agents have accepted the challenge of facing a top
internationalization with a more active and offensive attitude, returning to recover export dynamics,
diversifying our economic base and our markets;
• To this end, innovative policies have been set to reduce our energy dependence and to make
power one of the strategic foundations for sustainable growth;
• For this, reformed social systems, combining the priorities of the long-term sustainability
with greater fairness in the allocation of resources.
The results of these strategic choices are evident in a set of structural indicators whose range
can not be relativized, or by the difficulties of the crisis which we live, or the deletion of temptations
history of prophets of doom from various political sensitivities.

3. CHANGE TWELVE MARKS
It must be noted here twelve change marks to show, for example, as the agenda
Structural reforms have marked the governance of the Socialist Party, always attentive to key dimensions of
instruments of competitiveness and cohesion:
I - REDUCTION OF ABANDONMENT AND SCHOOL FAILURE AND PERFORMANCE IMPROVEMENT
EDUCATIONAL SYSTEM
The increase in qualifications is not only a powerful tool to enhance capacity of a
economy, is also a basic social right. But without reducing the size of abandonment and failure
School will not be possible to guarantee this progress and ensure equal opportunities. Per
Invest in the improvement of the education system performance and re-launched vocational education.
The result is clear: between 2005 and 2009 early school leaving was reduced by eight percentage points, 39

Legislative 2011

17

PORTUGAL DEFENDER | 2005-2011: A BRIEF REPORT

to 31%, and for the first time, Portugal reached the OECD average with 81% of young people aged 15 to 19
years enrolled in school.
Ensure that the extension of school coverage is accompanied by improvement in the quality of learning,
that has always been a major goal of PS policies. The latest PISA international report data,
conducted by the OECD show that Portugal has now reached the average level of developed countries
and is one of the countries most progress in the three areas tested, the second country that most progress in
science and the country room that most progress in reading and math. More: Portugal is also
the sixth country whose best education system compensates for the socio-economic asymmetries, that is, more
effectively promotes equal opportunities.
II - THE MODERNIZATION OF SCHOOL PARK
The focus on public schools and improving the performance of the education system also passed by a
deep renovation of schools. Never in Portugal produced a widespread and qualified
recovery and modernization of school infrastructure. Since 2005, more than 3200 have been closed
schools without conditions and, throughout the country, have been or are being built 460 school centers and were
upgraded or are in the process of modernization more than 400 secondary schools and EB23, ensuring
everyone access to the most modern technologies and giving teachers and students the very best
work conditions.
III - INVESTMENT IN SCIENCE AND EXTENDING ACCESS TO HIGHER EDUCATION
The share of investment in research and development is one of the first indicators of potential
growth of a society. Portugal recorded between 2004 and 2009, one of the most remarkable achievements in this
area, with investment in R & D as a percentage of GDP, going from 0.6 to 1.7. Moreover, Portugal
now has 8.2 researchers per thousand active, which for the first time in the history of scientific system
national, puts us well above the European average.
One of the bases for this route lies in the increase of students in higher education. The percentage of young
20 years old who attend a university or polytechnic rose between 2005 and 2010, of
30 to 36% - a figure that puts us, finally, in line with the OECD average, that is, placing us
at the level of the most developed nations
IV - THE PLAN AND TECHNOLOGICAL INNOVATION PROMOTION
For a small European open economy such as the Portuguese, investment in modernization
technology and innovation are key drivers of change. Between 2005 and 2010, Portugal has the largest
relative progress in knowledge, technology and innovation within the European Union, converging
strongly with the European average. In addition to supporting the technological upgrading of enterprises and
initiatives for technological modernization of public services, the Technological Plan for Education and

18

PORTUGAL DEFENDER | 2005-2011: A BRIEF REPORT

e.escolas programs, e.escolinhas and e.oportunidades massificaram access to computers connected
broadband Internet, on equal terms of opportunities, favoring the preparation of
Portuguese society for the challenges of the information society. Before long, the company succeeded
add value to their products and their exports, allowing the country to obtain results, there is still
little seemed impossible, technological balance with the outside.
V - PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION REFORM AND ADMINISTRATIVE SIMPLIFICATION
The Portuguese Public Administration met itself also an intense reform process with the
extinction of 25% of public bodies and management positions, as well as the elimination of more than
1300 intermediate structures (within the PRACE - Central Administration Restructuring Program
of State); the control of admissions and the reduction of more than 70 000 civil servants; the new regime
ties, careers and remuneration; the new performance appraisal system and the reform itself
social protection systems. But cast them, too, a deep movement of simplification and
administrative modernization directed to the qualification of public services, the benefit of citizens and
companies, especially the second generation Citizen Shops and above all for the Program
Simplex and its alliance with the Technological Plan, which led Portugal in half a dozen years, the leadership of the
European ranking on the availability and sophistication of online public services.
VI - STRENGTHENING THE ENERGY INDEPENDENCE
The society mobilization policy for a thorough reform of the energy sector allowed Portugal
It is assumed as a reference country in this field. The production of electricity from sources
renewables reached 53% in 2010 from 34% in 2005. Moreover, the new "cluster" industrial and
renewable energy services contributed in 2010 with over € 400 million for exports.
VII - STRENGTHENING THE EXPORT SECTOR
The transformation of the competitive structure of the Portuguese economy was strengthening its orientation
exporting one of its key dimensions. The average annual growth rate of exports has risen from
3.2% in the period 2000-2005 to 4.5% in 2005-2010, despite the sharp decline in international trade
consequently the crisis 2008- 2009. On the other hand, the structure of exports are diversified, with
share of services to grow from 28% to 32% between 2004 and 2010, and the weight of the non-EU markets
, to reinforce the same period by about 9 percentage points, now hanging around 30%.

Legislative 2011

19

PORTUGAL DEFENDER | 2005-2011: A BRIEF REPORT

VIII - CLARIFICATION OF THE NATIONAL HEALTH SERVICE
The National Health Service is one of the main achievements of our democracy, ensure its
sustainability, modernization and upgrading is a hallmark of socialist governance. And the facts are there:
the National Health Service has reduced the time on waiting lists in over 60% today makes more appointments,
more surgery, more surgery on an outpatient basis and most experts form in all medical specialties,
particularly in general practice.
The modernization of the hospital network is another strategic dimensions of the NHS strengthening, with this
when different development stages eight new hospitals Direct investment in network
hospital is close to EUR 200 million. The reform of primary health care, with the new
Family Health Units and the new Continuous Care Network are also undeniable expression
a clear focus on training and improving the NHS responsiveness.
IX - THE NETWORK IS STRENGTHENING OF SOCIAL EQUIPMENT
Investment in social infrastructure is one of the essential conditions for improving the quality
of life and to promote equal opportunities. The investment made in the early childhood area,
for example, allowed Portugal to reach a coverage rate of 34% of day care centers in 2010, 11
points above the 2004 value and surpassing international targets.
At the same time the launch of the new Network of Continuing Care in 2005 was a response to a
shortage in the care of elderly and dependent.
X - SUSTAINABILITY ASSURANCE OF SOCIAL SECURITY PUBLIC
The Social Security public, sustainable and fair, is one of the conditions of social cohesion and solidarity
inter-generational. The reform we have made it possible to adapt the public social security system
the progression of life expectancy and associate to update the value of pensions to economic developments.
This is a reform recognized by all international institutions and allowed the social security
Portuguese officially leave the high-risk situation it was in, threatening the future of
Portuguese pensions.
XI - THE INCREASE OF THE MINIMUM WAGE IN SOCIAL DIALOGUE
Social policy dialogue and strengthening cooperation allowed for the first time in Portugal, had it
concluded an agreement on the national minimum wage. This agreement produced a historic rise in earnings
least in real terms and possible to reconcile objectives of strengthening social cohesion to sustainability
the wage policy. The increase in the minimum wage, along with the solidarity supplement for the elderly (that already
benefited 266 000 elderly), constituted an important tool for the reduction of indicators
poverty that has occurred in recent years.

20

PORTUGAL DEFENDER | 2005-2011: A BRIEF REPORT

XII - THE LAW OF NATIONALITY AND INTEGRATION POLICIES OF IMMIGRANTS
True to its values, the Government of the Socialist Party promoted, with sense of responsibility,
the approval of a reform of the nationality law, adopting a more just law, which ended the
exclusion of citizenship rights that were voted upon thousands of children born in
Portugal daughters of immigrants into legal status. In the same way that defends the rights of Portuguese
emigrants abroad, the PS government adopted a policy of integration of immigrants consistently
and admittedly humanist, today cited as exemplary by all international organizations.

Legislative 2011

21

22

III - THE NEW CONTEXT
GOVERNANCE AND PS RESPONSE
ELECTORAL PROGRAM

2011 - 2015

Legislative 2011

23

24

DEFENDER PORTUGAL | THE NEW CONTEXT OF GOVERNANCE AND PS RESPONSE

III - THE NEW CONTEXT OF GOVERNANCE AND PS RESPONSE

1. THE CRISIS OF SOVEREIGN DEBT AS NEW PHASE OF ECONOMIC CRISIS
INTERNATIONAL
The current context is characterized by two main features. On the one hand, still live in any
World, the effects of large international financial crisis that began in 2008. Deregulation and volatility
of financial markets, the succession of speculative attacks on the currency stability and debt
sovereign, shyness and uncertainty of economic growth, the contraction in investment and difficulty
in job creation and show the continuity and extent of the global economic crisis.
On the other hand, substantially changed the circumstances and priorities of public policy,
as different governments have had to adjust public policies to support the economy and protection
social, against the need to reduce budget imbalances, responding to financial speculation
and secure international financing conditions.
In fact, in 2008-2009, the first development phase of the global crisis, which marked the agenda
policy in all countries, was the urgency to respond to the financial and economic crisis, to prevent
she had the devastating consequences that had been characteristic of the Great Depression of the
30s.
For this, we need to take action to defend the stability of the financial system and protect
interests of savers and depositors; intervene to ensure financing of companies,
notably through the launch of several lines of credit; increase public investment;
strengthening social support measures and, in particular, unemployment protection, employment incentive
and household access to credit.
And in fact, public intervention could hold the key effects of the financial and economic crisis
and prevented it from becoming an economic and social crisis of huge dimensions. In Portugal, for
example, despite the recession registered in 2009 and its consequences, the fact is that it was possible to contain
its effects as to the growth of our economy have fallen 2.5%, while in the European Union
It fell on average more than 4%. It was therefore a necessary intervention and which produced results.
This intervention led, of course, given its scale, the increase in public spending, notably
social spending, also enhanced by so-called automatic stabilizers. But the budget
National resented especially the strong reduction in tax revenue due to the activity of retraction
economic. Either that led, in all developed countries, the rise in budget deficits
and public debt. And this rise, combined with the extreme instability of financial markets,
ended up creating additional difficulties for the management of national budgets and financing
States, thereby forming a favorable environment for the emergence of strong speculative attacks on the currency
only European and sovereign debt, especially penalizing so-called peripheral countries
European Union.

Legislative 2011

25

DEFENDER PORTUGAL | THE NEW CONTEXT OF GOVERNANCE AND PS RESPONSE

This is what explains the change that occurred in 2010-2011.
Having just succeeded in overcoming the most acute moment of economic crisis - widespread recession and
deep that castigated in 2009, throughout the developed world - public policy had to add,
to measures to stimulate the economy and employment, balance of measures of public accounts, anticipating
schedules and appointments that were set. The acceleration of fiscal consolidation has become, well, across Europe, a new policy priority, which led, in many cases, the elimination
Progressive many of the extraordinary support measures taken at the height of the recession.
Still, the Greek debt crisis has seriously aggravated the turmoil in sovereign debt markets,
to which was added later the situation of Ireland, drawn by the need to hasten the serious crisis
its financial system. And the fact is that the sovereign debt markets slow to return to track
rationality and normality, as the European Union sometimes take long to find answers
appropriate and effective to address the situation, in defense of the Euro and the European project itself.

2. RESPONSE TO THE SOVEREIGN DEBT CRISIS: THE ROLE OF PORTUGAL AND THE ROLE
EUROPEAN UNION
The response from Portugal to funding crisis generated by the worsening situation in the markets
financial was structured in two dimensions: a strengthening of political correction of the budget deficit
and full participation in the effort to give the European Union's response to this new instrument
situation,
The option to start reducing the budget imbalance in the 2010 budget with deficit reduction in
about one percentage point corresponded to the height, the European consensus on balance
the effort to support economic recovery and a return to fiscal policy consolidation. (No
Nevertheless, the attitude of the opposition parties then went to counter this first movement
fiscal consolidation by forming negative coalitions and attempt to pass on
Parliament irresponsible initiatives of increased spending and reduced tax revenue).
The worsening financial situation and instability in financial markets sovereign debt,
particularly after the Greek crisis, demanded in Europe and Portugal a strengthening of policies to combat
degradation of the economies financing conditions.
It was so, that the Stability and Growth Programme submitted to the European Union and the
decision to speed up, in 2010, the effort of budgetary balance, still want the approval of a
set of additional measures possessed a full assumption of logic, the Portuguese government,
aims to accelerate the rebalancing of public accounts.
And in fact, the budget execution in 2010 has significantly back the budget deficit.

26

DEFENDER PORTUGAL | THE NEW CONTEXT OF GOVERNANCE AND PS RESPONSE

Having regard to comparable basis, ie the same universe of public administrations considered
for determining the gap 2009, the 2010 deficit was 6.8% of the GDP, i.e., 2.7 points less
percentage than in the previous year. This is a clear indicator of the consolidation effort performed.
The need to ensure, for 2011, the huge effort to further reduce the deficit - now at 4.6% of
GDP - still required a new set of measures. Measures on the line, by the way, those adopted by many other
European countries, certainly penalizing the economy of Portuguese society, but of achievement
absolutely essential to ensure the Portuguese economy's financing conditions. Now
the latest available data on budgetary execution this year - which are the data
the first quarter - give firm indications of fulfillment of the agreed target. The reduction in spending -
least 3.7% in annual comparison - exceeds, by the way, the purpose of the budget for 2011.
It is, therefore, to defend Portugal in conditions of uncertainty around us and secure funding
of our economy. But it is also to participate fully in the defense of the single currency and
European project, against attacks and threats that have been targeted.
This is a situation that can not be solved without a strong contribution of the European integration project.
And, therefore, the defense of the deepening of a competitive Europe and solidarity is a matter
essential to our present and near future.
Indeed, the economic crisis that hit Europe in late 2008 and the sovereign debt crisis that is
faces, revealed the weaknesses of a monetary union without economic union. The Union must be
with effective mechanisms for financial stabilization, but also has to ensure sustainability
long-term euro zone. This requires enhanced coordination of economic policies
and budget between the United States and greater convergence in economic growth and the
social and environmental policies. On the other hand, it must proceed with determination strengthened towards
effective regulation system and financial markets, so that the causes of this crisis may be, of
Indeed, faced.
Boosting the Union should not be understood as a loss of sovereignty, but as the deepening
necessary and desired economic integration in the eurozone.
Ensuring fiscal consolidation, strengthening competitiveness and promoting employment should be
suitably articulated to ensure objectives: consolidation, growth and convergence.
The Europe 2020 Strategy must therefore be the global reference frame before the various instruments
policy, the Union and the various Member States so as to ensure proper coordination and
ensure strategic investment in implementing the EE 2020: a more smart, greener
and more inclusive.

Legislative 2011

27

DEFENDER PORTUGAL | THE NEW CONTEXT OF GOVERNANCE AND PS RESPONSE

3. SUPPORT ECONOMIC GROWTH AND JOB CREATION, REDUCE
EXTERNAL IMBALANCE AND PROMOTE REFORMS FOR COMPETITIVENESS
ECONOMICS
The inescapable priority of fiscal consolidation does not replace the support to economic growth:
on the contrary, is articulated with this support. There are two priorities that combine and give meaning to each
another - and it is very important to understand it.
We must continue with determination and speed increased, the balance of public accounts for
ensure the financing of the state and economy: fiscal consolidation is therefore a condition
absolutely necessary for economic growth. But being a condition, not an end in
himself, our aim should be to promote economic growth, because that's what makes generate
the jobs we need for all those in the labor market and that's what makes generate
wealth we need to implement the income redistribution policies.
The performance of the Portuguese economy in 2010, with economic growth of 1.4% and a
recovery in exports much higher than expected, was a very positive sign on
assertiveness of our economy in a context of enormous difficulties.
Promoting competitiveness of the Portuguese economy should therefore remain the structural dimension
key economic policy of the Government.
In this situation, this priority has to be structured in clear and mobilizing objectives:
• Concentrate efforts in internationalization of our economy that promotes growth
exports of sustained and sustainable manner;
• Enhance the domestic supply in the domestic market to support the reduction of the external imbalance;
• Focus public support for investment in the sectors of tradable goods and services and
promoting innovation;
• Promote strategic partnerships internationalization involving the largest national companies,
network of small and medium-sized enterprises and innovation institutions and qualification;
• Strengthen expertise in the activities with greater incorporation of domestic value-added,
particular area ranks as the forestry, agri-food and sea, with the tourism sector and the
production of goods and high technological incorporation services;
• Strengthen domestic commitment to reducing energy dependency, valuing the row of energy
renewable and efficient energy use.

28

DEFENDER PORTUGAL | THE NEW CONTEXT OF GOVERNANCE AND PS RESPONSE

These objectives must continue to be supported by improvement in the efficiency of public policies that are
support a business environment favorable to competitiveness.
Therefore, the PS Government will continue to develop and deepen its commitment to improving the
economic and social effectiveness of education and training systems, to the promotion of science and innovation
and the reduction of context costs associated with the state bureaucracy.
Convinced that the promotion of economic recovery is the best way to create employment and combat
unemployment, which is the most serious social problem in Portuguese society, the PS will not fail to continue
promote all efforts for a faster response to unemployment problems.
Continue to reform the labor market in order to make it more agile in hiring unemployed
enhance the promotional tools of qualifications of the unemployed and broaden the instruments
bringing the unemployed to an insert or vocational rehabilitation are tasks of an agenda for
competitiveness and dynamism of the labor market.

4. POLITICAL STABILITY, CONSULTATION AND SOCIAL DIALOGUE: AN ISSUE
RESPECT FOR THE EFFORT OF PORTUGUESE
If there is reality that the political crisis that led to early elections made clear, this is reality
the importance of policy variable for the economic and social situation. By forcing a foretaste of
electoral calendar, at the worst possible moment, the forces of opposition disrespected and disregarded
the Portuguese of the effort: the effort of families, the workers' effort, the effort of entrepreneurs.
Political instability and the rule of partisan calculation on the meaning of public service undermined
seriously the economy and the Portuguese welfare.
Forced to resort to external financial assistance program, Portugal live, as a result,
a very challenging period in terms of budget austerity, dynamic economic growth
and reforms in different areas. If there were more (and there are many), this would be reason
left to justify the need to build a lasting political solution, following the next
parliamentary elections and in line with its results.
The PS believes that the difficult situation we are going through requires the formation of a majority government. And declarase fully available for - getting to it, popular mandate - to lead the formation of this government.
Has, indeed, to do so, the authority to whom, in the last legislature, noting the lack of a
monopartidária parliamentary majority, formally proposed the opposition a frank and open dialogue on
any formulas that allowed according ensure greater political stability to
Portugal. The PS hopes that, this time, the remaining political forces manifest greater democratic opening
and greater sense of institutional responsibility.

Legislative 2011

29

DEFENDER PORTUGAL | THE NEW CONTEXT OF GOVERNANCE AND PS RESPONSE

But the need for cooperation for the sake of national interest will not be felt only in the relationship between
the various parliamentary forces and between the Government and the future Opposition parties. It is also essential
cooperation and solidarity between the different organs of sovereignty - and PS it is said, of course,
committed to this cause.
It is also essential to the good collaboration between the state and the central government on the one hand, and the
another, the Autonomous Regions and Local Authorities. The resumption of growth trajectory, discipline
public accounts and social modernization strategy shall also, crucially, through the
development of regional autonomy within the framework of cohesion and national solidarity; and by
continuation and strengthening of the decentralization of powers and increased means for municipalities,
particularly in the social, educational and public health areas.
The dialogue and social consensus are, in turn, not only characteristic of a
mature democracy but also a solid foundation to leverage economic growth and progress
social. The PS government will do its best to encourage a regular and meaningful dialogue between organizations
business and trade unions, so that it contributes to a true national compact for
competitiveness and employment.

30

Legislative 2011

31

32

IV - 2011-2015: OUR
POLICY PRIORITIES
ELECTORAL PROGRAM

2011 - 2015

Legislative 2011

33

34

PORTUGAL DEFENDER | 2011-2015: OUR POLICY PRIORITIES

IV - 2011-2015: OUR POLICY PRIORITIES

1. A DOUBLE COMMITMENT KEY: DEFENDER PORTUGAL, BUILDING THE
FUTURE
The political priorities of the Socialist Party are all known. We carry three objectives
fundamental:
• Economic growth and promoting employment;
• Strengthening the competitiveness, the reduction of energy dependence and external indebtedness,
value of exports and the modernization of the country; and
• The development of social policies, the qualification of public services and reducing inequalities.
It is a commitment to economic growth, financial sustainability and the welfare state, which
can be synthesized in a simple, clear idea: "Defender Portugal, Building the Future".
Defender Portugal at this time and in this situation, it means defending the Portuguese economy from the effects
deeply negative international crisis and the instability of financial markets; defend
households, businesses and jobs, ensuring the financing that the country needs; defend people
who are in greater difficulty, because they have less income, or are unemployed, or
need more health care, guiding them to the social support of the state and its institutions.
Defend national interests in the international context in which we live, implies tread a difficult path
and demanding, it is true. Implies firmness and determination. It takes political courage. But the Portuguese know
You can count on the PS to serve Portugal and achieve the results that the country needs. And you know
also that PS will do everything so that the effort we have to do to be distributed equitably and
preserve as far as possible, those who have less and less can.
Better still, the Portuguese know that the PS is fighting for the defense of the welfare state and that it was on behalf of the future
Social Protection State which has taken measures to ensure their sustainability and efficiency,
refusing, just as firmly, both the irresponsible inaction of the conservative left, it would take
the financial ruin of the welfare state, as the adventurous alternative of the liberal right, which calls, with
absolute lightness, the retreat of the state social protection, the partial privatization of social security,
privatization of public services, the end of the generally free National Health Service and the deviation
the public school taxpayer money to private schools.
But the PS did not make the mistake that others have done in the past, to give the economy and stop
the country, while running the process of fiscal consolidation. On the contrary: our governance
will not turn his back on the economy or the problem of unemployment and maintain a dynamic reformer
for the modernization of the country and the state and to strengthen the competitiveness of the Portuguese economy.
Building the Future.

Legislative 2011

35

PORTUGAL DEFENDER | 2011-2015: OUR POLICY PRIORITIES

2. PORTUGAL 2015: SEVEN STRATEGIC CHALLENGES
From the perspective of structural modernization of the country, in the medium term, the challenges are clear
strategic to the Socialist Party intends to respond through the action of his next government:
First, the increase in youth enrollment rate and the upgrading of skills of
Portuguese, with the support of the rehabilitation of schools and working conditions in schools. Lies
in qualifying the main structural deficit that blocks the competitiveness of the Portuguese economy;
and therefore is the universal primary and secondary education, with full compliance of the new
compulsory education to 12 years, and the generalization of higher education, as well as in promoting
vocational training and offering New training opportunities throughout life, lies the
fund response to blockage of competitiveness;
Second, the consolidation of investment in renewable energy (to reach the goal of 31% of
renewable energy in total energy consumption) and energy efficiency to combat and reduce
our dependence on foreign energy, against the external imbalance of our economy
and reinforcing the important "cluster" industrial made in recent years in a high area
technological development and export potential;
Third, the claim of the exporting sector, so that it can come to represent 40% of GDP,
with increasing added value, consistently supporting the initiative of companies and
internationalization, and mobilizing the contribution of economic diplomacy for the diversification of
markets;
Fourth, continued investment in science, accompanied by the intensification of joint
between knowledge and innovation systems and the technological upgrading of enterprises, to
strengthening the competitiveness of the economy, in the context of globalization increasingly demanding;
Fifth, the advancement in the digital agenda, ensuring that the entire country is covered by
next generation networks, to access high-speed Internet, thus consolidating the leadership of the country
in this strategic area for the future;
Sixthly, the dynamic maintenance simplification and administrative modernization, because the
combating bureaucracy, not only the central government but also at regional and local government,
despite the achievements, it is an endless fight and it passes by here the qualification of
public services to citizens and reducing context costs for companies, which need
a state more friendly economy and initiative;
Seventh, the consolidation and qualification of health care networks and network equipment
social, to strengthen the responsiveness of the National Health Service and support institutions
social, including with regard to the network of day care centers to support families with children.

36

PORTUGAL DEFENDER | 2011-2015: OUR POLICY PRIORITIES

3. FOUR KEY ISSUES:
3.1. JUSTICE AND COMPETITIVENESS
One of the key issues not only for respect for the rights of the people but also for the
competitiveness of the economy is undoubtedly the Justice.
Measures taken by the Government in recent years to reduce congestion of the courts, the
computerization and simplification of procedures, promotion of alternative ways of composition
litigation, reorganization of the judicial map and improve the operational efficiency of the justice system
They need to continue and be intensified with further reforms, so that justice is also a factor
context of cost reduction and confidence-inducing factor.
It is necessary, indeed, refocusing the debate on the reform of the justice system, focusing it on an objective
essential: reduce the local costs and strengthen competitiveness factors.
In fact, the effective fulfillment of obligations is an absolutely essential condition to guarantee the
rights, the trust of citizens and the proper functioning of the economy.
Thus, under the reform of the justice system should be given priority to measures to improve
the overall efficiency of the system and, in particular, enabling to increase the speed of processes, and
among all those which have as their object:
• Ensuring compliance with the lease agreements;
• The execution of credits and debts; and
• The settlement companies insolvent and payment to your creditors.
Moreover, the reduction of context costs and strengthening of Justice as competitive factor
require more transparency, better access and greater predictability.
In fact, both the citizens to defend their rights, as companies, for their business,
They must be able to:
• Know how long a process expected to last and trust this information;
• Use the public service of justice simply, without delay, with deadlines on time
useful and with the service level of red tape, timely and high;
• Having increased guarantees of equal treatment in equal situations, by decreasing the factors
uncertainty and randomness in judicial decisions.

Legislative 2011

37

PORTUGAL DEFENDER | 2011-2015: OUR POLICY PRIORITIES

Finally, the PS step up bets on alternative means of conflict resolution in order to promote
economic competitiveness and quality of judicial services for people, providing
faster, accessible and inexpensive ways of resolving conflicts, notably by:







• The realization of new arbitration services, particularly in areas such as billing
debts (enforcement procedure) and conflicts in tax matters;
• The intensification of family mediation services, labor and criminal, among others;
• Do phased enlargement of the Justices of the Peace network.

The Government of the Socialist Party will be made available-for dialogue with all the operators and
with the political forces in Parliament, with a view to consensual and the realization of
relevant initiatives to strengthen the contribution of the justice system for economic competitiveness
Portuguese.
3.2. INTEGRATION OF YOUNG PEOPLE IN ACTIVE LIFE
The difficulty of integrating young people into working life is today one of the most serious problems that
is facing Portuguese society.
In Portugal, as indeed throughout the European Union, the unemployment rate among young people exceeds 20%.
More than 5.1 million young Europeans were unemployed in the third quarter of 2010, which
meant over 1.2 million young unemployed in relation to the start of the 2008 crisis.
Moreover, the process of professional and social stabilization is now recognized longer,
unstable and more complex.
These phenomena - unemployment and instability employability - reach different youth
degrees of qualification. However, it frontally oppose the idea, not confirmed by the reality of
"not worth it" studying or that "there is no point" increase the skills and qualifications.
In fact, as a rule, those who have higher qualifications are preferred, firstly, by
job market. And the greater the modernization and competitiveness of the economy, the more it is
evident.
According to data from the fourth quarter of 2010, published by the INE in Portugal employees with
higher education increased by 34,900 people, against a reduction in 170,200 of those who have
only the 3rd cycle or less. On the other hand, it is true that unemployment among graduates increased
4.2% in the same period, the fact is that increased 28.9% among those with only the 3rd cycle or less.

38

PORTUGAL DEFENDER | 2011-2015: OUR POLICY PRIORITIES

That said, it is of utmost importance in a country that still needs to do much to raise their
qualifications, it should create more favorable conditions for the integration of young people into the labor market.
Given that it is the economic growth that depends on job creation who is to meet
the needs of the young, there are initiatives that can and should be adopted:
• Measures to support economic activity favoring one based growth in a business environment
more internationalized and competitive, where the contribution of young people, more qualified and more
potential for innovation, is crucial and will therefore have a higher rate of demand;
• Unlocking the mechanisms of professional regulation impeding the entry of young people
in working life, based on the protection of the installed groups and having no justification in
constitutional constraints such as safety and public health;
• Replace the paid employment of young people under undue use of "green receipts" for contractual forms
to ensure an employment relationship, whether in employment terms and in terms of social protection;
• Continue INOV programs and Internship ambitious program that annually involves a
number of 50 000 young people covered by social protection systems, benefiting especially the
areas of innovation, SMEs, Urban Regeneration and Social Economy;
• Develop a specific program of training of young Portuguese for the economic sectors
emerging, based on new skills, especially in the alternative energy and jobs
green, linking new training profiles, work placements and support for integration in companies and,
including youth entrepreneurship;
• Create new financing conditions in connection with the universities, which favor
entrepreneurship of young people with innovative projects and market acceptance;
• Develop exchange projects between young people in Portugal and the world and European labor
More modern world, in order to better insert the new generations in economic activities more
dynamics of the international economy;
• promote entrepreneurship and the creation of self employment and new businesses founded for
persons, including in the field of energy and new technologies.

3.3. URBAN RENEWAL
Encouraging urban renewal is a strategic investment in stimulating activities
economic, especially those associated with the construction sector, fostering the creation of posts
work, and in the regeneration of cities, with benefits to the quality of life and the
tourism.

Legislative 2011

39

PORTUGAL DEFENDER | 2011-2015: OUR POLICY PRIORITIES

At the same time, should stimulate increased supply of housing solutions for families,
contributing to the availability of alternatives when access to credit for home purchase is
least facilitated, as well as better conditions for labor mobility. Thus, it is important
strengthen confidence in the rental market, so that more and more properties are available
to be leased.
To promote urban regeneration and boosting the rental market, the PS defends approval
measures in three areas: i) simplification of procedures and elimination of obstacles to rehabilitation
urban, ii) ensuring compliance with the lease agreements, particularly in case of lack of
pay rent and iii) financing of urban regeneration through financial and fiscal stimuli.
To simplify procedures and reduce bureaucracy and thus reduce connection costs, favors a PS
SIMPLEX for urban renewal, with the following measures ::
• The creation of a special procedure simpler and faster to perform works with
centralization of decision into a single entity and disposal of requests for opinions to other
entities. With this procedure, the execution of works shall be made on the basis of
prior notice in the short term without licenses or authorizations;









• Giving more autonomy and responsibility to the technician responsible for the project
rehabilitation;




• The simplification of the use of the authorization procedure and constitution of the property
horizontal and facilitating the execution of certain works in the common parts of buildings;




• Simplification of the conditions for relocation of tenants, when this is necessary
to work in rented properties.

To boost the rental market and put more properties available to be leased,
it is proposed to strengthen mechanisms to ensure that the owners have means at their disposal
to react to the breach of contract. Thus, in case of default, owners
of leased property may use a faster eviction procedure, which will run out of
courts, under the responsibility of entities able to perform realize it, but by ensuring all
means of defense necessary to safeguard the position of tenants.
To finance urban regeneration, we propose:

40




• Public stimulating the creation of initiative funding instruments and bank management,
in particular lines of subsidized credit and private real estate investment funds;




• A strengthening of the implementation of EU funds for financing investments
viable in urban renewal, including to increase the energy efficiency of buildings;

PORTUGAL DEFENDER | 2011-2015: OUR POLICY PRIORITIES




• Strengthening and concentration of support to the qualification of tourism, investments
trade, services and tourism in areas of urban regeneration;




• Redirection of funding programs of the Property Institute and Rehabilitation
Urban in urban regeneration.





• The creation of a new autonomous rate of 21.5%, on IRS for income from
leases, equating them to the tax treatment of income from a bank deposit,
in order to encourage the placement of properties on the rental market and their rehabilitation;



• Consolidation and enforcement for existing tax incentives;




• The acceleration of the creation of Urban Renewal Areas, for its early establishment permits
access to public financial support and tax incentives.

3.4. REFORMING THE ORGANIZATION OF THE STATE AND POLITICAL SYSTEM
See today, a little throughout Europe, the return of a set of populism that claim
capitalize disbelief that has taken hold of many citizens regarding political activity. The speech
Populist is both cause and consequence of the weakening of the political sphere of action. THE
his rhetoric, manipulated by a number of Portuguese party forces and fueled by some
media, undermines the health of democracy. We live subject to a sort of "dictatorship
the urgency "that puts the company under permanent tension, a frantic relationship with time
weakened space for reflection, consideration and debate. The policy risks therefore become
reactive, with no prospect of the future and the long term.
We can not give in to the populist temptation and everything we do to dignify the institutions of our
liberal and representative democracy. With demand and with rigor. Identifying the real problems
and seeking to address them so as to meet the legitimate concerns of large sections of the citizenry.
The reforms that we intend to carry out are part of this desire to enhance, not replace,
representative democracy; to honor and improve the quality of parliamentary life, respecting
plural representation of Portuguese society; to increase the municipal system functionality.
The PS reaffirms its desire to promote a change in electoral laws to the National Assembly
and for local authorities. We know well that such legislation requires a cross-party understanding
and, for our part, we are, as we have always been available to build a consensus in
respect for the principles that we consider fundamental.

Legislative 2011

41

PORTUGAL DEFENDER | 2011-2015: OUR POLICY PRIORITIES

In the case of the electoral system for the Parliament, established, clearly, the principles
guiding our action: respect for proportionality approach between elected and voters and
promoting governance. Strictly speaking, we should admit that the current electoral system guarantees
respect for proportionality and has allowed the governability of the country. Where is perhaps failure
in the quality of democratic representation relationship. Excessive distance, observed mainly in
larger constituencies, between voters and elected officials, adversely affects the ability of scrutiny
former and decreases the public relevance of the latter. It is at this level that we must act in order to increase
the visibility of parliamentary office from the time of the election until the moment of accountability.
In what concerns the municipal political system is mainly concerned the system of government
local authorities. We will continue to work for the urgent introduction of modifications to ensure
the distinction between executive and political responsibilities of the Opposition supervisory powers in
municipal assemblies of greater powers. This is a decision of system effectiveness condition
but it is also a condition of the rationality of democratic control system.
Another area of ​​great importance is the reform of the state organization. In this chapter, the Government
PS has already taken the initiative to launch a broad public debate on the reorganization of local government,
in particular at the level of parishes. Enter rationalization and efficiency factors in this system
complex and diverse it appears, in fact, absolutely necessary, with the PS available
to form the necessary political consensus, with the participation of representative associations
municipalities and parishes.
Similarly, the PS still bet on the strengthening and consolidation of decentralization, both in terms
the transfer of duties and powers to the municipalities or to the system itself level
institutional.
In this area, the PS reaffirms its commitment to the idea of ​​regionalization and advocates under its
proposal for constitutional revision, the elimination of the figure of the "double referendum", maintaining the
demanding a nationwide referendum. As is clear in the policy guidelines adopted by PS
in this respect, the realization of a new and vital referendum on regionalization demands are met
favorable political conditions to a positive result. Therefore, it is necessary to build a social block
majority, which supports the polls this option and then choose the appropriate opportunity to
trigger a new referendum process.
The commitment of PS is to contribute to the construction of this social bloc in favor of regionalization. And is,
however, to also advance the process of decentralization of state around the five regions
plan - territorial basis of future Administrative Regions - with enhancing the role of Commissions
Coordination and Regional Development, while streamlining poles in peripheral administration
of State.

42

PORTUGAL DEFENDER | 2011-2015: OUR POLICY PRIORITIES

We believe also that we should open a serious debate on the model of organization and functioning
the metropolitan areas of Lisbon and Porto, opening the door to the possibility of direct election of the holders
its political organs. In the two metropolitan areas are concentrated today some of the most serious
territorial organizational problems of the country and its proper treatment no longer seems to sympathize with
intermunicipal nature of solutions. A reform of this nature justifies, in fact, a broad debate
public in Portuguese society.
As for the Autonomous Regions, the PS advocates a deepening movement of autonomy in
terms that are now embodied essentially in the draft constitutional amendment submitted
the Socialist Party, through the new rules for the approval of the structural laws for the Regions, the
extension of its legislative powers, the hearing should the strengthening of their organs
government itself and the redefinition of its powers.

Legislative 2011

43

44

V - 2011-2015: GUIDELINES SECTOR
ELECTORAL PROGRAM

2011 - 2015

Legislative 2011

45

46

PORTUGAL DEFENDER | 2011-2015: GUIDELINES OUR SECTOR

V - 2011-2015: GUIDELINES SECTOR

1. AFFIRM PORTUGAL IN THE WORLD
Portugal has a very clear foreign policy, based on three complementary pillars: the full integration
the European Union; the transatlantic link; and close cooperation with Portuguese-speaking countries.
Within this framework, the country cultivates links with their communities around the world and appreciates them in
its dual role of expressing our cosmopolitan integration and promoting the image and identity
national in all relevant regions of the world today.
The last few years have been marked by significant achievements in all these areas. Stand out
Presidency of the European Union in 2007 and the approval of the Lisbon Treaty; the presidency of the CPLP; The
organization, in November 2010, the NATO Summit which approved the new Strategic Concept
Alliance; and election to membership of the UN Security Council in the 2011-2012 biennium.
The Government of PS guiding the action by its continuity and strengthening of the broad social base and support policy
the major national options in foreign and defense policy; and deepen political lines
that have been followed. The following policy lines are:




• Action as a member of the UN Security Council, contributing to the
promoting peace and international security, respect for international law and making
assert our dialogue capability with multiple countries and organizations around the world;





• Active participation in the implementation process of the Lisbon Treaty, so that the
EU to take full advantage of the changes made to the institutional architecture and for the
its policy statement either for their ability to contribute to a well-regulated globalization;





• Appreciation of the transatlantic community, including within NATO, participating
actively in the implementation of the Strategic Concept in Lisbon and defending the interests
nationals in the ongoing reform of the Alliance;





• contribution of the appreciation of the Portuguese armed forces for crisis management and promotion
cooperative security through the participation of National Forces Highlighted operations
peace within the framework of organizations to which we belong (UN, EU, NATO);





• Development of cooperation with Portuguese-speaking countries, either multilaterally,
within the CPLP, either at the bilateral level, with special focus on supporting their
educational systems;




• Participation in the effort by the international community to ODA
Development;



• Development of a language policy, able to spread and affirm the Portuguese as a

Legislative 2011

47

PORTUGAL DEFENDER | 2011-2015: GUIDELINES OUR SECTOR





major international language, language culture, communication and working or official language
in international organizations, as well as an international policy of promoting language and
Portuguese culture, through the Camões Institute;






• Connection Enhancement to Portuguese communities throughout the world by strengthening
its ties with Portugal, as well as successful integration factor in the countries of
host; and caressing them as culture, initiative and entrepreneurship agents
Portuguese, demonstrations of modern, democratic and European society that is now Portugal.

2. ENSURE FREEDOM, SECURITY AND JUSTICE
Ensure the independence and territorial integrity, and freedom and security of the Portuguese, before
aggression or external threat, is the essential purpose of national defense. In the evolution of nature and
range of threats, with particular importance to transnational threats, should match a
evolution of the national defense system and its relation to the internal security system so as to
maintain and strengthen the conditions and means of ensuring the freedom and collective security.
The next government will complete the reform of the upper structure of national defense and the armed forces,
including the implementation of the Armed Forces Hospital. Moreover, also taking into account
financial constraints and the need to improve investment efficiency, the Government will promote
systematically building processes of joint capabilities to different Ramos and sharing
features between them. This is the best way to pursue the modernization of equipment and military infrastructure and to ensure the qualification of training requirements, training and occupation
associated with the professionalization and transformation of the Portuguese Armed Forces. An outstanding attention
will continue to be given to former combatants and, among these, the Disabled of the Armed Forces.
Responsible for internal security, preventing and combating violent and serious crime will continue to
be the main priorities of the Government.
In terms of proximity policing and community safety, we will give priority to
conclusion of new Local Security Contracts, the extension of the National Surveillance Plan
and the dynamics of community policing programs. The good results obtained with the
Local Security Contracts in the development of territorialized answers and strongly subsidiaries
the criminal specifics demonstrate the effectiveness of this measure. Thus, shall be concluded at least
100 new contracts, with particular emphasis on the authorities in that juvenile delinquency has higher
incidence. Video surveillance systems, as well as increase the feeling of safety
citizens, are a precious help of police activity, whether in prevention terms and in terms
criminal investigation, and there have been significant decreases in crimes against the people and
against property committed in areas covered by systems of this nature. Therefore, we will expand
the National Plan for Surveillance of historical and neuralgic areas of the main cities of our country.

48

PORTUGAL DEFENDER | 2011-2015: GUIDELINES OUR SECTOR

At the same time, we will streamline community policing programs, aimed at people
especially vulnerable and certain risk groups by strengthening, qualitatively and quantitatively, of the
media assigned to them.
It will promote a rationalization of resources, promoting increased use of common resources
under the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Simultaneously, it will be continued to rejuvenate and
requalify the territorial device of the security forces. Given that Portugal has one of the 10
best ratios of police to citizens of the European Union will remain this ratio through policy
balanced developments that will compensate for the departures of members of the security forces, and will apostarse-effective in streamlining the police and training of its members, with special emphasis on
training with firearms, the answer to tactical-police incidents, community policing and the
criminal investigation. Towards the value and dignity of the police function, it will extend to application
the new statutes of the security forces in its entirety. Moreover, respecting
dual system involving a civil security force and a military nature, aprofundarse will own the distinction of valences, such as road safety and civil protection in the case of
GNR, or private security and supervision of weapons, in the case of PSP. It is also made an effort to
rationalization of structures.
In the field of coordination of police activity and combat violent and serious crime, we will
create new mixed teams, promote the use of the Integrated Criminal Information and intensify
police operations aimed at controlling sources of danger.
The technology to the public safety of the service will continue to be one of the security policy vertices
from the government. In this area, the communication systems and existing information will be consolidated,
used geo-referencing systems to improve the operational response of the security forces and
developed programs of interaction between security forces and citizens.
In the field of border control and combating illegal immigration and human trafficking will be increased
cross-border police cooperation through the Police and Customs Cooperation Centres and we will
focusing on achievement of Big Impact Operations in order to prevent and suppress serious phenomena
criminal nature. It is also widespread the use of technological systems of control
borders, allowing reading and validation of documents and the junction with the national databases
and international.
The consolidation and improvement of the civil protection system will be based on the modernization of infrastructure and equipment in the area of ​​protection and rescue, improving the responsiveness of
device and bet on planning and prevention. Taking advantage of the possibilities offered by the creation
a specially geared shaft for civil protection in the NSRF, we will continue
building program and civil protection infrastructure rehabilitation and retrofitting of
operating forces.

Legislative 2011

49

PORTUGAL DEFENDER | 2011-2015: GUIDELINES OUR SECTOR

Moreover, the capacity aperfeiçoaremos prevention and response of our protection scheme
civil, through the emergency planning and the development of decision support mechanisms
operational. Finally, without devaluing the huge importance of volunteering, will remain the focus on
progressive professionalization of the sector by consolidating Protection and Intervention Group
Relief of the GNR, the Special Force of Fire and Permanent Intervention Teams.
The road safety was one of the areas where Portugal recorded major progress over the
recent years, having reached in 2006 the targets for 2011. To give continuity to the good
results achieved, we will install a national network speed control, improve the process
administrative offenses, intensify supervision of dangerous behavior and promote campaigns
awareness and road safety.
More effective prevention, investigation and punishment of the crime continue to be a concern
key next Government of PS. To do this, continue the effort towards the creation of
best possible conditions for the work of the prosecutors and criminal police, with
highlighting the Judicial Police. Will be given particular attention to situations of risk and delinquency
youth, using multiple tools for early detection of risk situations or delinquency,
monitoring of the generating family situations of risk, risk youth training,
relapse prevention in crime. The seclusion, apart from the just punishment of the crime committed
and the protection of society, should also be seen as an opportunity for rehabilitation and
the reintegration of prisoners - which is an important guidance for the action of prison services.
The organization policy and functioning of the courts will continue to be guided by concern
cause a "management momentum" in the justice system. This is also an essential condition for
its full statement as a public service of quality, designed for the protection of rights
citizens and to safeguard the democratic rule of law. The modernization of the judiciary park,
implementation of the reform of the judicial map, granting more powers and corresponding responsibilities
the bodies responsible for management of resources in the courts and put in place specific answers
the processes that are excessively prolonged in time, are among the measures inspired by this
concern to bring better organization, less red tape, more speed and transparency serving
of Justice. The same big picture concerns also inscribed the measures on
training of the judiciary, both in terms of areas of training and expertise, either as trainers,
whether in relation to training institutions.
The fight against economic and financial crime and corruption will remain at the center of policies. Per
initiative of PS, Portugal has, like many other European countries, a Council for the Prevention of
Corruption. We will continue to support the work of this Council, and assume the fight against corruption in
its dual aspects: prevention, particularly in public administration and public enterprises, and
repression by strengthening the resources need to be allocated to it.

50

PORTUGAL DEFENDER | 2011-2015: GUIDELINES OUR SECTOR

3. MODERN STATE AND ADMINISTRATION
The effort that citizens and businesses are called to do, the state should know match with a
equivalent effort. And that means, on the one hand, slim down and streamline its structure and adopt
procedures increasingly demanding orientation for results, efficiency and performance evaluation;
and means on the other hand, offer natural and legal persons a better public service.
In 2007, the PRACE carried out a very important restructuring of the central administration of the State.
As a result of this reform, one in four services and one in four management positions were
extinct. Well: the next PS government will eliminate, in 2011, plus about a thousand positions
leaders and equivalent; and shall merge or extinction of more than 60 agencies and services
Central Administration state (corresponding to a reduction of approximately 20% of the universe
Global).
The Government will develop, as one of its priorities, a public sector restructuring process
business. The privatization program in the Stability and Growth Programme will also
implemented. And will proceed to a significant rationalization of costs of the management of the
pubic companies.
At the same time, we deepen the culture of evaluation of performance of services, managers and
workers in public functions, expanding the whole public administration management principles
transparent and accurate based on the definition and fulfillment of objectives and meritocracy
based on performance differentiation mechanisms in various universes evaluated. Reinforce
Also collective bargaining in public administration from the labor contract system
in public service by extending in particular the increasingly services workers and solutions
flexibility, adaptability, continuous journey and telework in the organization and duration of the schedule
work, allowing, of course, a more efficient management of public service delivery to citizens
and users and promoting the reconciliation of personal and family life of workers in office
public with his professional career. And we will ensure effective access to vocational training of all
workers in public service, adapting the training offer to the needs of workers and
services and assessing their impact on productivity and quality of services provided.
The State must also match the effort of citizens and companies with better service
public. The quality of services provided by the state depends on the elimination of unnecessary bureaucracy,
the provision of accessible and streamlined services and greater transparency in relation to the
citizen.
The good results of SIMPLEX programs were recognized, both nationally and internationally.
It is now time to take a new step forward with a new generation of simplification measures, access and
transparency of public services.

Legislative 2011

51

PORTUGAL DEFENDER | 2011-2015: GUIDELINES OUR SECTOR

So, first, can and must make progress on simplifying access to economic activities.
This is the path already opened by several SIMPLEX measures by the "Licensing program
Zero "and the implementation of the" services directive ", facilitating more access to economic activities and
business by eliminating licenses, permits, documentation delivery obligations
unnecessary and unjustified barriers and bureaucratic obstacles. In particular, should continue
to be implemented the "Zero Licensing", extending its application to the entire national territory and
most economic activities. And it should be accelerated in job unjustified requirements
and pursuit of business activities, completing the task already underway to revise the schemes
legal access to economic activities covered by the "Services Directive".
Second, in the design and implementation of simplification measures and continuing in
SIMPLEX programs, the PS will promote the following measures:


• Apply the municipal Simplex to all municipalities in the country;




• Create a SIMPLEX program dedicated to organizations such as schools or hospitals to help
improve the range of services that these organizations provide to people and businesses;






• Create new theme SIMPLEX programs in priority areas (as was the SIMPLEX
Exports), casting, for example, a SIMPLEX Senior, A SIMPLEX for urban regeneration,
one SIMPLEX Sea, one SIMPLEX for access to EU funds and Simplex for
environment.

Third, to make the relationship between citizens and businesses and the public administration easier
and affordable, the PS is committed to:

52





• Launch the "Zero Stop Shop" program to eliminate unnecessary forms, to reduce
fields to fill and reuse information automatically revalidating requirements,
with less burden on citizens and costs for administration;





• Further reduce the load of information that companies currently provide to various
public services, notably through information concentration to provide a time
and only a single communication, widening the scope of the Simplified Business Information;





• Launch a national movement to review and standardize the language used by
Public Administration services in the models of crafts, notifications and communications, ensuring
that pass to use clear language, accessible to the ordinary citizen;




• Continue to expand the Citizen Shops network, including furniture stores, to better serve the
citizen, increase the efficiency of administration and reduce public expenditure;




• Create a single phone number to contact the main public services, taking advantage
synergies of the various existing contact centers.

PORTUGAL DEFENDER | 2011-2015: GUIDELINES OUR SECTOR

4. CONSOLIDATING THE PUBLIC ACCOUNTS, DEFENDING NATIONAL INTEREST AND SOCIAL STATE
The Socialist Party assumes clear commitments: ensuring budgetary adjustment strategy,
continuing the consolidation of public finances; develop the structural reform agenda,
deepening them to promote economic growth and the correction of imbalances
macroeconomic; strengthen the financial sector, improving the economy's financing conditions
Portuguese.
The use of the financial assistance program of the European Union does not alter the nature or the
ambition of those commitments. Reducing the budget deficit is a pressing national and shape of your
achievement also not in doubt: is now more on the side of reducing expenditure than the side
the increase in revenue. Reducing expenses is obtained through the reduction of spending in the business sector
State and autonomous funds and services, as well as through the administration consumption
public; through the rationalization and efficiency gains in sectors such as health and education, which
ensure the maintenance of quality and accessibility of services; through moderation
salary; through the verification of the means-tested access to non-contributory benefits,
as well as the strengthening of enforcement actions.
The use of outside assistance was one made inevitable solution only and exclusively because
Parliamentary opposition decided by political calculation, reject the stability program update
and Growth. The conditions of such assistance are undoubtedly harsher than those associated with PEC
rejected. But even under this aid so that the eagerness for power of some precipitated
an entire country, the PS's policy direction is clear: focus on deficit reduction by the side of reduced
public expenditure; ensure the financial sustainability of the welfare state; face the fiscal consolidation
as a necessary condition for economic growth and therefore employment growth,
making compatible the two parallel objectives of fiscal discipline and economic recovery.
At the same time, we will continue the restructuring of the tax system. Among the lines of action,
include the following:




• Strengthen the instruments to combat fraud and tax evasion, using the legal tools
available, including the possibilities and conditions for exemption from tax secrecy and confidentiality
banking;







• developing and supporting voluntary tax compliance by taxpayers;
• Complete the process of convergence, the IRS, between pensions and income from work; and review
Structurally the system of deductions and tax benefits, in order to preserve progressivity
tax;

Legislative 2011

53

PORTUGAL DEFENDER | 2011-2015: GUIDELINES OUR SECTOR






• Streamlining the VAT rate structure and update the specific taxes on consumption;
• Introduce greater selectivity in the use of national tax incentives, valuing their
attractiveness of investment and favoring productive employment, entrepreneurship,
urban training, research, development and innovation, environment and culture.

5. SUPPORT ECONOMIC GROWTH AND EMPLOYMENT
It has already been defined in this electoral program, the priority that the Socialist Party attaches to policy
economic. And how states this priority: promoting the competitiveness of the economy
Portuguese should be the structural dimension of economic policy.
Thus, we advocate a policy for the internationalization of the Portuguese economy,
mobilize both large undertakings, as a network of small and medium-sized enterprises or institutions
innovation and qualification. A policy that values ​​the export sector and bet decidedly in
potential areas for our development, like the sea, renewable energy, the row
forestry and agri-food, tourism, among others. A targeted policy for the valuation of incorporation
technology and to encourage closer relations between the scientific and technological system and the business community.
A policy that also support small and medium enterprise, creates jobs, and the social economy.
A policy that takes advantage of and encourage the economic value of cultural creation, leisure activities and
urban qualification. A policy that recognizes the role of small businesses, personal services and
proximity and other forms of revitalization of cities. A policy that encourages rejuvenation and
the qualification of entrepreneurs and promote the inclusion of young people in business life.
But this key political priority five additional notes should be added.
The first concerns the areas of agriculture, forest, aquaculture and fisheries, as important
either for the economy or territorial cohesion and the balanced development of the country and for the
reducing our dependence on outside. Thus, our commitments are clear.
In agriculture:
a) increase national production by reducing external dependence, and increase exports
agri-food sector, while continuing to support the creation of organizational structures with dimension oriented
to the foreign market,
b) ensure the financial execution of the PRODER introducing the national economy about three billion
euros of public support investment by 2015;
c) close the "dossier" of the Common Agricultural Policy, strengthening support for small farmers, the
disadvantaged areas and outermost and competitive agriculture, keeping the two pillars of the CAP and the
his reconciliation with environmental regulations;

54

PORTUGAL DEFENDER | 2011-2015: GUIDELINES OUR SECTOR

d) to approve the Land Restructuring Act establishing the Land Bank, combat desertification and
contrary to the fragmentation of property.
In the forestry sector:
a) promote forestry associations and sustainable forest certification, fostering the creation of wealth
and jobs in rural areas;
b) invest in irrigated forest underused in irrigated areas, to guarantee increased
raw material for the wood and paper pulp;
c) enhance the hunting activity; d) continue to support the creation of Forest Intervention Zones
realizing one million hectares by 2013.
In aquaculture and fisheries:
a) complete the reform of the Common Fisheries Policy, defending the activities in the exclusive economic zone,
the distant-water fisheries and support for small-scale fishing, which increase fishing quotas in the waters
International a commitment to economic, social and environmental sustainability;
b) implement the PROMAR in supporting the modernization of the fisheries sector, encouraging the renewal of
canning companies and increased investments in setting up businesses in aquaculture;
c) support the organization of the fish row and the internationalization of the industry, aiming at
increasing exports and reducing imports.
Aquaculture and Fisheries is - second note- one of the most important areas of the National Strategy for
Sea, which runs through 2016 and includes parallel and complementary investments in sectors such as
marine biotechnology, energy, science and techniques of the sea, maritime transport and ports,
the shipbuilding and repair, tourism and protection and enhancement of natural and cultural heritage. It is
Strategy is the essential reference framework for the full Platform extension use
Portuguese mainland and economic wealth associated with it.
The third point concerns the transport and communications infrastructure. Even in the circumstances
fiscal restraint all known, modernization of infrastructure is very important,
or to the approach of the country's European Centre, is to promote the competitiveness of our
economy, or to the cohesion of our territory, either to the living conditions and mobility
populations.
So continue - given, of course, the additional restrictions placed by the crisis
financial and the need for the indespensáveis ​​timing adjustments - the effort
modernization of port and airport and road and rail transport infrastructure.

Legislative 2011

55

PORTUGAL DEFENDER | 2011-2015: GUIDELINES OUR SECTOR

In this context, it will be continued development of ports, to increase their efficiency,
widening their "hinterlands", namely enhancing their integration in logistics chains
International and enhancing their export function and capacity.
And, in general, priority will be given to strengthening the international links of the country, valuing
its strategic integration into the global economy, in particular by enhancing its integration into networks
trans-European transport, with special emphasis in the railway sector.
Two other issues - indeed, hinged together - merit careful attention of the next government
PS. One is improving the "governance" of the transport sector and ensuring financial sustainability
of their companies. The other is the enhancement of public transport, whether the defense point of view
environment and enhancing the quality of life in cities and metropolitan areas, from the point of view
the mobility of workers.
The fourth note concerns the regulation of the labor market. In developing the new Code
Work approved the proposal of the Government of PS and according to the commitment that the partners
social arrived in March 2011 in the social dialogue, the measures will be continued in
supporting the adaptability of businesses and the dynamism of the labor market, combined with the fight
to job insecurity and encouraging the hiring of young people and the unemployed.
Finally, a note of consumer protection policy. Will be pursued and consolidated work
held in the previous two legislatures, which made the consumer an agent of the market and contributed to
healthier competition.
The current economic situation and future prospects require more prepared and consumer demand,
Also, regulated markets. What is especially important on the one hand, the service sector
financial - highlighting the services provided by commercial banks in respect of credit to
housing and charged bank fees and consumer credit as well as to the urgency
to promote financial literacy; and, on the other hand, the essential utilities (electricity, gas
natural, water and waste, electronic communications). It is also necessary to promote education for
consumption, prevent over-indebtedness of families and promote savings and sustainable consumption.
The safety of goods and services, food safety, labeling, advertising, support for the
association and the settlement of consumer disputes, the promotion of balanced consumption habits,
transparency in contractual relations, effective monitoring of the legislation to promote competition,
the integration of consumer interests into sectoral policies, awareness and mobilization of
traders to consumer problems, are realities that the policy of
consumer protection will give expression.

56

PORTUGAL DEFENDER | 2011-2015: GUIDELINES OUR SECTOR

6. PROMOTE THE ENVIRONMENT VALUE THE TERRITORY, PROMOTE REGIONAL COHESION
The PS supports a sustainable environment and facing people and a territory ordered, with growth
and employment.
In this context, our first commitment is to a greener economy with more basic energy
renewable. Reducing the energy dependency of the country on oil is a national necessity, be
because it is a scarce commodity, or because their use has significant environmental impacts,
it's because this dependence, given the importance of oil, is causing part of the debt
outside the country, which should be reduced. The focus on renewable energy base should therefore continue,
in particular by:


• The maintenance of investment in wind energy;





• The implementation of the National Dam Plan;




• The launch and encouragement of experiments and pilot projects necessary for Portugal to
position in the forefront of research in the field of wave energy;



• De initiatives to support and promote the use and choice of electric vehicles.

• From an enhanced option for photovoltaics;

To the temptation of some of the nuclear solution, PS responds with the use of renewable natural resources
more present in our country: sun, wind, sea and water.
Similarly, effective measures should be adopted that promote greater efficiency
energy, including through the adoption of "energy efficiency targets" for services
Public and incentives for the purchase of energy efficient equipment by citizens and businesses.
Our second commitment is to investment in national parks, nature conservation and
in people. Several of the best Portuguese natural parks are poorly understood and enjoyed
by citizens. Thus, the PS will adopt a national program to return to the natural parks
people, in particular with the following measures must be carried out without harming the
efforts to consolidate public finances, exchanging current expenditure for public investment:


• Creation of new support infrastructure, information, leisure and stay to the visitor;




• Creation of means for movement through space of the natural park and that enable its
enjoyment by all;




• Provide the visitor observation means to a real apprehension of flora
and existing fauna;

Legislative 2011

57

PORTUGAL DEFENDER | 2011-2015: GUIDELINES OUR SECTOR




• Provision of adequate information the visitor to understand the geographical limits
the natural park, its flora and its fauna;

• Implementation measures to enhance the park's flora and fauna;





• Creation of dynamic participation in the life of the natural park, including through
of medium and long-term business programs, visits of students and senior citizens and
providing new ways of dissemination of natural parks.

Our third commitment is to launch as soon as financial circumstances permit,
a program for the rehabilitation of the Portuguese rivers. This program should, on the one hand, cherish
water quality of rivers and the landscape dimension; and, on the other hand, make such a space areas
of recreation, and attractive to people and tourism, helping to grow the economy and create
employment.
The PS will also continue the policies pursued in recent years on the environment and planning
the territory. The answer to the challenge of climate change and to achieve the objectives of the Protocol
Kyoto remains a priority, with the aim of reducing the "carbon deficit" and emissions
nationals.
The valuation of our water resources and water services will continue to characterize the policy
then in this area, with particular focus on the development of systems in low and strengthening
economic and financial sustainability of the installed systems.
Prevent, reuse and recycle waste, considering its use in the economy and minimizing the
landfills as a solution, will remain the line defended by the PS. Special attention is given to waste
persistent, the use of the waste market, the encouragement of waste recovery with
high growth potential and the existence of national solutions for hazardous industrial waste.
Similarly, the PS will keep the objective of recovery of environmental liabilities, especially in
industrial and mining areas degraded and abandoned, especially taking advantage of the funds available.
As for the planning system, priority will be given to simplification, making it more operational
and effective as policy-making instruments, and the monitoring of compliance.
The coast deserves special attention, maintaining the risk management and the rehabilitation of beaches such as
key aspects in this area. Will be promoted efforts at simplification and reducing the number of entities
stakeholders to adopt measures for the country's coast, as a condition for effective action
protection of land use and effective oversight.
Finally, the PS will enter the heart of their territory enhancement of political concern for the
Development of the Interior, in order to achieve greater regional cohesion. For this purpose, it is essential

58

PORTUGAL DEFENDER | 2011-2015: GUIDELINES OUR SECTOR

full utilization of funds in the National Strategic Reference Framework, either
the dimension of support for economic activity, whether on the territorial dimension, whether in development
human potential. In the same sense should guide the Portuguese participation in the negotiation
Community of the next financial perspective.
But the balanced development throughout the country also happens - and it is this commitment that now
We reaffirm - by consistent advances in regional autonomy, decentralization of powers
for municipalities and decentralization of government departments of the state.
The PS Government will develop active regional cohesion policy, putting into practice measures
positive discrimination to give substance to the constitutional provision and European development
the outermost regions. To the PS, Autonomy is a necessary condition for the development of
Azores and Madeira and thus solidarity and national development.

7. DEFEND THE NATIONAL HEALTH SERVICE
Maintain and deepen the health gains achieved by the Portuguese in the last 30 years requires the
continuation of a firm commitment and resolute in the National Health Service (NHS), promoting their
reorganization and redeployment. The state budget should remain a source of funding
essential the NHS, ensuring the constitutional principle of gratuitousness trend in the contact point
citizen with the system.
It will be placed particular emphasis on the development of public health by strengthening health promotion
and health education, involving schools and the community. Priority will be given to the fight against
obesity and encouraging physical activity. Deepening will be preventive initiatives related
the consumption of tobacco, alcohol, illicit drugs and with respect to risk factors for disease
serious infectious (HIV / AIDS and others).
In health services, priority will be given to the continuation of the reform of primary health care,
generalizing the presence of Family Health Units (USF), the Community of Care Units
and the other functional units of the health centers. This will further ensure that all
Portuguese have access to family doctor. Will consolidate the new services of the health centers,
including those relating to oral health, psychology, nutrition, physiotherapy and speech therapy.
It will continue the enlargement of the National Network of Integrated Continuous Care for support
elderly and dependent, with regard to places of detention and in domiciliary teams. Will Alargarse-training of human resources in order to scale up the response in the field of palliative care,
long-term care in mental health and dementia.

Legislative 2011

59

PORTUGAL DEFENDER | 2011-2015: GUIDELINES OUR SECTOR

In hospitals, the central objectives will be on improving patient access, transposing
for outpatient good results achieved in the waiting time for surgery. It will continue
the operation optimization efforts in network, reinforcing the complementarity of different
units, particularly in the attention to maternal and child health and response to emergency situations.
Attention will be paid to the continuous improvement effort on the most prevalent situations,
including cardiovascular diseases, diabetes and cancer pathology, disease susceptible to
to cause greater social stigma, including disturbances of mental health and HIV / AIDS infection
and rare diseases, including hereditary diseases and autoimmune pathology.
Across the health system we deepen the contracting culture, autonomy and accountability,
inspired by the experience of the USF and the EPE. This effort, combined with diffusion
efficient mechanisms for accountability and evaluation, will contribute decisively to
the sustainability of the NHS. Will be continued external contracting work, to increase the
competitiveness and efficiency, particularly with social sector organizations.
We will value the incorporation of new technologies of information and communication, contributing to the
creation of Electronic Health Record of every citizen and, thereby, to improve the quality and
to reduce the costs of health care.
The training and development of human resources will be in the spotlight, both in terms
respect to medical specialists (including general and family medicine, public health and
other disadvantaged specialties), nurses and their career and emerging professions in health.
The medicine is very important to the NHS, being a sector that requires careful balance of
policy measures. These have strong financial implications, have repercussions on the entire health system
and above all affecting the patient. This area will be a priority to proceed to the necessary revision of the system
of reimbursement, taking into account the needs of patients; to extend progressively the
DCI prescription for all medicines reimbursed by the NHS, boosting further the
generic; launch an improvement program of prescription quality and reinforce the electronic prescription
drugs (and supplementary diagnostic) with clinical decision aids and information,
namely on average daily dose costs.

8. DEVELOPING THE SOCIAL PROTECTION
Solidarity and social security, the challenges faced are clear.
It is, on the one hand, to consolidate the work already begun. What is especially important in the fight against
poverty among the elderly - 266,000 Portuguese have benefited from the Solidarity Supplement for the Elderly and
poverty rate in this age group was reduced by six percentage points; or support for families - with the
family allowance (which exceeds one million children and young people), increasing the allowance for the second child and
following the increase in the allowance which benefit single parents, the creation of prenatal allowance, the
enhancement of student support and the creation of a scholarship to attend secondary school.

60

PORTUGAL DEFENDER | 2011-2015: GUIDELINES OUR SECTOR

It is, moreover, to ensure the sustainability of the public security system and social work and,
in particular, the sustainability of the pension system.
And it is, after all, to promote equality, combating contribution fraud and evasion, overseeing the
application of the rule of resource condition for the non-contributory benefits, inspecting the remaining
conditions of access to benefits, but also improving the quality of care for users
the Social Security office.
So there are four main policy lines for the next legislative term.
The first is the fight against poverty and exclusion and tackling inequality. By focusing on groups
and most vulnerable in situations of higher risk of deprivation, with particular attention to families with children,
elderly, single parents and disabled citizens.
The second is support for families through the completion of the Support Programme Network equipment
Social, including day care centers and nursing homes, but without forgetting the network equipment and
social services for the disabled and also the promotion of home care.
The third line of political structure cooperation between the state and charitable institutions, as
mercies, mutuals and IPSS, promoting the social sector in this key area and
their potential either in the community response to local problems, whether in the provision of services
close proximity to families, both in job creation.
And the fourth line says, in short, about the promotion of sustainability and efficiency and security of equity
Public social, in full continuity with the structural reforms already undertaken by the PS, without forgetting
term financial constraints, but as an alternative of justice and security to project the right
Portuguese partial privatization of Social Security and skimming.

9. PROMOTE THE QUALIFICATION OF PERSONS
The next Parliament has three clear challenges ahead, in education and training.
The first is the completion of the extension of compulsory education until the end of secondary education.
Therefore, it is necessary to continue the modernization of schools and technological equipping
schools; the diversification of the training offer, with enhanced technological and professional row; at
structured response to the main learning problems identified in our system, which
means, in particular, strengthen the focus on mother tongue in math and experimental sciences;
to promote a school culture of rigor and demand, which includes the development of systems
balanced and efficient evaluation not only of students but also of schools and teachers; and
the development of autonomy and management of schools and groups, encouraging their reintegration
in the social environment they serve.

Legislative 2011

61

PORTUGAL DEFENDER | 2011-2015: GUIDELINES OUR SECTOR

The second challenge is the general access to higher education. Taking full advantage of nature
Binary our system, and that it favors complementarity between university education and teaching
Polytechnic; reinforcing the internationalization of schools, teachers and students; making report
conversely, on the one hand, the academic and scientific system and on the other, businesses and society
civil; and offering advanced training courses, with second and third cycles of studies so
to build on the extraordinary progress that Portugal won in recent years, in terms of
PhD, scientific employment and dissemination of research and development. Social action
direct and indirect, has a very important role in ensuring the democratization of access, and their
efficiency will be improved.
Particular attention will be given to the areas of health, science and technology, where our country has
while lack of training and material and human resources that can and should be more
better use. At the same time, we will launch the debate on the reform of the network of institutions
education, to give the system greater rationality and efficiency. Is this the way that will allow
enhance more adequately the valences of existing institutions, reducing overlapping
offer, adjusting the courses to social needs and specialized institutions in a network logic,
also gathering elements of the evaluation process of the institutions that now becomes possible with
the start-up of the National Agency for Assessment and Accreditation of Higher Education.
The third challenge of qualification is undoubtedly the supply of new training opportunities,
desirably designed to provide a double certification, academic and professional individuals.
The New Opportunities program is the full practical demonstration that it was necessary and it was possible
create a true social movement training: more than million and a half subscribers, more than half
million certificates between 2006 and 2010 - and, above all, a new way of personal development and
open social mobility to many Portuguese who had been deprived of pursuing studies at the age
own. The program will continue improving its recognition and validation of instruments
skills and their contexts and training methods, but remaining true to its spirit
ensure training and development opportunities to all who are today in the Marketplace
Work.

10. PROMOTING CULTURAL IDENTITY, SUPPORT THE ARTISTIC CREATION
The Socialist Party has been responsible, in Portugal, the main policy measures that recognized
the symbolic and structural value of culture and established global strategies to assert its
action.
The commitment to culture will continue, in its general structural lines: the preservation of
historical and patrimonial memory and the continuous renewal of knowledge and creation - based on Language
Portuguese identity and heritage shared by more than 250 million people worldwide,
in our mobile, property and intangible heritage, and artistic activity in all its forms.
The resulting economic mainstreaming of cultural activity, the qualifications and training of citizens

62

PORTUGAL DEFENDER | 2011-2015: GUIDELINES OUR SECTOR

through knowledge and strengthening the international value of Portuguese culture, are the objectives
fundamental cultural policy. She is one of the main vectors of national affirmation, either in
internally or externally.
To consolidate the affirmation strategies of cultural heritage and the Portuguese cultural fabric,
to continue with qualification structures, equipment and resources of creators
Portuguese through:
a) the strengthening of partnership networks with local authorities and civil society in the areas of heritage, arts,
in artistic production structures, cultural facilities and human resources, and settling
developing projects such as routes of the Cathedrals, Monuments Heritage of Humanity Network,
Romanesque Route in the Northwest Peninsula and Network of Municipal Libraries; strengthening the role of RTP
the preservation and heritage and artistic dissemination; and also creating structural projects such as Network
Portuguese Municipal Theatres and Digital Cinema Network;
b) the strengthening of heritage preservation measures, through the National Conservation System
Heritage property and the establishment of new partnerships with local authorities for consolidation
Urban regeneration in historic centers; the collection and treatment of Intangible Heritage Portuguese, the
development of the Portuguese Archives Portal and Guide and Digital Preservation Plans and strengthening
of the National Digital Library content development; the implementation of the Legal System
for the Legal Deposit of Moving Images and Legal Deposit of Bibliographic Publications; the
creation of a museum dedicated to the Maritime Discoveries and Expansion of Portuguese Culture in the World,
the elevation of the shot of intervention west of Ajuda National Palace; the creation of the Sound Archive
National and installation of the National Music Museum in short space.
c) the strengthening of the cultural sector financing mechanisms, through the revision of the Cinema Law
and the Private Copying Law; the creation of a joint management body of the National Theatres and
promoting governance of museums and palaces involving citizens, communities and
social economy entities; Dancer of the Statute of the creation and Professional Conversion Fund
the dancers; improvement of oversight mechanisms and equitable sharing in support to
Independent artistic activities aimed at cohesion, regional development and recognition of
merit; and also the creation of new incentive programs and promotion of amateur artistic activity.
d) strengthening the mechanisms leading to the internationalization of Portuguese culture by creating
the Fund for Internationalisation; the legal framework that promotes International Mobility works
and authors; tax incentive programs for international film productions taking place at
Portugal; INOV-ART program of international internships for young farmers; joint with
the Camões Institute and the iPad in external cultural promotion initiatives; reinforcing the translation
Portuguese authors and support programs for companies in the creative and cultural industry; the
Capital statement Guimarães 2012 European Capital of Culture as a structural projection project
international of Portuguese culture; consolidation of partnerships with Portuguese-speaking countries in the various
areas of the cultural sector, particularly strengthening the importance of the Portuguese language as a factor in
strategic unity in the external policies within the Lusophone and affirmation of Portugal in the plan

Legislative 2011

63

PORTUGAL DEFENDER | 2011-2015: GUIDELINES OUR SECTOR

international; and also by monitoring the initiatives and mission of the International Institute of
Portuguese, consolidating the implementation of the Orthographic Agreement in Portugal and CPLP countries.
Finally, it should strengthen the presence of Portugal in international organizations and activities in favor
culture, notably in the context of the European Union, the Council of Europe and UNESCO.

11. Deepening citizenship and promoting equality
The media policy is a very important instrument for promoting the quality of our
democracy and development of informed civic participation.
In this sense, the PS Government's policy will be guided by four wires. The first is the
sector's adaptation of "media" to the new technological and business environment - and in particular the
completion of the implementation of Digital Terrestrial Television process as well as the judicious use of
digital dividend. The second is the orientation of the State of the direct incentive system for the promotion
innovative projects of social communication, and ensuring the full functioning of the system
institutional advertising of the state. The third thread is the development of regulation, with
progressive joint Regulatory Authority for Social Communication with their counterparts from
communications and competition and the encouragement of co-regulation and self-regulation processes
widely accepted and providing for effective monitoring of compliance. The fourth relates to
public service media, ensuring the independent and accurate rendering of the service
Public interest news agency Lusa and assuring, in accordance with the Constitution, the existence and
the operation of a public radio and television, ensuring free and universal access
citizens to an independent and pluralistic information, as well as qualified and diverse content
provided by a national operator.
Another of the essential dimensions of quality of democracy lies in integration policies. Portugal is,
in all fairness, internationally recognized as a country leader in the integration of immigrants. Because
well: it is to consolidate the work that has been done, particularly in the recognition and realization
social rights, including the right to education; to improve care services to citizens
immigrants; to develop the Choices program and other public programs of integration, combating
discrimination and promotion of housing and employment conditions; and deepen participation
of immigrants in civic and political life.
On the other hand, the policies implemented by the Socialist governments were promoting equal
gender at various levels, from social organization for the rights of citizens and citizens - parity law,
new rules of parenting, social networking equipment, the domestic violence law, among others.
It is now essential to continue to integrate gender mainstreaming in all aspects of life
in society through the implementation of the IV Plan for Equality - Citizenship and Gender (2010-2013).
But we must have clear priorities, highlighting measures in three areas - the labor market,
education and the fight against Domestic Violence.
Thus, the PS Government will encourage the conclusion of an agreement in the social dialogue, as
It happened in other strategic areas, committing all partners in a set of measures and

64

PORTUGAL DEFENDER | 2011-2015: GUIDELINES OUR SECTOR

segregation elimination initiatives in the labor market based on gender and the fight against
wage inequalities between men and women.
It is also our purpose to integrate continuously and permanently in school curricula, starting
in the first levels of education, the area of ​​education for equality and citizenship.
We will promote, finally, the specialization of prosecutors in domestic violence and gender,
so as to boost the effectiveness of enforcement, adequate today, in combating this scourge.
To constitute a normative framework for equality policies, the PS Government propose
the adoption of an Equality Act.

12. PROMOTE PHYSICAL ACTIVITY, SPORT AND QUALITY OF LIFE
It is important to keep the sports development strategy that is being followed since 2005,
promoting the spread of sport, betting on sports on offer nearby, and
a real citizens' access to sport and physical activity through a usufruct
more efficient use of existing equipment and infrastructure.
More and better sport for most citizens will continue to mean aim at widespread
sport in active partnership with local authorities, to graduating from school and to develop on the move
associative, ensuring equal access to sporting activities without social discrimination, physical
or gender.
In this context, will be central sports policy areas:







• The generalization of sport, in partnership with local authorities and the associative movement,
supporting projects for families, encouraging sports participation of women,
stimulating sports among the elderly, always with the associations of the contribution of
basis and in cooperation with its representative bodies, promoting the sport
proximity without discrimination arising from the gender, disability or ethnic origin or
cultural;






• Coordination with the educational and social policies, continuing the increase of sport
in school and helping to extend the sport at all compulsory education in line
with the strategy of a "full-time school." It will be encouraged, in cooperation with the Education
Superior, the expansion of sport in universities and technical schools.

Continue the National Program for March and Race, as well as the National Training Programme
Coaches. And a National Ethics Program will be promoted in sport, establishing order
systematic prevention activities, training and awareness against doping, corruption and violence in
sport, focusing on defense sporty truth.
It will promote, in partnership with local authorities, a greater return on the investment made in

Legislative 2011

65

PORTUGAL DEFENDER | 2011-2015: GUIDELINES OUR SECTOR

sports infrastructure, promoting sports on offer proximity and accessibility of real
citizens to the sport, contributing to the rehabilitation and upgrading of Cities.
The National Network of High Performance Centres adopt a management model that will result in balance
and support of its operation, in partnership with local authorities, sports federations, the system
educational, and innovative entrepreneurial initiatives in the communities where they live. O
National Sports Center Jamor will continue its renovation and redevelopment, with all its
valences, and adopt a new management model compatible with its size of largest facility
national sport.
A Handbook of Good Practices Project and the National Sports Charter will be changed in orientation
framework for the management of sports infrastructure and the territorial organization in order to
obtain reliable indicators for decision making.
Support for High Performance Sport and national teams will be maintained, giving full guarantee
implement the agreements signed with the Olympic Committee and the Paralympic Committee of Portugal for the
draft London 2012. There will also be monitoring closely the athletes, coaches and
high performance referees during and after their sporting careers, and concerted with the federations and
education system an appropriate school support program.
Will be strengthened support for Anti-Doping Agency to Portugal to continue its work to combat
doping in coordination and consistent with the guidelines of the World Anti-Doping Agency.
The financing of the sports system shall be provided in a contracted and stable frame
funding to federations and Olympic projects, proposing a new regular funding model
that recognizes and values ​​the development and results of each sports federation, seeking to
the Sports Federations, clubs and sports companies the support paths
Economic carried on.
Will be pursued taking full advantage of the tax benefits created for the specificity of sport
and for different sports agents, including those for the Patronage Sports.
The international projection of Portuguese sport and the development of sport in conjunction with
Economy and Tourism, will mean supporting sporting events that promote Portugal, qualify the
national sport and encouraging citizens to sport on the basis of rigor and balance criteria
financial.
And the bilateral and multilateral cooperation will be strengthened, particularly relevant to the community of countries
Portuguese-speaking Countries and the European Union, maintaining the bet in sports games that give
practical expression to that objective.

66

PORTUGAL DEFENDER | 2011-2015: GUIDELINES OUR SECTOR

Legislative 2011

67

www.ps.pt
