Sweden
need
locally produced
Policy
The Centre Party's election manifesto for
the mandate period 2014 - 2018

Adopted by the Centre Party
Trustees August 7, 2014

1. Sweden needs locally grown policy
The Centre Party stands for locally grown policy. We are convinced that people can and want to decide more
themselves. We want a fair, open and safe society that provides equal opportunities for all throughout the country.
We are now requesting a clear mandate for further reforms that develop throughout Sweden. We want even more people to get to know
The pride of a job. We want to give even more momentum to the rapid growth of renewable energy.
We want to strengthen the people's right to welfare that benefits everyone.
We in the Centre Party are proud of what we achieved in government. Sweden's climate emissions is steadily downward. Sweden is top in Europe for renewable energy. Since 2006, wind power has increased tenfold. We have now
200,000 more businesses. We have over 250,000 more jobs. Exclusion has decreased by 200 000. Resources for
Welfare has increased. Never before has so much effort been made for roads, railways and broadband throughout the country.
Alliance Government has built on the robust budget policy that the Centre Party was with and laid the foundation twenty years ago. We have managed all this despite the worst recession since the 1930s.
Sweden is at a critical crossroads in September 2014. There is a lot at stake. The Centre Party goes to
choices along with the Alliance for a third term. Against us stands a divided opposition with the wrong prescription
for Sweden. A change of power would mean less power over their own lives with heavy burdens on
small businesses and rural areas.

2. A reform program for Sweden
Sweden has become a better country for the last eight years. But we still face major challenges.
During the mandate period 2014-2018, the Centre Party to specifically work with these major societal challenges.
• More jobs need to emerge in the country to reduce exclusion. In 2020, more than five million
people have a job, but the economic crisis environment are today still hundreds of thousands
Swedes are without work. Far too many are excluded. Particularly difficult is the situation of young people,
those born abroad, persons with disabilities and for people in those parts of our country severely affected by the crisis. The division we see between growing cities, rural and industrial communities, between those who
have jobs and the unemployed, women and men need to be broken so that everyone has equal opportunities.
• The growth should go hand in hand with reduced emissions, less toxins in everyday life and more renewable
energy. Sweden has come far on the journey towards a more sustainable society, but the majority of our shipments are still run on fossil fuels, and many hazardous chemicals remain in our everyday lives. We
need to strengthen efforts to shift to sustainable transport and increase efforts for the climate and for
renewable energy will continue to grow. Hazardous chemicals need to be phased out. The measures for cleaner air
and better water habitats need to be more efficient. How can we continue to show the world that Sweden is a leading country in environmental and climate issues and that economic growth can be reconciled with ambitious policies for
better environment.
• Welfare must benefit everyone. Health care and education must be of high quality and accessible
throughout the country. Sweden's welfare is based on more businesses to hire more people. This leads to increased
tax revenues, which we can use to strengthen and develop health, social care and school. In order to
the quality should be better, it is important that the people's will and the needs at the center. Therefore,
self-determination and freedom of choice in welfare continue to evolve.

2

• Swedish companies' competitiveness needs to be strengthened. Sweden is not an isolated island with no exposed sharp
international competition. Our entrepreneurs - whether it's heavy industry, start-up small businesses
or agriculture - need a business environment and export promotion in the world. Strong companies means
more jobs can emerge in such inland Norrland and Småland forests. We need to continue the reform work for our companies to create more jobs.
• Decisions should be taken as close to people as possible. The world is not helped by more centralism. We need
strengthening people's power over their own lives and to ensure that the right decisions at the right level. For this to
become a reality even more empowerment and opportunities for the many, not just for the few. It is through
To free up the creative power of more that we can get all of Sweden to grow.
2014 election is crucial for Sweden. Our willingness to continue to develop and reform is a clear contrast
the left opposition who want more difficult and more difficult for people to enter the labor market. The
left as instead of increasing people's chances would restrict, prohibit and regulate in detail. Who want
penalty tax the smallest enterprises and young people seeking their first job. Who want to stop the growth and thus the possibility of a green sustainable future. With left policy will alienation, division and
gaps grow.
Over the past eight years we have developed Sweden. It is because we want to continue to realize our ideas, and
because we are burning with desire to innovate and improve Sweden, we add together our direction to the future. For it is through our goal-oriented, locally grown, policies that the country can grow.

3. More jobs nationwide
Small and medium businesses are the engine for sustainable growth all over Sweden. Four out of five new jobs created
in particular small and medium-sized businesses. When new jobs are created, the basis for a reduced exclusion and
more tax revenues that can be used to care for our elderly and schooling for our children.
We want it to be easy to get a job in Sweden. It should be easy to start and operate the businesses that create jobs. And that education will pay off. The Centre Party promises to stubbornly continue to work for a better climate
for job creators - for sustainable growth in the country and for every person's right to create a better life for themselves
himself and his family.
We need reform that ensures that exclusion among young people is decreasing. If a large part of Sweden's young set
without work threatened the future of the faith, and our opportunities for development. We need to work on all fronts to
more young people will find work.
As feminists, we think it is obvious that women should have the same opportunities for development, freedom and
self-determination as men. Better conditions for women in the labor market is crucial for greater equality. We do not believe that gender equality be created by female-dominated industries is confined in public
monopolies or to women who want to conduct business discouraged. We look to the future of feminist challenge
both to smash the glass ceiling and raise the floor.

3.1 Facilitate job creators
We go to the polls on continuing to reduce costs for job creators. We promise never to raise the tax on jobs.
We want to reduce the hassle. In our Sweden, it will be safer to drive business, easier to finance their new
business concept, and easier to get their entrepreneurship to germinate.

3

During the next term, we prioritize in particular that:
• Introduce a cost ceiling for corporate sick pay so that the costs on businesses, especially small and medium-sized job creators decreases.
• Lowering employers for young down to ten percent, so that even more young people get a job to go to.
• Carry out targeted reductions in employer contributions that benefit small businesses and new employees so that
it becomes less expensive to create jobs.
• Improve conditions for the personal and direct ownership by lower taxation on ownership
and investments in growing businesses by reforming the tax rules for fåmansbolagen and so-called
stock options, and facilitate the generation change in small companies.
• Simplify day business by introducing "one-stop shop" for handing over information to the State, shorten time to
start a business, make it cheaper to start a company, abolish the audit requirement for more companies and make demands
that all county councils and authorities have set a clear deadline for processing times.
• Increasing security in the event of sickness, maternity and unemployment so that all those entrepreneurs who are involved
pay for welfare also get the right to use it.

We also want to:
Drive simplification are locally and regionally. We need to continue working to simplify and clean up
among the complicated rules for job creators. Many of the companies' contacts with official Sweden is direct
with the municipalities. We therefore want to see more of the country's municipalities must work purposefully with regulatory reform
and establish a "one stop shop" for local businesses.
Using the power of the public procurement for a better environment and more innovations. Each year procures
authorities, county councils and local goods and services for 500 billion. If this money
use smarter, they can actively contribute to a more competitive industry and a better environment. We therefore want
increase support for the purchasers, impose requirements on toxic childhood environments for children, as well as make it easier for
small and medium-sized innovative companies to win contracts.
Strengthen the economy nationally, municipally and regionally. We want a welfare that benefits everyone. Because it
It must be possible to invest even more in education and healthcare, we need to continue with a responsible economic policy. The tax equalization system is necessary for us to have a joint financing of the common prosperity of
throughout the country. The equalization allows a good quality in education, health and social care. The Centre Party is a guarantor of
To skatteutjämnings¬systemet remain and evolve. We also want to see regionalized taxation of real estate
in the industrial and energy sectors, such as property tax on hydroelectric and wind power plants.

We will fight against the left policies to:
Stop the tax and hassle shock to the country's job creators. The Centre Party defends the reduced costs
to hire young people, RUT and ROT deductions and earned income tax credit. VAT on food will be the same on
restaurant in the deal. As the public sector opened to private operators, it has become possible for
employees in a female-dominated sectors to choose from a variety of employers and start his own business based on their conditions and dreams. Six out of ten companies in the healthcare and social services run by women, which is a
twice the proportion compared to other entrepreneurial Sweden. Would common enterprise in health care, education and welfare banned, it is women's economic freedom and opportunity in the labor market that may be put to one side.
And if taxes are increased on the jobs it is young people and people in rural areas hardest hit.

4

3.2 Opening the door to employment
Today over a quarter of a million more people a job to go to than when the Alliance took. Exclusion has
reduced by 200 000 people. This has been achieved while we have gone through a huge international economic crisis. But still we see a division in Sweden where many young, newly arrived Swedes, the disabled and the long-term unemployed are met with closed doors to the labor market. Better matching is an essential element
to meet the demand in the labor market. It is clear that more reforms are needed to more doors into the job
to be opened. In this context also plays social enterprises play an important role. The Centre Party intend to continue
working for the whole of Sweden will grow in pace and that everyone should have the same chance to get a job.

During the next term, we prioritize in particular that:
• Making of the Employment Service in the ground and impose a job fix money. Competing voluntary, private and
union employment officers is to be compensated when they helped to arrange proper jobs for the unemployed.
• Strengthen efforts to people with disabilities easier to find jobs.
• Introduce matching contracts as an alternative to the inefficient employment phase (Phase 3) and gradually
scrap other inefficient labor market measures. During the coming mandate period it is possible to
as a first step dieting labor market measures by a tenth, and use the money for reforms
lead to real jobs.
• Broaden Job Introduction The positions, YA jobs to the young, to also include primarily long-term unemployed, but also newcomers and smaller companies without collective agreements. This gives more chance to
learn a profession directly on the job and get a foot in the labor market.
• Introduce lärlingslön and invest in apprenticeships with a strong link between the local industry and
school. Then we can upgrade the practical skills and create new paths into the labor market
more people.
• Continue to develop the system of student employees to provide students with relevant work experience
Even as students. The Centre Party wants the government goes ahead in offering the student employee services
and are available to support the parties in their efforts to develop a student employee agreements.
• Create a secure labor market flexibility with fairness priority rules based on competence. With
enhanced support for rapid conversion encouraged more change jobs and business venture firm hiring.
• Stimulate equality among families for the child to get better contact with their parents and to
more women will have better opportunities in the labor market. We want to double the gender equality bonus in the parental insurance, introducing a gender equality bonus for VAB-days and enable the transfer of parental days
more, for example, to close relatives.

We also want to:
Facilitate labor immigration. For businesses, labor migration to foreign expertise can be employed so that they can continue to grow. We will continue to enhance opportunities for labor by, among other things, make it easier for small and medium businesses to recruit from other countries. We
are convinced that Sweden benefits from openness to the world around us.

5

Introduce jobs line from the first day of the new arrivals. The most important thing to be a part of society is to get a chance
in the labor market. People who have recently arrived in Sweden must first be given the chance to work, instead of
to wait months or even years on their first contact with the labor market. It strengthens integration
and gives people a way into society.
Raise the quality of education throughout the country. With the right training increases the chances of getting a job. We need
further efforts aimed at those students who do not achieve knowledge targets. We want to strengthen the use of modern digital teaching aids to introduce a national strategy for more ICT in school and facilitate distance learning through reforms to exploit the digital lärverktygen. We also need more reforms
ensuring the quality of education throughout our country. For this to be possible and attractive for families with children
to stay in the country needs to village schools have good conditions to work. The Centre Party wants to continue to develop
the regional universities, and their ability to conduct research, and strengthen interactions between the labor market and higher education. To do this, we would, among other things, change the resource allocation system. We
will always push to the country's higher vocational education will continue to evolve.

We will fight against the left policies to:
Stop proposals that raise the thresholds to the job. The Centre Party will always work for lower thresholds into the labor market. We are the antithesis to those who want to build walls against the outside world, or who want to make it harder for
young people get their first job. This means that we will fight against those who want to reduce the chances of being employed in
employment agencies, which would make it harder to temporary hiring, which would remove the reduction in payroll taxes for young people who want to make it difficult for people to move to a job in Sweden by the trade union vetoes and want
making labor markets more rigid and closed. For raising the thresholds for those who have the most difficulty in entering the labor market exclusion to increase.

4. Results for the environment
The Centre Party has achieved historic results for the environment. We are proud to climate emissions have dropped,
that renewable energy has grown, and that emissions of nitrogen and phosphorus in the Baltic Sea have decreased since the Alliance government took office. We can show a good performance, but we are not finished. We want to ensure that Sweden continues
reforms for the climate, for more renewable energy in our transport and our electricity generation, for a better marine environment,
clean air and water, and less toxins in everyday life. We know that nature needs to be healthier if people of
the whole world should feel good.
Our vision is a climate neutral Sweden by 2050. As the Green Liberals, we are convinced that sustainable
economic growth goes hand in hand with our ambitious environmental ambitions. It means that we understand that people's ability to transport goods and themselves strongly contribute to the development of society. We need transport
in the form of climate-friendly cars, trucks and buses, but they need to be powered by renewable energy with less
climate impact. Therefore, we want it always pays to run and environmentally friendly travel.
When the emissions and environmental problems know no borders, it is essential to cooperate internationally. We reach more easily our goals if we work together. Much of the work to phase out hazardous
substances need to be made with other countries. The European Commission needs to raise its ambitions to
ban and phase out hazardous chemicals, especially in children's clothing. By working together we can achieve results-oriented environmental policy for a living planet.

4.1 More renewable - better environment
We want a hundred percent of Sweden's renewable energies within a generation. To succeed in our ambitious vision, we need to increase the amount of renewable electricity, replace fossil fuels in the transport sector with renewable electricity
and biofuels, and the efficiency of our energy use.

6

During the next term, we prioritize in particular that:
• Continue to expand renewable energy. When the Centre Party and the Alliance took office in 2006, the share of renewable energy in Sweden 43 per cent. Thanks to our policies, the proportion increased to 51 percent. The Centre Party
want to go further and set a new ambitious target that 70 percent of all the energy used in Sweden,
be renewable by 2030. To reach that goal, we want to phase out fossil fuels and switch to sustainable
the transport sector, and continue to expand renewable electricity production.
• Introduce an environmental bonus that will allow those who purchase an environmentally friendly car, a premium that is higher the more environmentally friendly the car while buying a car that has high emissions have to pay a fee (a bonus-malus system). Until the Bonus-Malus is introduced, we want to extend the super car premium which goes to support the purchase
of really environmentally friendly cars.
• Build infrastructure for electric vehicles by supporting charging stations throughout the country, by requiring the installation
of charging points in car parks of a certain size and because of the country's municipalities provide electric cars advantages
such as free parking.
• Introduce an environmental premium for climate-friendly buses and trucks. Sweden has the world's leading truck and bus manufacturers, then we also have the world's most climate-friendly buses and trucks on our roads.
• Increase the involvement of renewable fuel in gasoline and diesel, and to ensure that the höginblandade renewable
fuels will continue to be exempt from tax at the pump, and ensure good long-term conditions for producers.
• Continue to expand renewable electricity production by, at the planned monitoring station in 2015,
extend and raise the levels of ambition in the green certificate system, and abolishing the fee for connecting offshore wind farms to the grid. We also want to reduce the tax on self-generated renewable electricity so that it becomes more
profitable to invest in, for example, solar and small-scale wind power.
• Urge international climate efforts. The climate conference in Paris in 2015 may mean that the international
Climate work will take several steps forward. Sweden will be the driving force for the EU to pursue an ambitious
line in the international climate negotiations so that the 2-degree target can be achieved. In order to properly efforts should
to be in the right place, we want to continue the Swedish climate investments in other countries through inter alia,
International Climate credit and continuing high aspirations for the Swedish and the European climate aid.

We also want to:
Promote Sweden as Europe's green battery. More renewable energy leads to safety, security and a better environment.
It can contribute to both Sweden and Europe can make itself independent of Russian oil and gas. With our hydropower
We can help balance the effect of our neighbors' electricity grids, while strengthening our economy by
invest in green power as a new Swedish export success. Today, the growing green energy across the country. To take advantage
the country's renewable resources need electric cables to neighboring countries continue to expand.
Implement green tax for strong emissions reductions. By using green taxes for
to strategically increase taxes on things that are bad for the environment, it is possible to implement powerful emissions and reduce our environmental impact. This creates even room to make bets on more jobs. It will
be made so that no parts of the country that are dependent on the car, such as rural areas, have to bear a disproportionate part
of the tax burden. One step is to reform the EU's emissions trading system for carbon dioxide so that it becomes profitable
that climate invest.

7

Continue to improve energy efficiency. Sweden still has great potential to use energy more
smarter and more efficiently. In order to encourage better use of energy, we want to move forward with new measures
to strengthen the energy intensive industry in its efforts to use less electricity, and improve efforts
more energy-efficient appliances and buildings.

4.2 Non-toxic living
To produce one kilogram of textile is used an average of four kilos of chemicals. When we use the clothes, when our children
biting and sucking on badankor, and when we wash, we come into contact with chemicals can affect our fertility, make us sick, and cause allergies. Much of the food eaten at our kindergartens comes from the producers
in other countries where animals are fed with prophylactic antibiotics. For the Centre Party is a matter of course
no parent should have to worry about whether it is dangerous when kids stop his sleeve or badankan in the mouth,
or that the food children eat liable to contribute to the antibiotics in the future will be ineffective. We are therefore working
every day to create a toxic-free living for our children and grandchildren.

During the next term, we prioritize in particular that:
• Prohibit the hormone-disrupting substance bisphenol A, which are found in the cash receipts and cans,
and accelerate efforts to ban hazardous chemicals in a group, such as chemicals in the so-called
bisphenol alphabet.
• Introduce a tax on toxic chemicals that make it dangerous expensive and less hazardous relatively cheaper.
• Introduce a producer of clothes so that discarded garments, which often contains a long list of dangerous substances,
recycled.
• Prioritize work in municipalities of toxic kindergartens, schools and other settings where children are present.
• Setting tough standards for public procurement, especially those made for schools and homes for the elderly, so that all
foods on children and old plates at least live up to the Swedish animal protection, produced without
unnecessary use of antibiotics, and are healthy, safe and sustainable.
• Implement a national matlyft, where the operators of kindergartens, schools and homes for the elderly are rewarded if they
investing in better quality of the food.
• Initiate a global crisis Commission for antibiotics, equivalent to the Stern report, which puts a price tag on
What about the use of antibiotics means for people, for the environment, for animals and for the economy.

We also want to:
Improve the EU's chemicals legislation. EU chemicals legislation REACH is an important instrument to reduce
use of hazardous substances, but the law still needs strengthening. We want it to be possible for consumers to easily find out what chemicals the products you buy contain and would like to introduce a digital
Chemical-FASS.
Implement actions for remediation. Around the country, there are areas and water sources have been affected by
negligent use of hazardous chemicals. By means of targeted initiatives, we want to ensure that there is sufficient
resources and other forms of financing to sanitize these environments.

8

Strengthen work on biodiversity. We want to improve the protection of endangered species and habitats, as well as take serious
against the criminal trade in endangered animals. A wise use and conservation of the forest, the countryside and our seas affect rural development positively. We therefore want to ensure that ecosystem services are valued
based on the benefits they bring, that legislation on species protection offenses in Sweden is strengthened and that international cooperation to combat trafficking in endangered species prioritized.
Invest in cleaner oceans and waterways. We work for a strong and cohesive maritime and water policies where a large
Some work is done in cooperation with EU countries and in the Baltic region. But at least as much need
done at national, regional and local level. Emissions of nitrogen and phosphorus will need to continue to decline to arrest
eutrophication. We want to see more environmental improvements in shipping, in particular as regards renewable fuels.
Cycle work needs to be strengthened to reduce the presence of hazardous chemicals, micro plastics and marine
trash in our waters. We want to increase the pressure on the countries around the Baltic Sea in order to reduce eutrophication and
the load of phosphorus and nitrogen and to ensure that the so-called VOW allocations to develop more local
marine environment and water conservation projects, situated on a high level.

We will fight against the left policies to:
Stop the growth hostile policy. To stop economic growth is one of the greatest threats to
ambitious environmental policy. Sustainable economic growth is a prerequisite for a better environment - and an aggressive environmental policy is a precondition for good economic performance. Sustainable economic growth means we can do
more with less, the new green climate friendly technologies can emerge and that more people can afford to buy clean vehicles.
To say no to growth is to say no to new jobs and green enterprises. No new innovations that lower
emissions or produce renewable energy. And no more resources can be devoted to clean lakes and rivers. The Centre Party wants instead to continue to develop sustainable and green growth, and promise never to ask
jobs against the environment.

5. Develop the country
All parts of the country have the opportunity to develop. But at the same time, Sweden is twofold. It is primarily a division between those who are in isolation, and those who feel part of the society's larger community.
In urban peripheral areas are neighborhoods with the needs that in many ways resemble those rural areas where
terms of more jobs, better service and greater security.
The Centre Party is the country's voice. In government, in parliament and in the council assemblies, but also as part
a vibrant civil society, we run a locally grown policy of vigor throughout Sweden. When the power is moved closer to the people can become more involved.

5.1 The world's most modern rural
Sweden's rural areas has enormous potential. New companies springing up from Kiruna to Trelleborg. Meanwhile
the prolonged global crisis fueled the worldwide urbanization trend. There are parts of our
country where the need for a new future. We know how powerful if we give the country a chance. Our work
creating the world's most rural areas has only just begun. For we know that Sweden is larger than a large city.

During the next term, we prioritize in particular that:
• Invest in better roads and railways, and more homes across the country. With the help of Sweden The construction is our intention to
tie together all of Sweden by investing in high-speed, multi-train stop in small towns, and strengthen
railway line in northern Sweden, for example, to build the North Bothnia Line. It also calls for more investment in transport infrastructure and the operation and maintenance of road and rail across the country.

9

• Strengthen the Rural Development Programme for businesses across the country will have the opportunity to grow. Then jobs created
throughout the country, and even outside the cities get people access to services, broadband and communications.
• Invest in broadband deployment in rural areas by doubling the allocation until in 2020.
• Continue to strengthen the possibilities to make mobile telephone calls across the country and gradually tighten the coverage requirements for mobile operators.
• quintuple appropriations for commercial services, as village shops and petrol stations, in rural areas to
strengthen the ability to live in the country.
• Improve access to public services by including access to police, social insurance and post
also in the country's more sparsely populated areas.
• Form a food strategy for the sustainable production of healthy, safe and locally produced food. Agriculture
Competitiveness must be improved to allow for more active farmers and increased production of Swedish
food.
• Allowing farm sales of self-produced beer and wine for developing rural tourism.
• Change the shoreline protection to enable the building and living in more attractive locations throughout
country.

We also want to:
Improve conditions for the green industries and jobs and entrepreneurship in rural areas. Continue
to make rural areas more competitive by reducing taxes and fees. Continued investments in Sweden as forest kingdom and culinary nation will be carried out - the production and export of food needs increase. Continue
regulatory simplification are of farms is an important measure.
Government presence across the country. The involvement of everyone in Sweden should be present in all state administration. It presupposes
understanding of the country's challenges. It can, among other things created through decentralization of government data
regional and municipal level, and by government agencies locating or located throughout
country.
Take advantage of rural attractiveness. Quick turnaround times in construction matters need to be an obvious
priority in the country's municipalities, as well as efforts to obtain land and plans for the creation of businesses and residences. At local and regional level, it is important to take responsibility for basic services
such as schools, ambulance and emergency services are available throughout the country.

5.2 The world's greenest cities
Cities are important hubs for job creators, for research and for people. Today we see similar
challenges for cities across the country. We see the challenge is to reduce the housing shortage in Uppsala, in bringing down
exclusion in the outer areas of Helsingborg and to build a public transportation and infrastructure that ties together all the parts of Östersund. In Umeå, and in all Swedish cities and towns, can we use environmentally friendly
public transport and cycling initiatives, be a driving force for the transition to a fossil free society. With
The Centre Party, Sweden may have the world's greenest cities.

10

During the next term, we prioritize in particular that:
• Creating cities with more housing, better infrastructure and more public transport. Through negotiations and
joint funding from the state, region, municipality and private stakeholders housing combined with efforts to improve public transport and other infrastructure.
• Expand and face congestion charges in cities to reduce emissions and to obtain resources for investments in
green infrastructure and housing.
• Building off the housing crisis by clarifying the rules in the construction process so that the cost of building can
reduce. To stimulate the emergence of more rental units need the rental market reform, and more
account of land value and demand.
• Protect green spaces with sustainable construction. Urban green spaces are important elements for recreation and quality of life.
To use the opportunity to build on the height, where appropriate, is a way to protect the green areas.
• encourage bicycle commuting by more cycle paths, better snow removal and more bicycle parking.

We also want to:
Building sustainable cities. The Centre Party wants to move forward with the work for sustainable cities. It requires the efforts of both
large and small projects to reduce urban environmental and climate impact, for example through climate-neutral
public transport, accessibility for cyclists, green roofs and walls, ecosystem services and better air quality and
stormwater management. The state requirements for energy conservation in new housing and for major renovations need
continue to tighten, and the ability of municipalities to promote the development of energy-efficient construction will
secured.
Implement suburban lift in cities with exclusion areas. We need long-term prevention efforts
improve conditions for those living in our outer urban areas. We therefore want to increase the investment for a more
constantly present and locally based community policing, more authorities see the opportunity to move to the suburbs,
to make it cheaper and easier to hire, and especially strengthen schools by increasing funding for disadvantaged schools.
Invest in better air quality. The transition to sustainable fuels leads to better air quality, but the use of studded tires inside the cities is still a problem. In most parts of the country where alternatives to studded tires, is it
important that municipalities have the right to impose fees or studded tires can take steps to reduce the use of studded tires in other ways.

We will fight against the left policies to:
Save the choice and the right of people to choose their welfare. The right to choose their own health care and children's nursery
is now a part of everyday life. Each year about 20 million patient visits to private providers. Although the autonomy of prosperity has led to more satisfied with health care, education and care is threatened. The Centre Party wants
save the choice of welfare. Freedom of choice is essential both in the city and in the countryside. Independent schools have increased students' opportunities, while they become important in many sparsely populated parts of the country threatened with closure
village schools could be taken over by the parent cooperative or company. We want it to be possible to choose the medical center,
home care, nursing homes, schools and child care across the country.

11

6. Welfare, security and self-determination throughout the country
All people have equal rights and value of the soil in which all our policies grow out. For us, the locally grown
policy that we will fight for your right to choose your path in life - what you want to work with and where you want to stay. You'll
have the right to equal care whether you live on the church hill in Västerås or Gargnäs outside Sorsele. That
you are a student or parent will be given the choice school. And that you, the older shall have the right to dignity and self-determination.
For us not stop every person's right to choose his own path at national frontiers. An open Sweden where new
People are welcomed to become our neighbors is of great importance for us. We therefore have a generous asylum and refugee policy and a functioning labor.
We are strongly anchored in international solidarity. This means that we will fight for openness and tolerance
when we see how the xenophobic forces are strengthening their positions. It means that we react when we see how authoritarian regimes violate the sovereignty of other countries. And it means that we will move from words to concrete results
we can see how climate change is likely to forever change the conditions of life on our planet.
Our promise to you is that with a vote for the Centre Party, you will receive a courageous and committed reform force
a sustainable future. We promise to work diligently for more jobs, for continued earnings for a better environment and vitality throughout our country. For we are burning with desire to continue planting the right seeds that will germinate and grow around
around the entire country. It is what we call a locally grown policy.

12
