We choose
WELFARE!
Sweden Democratic election manifesto - 2014 election

Sweden Democratic election manifesto - 2014 election

Oskars.indd 1

2014-08-25 14:11:49

Sweden Democratic election manifesto - 2014 election

Oskars.indd 2

2014-08-25 14:11:49

We select well-being and we love Sweden. For real.
When we Sweden Democrats say that we choose welfare we mean it. For real. We are happy to extend a helping
care to people in need around the world. Particularly in such difficult and uncertain times like these. As
Swedish politicians and managers of the Swedish people's tax money we hesitate, however, never be our primary
task is to ensure people in Sweden with good living conditions, security and welfare. When other parties
Supplied notes that there are no resources to secure jobs and mend the holes in the Swedish welfare system,
so we must do huge bets on these areas. The reason we can do this is that we dare to think
innovate and dare to make tough, but necessary priorities.
When we Sweden Democrats say we love Sweden, we mean it. For real. We are aware that by
history has been able to collect many valuable ideas and cultural influences from the world around us, not least from our
Nordic and European neighbors. We are grateful for this and believe that Sweden should continue to be a
open and inquisitive country and an integral part of the Western family.
We are also aware that Sweden is in many ways unique and that we have our own distinctive culture and history.
We are very proud of. We love the Swedish nature with all its nuances. We are proud of
our dynamic cities and thrives in our rural idylls. We feel respect for our country's long and
exciting story, and before all the fates that have made our country what it is. We are proud of our culture,
our traditions and our beautiful cultural environments.
We are also proud of our democracy and our prosperity, of all the great men and women of our country
distinguished themselves as outstanding inventors and entrepreneurs, artists and writers, scientists, poets,
musicians and athletes. We are grateful for our freedom, our equality and our strong animal welfare.
We are delighted to Sweden for a long time was a country where one could feel safe in their homes and on the streets
and squares, a country where there was work for everyone and where one could live on his salary and his pension. A country where
to respect the elderly and where together we took care of our frail and sick. A country with a strong internal
cohesion and solidarity, built on a common identity.
Sweden is still a beautiful and great country in many ways. Unfortunately, we feel, however, that the ruling
politicians, through its division policies and mistaken priorities, in recent decades have made
Sweden a little less fine and a little less amazing every year. This makes us sad and worried and anxious
if a change. Therefore, we now present our manifesto to make a fine country even better. Because we love
Sweden and the people who live here. For real.

Sweden Democratic election manifesto - 2014 election

Oskars.indd 3

2014-08-25 14:11:49

Sweden Democratic election manifesto - 2014 election

Oskars.indd 4

2014-08-25 14:11:50

A more secure Sweden
The Sweden Democrats are working for a Sweden where all people can feel safe and confident
all places in the country at all times of the day. A Sweden with a strong internal cohesion and solidarity
where citizens feel natural trust each other and to the judicial authorities. A Sweden where
Victims receive support and redress. A Sweden where the penalties are proportionate to the crime committed and
is in tune with the popular conception of law. A Sweden characterized by respect and security.
As a first step towards a better Sweden we want in this respect, among other things, work to get through
the following changes:
Improving support for victims, improving witness protection and a new system for the payment of damages,
where the State guarantees victims the compensation they are entitled to, regardless of the offender's willingness or ability
for payment.
A sharp straffskärpning for serious and repeated violations by, among other things, the introduction of real
life sentence without the possibility of timing or parole for the most dangerous criminals, mandatory
the expulsion of all foreign nationals who commit serious crimes as well as the immediate abolition of
current practice whereby courts routinely give repeat offenders quantity discounts on crime.
Vigorous measures against burglary wave by, among other things, stricter sentences for burglary and trespassing, extended
resources and powers of customs and police and improved coordination among and within responsible
agencies.
An intensification of the fight against organized crime through the introduction of a Swedish version
of US RICO laws that make it easier to judge the perpetrators involved in mafia
business.
Additional resources for law enforcement and judicial authorities, such as police, prosecutor's office,
Customs and the Coast Guard.
Prohibition on participating in terrorist training in foreign states as well as to participate in foreign combat forces
which violates international law and deliberately killing civilians. Persons with dual citizenship who violate
This prohibition shall be able to obtain Swedish citizenship revoked.
Strengthened support for the country all crime victims who do a fantastic job of supporting and helping the
citizens who have fallen victim to criminals misdeeds.

Sweden Democratic election manifesto - 2014 election

Oskars.indd 5

2014-08-25 14:11:50

Security and dignity in old age
The Sweden Democrats are working for a Sweden that must be the world's safest country to grow old in. A country where everyone
older should have a dignified and meaningful life. A country where older people work efforts are valued and respected. One
country where all older people are given the care and attention they need.
As a first step towards a better Sweden we want in this respect, among other things, work to get through
the following changes:
Abolishing retiree tax and a sharp increase in the minimum guarantee schemes. The bad economic
conditions that many elderly people today are forced to live in is not worthy of a welfare state like Sweden. We want to allocate
substantial funds to already during the next term to eliminate the difference in taxation between
pensions and salaries and to improve living conditions for the elderly, often women, who now has the lowest
pension.
A reform of the pension brake in its current form by distributing it on all pension rights.
Government finances and the pension system's long-term carrying capacity must not be compromised, but all adult citizens
should jointly and severally bear the brunt of the bad times. Not only the elderly.
A sharp increase in investment aid for the construction of new housing and special housing for
the elderly who can no longer manage on their own.
A matreform for our elderly with the aim to provide as many patients in elderly care as possible the chance
that every day get freshly cooked, tasty and nutritious food and the introduction of legislation that ensures
that older people's food, like school children's food must meet certain basic requirements for nutritional and
quality.
Increased support and improved opportunities for relief for the country's carers who nurture and care
the elderly and the sick at home.
Abolishing the patient charge for anyone older than 85 years and an enhanced dental care contributions for all
pensioners. Society should show appreciation to those who for decades have been involved
built our country and no senior should have to forgo dental care for financial reasons.
An incentive for increased social activities for the elderly in senior care as well as for the development of
special category housing for older pets.

Sweden Democratic election manifesto - 2014 election

Oskars.indd 6

2014-08-25 14:11:50

An immigration policy that promotes unity and welfare
The Sweden Democrats are working for a Sweden that is open to the world, while we will safeguard our
Community and our own unique culture and identity. A Sweden that through the wise use of the limited
resources will help so many needy people in the world as possible while not forgetting
or detract from the needs of our own country. A Sweden where immigration policy is designed in the most responsible
means that immigration is an asset and not a burden to society.
As a first step towards a better Sweden we want in this respect, including work to get through the following
changes:
A shift from the regular granting of permanent residency to temporary and a strong
Restriction of asylum and family immigration in scope to the level that our society is capable of
manage and not higher than that in our neighboring countries Denmark and Finland.
Abolishing the general labor migration for the benefit of a so-called "blåkorts model"
exclusively addressed to qualified workers with skills that are missing in the Swedish
labor market.
A return to the assimilation policy that applied until the mid-1970s, and that means it is
immigrants must adapt to Sweden and not vice versa.
A greatly expanded support for the UN refugee agency, UNHCR, and the millions of the most needy refugees
the world who lack opportunities and resources to take away from conflict areas' close proximity and an extension of
the percentage of quota refugees among the asylum constants that we grant a residence permit.
Reduced social costs and stronger incentives for accountability and integration by limiting
newly arrived non-protection status immigrants access to benefit systems in the early years of the country.
An increase in the value of citizenship through the introduction of language and knowledge tests and by expanding
the time it must have been resident in Sweden with impeccable character before an application for citizenship
can be made.
The introduction of compulsory health checks for newly arrived immigrants, in order to provide fast,
treatment of sick persons and the effective protection of the Swedish society from the spread of
serious infectious diseases such as TB, HIV and Ebola.
The abolition of the statutory obligation for municipalities to provide mother-tongue education,
except the official minority languages.
Abolition of all government policy of integration with the exception of teaching in Swedish, compulsory
civic orientation and validation of courses and work from home. Newly arrived
Immigrants should be helped to acquire the most basic tools of socialization, but
in general have the same social support as native Swedes. Neither more nor less.

Sweden Democratic election manifesto - 2014 election

Oskars.indd 7

2014-08-25 14:11:51

Safe and healthy employees
The Sweden Democrats are working for a Sweden with safe and healthy workplaces. A Sweden with good
the availability of work in which Swedish employees interests put first. A Sweden where one can live on their
salary and Sweden where everyday heroes in the public sector do not have to rip out prematurely due to stress
and understaffing.
As a first step towards a better Sweden we want in this respect, among other things, work to get through
the following changes:
Reduction in staffing in welfare and improved personal and professional development of the
Individual workers through the introduction of an incentive to local governments with the aim of
make it possible for all of involuntary part-time employed in the public sector to move up to full time.
Greater support for occupational health care and the introduction of a state stimulus program in order to give all
public employees with heavy duties, particularly in the health and social care, the opportunity
a fitness allowance.
The introduction of a state stimulus program for abolishing the first qualifying day for the groups of
public employees who work with the care of sick people in situations where the risk of infection is
high.
An extended nursing lift with the aim to strengthen the capacity and improve quality in elderly care and
give the staff a chance to develop and grow professionally.
Improved working conditions and enhanced opportunities to combine work and family life through more stringent requirements
that longer unpaid study hall in the middle of the working day in the form of so-called "shared rides" shall be abolished within
public sector workers who wish to do so.
Strengthened security for its workers through increased resources to the Swedish Work Environment Authority inspections
potentially health hazardous workplaces.
A reintroduction of state aid for the training of trade union safety representatives and education against
bullying and harassment in the workplace.
Abolishing Lex Laval and a strengthened defense of the Swedish collective agreement and Swedish employees interests
including through a reduction of the time foreign personnel may be stationed in Sweden, vigorous effort
against unfair competition in the haulage industry by, among other things, the registration of cabotage operations,
3-step fine for hauliers and above all forwarders who misbehave and the introduction of the so-called
"White jobs" model for public procurement, meaning requirements such as the prime contractor's responsibility.

Sweden Democratic election manifesto - 2014 election

Oskars.indd 8

2014-08-25 14:11:51

Increased support for the unemployed
The Sweden Democrats are working for a Sweden with full employment. A Sweden where employees can feel
safe in the knowledge that they are protected by a strong adjustment insurance in case of unemployment. One
Sweden with decreased thresholds into the labor market. A Sweden where the unemployed receive a fast and efficient
support to get back to work. A Sweden where the unemployed are matched and trained for the labor market needs.
A Sweden where everyone is needed and get an opportunity to contribute to the best of ability.
As a first step towards a better Sweden we want in this respect, among other things, work to get through
the following changes:
An improved unemployment insurance by making the unemployment insurance compulsory and free, raise the roof,
improve conditions for part-time unemployment and by abolishing the requirement that in the event of unemployment,
from day one, to be forced to leave the homeland and loved ones to take jobs elsewhere. In order to
create incentives for conversion shall not be longer than necessary, we believe that compensation should be
highest during the first three months and then gradually decreased.
Strengthening efforts disabilities in the labor market in the form of increased wage subsidies,
incentives for the development of more social enterprises, improved information and improved
workplace adaptation.
A reinforced commitment to apprentice job as a new form of employment, completely exempt from employer and
with a lower salary compared to regular employment.
An improved support for transition and strengthen skills through an increase in the number of sites within
Adult education and polytechnic.

Sweden Democratic election manifesto - 2014 election

Oskars.indd 9

2014-08-25 14:11:51

An improved business environment for new jobs
The Sweden Democrats are working for a Sweden with full employment. A Sweden where new, real jobs are emerging,
especially in the country's small and medium enterprises. A Sweden where the country's entrepreneurs get the recognition and
the support they deserve. A Sweden where it pays to work, to create jobs and to take risks for a better
future.
As a first step towards a better Sweden we want in this respect, among other things, work to get through
the following changes:
Completely abolishing payroll taxes for small businesses with up to 9 employees.
An improved situation and reduced vulnerability of the small and medium-sized businesses through reduced
Sick Pay responsibility of all firms and a completely backtracked sick pay liability for the smaller companies.
Improved opportunities for companies to retain key skills and lower thresholds in on
labor market including young people and foreign-born through an increase in the number of exemptions from
priority rules of the Employment Protection Act.
Strengthening and expanding start-up grant.
Increased focus on fast, flexible and market-oriented infrastructure investments.

Sweden Democratic election manifesto - 2014 election

Oskars.indd 10

2014-08-25 14:11:51

A good, fair and accessible health care
The Sweden Democrats are working for a Sweden where all citizens are offered the best possible medical care in
timely manner regardless of domicile or the size of your wallet. A Sweden where health professionals with the estimating
they deserve in the form of fair wages and good working conditions. A Sweden where quality, availability and security
in health care guaranteed by well-trained and dedicated staff that puts the patient at the center. A Sweden where
the law-abiding resident population are not discriminated against in healthcare in relation to foreign nationals
staying illegally in the country.
As a first step towards a better Sweden we want in this respect, among other things, work to get through
the following changes:
A sharp increase in resources in order to increase availability, improve quality and improve staff
working conditions by quickly creating more hospital beds and more happening in health care.
A reinforced commitment to dignity and equal life care with a special focus on terminally ill
children.
A new and medically based health care guarantee for the Norwegian model, where the sickest and most difficult to treat
patients are prioritized in a clearer way.
The abolition of the practice of free medical and dental care for illegal immigrants.

Sweden Democratic election manifesto - 2014 election

Oskars.indd 11

2014-08-25 14:11:53

A safe, Swedish and knowledge-oriented school
The Sweden Democrats are working for a Sweden that is to return to one of the world's leading knowledge nations. One
Sweden where knowledge transfer is central in education. A Sweden where the schoolchildren also
learn critical thinking, respect for democracy and for the country's culture and history. A Sweden where school
characterized by security and good order. A Sweden where every student is treated as a unique individual, and have the opportunity
to grow on their own terms.
As a first step towards a better Sweden we want in this respect, including work to get through the following
changes:
A re-nationalization of the Swedish school in order to give every child in the country the right to an equivalent and
quality education no matter where they live.
An improved work environment at school through the introduction of a state incentive grants to municipalities
order to refurbish and renovate the dilapidated and hazardous school buildings as well as through incentive grants for
improved food quality and enhanced efforts against bullying.
A bet on more adults in school. To combat insecurity and mental illness among students and
to relieve the teaching profession, which today are forced to spend too much time on things other than pure communication of knowledge,
we want to invest in more adults in schools in terms of including more school nurses, counselors and the development of
klassmorfar / grandmother operations.
A strengthened focus on Swedish language skills and greater knowledge, understanding and respect for the
Swedish cultural heritage.
A bet on increased quality in higher education through more teacher-led sessions, and
stronger financial incentives for universities to offer courses that are adapted
labor market needs.
A substantial increase in research funding with the aim of strengthening the role of Sweden as a knowledge nation.
Our ambition is that Sweden in the future should be at the forefront in the world in fields such as nuclear physics,
nanotechnology, information technology, mineralogy, earth science and forest technology.
Increasing the number of places at medical school in order to overcome the shortage of doctors, increase future
availability of care and reduce the county council costs for so-called relay doctor.

Sweden Democratic election manifesto - 2014 election

Oskars.indd 12

2014-08-25 14:11:53

Sweden is worth defending!
The Sweden Democrats are working for a Sweden with a strong and flexible defense. A Sweden where our whole kingdom
be defended. A Sweden with a defense force that evokes trust and respect in our world. One
Sweden with sustained domestic defense industry where we can feel safe and proud of a well-equipped,
modern and effective defense.
As a first step towards a better Sweden we want in this respect, among other things, work to get through
the following changes:
A major renovation of the defense with the long term goal that the entire country can be defended in
event of an attack.
A reintroduction of conscription in a limited form. Conscription will help to strengthen the country's total defense will
and defense capabilities and has also had a positive impact on personal development and social
Community.
A reprioritization of the Defence Forces resources from armed interventions in other parts of the world to a defense of
Sweden's borders.
Closer Nordic defense cooperation in all fields with the aim of establishing a Nordic defense alliance,
but continuing against Swedish membership of NATO.

Sweden Democratic election manifesto - 2014 election

Oskars.indd 13

2014-08-25 14:11:53

A policy of strong, independent families and secure children
The Sweden Democrats are working for a Sweden where there is a loving family for each child. A Sweden where
Parents and children are offered the economic and social security needed to live a good and dignified life.
A Sweden where children and families receive the support of society at difficult times, but at the same time guaranteed the freedom to
the actual shape their everyday lives.
As a first step towards a better Sweden we want in this respect, among other things, work to get through
the following changes:
A height and deregulated parental benefits. The Sweden Democrats want to raise the level of maternity benefit and
abolish all coercive regulation concerning which parent is to be at home with the child. Our conviction
is that the country parents are better placed than politicians when it comes to deciding what is best for their own
children.
The introduction of a state incentive grant and a statutory regulation on the length of waiting times
maximum must be designed to increase the availability and make family counseling free of charge in all
municipalities.
Greater choice in child care and an increase in the allowance to a level which is reasonably
proportion to the municipality's costs for a nursery school.
An increase in government stimulus grant with a view to providing all single parents who work at
inconvenient times access to a late-night kindergarten for their children.

Sweden Democratic election manifesto - 2014 election

Oskars.indd 14

2014-08-25 14:11:54

A realistic and sustainable environmental and energy policy
The Sweden Democrats are working for a Sweden where we cherish our own fantastic and unique natural environment and take
our share of responsibility for global environmental problems while also weighs other important values ​​when we
make decisions and realize that Sweden alone can not solve the world's environmental problems. A Sweden where environmental policy
is based on the love and care of the local community. A Sweden free from dependence on oil
with stable electricity supply and affordable energy prices for the benefit of both companies, welfare and citizens'
personal finance.
As a first step towards a better Sweden we want in this respect, among other things, work to get through
the following changes:
A reinforced effort to tackle environmental problems of the Baltic Sea.
Increased investment in energy efficiency and energy research.
A stronger support to the poorest developing countries' efforts to reduce their emissions of environmentally hazardous substances
and greenhouse gases.
Increased efforts to preserve biodiversity and protect endangered habitats, animal and
plant species in our country.
Saying no to the continued large-scale deployment of highly subsidized and inefficient wind that has a
negative impact on the natural and cultural environments.
A broad energy agreement containing research and a renewed focus on nuclear power, abolishing
power tax and further step toward making our country independent of oil.

Sweden Democratic election manifesto - 2014 election

Oskars.indd 15

2014-08-25 14:11:54

Sweden Democratic election manifesto - 2014 election

Oskars.indd 16

2014-08-25 14:11:56

A gender policy for the real people
The Sweden Democrats are working for a Sweden where it is obvious that men and women have the same value
and rights. A Sweden where nobody is discriminated against because of their gender, their ethnic background, their age, their
sexual orientation or their disability. A Sweden where there is space for those who want to violate
traditional gender patterns and where we are at the same time do not shame and blame those who want to live in accordance with a
Such patterns. A Sweden where the state does not try to rule over men's and women's gender identity and life choices without
Instead, try to support citizens in the choices they made, and in the situation where they are. A Sweden where both
men and women feel free, comfortable and respected.
As a first step towards a better Sweden we want in this respect, among other things, work to get through
the following changes:
An improvement of working conditions in the female-dominated public sector.
A tightening of penalties and increased efforts against genital mutilation, forced marriage and sexual and
honor-related violence.
A reinforced pregnancy money with the goal that no woman should be forced to perform heavy and dangerous to health
duties during the latter part of her pregnancy.
A stop to any form of quotas and so-called positive discrimination based on gender and race
background.
The reinstatement of annual wage surveys in order to combat wage discrimination.
An increase in funds for research and treatment of gender-specific diseases such as
endometriosis.
A cancellation of the taxpayer-funded support to the forms of gender pedagogy that seeks to
changing all children and young people's behavior and gender identity rather than to just help and understanding
for those individuals who want and need to break the traditional gender patterns.
Increased support for the country's women's shelters, the establishment of special hotlines for honor victims of violence and the establishment
an investigation into the need for special shelters for other groups such as LGBT people and men.
A withdrawal of all fiscal aid to all political and religious organizations that advocate
or legitimizes violence or negative treatment of individuals based on their gender.
A review of the Parental Code in order to make legislation regarding custody of the children more gender neutral,
less discriminatory against men.

Sweden Democratic election manifesto - 2014 election

Oskars.indd 17

2014-08-25 14:11:56

A broad, Swedish and accessible cultural life
The Sweden Democrats are working for a Sweden where society is characterized by a historically rooted, common Swedish
culture that creates cohesion and solidarity among citizens. A Sweden where the Swedish cultural heritage
respected and kept alive. A Sweden where creativity is encouraged and where a positive, qualitative and popular
rooted culture made available to all groups in society. A Sweden with a strong civil society and a
viable and successful sports movement.
As a first step towards a better Sweden we want in this respect, including work to get through the following
changes:
A greatly expanded support to organizations, associations, government agencies and activities dealing
to preserving, visualize, animate and make available the Swedish cultural heritage as well as strengthening
the role of heritage in regional development, infrastructure planning and urban planning.
Expanded efforts to make both contemporary culture and the cultural heritage more accessible to children, the elderly, the sick
and disabled people by, among other things, expand Creation schools to include kindergarten, extended
support for cultural activities of the country's nursing homes and hospitals, as well as investment in new technical tools
and the elimination of physical barriers that complicate funktionsnedsattas accessibility to culture.
The introduction of a special tax deduction for the rehabilitation and preservation of historically valuable
buildings.
More support to the Christian cultural heritage by including a raised support for the preservation of cultural and historical
significant church buildings and the establishment of a national church history museum.
A stronger support to sports movement by giving Riksidrottsförbundet annual compensation for price and
payroll list.
A stronger support to the preservation and the live announcement of the Sami cultural heritage through increased funding for
Saami Parliament budget for culture and strengthened support to Sami mother-tongue teaching.

Sweden Democratic election manifesto - 2014 election

Oskars.indd 18

2014-08-25 14:11:56

A living countryside and a pet friendly community
The Sweden Democrats are working for a Sweden with a vibrant and dynamic rural areas with good public
and good transport connections across the country. A Sweden that is largely self-sufficient in food.
A Sweden where predators are kept in a viable, but manageable level. A Sweden where all citizens
regardless of birth and ethnicity have the same basic rights to land and water in all parts of Sweden. A Sweden
where we care for the animals and where we preserve and strengthen the Swedish animal protection.
As a first step towards a better Sweden we want in this respect, among other things, work to get through
the following changes:
Countryside lift with a view to significantly increase rural employment through significant investments
the hospitality industry, agriculture, forestry, aquaculture and mining.
An animal welfare compensation to Swedish farmers, combined with a ban on the import of foreign products
produced by subjecting animals to difficult, unnecessary suffering. This is in order to safeguard the Swedish
animal welfare and strengthening the competitiveness of Swedish farmers.
An increase in the penalties for animal cruelty and the introduction of a welfare beam where all the legal texts concerning the animals gather.
This in order to make the legislation more transparent and to clarify and strengthen the rights of animals.
No to higher vehicle and yes to the height of mileage rates in order to make it slightly less expensive to live
in rural areas and make it more profitable for people in rural areas to commute to another place.
A review of legislation and aimed at giving all citizens regardless of birth, the same basic right
to land and water, even in reindeer grazing areas.
Creation of a special rural fund geared toward increasing employment in rural areas, funded
by increasing the mineral remuneration.

Sweden Democratic election manifesto - 2014 election

Oskars.indd 19

2014-08-25 14:12:02

A close European cooperation without the supranational
The Sweden Democrats are working for a Sweden which is an independent, free and democratic nation. A Sweden
dealing with cooperation with other countries to solve border problems and that together
with other nations build on our joint Nordic and European cultural heritage. A Sweden where
Swedish people have the power to itself, the Swedish free choice, shaping a common future. A Sweden with a
independent monetary policy and its own currency, free of supranational governance, where the Swedish Parliament is the highest
decision-making body.
As a first step towards a better Europe and a better Sweden we want in this regard including work
to get through the following changes:
A new referendum on Swedish membership of the EU with the objective to Sweden as soon as possible to submit
the supranational union and return to an intergovernmental European cooperation.
A rejection of Turkish membership of the EU. As long as Sweden remains a member of the EU, we should work to
Turkey's negotiations for membership of the Union be stopped in order not to worsen the economic, cultural,
democratic and social problems within the Union.
Reduced EU contribution. As long as Sweden remains a member of the EU, we should both encourage the reduction of
Union budget as well as the Swedish EU fee.
The revival of border protection. As long as Sweden remains a member of the EU, we should work for a
restoration of border protection in order to combat human trafficking, terrorism, arms smuggling,
drugs and more.
Continued Swedish no to membership in the Economic and Monetary Union, EMU.

Sweden Democratic election manifesto - 2014 election

Oskars.indd 20

2014-08-25 14:12:02

A policy for a strong, democratic and independent
Swedish voice in the world
The Sweden Democrats are working for a Sweden who speaks with a strong and independent voice in foreign policy.
A Sweden that cares about good relations with the nations of the world, but who are not afraid to put his foot down when
our interests are threatened or when human rights, international law, sovereignty of law and other important values
violated. A Sweden that is aware of its place in the Nordic, European, Western, Christian and
human community. A Sweden that is extending a helping hand to countries and people in need, but
which while not forgetting responsibility towards its own people or detract from the great needs of the
home.
As a first step towards a better world and a better Sweden we want in this regard including work
To get through the following changes:
An efficient and compassionate aid policy. Through the abolishment of ineffective aid by stopping
using aid funds to finance the reception of immigrants in Sweden, by increasing humanitarian
assistance and to focus on the most glaring needs such as water, food and sanitation, refugees in
neighboring areas and reallocate aid funds from corrupt agencies directly to civil society and
the distressed populations, we believe we can release the funds to the Swedish welfare while making at least
equal benefit of the poor and refugees as we have done so far. Our long term goal is to
Swedish assistance should be reduced to the UN recommending the level of 0.7% of GNI. The current
position in the world is so alarming and the need for humanitarian action so glaring that in the
coming years are prepared to temporarily exceed our own budget targets in order to increase Sweden's efforts to
alleviate the human suffering caused as a result of the conflicts in Syria and Iraq.
A higher degree of direct control of the Swedish contribution to the United Nations system with the aim to strengthen the child's perspective,
increase support for refugee assistance in the immediate area and to the persecuted Christians, women and LGBT people in the world as well
To more effectively combat environmental degradation in the poorest developing countries.
A stronger support to Christians who are persecuted because of their faith in different parts of the world as well as a clearer
discouragement of Islam and totalitarianism that help to destabilize the world.
Closer Nordic cooperation in all areas of society.

Sweden Democratic election manifesto - 2014 election

Oskars.indd 21

2014-08-25 14:12:02

A policy of strengthened support to particularly vulnerable groups
The Sweden Democrats are working for a Sweden with a strong internal solidarity. A Sweden where the weak and vulnerable,
through the power of the Community, to be able to count on the strongest support.
As a first step towards a better Sweden we want in this respect, among other things, work to get through
the following changes:
A reset of the cost ceiling to the level that prevailed before the bourgeois government deteriorating
it. No Swedish citizens should have to forgo needed medications because of the bad economy.
Enhanced compensation to the neglected children. Significantly more of the children who neglect was during the time they
found themselves in institutions should be entitled to compensation.
Increased maintenance allowance. Single parents, the vast majority are women, often belong to the most
economically vulnerable in our society. In order to facilitate their situation should maintenance support increased.
Reinforced sadness money. Losing a child is one of the worst thing a human being can suffer.
The Sweden Democrats want to extend the time that bereaved parents have the right to stay home from work after
loss of a child.
Additional teacher support to children with special needs. No child should be left behind in the Swedish school. Children
diagnoses and specific needs must be given better opportunities for special teacher support.

Sweden Democratic election manifesto - 2014 election

Oskars.indd 22

2014-08-25 14:12:03

Infrastructure for more homes, better growth and
a cohesive Sweden
The Sweden Democrats are working for a coherent Sweden with a strong growth in both rural areas and
in big cities. A Sweden with safe routes home and a home for all young people.
As a first step towards a better Sweden we want in this respect, among other things, work to get through
the following changes:
An investment in northern infrastructure. To contribute to the realization of the principle that the whole of Sweden shall
live and promote growth in the North, particularly in the mining and forestry sectors, so will the Sweden Democrats
see a major effort on the Ore Railway, the Inland Railway and Norrbottniabanan.
Saying no to shock rise in congestion charges in Stockholm. Since Stockholm is the hub of the Swedish economy sees
We measure of the current growth-inhibiting gaps in the subway system as a national interest and considers
that the state co-financing of this project should increase so that ordinary Stockholmers avoid shock rise
congestion taxes.
An anticipation of the expansion of the E20, which connects the nation's two largest cities, the four-lane highway.
In particular, the Västra Götaland region, large parts of the road today no highway. These sections are
unacceptable accident congested.
A simplification of more housing for the country's youth. Too many young people is hampered today
his way to training and work because of the lack of housing. Aside from a more responsible
immigration policy would help to reduce the pressure on the housing market, so we also want to quickly create new
housing opportunities by simplifying the construction standards for student housing, make it tax free to rent out
part of their accommodation and to rent or sublet. We also hope that our efforts in the more sheltered housing
and senior housing will create positive migratory chains and increase mobility in the housing market.

Sweden Democratic election manifesto - 2014 election

Oskars.indd 23

2014-08-25 14:12:03

Sweden Democratic election manifesto - 2014 election

www.sverigedemokraterna.se

Oskars.indd 24

2014-08-25 14:12:03
