DEAR FUTURE,

Manifestos FOR A BETTER Sweden. FOR ALL.

A BETTER Sweden.
FOR ALL.
Election Manifesto 2014

To all.

A BETTER Sweden.
FOR ALL.
Election Manifesto 2014
P. 10
An ambitious job policy.
For all.
P. 24
A knowledge cage future.
For all.
P. 32
A reliable welfare.
For all.
P. 42
A just world is possible.

© The Swedish Social Democratic Party (SAP)
Election Manifesto 2014
Graphic design: Social Democrats
Press: Eight 45 Printing AB
Circulation 100 000 copies.
ISBN: 978-91-532-0654-5
Stockholm 2014

5

A BETTER Sweden. FOR ALL.
Sweden is a good country, but something is about to go broke.
Unemployment is higher than when the right-wing government took office.
Knowledge results in school has fallen in seven years. Together we can turn things around, but then we have
a better school instead of continuing tax cuts and
more profit hunting in welfare.

In the elections on September 14 decided how Sweden will take
the challenges and opportunities ahead
us. How should we as a country deal with climate change, a
aging population and globalization? Shall many young people in the future go unemployed, rather than to work or study? Should the knowledge results in Swedish schools
continue to fall and the differences between students increase? Should
quality of health care continue to be eroded? Should
equality between women and men take even longer?
The Social Democrats are looking for Swedish people's mandate to
exchange rate for Sweden. The choice is between continuing to lower
taxes - or to invest more resources and staff
school, health and social care. It is between continuing passively watch as youth and long term unemployment

The choice is also between two different approaches to how we build
Sweden stronger. Should we continue to lock policy
hard-maintained ideological blocs, or should we work for
To find the best solutions to Sweden?
We Social Democrats are convinced that more cooperation
it is best for Sweden - between people, between parties,
across the block boundary between politics and business, between
politics and civil society, and between the state and
municipalities.
The Social Democrats' task over the next four years,
holding together Sweden. Therefore, we put jobs first.
equality comes before anything else. The jobs will be paramount throughout
economic policy. We Social Democrats think
take the necessary measures and seek the alliances
people at work. Investments in education, health and care goes before the tax cuts and privatizations. Ordvälfärd. Reforms must be implemented in a responsible manner.
Sweden reach the surplus target over a business cycle.

6

7

The gaps that pulls apart Sweden is to reduce, between men
and women, between urban and rural areas, between
Swedish born and immigrant, between rich and poor and between young and old. Every human need, and can
help. No feel good to be outside. Thus requiring an
new social contract. Individuals should be given opportunities,
to education and jobs, but also met with clear expectations.

• Improved care and reduced gaps. In comparison with
other countries have quality in Swedish health care lagged behind.
The income gap widens faster than in any other
OECD country. It is time for change. Our goal is
income disparities to be reduced by investments in
jobs and welfare. The avoidable health gaps must be closed
within a generation.
SO we Social Democrats want to create a better Sweden.
FOR ALL.

DURING the next Parliament, we will take CLEAR
STEPS TOWARDS Social Democrats LONG-TERM GOALS:

• The lowest unemployment in the EU. Unemployment has been the past
Eight years have increased to 400 000 people. Youth unemployment is nearly 25 percent. It is time for change.
Our goal is that the number of people working and the number
hours worked in the economy must increase in order to reach Sweden
the lowest unemployment rate in the EU in 2020.
• A school in a European top class. The Swedish school results has fallen and is now lower than the average in the OECD in
all measured areas of mathematics, reading comprehension and
science. It is time for change. Our goal is
Sweden, within ten years, an equal schools belonging to the
top five in the EU.

8

9

AN AMBITIOUS POLICY JOBS.
FOR ALL.
unemployment decreases. A work means the Community and
affiliation. The notice many only when they no longer
can say, '' I go to work '' in the morning. A self-pay
is a source of both freedom and opportunity to leases or to buy a home, go on holiday and to
realize their dreams. A country with high levels of employment are becoming richer, more secure and open. The gap between
those who have a job and the 400,000 who are outside
can only be bridged by higher employment.

People's willingness to work is the nation's greatest asset.
There are people who educate children, keeping up the quality of care, build cars and homes, drive buses, creates fashion and music, are at the checkout, programming apps
and build the future of small businesses. There are women
and men who use their different talents, skills,
experience and skills. All are in different ages,
different life experiences, different backgrounds, religion or belief, different skin color, gender, gender identity or sexual orientation. Jobs policy in Sweden must start taking their
Based on the willingness of people to work and development.

10

An ambitious job policy. For all.

11

nothing is more important than the business sector can develop and
grow. Sweden has a great potential, but the past
years, industrial policy has been characterized by ineffective actions
and too little dialogue with entrepreneurs and business leaders.
The center-right government's belief that large tax cuts would reduce unemployment have proved inaccurate.
The result has instead become weak growth and rising unemployment.
Politics can not make decisions about new jobs in the private
sector, it can only be successful companies do. But
policy can help to create new jobs by investing wisely, supporting and facilitating businesses to grow.
We want to see a whole new industry policy in which the state provides
entrepreneurs support in the first difficult steps that take an idea
a business and hire the first employees. We
would make it easier for small businesses to expand, finding new
sized businesses and offer better help in widening their
market to the Nordic countries, Europe and the world. We also like
keep continuous conversation with the largest companies on the strategic choices facing Sweden.
tower created increased tax revenues and better opportunities
both to improve school and welfare and take on the big
future issues; globalization, climate and future

12

An ambitious job policy. For all.

and effective business and labor market policies and
investments in welfare, Sweden can take steps towards full employment. No task is more important for a social democratic-led government.
The Social Democrats' jobs strategy rests on three pillars. At
Alongside a new collaboration-oriented business policy would
we see increased joint investments in infrastructure,
housing, research and development, climate technology
schools and health care, and face the generational change in äldförsörjning. The third leg is to improve education
and the matching of labor market policy to give
unemployed the skills required to take the
job occurs. The Government's labor policies
have foundered. While every five recruitment attempts fail, grow Phase 3 every day. We want to change
labor market policy and the terms of the Employment Service in the ground.
All people need and should be given the opportunity to provide for themselves. It requires new policies to create jobs
or training, also for people with a weak position in
labor market. To achieve equality of all need
included. Here, social enterprises and other parts of

An ambitious job policy. For all.

13

During the next mandate TO POLICY JOBS ADDED
IF Sweden meet EU's lowest unemployment rate in 2020.
BECAUSE Social Democrats:

• Invest in infrastructure. We want to modernize and advance

improving the Swedish infrastructure. It requires powerful
investments to renovate and expand the railway network,
investments in strategic infrastructure projects like new
high-speed tracks, expansion of the subway and employees

INVESTING FOR JOBS

In order to maintain Sweden's competitiveness in the long term
we need to make the necessary investments. We must invest in infrastructure for efficient transport of goods
and for people to commute to work, we
to invest in new housing for people to be able
meet the climate challenge.
• Invest in housing. Sweden needs a national

housing policy. By 2020, it built at least

• Fix tågkaoset. Sweden is a large sparsely populated
country that is completely dependent on good infrastructure and good
Transport opportunity for people and goods. Every hour
a train is stationary or is delayed is a big cost for
Society. We want to increase funding for the maintenance and accelerate the expansion of the railroad. The maintenance of the Swedish
railways should nationalized.

movement in the housing market. We therefore introduce a
construction bonus for the construction companies that build small rental units
or student apartments. We also want to strengthen lending for new construction, by providing new capital
SBAB. We want to invest a billion growth to stimulate
Sweden's municipalities to build more. The million program to modernize in a socially and environmentally
sustainable way.

• Clear the Swedish environmental objectives. Environmental issues have become
neglected for the past eight years. It will
require serious effort that we will manage to achieve the goals
Parliament has set for Sweden. Therefore, the Social Democrats during the coming electoral period
invest an environmental billion to strengthen local commitment to achieving environmental goals. Efforts
reduced emissions, a non-toxic environment and better
marine environment should be given priority. Hazardous substances must be removed from the
children's everyday lives. Nurseries should be non-toxic.

An ambitious job policy. For all.

An ambitious job policy. For all.

people with ordinary incomes can ask for. Housing

14

from fossil emissions. We want to see a green car bonus for cars
with little impact on the climate.

15

• Reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Sweden to 2050

being a country that is independent of fossil fuels. One
Climate policy framework leading to emission reductions of at least 90% by 2050 compared to 1990 will be
forward. Interim targets for 2030 and 2040, as well as sectoral
Justice would be done. Developing tomorrow's climate-smart
Solutions can be one of the competitive advantages for Swedish industry. Sweden will, in cooperation with all world
countries, reversing the trends that contribute to global warming.
• energy security. To manage both jobs

and environmental objectives, investment in the Swedish energy system. Sweden will have a surplus of electricity. Build it
renewable energy. We want to promote investment in the expansion of renewable energy. We want to make a partisan
energy agreement.
• More jobs throughout the country. Sweden need a regional
development policy. We want to invest in the rural development program in order to contribute to the basic service for its nutritional

lead to more competitive companies, and the expansion of
broadband. Mobile coverage must be improved. We also like

16

INVESTING IN ACTIVE NUTRITION POLICY - INCREASING DEMAND
OF LABOR

In order to increase the demand for labor requires active
industrial policies and cooperation between politics, business,
academia and the social partners. We want to strengthen the whole
entrepreneurs succeed in developing their ideas into successful
products and services. Many of the jobs of the future bygi culture is a shared responsibility and has a value in itself.
• Improve the business climate. Swedish companies should have

good opportunity to conduct an ongoing dialogue with the political
representatives both locally and regionally and at the national
level. Sweden can only maintain its position as a strong
industrial and service nation if we have an open climate
and understand the need for partnership for jobs and growth.
The Social Democrats want to create a better business
by reducing employers' sick pay responsibility, investing in export promotion and to improve the conditions
for small and medium-sized businesses. Sweden needs a
nyindustrialiseringsstrategi.
• Founding a National Innovation Council. The national

tourism industry growth. We want to establish a long-term
Swedish foods strategy for organic and sustainable food.
So, we create better conditions for all rural
company.

efforts to strengthen Swedish research and development must meet the needs of the business community has been on the
global market. To ensure efficiency and accuracy we will establish an Innovation Council headed
by the Prime Minister. Regional Development Councils are linked to the
National Innovation Council.

An ambitious job policy. For all.

An ambitious job policy. For all.

17

• Invest in strategic collaboration programs. We will

pave the way for new innovations, products and services
areas where Sweden can compete internationally. Therefore we shall in the framework of collaboration software release
resources for development projects in the most important future industries. Among other programs are set up
to ensure Swedish expertise in climate technology and life sciences. Sweden should have a national strategy for innovation procurement.

TRAINING FOR THE RIGHT SKILLS - Sweden needs
The initiative

Although Sweden has high unemployment, many employers difficult to find staff. A functioning education policies and an efficient labor market is crucial
if we are to tackle unemployment. We
want to make extensive investments in school education
and to have an efficient job so that people
Secondary education has become a watershed in Swedish
complete high school.

• Introduce Extra services for long-term unemployed - abolition
Phase 3. Phase 3 is financially irresponsible and a waste of

full details in the municipalities and in the nonprofit sector
that needs to be done and create value in society. Therefore, we want to invest in extra services - real jobs with real wages where the work is also beneficial.
• Create a 90-day guarantee for young people. Ungdomsarbets-

unemployment is one of today's most serious problems. we want
set a limit on how long young people can go unemployed. Young
people's skills and creativity must be utilized
so that they get a good start in adult life, get into the
society fully, and the opportunities that only your own
salary can give - take out loans, buy a home and raise a family. No
Youth should be long-term unemployed. Within 90 days, the
have a job, an internship or get an education.

radical change is needed to ensure that the unemployed have the opportunity to develop their skills that make
them more attractive in the labor market - and moreover
help to find the right job. The excessive control rule
will be reduced, and the possibility of local interaction increase.

• Investing in an education initiative. The opportunities to recoup
a lost education earlier in life have declined. The
closed doors restricting people's opportunities to
progress in work. During the next term, we want to
implement a new education initiative with training contracts for young unemployed who lack secondary education,
new seats in polytechnic and adult education, and
a permanent vocational.

An ambitious job policy. For all.

An ambitious job policy. For all.

• Reforming employment services of the foundation. A imple-

18

Companies can turn to the Employment Service
with confidence and get professional help with recruiting. There must also be an end to the uncontrolled
Money scrolling to the ineffective measures.

19

•
University.

DEVELOPING A MODERN AND EQUAL EMPLOYMENT

But too many stops already in the door to college. Sweden now drops in the number of university-educated co

Today, the employment rate for men significantly higher
than among women. At the same time carry women considerably
larger share of unpaid household work. This does not hold.
Women and men should have equal rights and equal responsibilities in family, work and community life. It requires that the concern
children and the elderly works well.

Instead we want to increase the number of higher education in the country.
• Improve the quality of higher education and increasing proximity to the labor market. Quality in higher education will

strengthened - in the whole country. The number of teacher-hours will increase,
and the link to the research strengthened. In each program
the students will be offered an operation which provides contact
with future employers. We want to introduce the relevant summer courses as a step towards a treterminssystem. Educational Even professionals who want to replenish their knowledge.
• Strengthen research and make it more equal. Sweden
to be a leading knowledge and research nation. We
will compete with knowledge, innovation and high added value - not low wages. We want to give young researchers better conditions. Research should be respected as the
long-term operations it is. Therefore, research propositions have a ten-year perspective. High-quality research at each university are essential for a good education.
The proportion of female professors must increase research funding distributed equally and equal educational institutions rewarded.

20

An ambitious job policy. For all.

The pay gap between men and women is unacceptable.
We will reduce the pay gap. Ethnic discrimination
and discrimination against people with disabilities in the workplace must be combated.
With increasing global competition, rising demands of conversion - for both companies and employees. The Swedish
model is more relevant than ever. By sharing
the risks together we can create peace of mind for change. The need for companies to deal with fluctuations in
demand should not endanger employees' need for security
or lead to human exploitation.
• Equal employment. Women and men should have equal
the right to good working conditions, such as permanent employment, full time
and healthy working environment. Wage discrimination is unacceptable. Therefore, wage surveys conducted every
years. Too many jobs are short-term and insecure. Substitute stacked on top of each other year after year, sms job, shared rides and forced split times creates unsustainable working conditions

An ambitious job policy. For all.

21

for the individual. We want full-time will be the norm throughout
labor market. We also want to resolve the issue of shared
tours within central collective agreements for
everyone working in municipalities, county councils and their companies.
The main rule of LAS of employment will be restored by the abuse of fixed-term contracts
prevented. Fixed term shall only be permitted for two years within a five year period and form of employment '' general
fixed-term '' should be reviewed. Swedish wages and conditions to apply
for everyone working in Sweden.

• Strengthen the work environment. The working environment has deteriorated

in a number of areas - both in industry and in services work situation causes health problems. Preventive work environment, supervisory work and work research will be strengthened.

• Reserving a three months for each parent in
parental insurance. Children feel good to get an early

and close contact with their parents. While adding
today's unequal use of parental insurance basis
for an unequal responsibility for children and households. We want, as
a step towards an egalitarian withdrawals, reserve a third month
for each parent in the parental insurance. Associated
with this we want to encourage an egalitarian withdrawals and deposits
gender billion for this.
• Improve unemployment insurance. When companies reduce

vats their staff, employees shall not bear the full business needs of adaptation. Therefore, we want
improve the unemployment insurance fund. The ceiling should be raised so that those who serve
SEK 25 000 a month, an 80 percent reimbursement, and
the replacement rate will be 80 per cent throughout the period of benefit. As unemployment declines and
employment rises created a space for further strengthening unemployment insurance.

22

An ambitious job policy. For all.

An ambitious job policy. For all.

23

A KNOWLEDGE BUREN future.
FOR ALL.
The level of knowledge in Swedish schools must be raised. When
Swedish students' academic achievement falls most in the
OECD area, it is a clear signal: now needs school
priority. There must be an end to experimentation with
our children. Tax cuts, privatization and profit-hunting has passed the quality, the knowledge results
and of the egalitarian school. Quality in schools must
improved - for each child's sake and for our
common framtidsutsikters sake.

The school will give each child the same opportunities in life, not
expand or perpetuating social inequality. No child chooses
have their parents or their circumstances. Therefore rests
the moral responsibility also on society to ensure that every child receives an education that provides the skills
and the skills necessary to live a good life, as
citizens and future job.
Just an equal schools can live up to that claim. All schools should be of high quality. A school where children with different
background, abilities, talents and interests
Mass, where they work together and learn to overcome barriers, produces the best results for all students. And it gives
the best foundation for equal conditions and samman24

A knowledge cage future. For all.

25

attitude in the community when the children have grown up. The school must
provide a high level of knowledge and therefore must actively work
against prejudice, bullying and racism, and promoting democracy, equality and respect for each child's unique value.
Sweden needs a new holistic approach to knowledge and education. Adult education with its education efforts, and
its focus on lifelong learning, should be developed. When
every five recruitment attempts fail, when labor shortages are threatening the welfare and when social gaps
grows, the answer is an education initiative for the whole of Sweden.

special education teachers and special educators so that all students with
SEN can get help when they need
it. No child should be falling behind, and all children should be given the opportunity to run ahead.
• Before the maximum limit of 15 children in kindergarten. Children who have gone
a nursery school with high quality do better in school. This
especially for those children who have parents with a short education or children with tough upbringing. To raise
the quality of preschool, we want to reduce children's groups and
introduce a maximum limit of 15 children for toddlers groups.

During the next mandate TO KNOW THE RESULTS TO BE INCREASED TO SWEDEN IN TEN YEARS HAVE AN equal schools that are among the top five in the EU. BECAUSE Social Democrats:

Swedish municipalities must offer childcare in the evenings,
nights and weekends.

Invest in smaller classes and early intervention

INVESTING IN SKILLED TEACHER

To have a successful start at school is vital for
each student the opportunity to complete their studies. To reverse
school results therefore requires significant investments in the
early school years.

The single most important student outcomes is that they
meet skilled and dedicated teachers who have good prerequisites to operate good teaching. To raise
knowledge results in Swedish schools require many
ambitious and talented students choose to train as
teachers, and that we are able to retain skilled teachers in the profession.

The
will give more time for each child, increased study environment in
classroom and higher academic achievement. It is
the first years of school as the foundation for success is laid.
It requires early intervention. The Social Democrats would therefore

•

26

make classes smaller in primary school, making the preschool class

A knowledge cage future. For all.

• Increase the attractiveness of the teaching profession. Conditions for teachers

must be improved so that they are better placed to
do their job. They have to make time for each student and to

A knowledge cage future. For all.

27

developing teaching. During the coming term, we want to improve teachers' conditions, reduce their
administrative burden, raising the level of skills development and developing career opportunities. Successful
teachers will be rewarded and the most skilled will be attracted
with higher pay to schools that have tough conditions. We want to see a national unity to raise the teaching profession
attractiveness.
• Increase in teacher training. The requirements to get
into teacher education should be increased, both in terms of
results in the Scholastic Aptitude Test, tests and suitability.
The pace of teacher training and the requirements for students
must be raised. The resources for teacher training should increase so that

New routes into the teaching profession should be opened. Academics and
professionals in order to load the necessary teaching skills in a year. Civil society initiatives,
such as Teach for Sweden, should be supported to

• Strengthen the principals as educational leaders. To bi-

attracting higher knowledge results do principals have time
to focus on their mission as educational leaders. Today
heaped principals of administration and finance. We
want to give principals better opportunities to develop their
educational leadership.

28

A knowledge cage future. For all.

Equal SCHOOL WITHOUT PROFIT HUNTING

Now increases the differences in academic achievement between students
and schools. We want to see a coherent school that compensates for different students' background instead of reinforcing inequality. While schools should be more equal
we intend to ensure that the resources intended for
the school also goes to the business.
• Create an egalitarian school. Swedish school will be composed

consistent and comparable. Therefore, we want to invest extra resources
of the 200 schools that have the toughest conditions. Students in grades 6-9 who have not reached the goals go in mandatory summer school. All students should have the right to homework.
The tax subsidy for those who can afford to buy private
homework help, salmon-rut, should be abolished.
• Stop profits hunt in schools. School Businesses should not customers

na cut down on tuition cost or quality of
teaching in order to make profit, and no school
to have the owners' profits as its main purpose - it should be
ence over school establishments, to the establishment and
segregation are counteracted. Requirements for long-term ownership
of schools will be introduced. The National Company shall disclose its
economy and a principle of transparency and whistleblowing
should advise the staff.

A knowledge cage future. For all.

29

• Make secondary schools compulsory. Without secondary

competence is very difficult to get in on today
labor. Unemployment among young people who do not
completed high school is about twice as high as among
those who have it. Therefore, secondary school compulsory for 18 years. All secondary education should be at least
three years and have a common knowledge base that provides eligibility for higher education. We want the upper secondary vocational program
develop into professional colleges, where employers contribute to
young people receive the training that is in demand on the labor market. We want to make it possible that after finishing high school graduates take out student loans to get a driving license.
• Leisure-time centers should be a clear part of the school day.

We want to strengthen the quality with more staff and more
resources. Recreation center role in assisting with homework
and support the development of pupils will be strengthened. It is also
indicate the situation to after-school care cooperate closely with
associations so that the children can indulge in various club activities.
• Invest in a meaningful leisure for children and young people. High

contributions in sports and cultural activities impair the ability of many children and young people to take part in such
activities. We want to invest in children and young people
better opportunities and lower fees for participation in
sports, outdoor activities and arts.

30

A knowledge cage future. For all.

31

RELIABLE welfare.
FOR ALL.
Welfare must provide freedom and safety to every man,
so that we all can travel well through life. The security

study. When welfare does not work it's usually the women who bear the responsibility for children and the elderly. Everyone should
therefore have access to the welfare of the highest quality. When you
is weakest'll welfare to be strongest.

When welfare work well and paid for viability as
holds the generations together, equalizes the living conditions and
contribute to growth and development. It is the basis for the
welfare society that made Sweden unique. But eight years of
tax cuts, privatization and the dismantling of the health insurance has made the Swedish welfare no longer hold
sufficiently high quality. That over one hundred thousand people,
mostly women, have been forced to reduce working hours or longer
Working entirely and instead care for relatives is a brake
the development of society.
There must be order in welfare. No one should have to worry about the children, the sick or the old will be assessed
the basis of profitability. Man should go ahead of the market.

32

A reliable welfare. For all.

33

The gain hunting going on welfare must be stopped.
Venture capitalists with short-term profit interests do not hear
home of welfare. During clearance and Praised
privatization of welfare activities built up
by the taxpayer is a theft from the Swedish taxpayers.
This trend must be reversed.
In elderly care, staffing many times too low.
Healthcare scandals have succeeded each other. Older people who bandied
between emergency rooms, temporary accommodation and home
maltreated. Staff pleads for more time and resources. In health care makes bureaucracy and market control that a doctor can
are forced to spend up to two-thirds of their time doing other things than
patient contacts.

and feel pressured and hounded in today's society.
Primary care needs to be strengthened so that it becomes easier to
receive help with eating disorders, anxiety or depression. Mentally ill and funktionsnedsattas opportunity to care,
accommodation, rehabilitation and employment must be strengthened.
We want to raise the level of ambition in psychiatry.
Sweden is likely to have a prosperity built on low basic security and charity. When our common sociförsörjningsstöd, which besides being a tragedy for
the individual, also burdens municipal economies and
impair the quality of education and care further. Pos-

34

A reliable welfare. For all.

prevent a development where private insurance is a
prerequisite for the security and welfare.
We Social Democrats see culture as an important part of
welfare. Art and culture are powerful forces
can help create a richer society to live in. In a
Social democratic cultural amateur culture and
professional cultural life depend on each other.
Civil society creates meeting places that are protected
from commercial profitability requirements and enables the development of democracy. Therefore, we Social Democrats want to create
good conditions for the development of civil society.

Our goal is to income inequality should decrease,
Through investments in jobs and welfare. The avoidable
Health gaps to be closed within a generation.
BECAUSE Social Democrats:

INVESTING FOR HIGHER QUALITY IN HEALTH AND SOCIAL WORK

Most importantly for the quality of schools, health care
the staff and its skills. Therefore we would like to introduce
national quality laws with stringent requirements for manning
as impossible of return at the expense of welfare
quality, while the diversity and freedom of choice guaranteed.
Health care quality should also be raised through that services take
the new and modern treatment methods.

A reliable welfare. For all.

35

• Improve the quality and stop profit-hunting in the care and
care. Spinning off of a loss,

school failure and health scandals are an expression of an excessively weak governance of welfare operations. We should have
staffing requirements in welfare. Private activities shall be
comply with applicable regulations and meet the clear and ambitious
staffing requirements. We must legislate against sales below cost and say no to forcible leaves in the elderly.
Open government and freedom of information has contributed to abuses in the welfare attention.
We will make similar demands on all actors

• Improve accessibility of cancer care. Get

answer is so overwhelming for the individual who
To be diagnosed with cancer. Too many people are forced to wait all
for too long the turmoil before the treatment of the disease can begin. We want to introduce a guarantee that care therapy should be initiated at the latest four weeks after
cancer diagnosis has been made.
• Safe maternity care. The lack of staff is difficult

in obstetrics. The high workload
can have serious consequences for the quality of care. We will increase the number of training in midwifery education.

• Increase resources in health care. The number of employees in the com-

municipal and county levels have decreased in recent years
in relation to the population of Sweden. It affects
the staff's working environment, but also the quality of care.
Therefore, a Social Democrat-led government to
invest in health care.

With today's laws
patients who have private insurance, beat the vårdkön. The principle that there should be needs - and not
wallet - that determines when and what care you may need
•

• Increase the resources of the elderly. Even elderly

have been affected by the worsening economy when government grants to
municipalities declined in value, and the cost of income support has risen. Worse economy go out of there
personnel and the elderly. Therefore, the Social Democrats are raising
State grants to municipalities so that they can take the necessary measures to improve quality. We also want to develop support for housing for the elderly.

36

A reliable welfare. For all.

Let the professionals our pros

Welfare is facing retirements. Meanwhile
is our population aging, and the need for health and
choose to work in health care or the care you need conditions
for welfare of employees improved.

A reliable welfare. For all.

37

• Greater freedom for professional employees. Occupational

groups that were previously independent professional has
in many places devalued to the detail controlled performers
because of excessively detailed monitoring
and try to variations in market pricing. Theories of New Public Management, which was supposed to
streamline welfare, have in many situations bureaucratised
the. We want, together with the professional development
control models that create more freedom for employees
in the public sector. It also frees up resources within
welfare.
• Invest in better work in welfare. Working environment

must be improved to welfare should be an attractive
workplace. The public sector must take the lead and show
An equal labor market is possible. Shared tours
be removed and full-time and permanent jobs will be the norm
in health and social care.
• Make it possible for 32,000 young people to take a trainee jobs
welfare. More young people need to open their eyes to care

and care is an industry of the future. We therefore want to offer
32 000 young people the opportunity to educate themselves and
start work within welfare.
•

The number of training places to shortage occupations in the health and
care will increase. We want to provide nurses and assistant nurses studielön during specialist training

38

A reliable welfare. For all.

To solve the shortage of specialist skills. Everyone working
the elderly should be given training in dementia
and multisjukhet.
Reduce gaps

The Social Democrats' task over the next four years
is to hold Sweden. The income gap has grown
faster in Sweden than in any other OECD country. We will
reverse the trend Sweden needs a policy for
equality, with investments in jobs, education and welfare. As
we shared a joint responsibility for each other and
holds Sweden.
• Lower tax for all pensioners. Today taxed

pensions harder than wages. It is an unjust order.
The unfair penalty tax on pensioners, should be abolished. We will remove retiree tax entirely for pensions up to 12 000 per month. It corresponds
pension for an average female pensioner. Latest
when we reached the target jobs abolished the gap completely.
• Increase the child allowance and maintenance allowance. To under-

assist families financially and to reduce
differences in income between different social groups
are child allowances important. We want to raise child allowances and
study grants to high school students by 100 per child
during the next term. To improve single parents' finances so we want to raise the maintenance support
SEK 50 per child.

A reliable welfare. For all.

39

• Improve health insurance, and remove the block.

Diseases affect everyone. In a functioning welfare society to illness does not mean a great economic stress.
Many people have been harmed by becoming perform secured despite
they are still ill and receiving treatment. Health insurance should provide both financial security and provide rehabilitation. Nobody should have to take out a supplementary
insurance to get a reasonable protection. In the long term we want to raise
the ceiling of the sickness benefit ten base amounts and in a first step, we want to increase to eight. We also want the compensation shall be 80 per cent throughout the period of illness and
that the sunset clause of the sickness benefit to be removed.

everyday crimes must be solved. Police efficiency should
increase through better management, method development and skills development. Police training reformed and made to
college education. Probation must improve
To prevent recidivism.
• Men's violence against women must be combated. Conditions

tions for women and brottsofferjourers support to
women exposed to violence will be improved. More sex crimes must be dealt with. Rape Legislation will be reviewed and
the penalty for serious sexual tightened. The purchase of sexual
services abroad should be criminalized.

• Reducing health inequalities. The gap between the groups

has the best health, and those which have the least increase
during the last decades. World Health Organization
encourages a deliberate policy to stop health gap within a generation. The challenge we
to adopt an active health policy. We will develop a national action plan for equality and gender
health.
• Combating crime and the causes of crime. The organization

-based crime is a serious threat. We can never
accept that it takes hold across Sweden. It will
be zero tolerance against gang crime. Recruitment of youths into gangs must be countered
with force. Victims shall receive rapid support, better treatment and greater access to redress. No one should have
be afraid to report crimes or to testify in the trial. More

40

A reliable welfare. For all.

A reliable welfare. For all.

41

A just world is possible.
Swedish voice for peace, justice and human rights
will be heard in the world. We want to do more to spread
democracy and freedom in the world. We believe in politics
opportunities to effect change, even across
borders.

A strong international capital requires that we build functioning democratic counterweights. We want globalization
must serve all. Free and fair trade as well as trade union
rights are important in the fight for global justice. Sweden
to push for a global agreement between labor, capital and society.
Sweden will use its EU membership to skadessutom the EU to take greater responsibility for combating
climate change, strengthen workers' rights and
be a powerful player for peace and solidarity in the world.
Sweden is going ahead with an ambitious aid policy.
Russia's annexation of Crimea is a crime against international law.
The destabilization of Ukraine must cease. Developments in our eastern neighborhood will become one of our
biggest challenges. Sweden will work to ensure that the EU shoulders a

42

A just world is possible.

43

greater responsibility for security and development, both globally

of their grounds for asylum. All municipalities in Sweden to take a solid member states be persuaded to take a more joint and several liability.

Sweden's voice should always be clear when human dignity is violated. Human rights, international law, international
disarmament and the fight against terrorism and weapons of mass destruction should be the cornerstones of Swedish foreign policy. Therefore, we want to see a strong and reformed UN. Our ambition is
high and therefore we will actively push Sweden's candidacy
should increase.

FOREIGN POLICY will continue to be broad-based
IN SWEDEN. Sweden will once more become a strong voice in the world
FOR liberty, peace, human rights and solidarity.
During the term Social Democrats:

• Develop international cooperation - strengthening the UN.

State (IS) terrorist violence in Iraq, Syria and Lebanon, and
to international peace and security. Civilians suffer daily by the escalating violence. The ethnic cleansing must be stopped. A Social Democratic-led government
will actively seek to contribute to peaceful solutions
based on international law.
Sweden's security is built through an active foreign policy
and military alliances. The Defence of Sweden starts in Sweden. The Swedish defense and its popular support
will be strengthened and our preparedness to be good. we want
strengthening Nordic defense cooperation - not least the

Sweden will once more be an active nation in the UN. We want to
Assistance will continue to be 1 per cent of GNI.
• defense of Sweden starts in Sweden - no to Swedish
NATO membership. The military alliances gives

freedom of action and increase the security of our world. But
Common Security and crisis management must also be built in collaboration with others. The Swedish defense and
its popular support to be strengthened.
•
best and peace. The EU should do more than at present for training and

job. We want to strengthen and monitor workers' rights.

Anyone who is in need of protection should have a haven in our country.
Everyone should have the right to an individual and legally secure examination

44

A just world is possible.

A just world is possible.

45

• Strengthening of democratic development in the EU's neighborhood. All

European countries have the right to seek membership in the EU. Sweden and the EU have a responsibility to support Ukraine in the fight against
corruption and for democracy. Russian destabilization
of Ukraine must be countered.
• Contribute to a sustainable peace in the Middle East. Israel must

cancel its occupation and blockade of Gaza.
Violence, terror and the killing must stop. All parties
must respect international law. We want to see a two-state solution in which Israel and Palestine, can live side by side
within secure and recognized borders. The settlements hinders
such a solution and must cease. Sweden will admit
State of Palestine.
• Develop international gender equality.

Sweden will be both a pioneer in work for women's rights and actively pursue global equality issues.
• push for an ambitious global climate agreement in 2015. Our

generation must take responsibility. The goal must be to halt
the temperature increase below 2 degrees. Sweden and the EU
must take the lead and reduce their emissions. We want the EU to take
three binding targets; to 2030 have reduced emissions of
greenhouse gas emissions by 50% compared to 1990, increasing the share of renewable energy to at least 40%, and to increase energy efficiency.

46

A just world is possible.

110 03 Stockholm

110 651 700

Customer number

Business Reply Mail

POSTAGE
PAID-UP

We'll save your information. Read more on socialdemokraterna.se/integritetspolicy

Personal ID

Code and city

Address

Email

Telephone

Name

I want to give a gift to election work

I want to become a member

52
