programmatic bases
THIRD NATIONAL GOVERNMENT
Broad Front 2015-2020

THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

1

CONTENT:
- TABLE OF CONTENTS AND OBJECTIVES PROGRAMME
- PRESENTATION
- Programmatic basis into seven chapters

Reviewed by the National Commission
Program of the Frente Amplio
Montevideo, March 2014

THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

2

Table of Contents
and Programmatic Objectives
PRESENTATION

Chapter I

KEYS OF A NATIONAL VISION OF DEVELOPMENT

TO.

VALUES-BASED DEVELOPMENT

B.

A DYNAMIC CONCEPT MEDIUM TERM

C.

DIMENSIONS OF DEVELOPMENT

1. GROWTH AND DEVELOPMENT
2. THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT
3. THE COMPANY AND ITS NETWORKING
4. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT
Chapter II

ECONOMIC POLICY FOR COUNTRY PRODUCTIVE, SUSTAINABLE AND INNOVATIVE

INTRODUCTION
1.

REGIONAL AND INTERNATIONAL SITUATION

eleven
1.2
1.3

The current international situation and medium-term prospects
The regional situation
Threats of medium and long term for the Uruguay production

2.

The macroeconomic strategy

21
2.2
2.2.1
2.2.2
2.2.3

Macroeconomic policy
Fiscal policy
Tax Policy
Borrowing Policy
Investment and Public Expenditure

2. 3
2.4
2.4.1
2.4.2
2.4.3

Monetary and exchange rate policy
Work and Income Policy
Employment policies
Wage policy
Reducing the informal economy

3.

Production strategy

3.1
3.2


This productive transformation being experienced by the country.
Some conditions for progress in changing production oriented construction
the Uruguay productive and innovative.

THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

3

Four.
INSTITUTIONS FOR COMPETITIVENESS AND CHANGING PRODUCTION:
A FUNCTIONAL STATE TO URUGUAY PRODUCTION TARGETS AND INNOVATIVE.
4.1
4.2
4.3

The role of the Ministries and thematic cabinets
A system of agencies to implement policies
Funding Strategy

Chapter III

DEVELOPMENT AND DISTRIBUTION

PRESENTATION
TO.

SECTOR POLICIES

1.

AGRO

eleven
1.2






1.3

Progress and challenges
Program objectives
• cumulative Improving the lives and work of the whole population
rural and rural-urban territory.
• The enhancement of natural resources and development of productive activities
• sector development policy is conceived through a strong joint and

complementarity between the state and organized society.
• To deepen and improve the supply of public goods
Sectoral Policies

2.

INDUSTRY

21



2.2

Programmatic Objectives
• Sustain and promote industrial and infrastructure growth.
• Propel the joint science and technology to the productive apparatus.
• Promote the productive integration in Mercosur.
Strategic Lines

3.

MINING / NON-RENEWABLE NATURAL RESOURCES


• Our country has a secure resource potential so far
They not involved in the matrix solidly mining, particularly minerals and metal
energy (gas, oil, oil shale). This ensures that mining potential
stop being a marginal productive activity to establish itself as one of the future pilaresdel
Gross domestic product. That viable to diversify our production matrix derivatives
mining or transfer of resources generated by the same activity itself to activities
higher value added and knowledge. This is critical for the state's role in driving
diversification process and monitoring the sustainability of resources
put in value as it is currently conducting the MIEM.

Four.

TOURISM

4.1
4.2





4.3

Progress and challenges
Programmatic Objectives
• Develop Tourism and Recreation
• deepen and update participatory National Sustainable Tourism Plan 2020.
• Promote Tourism insert and consistent with the model of sustainable development of the country
• To develop quality tourism
• incentives and train young actors and tourist entrepreneur
Strategic Lines

THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

4

B.

INFRASTRUCTURE POLICY

1. ENERGY
eleven
1.2















Progress and challenges
Program objectives
• Sovereignty and energy self-sufficiency, with a firm commitment
to indigenous and renewable energy.
• Diversification of sources of energy matrix.
• Adaptation of the legal regulatory framework.
• Social inclusion and equal access.
• National Research innovation and development of sources and the necessary inputs.
• Development of petrochemical industry.
• Encouragement and support for the development of productive networks.
• national certification processes and energy products.
• Modulation demand.
• Regional integration and complementarity.
• Sustainability and environmental sustainability of production and consumption.
• Prioritize the use of domestic energy production and industrial enterprises that
add value.

1.3
1.4
fifteen

Sectoral Policies
Topics to deepen a third term
Energy as an instrument for productive and social transformation

2. TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
21
2.2






Progress and challenges
Program objectives and strategic lines
• Port Infrastructure and Waterways
• Ground infrastructure
• Air transport
• Uruguay Logistics
• Community Infrastructure in the service of society

3. TELECOMMUNICATIONS
3.1
3.2
















Introduction
Objectives and strategic lines
• Access to telecommunications services is a right of all citizens
throughout the country.
• Access: public policy should establish lines of action, which foster the wider
access to telecommunications services, social and territorial amplitude terms.
• Development of "Information Society and Knowledge"
• Sovereignty: An essential aspect in defense of national sovereignty must be guaranteed
cyber security in the country with policies in line with other countries in the region.
• The Executive should really be the owner of the policy for the sector, with the
Relevant ministry (MIEM) and the National Telecommunications (DINATEL)
playing the respective roles.
• The Regulatory Unit (URSEC) must monitor compliance with those policies,
and other state actors must be aligned with them.
• Strengthen and develop Antel.
• Continuation and deepening of the Ceibal Plan.
• To promote decentralization of state radio and TV.

THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

5

Four.

WATER AND SANITATION

4.1
Water resources and their use.
4.2
The Water and Sanitation Service
4.3 Efficient use of resources
4.4 Maintenance and improvement of the quality of services.
4.5 Adaptation of costs and fees, management control.
4.6 Environmental Sustainability

C.

Transversal policies

1. SOCIAL AND SOLIDARITY ECONOMY
eleven
1.2

Progress and challenges
Programmatic objective and strategic lines


• Growth, consolidation and development of the ESYS - Contribute to units
ESys consolidate demonstrating autonomy, viability and capacity for growth and development
reaching a greater weight in the economy (in terms of GDP, GVA, PEA, in their participation
in strategic value chains in areas of high innovation) and society as models
organization and management of sustainable economic activities. For this purpose will be encouraged
a National Development Plan for Social and Solidarity Economy.

2. MICRO, SMALL AND MEDIUM-SIZED ENTERPRISES (MSME)
INTRODUCTION
21




Program objectives and specific policies
• To encourage MSMEs have a permanent and sustainable productive activity,
Physical available qualified human resources and management according to the requirements
of development.




• To promote the quality and numerical growth, structure, services and formalization
MSMEs.

3. INNOVATION, SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
3.1
3.2







Progress and challenges
Program objectives and strategic lines
• Deepen the Innovation, Science and Technology, as public policy.
• Promotion and development of a country's development-oriented research.
• To promote the development of Innovation, Science and Technology (ICT)
as a tool for sustainable and comprehensive development of the country
and improving the quality of life for all Uruguayans.
• "teach to learn"

Chapter IV
Environmental Sustainability
INTRODUCTION
1. PROGRESS AND CHALLENGES
2. programmatic objective and strategic lines
Environmental and territorial policies are defined to accompany and support a model
sustainable social and economic development with social equity in the distribution of its benefits and
results.
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

6

Conduct a thorough institutional analysis to consider a change in the rules for
Uruguayan society begin the transition to a new style of sustainable development, which
articulated in sustainable and democratic of natural and cultural resources and the effective use
social integration into the territory.

Chapter V
EQUALITY AND RIGHTS
PRESENTATION, BUILDING SOCIAL WELFARE EQUAL
TO.

UNIVERSAL COMPONENTS INDUSTRY

1. Education
eleven

Background

1.2

Basic principles of education

1.3

Progress and challenges

1.4

Programmatic Objectives 2015/2020
• Ensure the public education as a fundamental human right,
it is done throughout the life of children, youth and adults and is
a tool of democracy and civic education.
• Ensure universal access and the real possibilities of retention and graduation
at all levels of the education system, facing learning gaps

generated by unequal opportunities and conditions as well as those
produced by institutional or pedagogical devices themselves,
and acting on the various factors of social and cultural discrimination.
• Retrieve the social value of public education to strengthen the educational function
educational institutions as active learning space.
• Strengthen the National System of Public Education as an institutional mechanism
responsible for meeting the requirements of research, training and education
of the population.
• Align the conduct and management of the educational objectives ANEP reinforcing
the principles of participation, transparency and accountability

fifteen








Strategic Lines
• National Plan and Budget for education
• Various education formats
• Inclusive Education
• Consolidation tertiary education
• Teaching Profession
• Learning
• Institutions

2. Health
21
2.2









Progress and challenges
Program objectives and strategic lines
• Priority Health Programs
• Affirm the health system stewardship
• More attention model changes
• renewed and strengthened social participation
• Strengthening of integrated networks of health services
• The leadership of ASSE and Integrated Network Public Health effectors (Rieps)
• Strategic plan for health personnel
• Appropriateness of financing
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

7

3. Housing and Habitat
3.1
3.2









Progress and challenges
Program objectives and strategic lines
• Remove housing emergency situations.
• operationalize the relevant state involvement in the market urbanized land
to allow access to it from lower income sectors.
• Implement housing and habitat policy aimed at all sectors of the population,
without prejudice to the establishment of priorities, with different modalities and strategies.
• Optimize the intensive use of existing stock of housing and habitat.
• Strengthen the system of public financing through loans and grants
facilitate access to housing for the population groups with fewer resources.

4
4.1
4.2





Labor, employment and labor relations
Progress and Challenges
Program objectives and strategic lines
• Consolidation of the process of improving the level and quality of employment,
with growth of productivity and real wages.
• Reducing informality.
• Improve the democratization of access to the labor market.





• Reducing inequalities in the labor market
(Gender, youth, race, unskilled, etc.)
• more efficient and ethical development of employment in the "public function".

5. Sport
5.1
5.2





Progress and challenges
Program objectives and strategic lines
• General modernization and transformation of sport competition.
• Promoting healthy and recreational sport and physical activity,
decentralizing management and promoting community participation.
• Optimization of Physical Education and School Sports.

6. Culture
6.1
6.2

Progress and challenges
Program objectives and strategic lines












• Ensure in our society: i) the right to be considered / a "subject" creator and bearer
of their own culture in community and ii) the right to use and enjoyment of all
cultural property.
• Promoting access to the enjoyment of cultural goods
• Development of urban interventions endowed cultural infrastructure
quality for social integration
• Impulse renovated heritage policies
• Development of production, dissemination and distribution of cultural goods
• Protecting the rights of workers of culture
• Promoting good use of language for social integration

B.

SOCIAL PROTECTION

1. Social Security
eleven
1.2



Progress and challenges
Basics program guidance
• Social security and social protection are human rights
fundamental and substantial responsibility of the State
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

8





• Labor and social security and its influence on society.
• Principles of social security and social protection.
• A comprehensive vision: the contributory and non-contributory.

1.3

Program objectives and strategic lines








• Ratify the guidance of the State in social policies.
• Continue the process of reforming the social security system so
such that all components converge based on the principles of universality,
solidarity, equality, sufficiency and social participation as well as equity and viability
prosecutor, pointing to the extinction of profit within the framework of a structural reform
and improving security for workers and their families.












• Keep the criterion for defining progressive transformations
and the implementation of decisions.
• promote changes in regulations seeking to harmonize the legal framework.
This requires modifying the Institutional Act No. 9 and following the same laws,
including Law 16,713.
• Recognize through security and building care system,
such as maternity care and influence the careers of women
and non-performing contributions during the years doing this work.
• Continue to develop the areas of social and political participation, appearance
distinguishes our country in the concert of nations.

2. Care System
21
2.2




















Progress and challenges
Programmatic objective and strategic lines
• Moving towards a new structural social policy, articulated in a framework law,
vque ensure: (1) the exercise of the right to care for those who
in a situation of (permanent or temporary) dependence; (2) the exercise
the rights and responsibilities of caregivers for pay
or not; (3) the shift towards a culture of responsibility in care between
State, market, community and family, and between men and women.
• Launch a political, social and cultural transformation in which care
and caring are understood as rights and responsibility between the State,
market, community and family, and between men and women, and as a guideline for
performing this task.
• Men and women trained for all tasks related to the care
• regulated and supervised public and private services
• Services tailored to the needs and preferences of people
• Children
• People in a situation of dependency disability of all ages
• Elderly adult dependents:
• Caregivers / s
• An institutional framework to articulate the system
• A model of solidarity financing

3. Network of Assistance and Social Integration
3.1
3.2




Progress and challenges
Programmatic objective and strategic lines
• To contribute to sustained and sustainable poverty reduction, social segmentation,
socioeconomic inequality and special rights violations associated
those and the elimination of extreme poverty

4. Drug Policy
4.1

Progress and challenges

THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

9

4.2














Programmatic objective and strategic lines
• Promote the adoption of new rules on drugs.
• Develop a communication strategy design and assembly of bodies
State on the use of psychoactive substances, risks and damage.
• Addressing the demand for drugs from a focused approach in promoting the quality
of life of people, prevention, education, treatment and social integration,
from the perspective of risk management and harm reduction
• Strengthen mechanisms for controlling and regulating the supply of drugs.
• Promote the design of evidence-based policies
• At the international level, to continue promoting the debate and revision
policies to deal effectively with the World Drug Problem.
• To favor the processes of market regulation substance
psychoactive positively discriminate ongoing national actors
in a perspective of sustainable development of citizens and communities.

C.

LIFECYCLE

1. Children and Adolescents
eleven
1.2










Progress and challenges
Program objectives and strategic lines
• Support for families with children and adolescents.
• Protection pregnancy and early childhood.
• Strengthening the link children and adolescents with the system
education and accomplishments.
• Promotion of healthy habits in childhood and adolescence.
• Strengthening protection system.
• Promoting the participation of children and adolescents and transformation
of intergenerational ties.
• Institutional strengthening.

2. Youth
21
2.2

















Progress and challenges
Program objectives and strategic lines
• Participation. Strengthen the leadership, mobilization and advocacy capacity
Uruguayan youth movement at the national and regional political scene.
• Education. Strengthen the educational trajectories of adolescents and youth
untying reducing the backlog and universalize the completion of secondary education.
• Employment. Improving opportunities for integration and continued employment under conditions
Decent Work.
• Living place. Promote and facilitate the access of young people to a housing solution
permanent or temporary suited to the needs and potentials
Young population.
• Bless you. Strategies and actions to promote the development of lifestyles
healthy coexistence and facilitating access and effective use of services
health from a holistic health model, encourage the practice of activities
physical and sports as well as opportunities and spaces for recreation and tourism.
• Institutions in youth policies. Strengthening institutions
specializing in youth and public spaces coordination
and inter-complementarity.

3. Aging and Old Age
3.1
3.2



Progress and challenges
Programmatic objective and strategic lines
• Advancing a new perspective on aging and old age, consolidating
public policy promoted by the last two governments.
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

10

D.

POLICIES FOR EQUAL CROSS

1. Gender
eleven
1.2










Progress and challenges
Program objectives and strategies:
• democratic transformation of society and the state with gender equality:
• Increased democratization and political participation of women
• peaceful coexistence and violence: Installing an Integrated System
Response to a free of Domestic Violence and Generations
• Deepening of educational policies as central tools
to generate culture and equitable development
• Mainstreaming and interinstitutionality of gender policies
in the labor market and social and health protection.
• Planning with a gender perspective.

2.Afrouruguayos
21
2.2






Progress and challenges
Program objectives and strategic lines
• Education.
• Recognition.
• Equal opportunities.
• Affirmative action.
• Institutions.

3. Sexual Diversity
3.1
3.2







Progress and challenges
Program objectives and strategic lines
In the sense of walking to deepen the changes initiated with the arrival of
Large front and ongoing dialogue with organized civil society, raised
the following program objectives with their strategic lines
for the period 2015-2020:
• To advance an anti-discrimination policy for LGBTI people tangible and effective.
• Mainstream public policies with a look of sexual diversity.

4. Disability
4.1
4.2



Progress and challenges
Programmatic objective and strategic lines
• Ensure equality among all people develop and institutionalize
public policy towards disability

5. Population of Indian descent
6. migrant population.
Chapter VI
Democratic transformation of the state and society
Presentation
The relationship between the state and civil society
The state as a guarantor of rights
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

eleven

Regulation as a state activity
TO.

CONTINUE IMPROVEMENT AND MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS



1. PROGRESS AND CHALLENGES

2. PROGRAMME OBJECTIVES AND STRATEGIC LINES
















• Strengthen and improve the channels of negotiation with state employees
on issues related to wages, adjustments, working conditions, plans
training / education, objectives and goals of the pay system
variable, especially having in mind the situation of the sectors
historically submerged.
• Further progress in the modernization of public administration facilities
equipment, infrastructure, communications, application of new technologies,
and institute state purchases and contracts as policy instruments
development, and instituting a state procurement and contracting as instruments
productive policies and social development through the creation of a system
public procurement to include Central Government, Public Companies
and departmental and municipal governments.
• Achieving real coordination among all state institutions,
depending on the objectives for social, economic,
and administrative.

B.

Decentralization and coordination between different levels of government.

1. PROGRESS AND CHALLENGES
2. PROGRAMME OBJECTIVES AND STRATEGIC LINES






• Increased democratization at all levels of government.
• Consolidate institutionality of municipalities.
• Further legal amendments on governments
departmental and municipal.
• Regionalization

C.

MEDIA

1. PROGRESS AND CHALLENGES
2. PROGRAMME OBJECTIVES AND STRATEGIC LINES

• Protect and promote the full exercise of freedom of expression and information.
• Ensure diversity and pluralism in the media
• To strengthen and diversify the public media.
• Promote and strengthen community media
• Support and promote national audiovisual production
• Promote citizen participation in communication

D.

HUMAN RIGHTS, PARTICIPATION AND CITIZEN ENGAGEMENT

1. PROGRESS AND CHALLENGES
2. PROGRAMME OBJECTIVES AND STRATEGIC LINES


• Implementation of a National Human Rights Plan of Coexistence and acting
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

12
















from interinstitutionality and with the participation of social organizations
human rights.
• Advance substantially in the reparation of victims of disappearance
forced and all victims of crimes against humanity and its main
axes memory, truth and justice.
• To contribute to human dignity and the most personal and social development of Uruguay
Uruguayan implementing policies and social awareness and citizen engagement
in key inclusion, fairness, respect for diversity and the environment.
• Build participatory public policies based on discussion, analysis
experiences, considering the results of the consultations and drawing
of these general and innovative elements that can contribute to developing
alternative policies.
• promote free access without inequalities in the justice system
vulnerable groups.

E.

Citizen Security



1. PROGRESS AND CHALLENGES

2. PROGRAMME OBJECTIVES AND STRATEGIC LINES











• Development of a strategy of coexistence oriented overcome fear
and strengthen the public space.
• Development of a strategy of coexistence oriented prevent, treat
and eradicate violence generated in the domestic or domestic space.
• Deepening of the organizational reform of the National Police oriented
management based on knowledge and applied intelligence.
• Development of a new educational curriculum for all levels
promotion and training of police
• Consolidation of a new model of prison management and approach
people in conflict with the law.

F.

NATIONAL DEFENSE

A artiguista conception of National Defense
Transformation of National Defense and the Armed Forces
Chapter VII
INTERNATIONAL INTEGRATION OF URUGUAY
TO.

URUGUAY IN THE WORLD



1. PRINCIPLES OF FOREIGN POLICY



2. URUGUAY IN THE REGION AND THE REGION IN THE WORLD

3. Our relations with emerging countries:
THE IMPORTANCE OF THE SOUTH AND RISE OF OUR RELATIONS

DEVELOPED WITH THE NORTH





4. THE INTERNATIONAL DIMENSION OF PEACE



5. URUGUAY AND INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION



6. URUGUAY AND FOREIGN TRADE: THE CHALLENGES OF THE FUTURE
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

13

7. PROGRESS AND CHALLENGES


8. program objectives and strategic lines




















• negotiation of trade agreements in MERCOSUR
with other blocs and countries.
• Development of promotion centers and business intelligence
in strategic markets for our country.
• Locating information centers in foreign trade
and business intelligence inside the country.
• Continue to develop multimodal transport mode, further consolidation
port and road infrastructure. Implementation of Deepwater Port
Rocha, aligned to the development of the above modes.
This new situation would position our country as unbeatable from
a logistical point of view and as a gateway to Mercosur and the bi-oceanic corridor.
• Continue strengthening the country's image and brand.
• Negotiate MERCOSUR extension Temporary Admission Regime.
• Strengthening internal capabilities
• Strengthening external capabilities:
• Increased presence in Southern countries in the management of multilateral organizations,
and institutional bodies seeking to strengthen democracy
in the management of economic and social problems facing humanity.

B.

THE INTEGRATED URUGUAY



1. THE UNITY OF LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN: integration scenarios

eleven

The democratic dimension of integration

2. institutionalities INTEGRATION PROCESSES









• CELAC
• UNASUR
• ALBA
• MERCOSUR
• The social dimension of MERCOSUR
• Social participation
• The political dimension of MERCOSUR: the MERCOSUR Parliament (PARLASUR)
• URUPABOL

3. ACTIVE BILATERALISM
4. The geopolitics of the River Plate Basin: A QUESTION

STRATEGY FOR URUGUAY
5. BORDER POLICY, THE NEED FOR A NEW PARADIGM

FOR SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT OF INTEGRATION.
6. THE CULTURAL DIMENSION IN INTEGRATION
C.

Uruguayans abroad

Migration as established and growing phenomenon.
1. THE ACHIEVEMENTS TO DATE
2. migration policies TO BE CARRIED OUT
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

14

D.

INSTITUTIONS FOR FOREIGN POLICY.



PRESENTATION
The electoral victory of the Broad Front in the 2004 elections and the consequent access
national government was not a simple replacement in the political force that is exercised. It was a fact of
profound historic importance, a turning point with conservative policies implemented
and sustained from the alternation or the sharing of traditional parties and forms
patronage of governance.
We received the government of a country with one of the highest levels of per capita indebtedness
world with a stagnant productive, extremely weak economy, with the most
High unemployment in decades, and the poverty and destitution at the highest levels
history. Two fifths of the population was living in poverty and more than 150,000
Uruguayans were hit by poverty.
Since its inception, the policies of the Broad Front government, headed by Cro. Tabare Vazquez,
They meant major changes at all levels of governance, aimed at improving
the living conditions of the Uruguayan people, particularly the most vulnerable sectors and
disadvantaged. His results were quickly perceived and valued by the Uruguayans, which
He had the consequence that the next electoral act of 2009, voters return to deposit
their hopes and their trust in our political force, granting the exercise of the Presidency
the Republic to Cro. Jose Mujica and the majority of parliamentary seats the Broad Front.
In this second term the guidelines for the management initiated were continued and incorporated
new goals, always with the horizon of development of the productive capacities of the country,
substantially improving the living conditions of all Uruguayans and expanding
citizens' rights.
We could make a long list of accomplishments that have been achieved during these two governments
Frente Amplio, but we will comply with mention some, the most important, for
example: sustained growth and unprecedented rates of GDP, the real increase in salaries and pensions,
and the decline in the unemployment rate, which stands now at historically low levels, as low
as never before since the measurement is performed.
Social reforms show remarkable results in lower poverty and
indigence. The data speak for themselves, in 2004 39.9 of Uruguayans living in
poverty and 4.7% in extreme poverty; in 2012 (according to the INE April
2013) numbers show a sharp decline in the poor: 12.4% of people
and a minimum of 0.5% in extreme poverty that still hurts and demands to adjust the programs and actions
of government.
There is no scope for any government to give immediate response to all concerns and emergencies
of the population, more just and necessary that those demands are. But the orientation and policies
FA concrete have made possible largely reverse the deterioration process and reverse it
Uruguay showed the we receive. These policies allowed significant progress and allow progress
and even more importantly in progressively meeting the needs of our people,
confirming hallmark of permanent dialogue, recognition
social organizations and the priority areas for the creation of citizen participation. The
wage councils, spaces of debate with the participation of a wide variety of actors
trade unions, cooperatives, rights activists, entrepreneurs, strategic issues
of national life show that provision. The impulse to cultural changes toward justice
and equity is evidenced by the latest legislative progress in rights attached
women, African descendants and revolutionary open debate on
gay marriage and marijuana.
Looking ahead to the elections to be held next year, the program presented in this document
summarizes the commitment that we made before the citizens. Its development is weighed and considered
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

fifteen

because, we repeat, the proposed program represents a commitment to future action
government; It presents the lines to continue and deepen, as well as innovations required
enter.
The Frente have legitimate pride of management and achievements of our two governments. There are
founded and notorious reasons to assess the progress made and all the progress made. But
horizon that we want to bring still presents significant challenges we assume.
It is for this reason that the travel document pages presented in each program area, the
achievements and challenges made to assume, for which we point objectives and lines of action
to develop.
We intend for this third future Broad Front government, leading the country down a path
comprehensive and inclusive national development, underpinned by strong pillars that advance
economic growth with sustainability and equality, that contribution to transformation
democratic state and society, and strengthen their integration into the region and the world. And the
Uruguayans are concerned about issues related to our everyday life: the economy,
education, health, living, among others; many are mobilizing to broaden and deepen their
rights. The country needs to strengthen its productive and technological capabilities, as well as
continue the modernization of the State.
So then, each chapter proposes a set of program areas on the various scenarios
of national life, the link between people and Uruguay in the region and the world; including the
wide range of public policies that -in these 8 years the Frente Amplio has consolidated
a tour. Innovative program areas that come from germinating are also presented,
action of government and society, such as by way of example, one can point: the inclusion
issues of infrastructure, technological innovation and energy matrix; the urgency
environmental sustainability policies; promoting new social relationships from
the social economy; the renewed momentum to universal social policies; care system;
policies of coexistence and drug policy. The struggle for the expansion of rights
sexual and diversity of African descent are included in specific sections for the first time.
We recognize the territory as a privileged space for implementing policies, since it is the
physical, human and social geography, with its potential, resources and history which becomes
engine development. The territory, regional coordination and mainstreaming of the various
actions produce synergistic effects that enhance the expected impacts.
We are demanding commitment to the changes aimed at meeting the needs of
majorities. The reality encourages our conviction that we are on the right track but the rest
much to do: attend further economic growth, a more equitable distribution of
income and wealth, improving the quality of employment, innovation, productivity, and empowerment
of public goods. Cultural changes aimed at strengthening the values ​​of solidarity and
commitment among the people to improve citizen coexistence and feelings of trust and
reciprocity, also they represent the needs felt by Uruguayan society. Seeking
disappeared during the dictatorship represents an unavoidable challenge.
The situation, which shows a globalized world in crisis demands a combination of boldness
and wisdom in fair terms: daring to move forward on the path of the changes at once
that sensibly to avoid impatience, missteps that could jeopardize what has been achieved, which is a lot.
This combination can only be assigned our political strength, he was able to steer the successful
out of the worst crisis in our history and reverse the sharp deterioration in the country which received.
The programmatic proposal expresses the agreement of all forces of the Frente
Broad - based movement and coalition parties-and in our view it meets those conditions.
We call on the citizenry to all Uruguayans to sit and appreciate the Uruguay
He changed for the better over the last decade with progressive governments, listed in the column after this
Program, to join us in this wonderful but daunting task: to continue building a Uruguay
productive, sustainable and socially just, with prosperity, freedom and social justice, capable of
offer to all its inhabitants a bright future, with living conditions that allow them
achieve their personal development.
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

16

Chapter I
KEYS OF A NATIONAL VISION OF DEVELOPMENT
TO.

VALUES-BASED DEVELOPMENT

The values ​​on which society is based are the pillars of it. So what
They are the substantive values ​​that bring us together as Frente, and particularly call on us
the construction of the future vision Uruguay? What values ​​are central to society?
Where are we going? These are central questions to build a vision; for
performed a prospective image of the development that we aspire for our country.
The profile of the development process and the own society under construction, demand values
relevant. They must adjust the way and the vision or target image to which we orient ourselves.
A political force should build values, final essence of any form of social organization.
In this construction, it surely must propose and hope to the broadening and deepening
some core values, although these do not constitute the entire assembly. Not ignore
or underestimate other values, but by the need to prioritize, in his explanation and his
construction.
Freedom, equality and justice are values ​​on which this political force has
settled its historical thinking and identity and has even justified its raison d'etre.
The formation and distribution of knowledge and skills in people, in a dimension
individual and social and institutional building and strengthening linkages, partnerships
and networks, gender equity and income distribution are essential components
Advance Equality. The addition of cross actions aimed at gender equality
It turns out to be an essential factor in the development process. Reforms of a series of
universal social services and healthcare and promotional dimension of some policies
public in income, services and rights, developed by this political project, have
It was a first step on the path of social integration. It is necessary to continue this process
pointing to the consolidation of sustained quality public goods that promote equal
opportunities. Ensuring this, specific strategies to ensure access must be developed
Differential to public goods such as affirmative action process to obtain equality
the results. In this context, improving income distribution - as have governments
Frente Amplio - it is a requirement to reduce the gap between different social strata
and promote cohesion.
In this direction is necessary to invest in various strategic areas, one of which is the
education. Universal education of the population, diversified in multiple offers quality play
a decisive role in development. The demand development for the achievement of its various dimensions,
increasing education and specialized training. Primary and secondary education is a
necessary and essential step that must be accompanied by a tertiary and university education
High quality, which everyone can access. Therefore, the formation of human capital require
a huge institutional, public and private effort in pursuit of values ​​and strategic goals that
society must define transparency and precision in the context of a comprehensive educational system,
diverse and according to the demands of a democratic society.
Cash transfers and other welfare policies contribute substantively in
improving the living conditions of individuals and families when they are in situations
vulnerability, actual or potential. But equity is based on a system of social protection
Universal solid components and a hinged support network with those, as the base
equality is in the construction of individual and social skills in human dimensions
and social development and institutional capacity building.
Workers and workers affected / as by processes of social disintegration and exclusion
labor, lost information, contacts, labor relations and membership in institutions
or associations such as trade unions or cooperatives and the link to the social security systems
and labor of formal workers.
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

17

Justice implies unequivocally overcoming poverty in its many dimensions, from
structural inequalities within societies based on different degrees of exploitation
and social marginalization. Hence his improvement is linked to the development of human potential and
social of the population.
It claimed and prioritizes the worthy and creative work as the main value of human development;
creation and recreation of the human person, men and women themselves. Therefore, it is a value
Central which establishes and explains the necessary construction of individual and social skills,
individual achievement and contribution to society. We talk about development when this process
contribution to the social effort is made in growing frames of equity, justice and participation
in collective decisions, and with the appropriate and fair compensation. Using the concept of
ILO say, the creation of "decent work". And particularly, when this effort translates
in forms of self-improvement, construction projects of life, personal fulfillment and
Community. In short, the happiness of human beings, the main goal of any process
development.
As the essence of recognition of the value of people acting in society, no doubt
about the strength of settling a development project about human rights:
civil and political rights, with the principle of freedom as a central pillar of them all; the
economic, social and cultural rights, linked to the principle of equality; rights
of peoples, linked to the principle of solidarity; and the rights of future generations,
linked to environmental conservation.
All human rights require the unwavering affirmation of its validity and durability, and
are today more than ever, an affirmation of the political force in its development vision.
All human rights, whether civil and political, including the right to life, equality before
law, freedom of expression; economic, social and cultural rights, including the right to work,
social security and education; the rights of peoples, including the rights to development and
self-determination; the rights of future generations to receive a planet uncontaminated
and biologically diverse, they are indivisible, interrelated and interdependent. Thus the
advancement of one right facilitates advancement of the others, in the same way that the deprivation of one
It affects others. There is no development without a keen respect for Human Rights,
guaranteed by the productive, social, political, cultural structures and legal agreements
established on the full exercise of democracy and the rule of law.
People have rights, which are linked to the responsibilities demanded life
in society to live together in a stadium growing collective satisfaction, personal growth
and social. Building social cohesion and justice demands a framework of legitimacy
reaffirms coexistence permanently, because every society, even in advanced stages
development and equity, is always a conflict of diverse interests and human structure.
Economic inequalities are enhanced and reproduced from gender inequalities and
ethnic-racial, that draw a geography of inequalities between territorial, intergenerational areas,
among others. No development without substantial lowering of these inequalities. Social justice
It requires more equality and community where reciprocity and community engagement go further
beyond the logic of the market and greed, promoting values ​​of cooperation and integration.
The collective confidence in building the future, and confidence in social life are
very relevant securities processing and construction development. Confidence
built on the basis of dialogue and institutionalized channeling contradictions and interests
social at stake. Which, in turn, constitutes a new source of confidence and dialogue based. Y,
Finally, based on the establishment of values ​​of solidarity in the collective construction of the
society.
This allows advance social cohesion, understood as the sense of belonging and shared values, behaviors - groups of people and society of which they are
part.
Shared trust and social cohesion should be grown in all areas, but one of his
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

18

pillars are in the areas of management and administration of collective issues. Transparency
management and ethics are a distinctive profile of a left-wing force that promotes a
changing cultural values ​​identified with visions of service, honesty, commitment and management
Careful of public affairs. The public issue demand a renewed and careful ethics
administration of power. Abuse and the use thereof for personal gain, are contrary
ethics and understood.
These core values, axes for the development model we aspire to characterize the society
in the medium term they require different institutions and social relations at present. The
new building legal and institutional frameworks should ensure that the hierarchy of values
statements and permanent promotion as part of the corporate culture. Social values
They build or destroy, trivialize or deepen, depending on the depth of their roots
on subjectivity and collective principles, but also in legal and institutional frameworks
determine or condition the individual and group behavior. This will require multiple and
progressive changes in the institutions.

B.

A DYNAMIC CONCEPT MEDIUM TERM

The concept of development is a dynamic concept and should be referred to a specific historical time.
While development as a way to identify the characteristics of certain companies, is a
It mainly twentieth century concept denoting the scope of certain achievements, is not a barrier
that simply is exceeded.
Developed countries became such from certain productive transformations
related to industrialization and technological change, associated with the expansion and consolidation
democratic development of institutional capacities of the state and the implementation of
Welfare states, a radical urbanization and demographic changes. This was
accompanied in many cases, the use of the inequalities associated with dominance
colonial and imperialist; and more recently of various forms of exclusion of immigrants.
But while there are distinctive features of the development, it is not replicable models. They are certainly not
when they are supported by the lack of freedom, injustice or domination. Nor is it a
barrier that can be quantified at a certain level of per capita GDP and is then irreversible.
It seems more appropriate to characterize the development and adoption of certain dynamics
productive, technological, social, institutional, cultural and organizational capabilities,
allow produce and reproduce the best practices of a historical epoch.
Thus, to leave transforming those best practices that affect competition and
cooperation among nations, regions and localities can also be transforming the way
identify, at all times, which is being developed. This necessarily implies that the formulation
practice and development parameters are historically modified with progress
Social scientists who manages humanity. Since these parameters are unpredictable in
long term, it is necessary to build scenarios based on concepts and temporality
allow some predictability. A development strategy and associated goals should then
I stand in relation to the historical time in which we live, including the international context that
characterized as the target image of the country and society defined horizon. These reflections are
formulated with a medium-term horizon.

C.

DIMENSIONS OF DEVELOPMENT

1. Growth and development
The concept of development is multidimensional and includes the social transformation and the adoption of
individual, social and institutional capacities. several development models may exist, but
the Frente Amplio aspires to a form of development that reconciles the increased level of material life
with the expansion of freedoms and political participation, building a society increasingly
more egalitarian, the development of a welfare state and a deeply caring society.
This approach means recognizing that higher living standards and higher forms of organization
social rely on the growth and development of productive capacities.
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

19

Economic growth can lead to more or less progress in democratic development,
at the cultural level, equality in the provision of services to ensure welfare. For the Front
Spacious, growth without these qualitative changes is not a development alternative. But is
impossible to build radical changes in social relations and well as those who
We want without economic growth.
In this sense, returning to the idea that development is a dynamic concept, it is important
recognize that not enough resources more fairly distribute a society is able to
produce at a given time, but what matters is finding a way to society
you can play the foundations of prosperity and equity. A development strategy should be based
an idea of ​​productive country that is able to expand the wealth while the democratizes. And more
Moreover, the country must build productive equality from the base, preventing permanent recreation
inequalities, then it is costly to reverse.
For this to be possible in the current historical moment and in the medium-term time horizon
defined, the construction and consolidation of a new social protection matrix which is required
purpose is to ensure the full exercise of the rights of each and everyone in the country
equal conditions; ensure equal opportunities in access to decent work, services
universal social benefits and quality; and promote social cohesion. To comply
for these purposes, the matrix of social protection should include universal components High
quality (health systems, education, housing and habitat, labor and employment, social security, culture
and social communication, etc.) accompanied by a network of assistance and social integration, aimed
to address and reverse the risks (poverty, inequality and violations of special
rights) and strongly articulated with universal components.
The gradual consolidation and expansion of areas of solidarity and cooperative organization in the
various spheres of economic, social and cultural life, are part of this vision of development,
based on the experience of social practice and probably multiple and dissimilar models
organization of production and social activities.

2. The sustainability of development
Contemporary society has become more conscious about economic growth and
development of the past generations has been done to some extent on the basis of destruction
the environmental heritage of future generations, generating strong environmental imbalances and
set of negative externalities in the form of climate change, environmental destruction, etc.
We are now more aware of the restrictions that the environment imposes on the development and
need to find patterns that ensure environmental conservation and the balance of the biosphere.
The different social systems have tolerated the adoption of profoundly wrong decisions,
they have irreversibly destroyed ecosystems, extinct animal and plant species, and
its varieties; involving the irreversible loss of genetic resources, and the use
exaggerated and irrational low and irreproducible resources. In this field the notorious is located
current and future importance of climate change and its implications for the life and ways of
social organization.
These negative aspects of human behavior must be deeply revised
the global community. In the Uruguay should be ranked this issue in the view of society
build. This will merit, in the near future, important decisions in the production field,
especially agricultural, mining and industry as well as areas for tourism and
recreation.
All without detriment to the enhancement of natural resources - essential for the
growth and development in the medium term - and betting on the ingenuity and creativity, scientific progress
and technology without affecting the natural heritage and legacy to future generations.
It should combine responsibly seeking to maintain a significant rate of
economic growth, based on an orientation of technological development and innovations
I firmly respect the environmental balance, while an adaptation strategy is established
and mitigation of climate change.
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

20

There is no inherent contradiction between growth, development, technological change, conservation
environmental and equality, but these elements are increasingly interrelated, being
all conditions necessary for sustainable and sustainable development.
The sustainability of development also warns Uruguayan structural weaknesses in the field
of self-reproducing population. The evolution of the same and demographic projections
They denote a low growth, an aging of the age structure and a concentrated distribution
space. These trends show no signs of significant reversal.
In that perspective becomes more important to promote an intergenerational pact to reverse
inequalities where children and youth poverty indicators are more than five times
than older adults and double the national average.
The population of a country and its distribution in the territory are constituent factors of a nation.
Therefore, public policies must be mainstreamed by attentive approaches to dynamic
demographic, to guide the achievement of the proposed values ​​for the sustained improvement of the quality
Life, in the context of increasing equity, access to work product and public services
quality and in the context of greater integration and social cohesion.
It is, therefore, to advance the adoption of a new territorial culture that permeates
State practice and also provide a framework to support the market with the general interest,
correct the collective benefit of private excess and ensure the prevalence of the core values
environmental sustainability, democracy and social equity.
Moreover, improving the standard of living of the population it should not be confused with consumerism
rampant or exacerbated implemented by many mechanisms of society
capitalist. These mechanisms create a comfort more apparent than real, but can generate
some form of growth, is also associated with forms of human alienation and dissatisfaction
and social.

3. Society and their interrelationships
We aspire to a society where peace is an accepted value, dialogue to address the main form
conflicts and they fall within the democratic institutions and rules of game. It is by
therefore essential that social conflicts are framed in the democratic rules.
It is about building relationships and promoting solidarity agreed forms of relationship or even
consensus on the objectives of social transformation and the means to achieve them.
In the construction of a different model of development, under the rules of the democratic game,
the State is responsible for driving the strategic areas of the country. Among its main
current tools are public companies, are autonomous entities or Services
Decentralized. Within their respective powers and legislation can be developed
associations or enterprises to enhance their work, expand their heritage or allow them to be
more efficient.
The State must also give signals to the market about what those productive areas are
that carried out by individuals, are considered priority in the production gear
country. The State also is a very important player in the market, participating in its regulation
and overcoming obsolete forms or unsuitable for development. Therefore priority should be to
through affirmative action, domestic production, small and medium producers and
various forms of social economy enterprises, especially cooperatives, by
use of various instruments.
Finally, we understand that the state must assume a leading role in the strategic definition of the
main lines of development, and the alignment of private investment with sustainability criteria
and respect for the environment and cultural components.
Without ignoring the obligation of the FA as a political force left in government, delving into
the democratic transformation of the state and society, to place in program centrality
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

21

the rights of citizens, a fair distribution of wealth, equity and inclusion, there
new issues become increasingly hierarchical construction model development
medium term.
In the medium and long term also it requires building, with enough balance and strength,
social responsibility development. Development is not solely the responsibility of the State or
a social sector, on the contrary this is the product of a joint effort of workers,
companies, the state and all institutions and stakeholders. It is a responsibility
It should cover all citizens and society in its various spaces and forms
organization. This implies values, culture and education on the individual and collective responsibility
in building a more developed, just and democratic society.
We must develop and regulate aspects of the house rules, incentives and systems
disincentives, and in all that pertains to the ways of living in society and for all citizens.
An inclusive, democratic coexistence requires in-depth questioning violence in the area
home, in sports, in traffic, in the community, defending the right to security
citizen as a value of the whole society to build multi-stakeholder.
The concept of shared responsibility and solidarity and democratic vision of society, contradict
with the approach of self-regulation and corporatism, as management approach and participation
social. The partial interest lobbyists and profit inmediatista not constitute
part of a comprehensive approach to development and long-term structural transformation based on the
values ​​defined as strategic and growing stages towards equality. That requires vision
collective and long term image, typical of but not exclusive of these political parties.
Social forces are also relevant protagonists of progressive transformations.
The creation of a social fabric with denser, inclusive and supportive networks is part of the
strategy and objective.
Countries may have growth but not development, a model without greater commitments
responsibility. No shared social responsibility is difficult to growing stages
Development in the sense defined here. It requires efficiency, but social responsibility
It goes far beyond that concept.

4. Sustainable development
The development is a process, not a state, and therefore takes place in the long term and implies certain
stability of the qualities that determine it. Latin American growth, and Uruguayan
particular have been characterized by high levels of volatility and strong cyclicality. The recent period
very good economic performance is based on important lessons of our society and
the sense of the political orientations of the Frente Amplio. It also has a component of forces
Exogenous that are beyond our control and, throughout our history, they have shown great
variability. Our company is aware of similar periods of strong performance, however,
They could not be maintained over time.
It is essential to take advantage of this favorable situation to build capacities for development
sustainable over time; in particular considering the strong instabilities have
characterized and continue to characterize the capitalist economy.
With regard to production development, it consists of a transformation process,
specialization and diversification of production structures.
The strong bet is to sectors with greater potential for incorporation of technology, work
and intelligence, older generation of decent jobs and quality care means
environment and economic and social revitalization of the environment.
As technical progress and increased productivity in these conditions occurs,
It produces the raising of living standards, and thus the transformation of patterns and forms
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

22

social organization of consumption. The development means that a company is able
dynamically cope with these changes, balancing, among other things, increasing their
capacities and production consumption.
The above implies the need for strong policies for innovation and transformation in those
sectors, generating a large share of employment, tend to have low productivity.
Policy development, innovation and increased productivity in the economic sectors most
vulnerable and dedicated to the domestic market, may be central to the collective development, especially
when they should aspire to an export structure rooted in a profound social fabric, where the
value addition have a systemic component.
This process is impossible to be thought of as self-sufficient, but must fit into a world
increasingly interdependent, with degrees of integration at different levels and geographic areas.
However, the inability of the productive structure to accompany the changes following the
raising standards of living, it can lead to more dependence to interdependence,
both in terms of marketing, production, technology, and financially.
A strategy for long-term development, should put particular emphasis on the direction of the
structural and technological change, transformation consistent with macroeconomic stability,
and focused on the goals of human development, equality and environmental sustainability.
This strategy involves assigning the state a central role in building objectives, in fixing
incentive systems and the construction and ideological values. The role of the state, however,
before replacing the different social actors, it is to build broad consensus and
lead institution building, based on the development of a dense institutional network
and various forms of organization of civil society. A state able to fulfill its mission and
society with a dense social fabric with multiple channels of participation are two sides of the
same coin.
In the direction of structural change, regional integration is a key component, as
privileged processes for integrated production process, scientific-technological development,
building financial independence and integration of markets. Also from the standpoint
Cultural regional integration is a central strategy, helped by cultural affinities and
existing language, not always present in other successful integration processes. The process
development to which it can aspire Uruguayan society, can hardly move disconnected from
its closest regional environment. Neither a world increasingly interconnected and globalized
in many areas of economic, technological and cultural lives. The development of Uruguay, as a country
small, it relies inevitably on a competitive integration into regional markets and
world, simultaneously, in the defense and cultivating a culture itself, as in a system
science, technology and innovation guided by the requirements of their sustainable reproduction.

CHAPTER II
ECONOMIC POLICY FOR COUNTRY PRODUCTIVE, SUSTAINABLE AND INNOVATIVE
Introduction
The policies implemented by the governments of the Frente Amplio achievements allowed
relevant macroeconomic and played a decisive role, together with social policies and
labor, in increasing employment, improving the living conditions of the population and very
particularly in reducing poverty, homelessness and social inequality. Has been created
because the conditions to give renewed impetus to the process of sustainable development more
degree of freedom, equality and justice.
Trade and external financial conditions contributed to confront the legacy emergency
the banking crisis; restore economic growth, first using the installed capacity
and then increasing investment, close monitoring of price stability against
inflationary pressures in goods such as food and energy; levels decrease unemployment
that, until now, were considered impossible to achieve; and increase household income. Are you
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

2. 3

conditions were enhanced to address social problems, thanks to the package of
political, economic and social, adopted in the first period and that continued in the second
FA government. The expansion of the domestic market resulting from the policies implemented was a
important to sustain the process of growth in recent years component.
Increased international demand, in volume and in prices of core products
our production and foreign trade structure, basically agricultural origin without
It is certainly a cause of the improvements subject to the terms of trade, wholesale
increased mineral and energy, commodities were unfavorable to us.
The achievements possible new targets. The experience gained allows to carry on
a strategy of productive, economic and social development with a long-term perspective. The
a series of reforms of universal social services, healthcare and promotional dimension
some public policies on income, services and rights, developed by the project
FA politician, have been a first step. It is necessary to continue this process aiming
to the consolidation of global public goods and quality services, ensuring equity
opportunities from the beginning of life itself and including specific strategies that enable
differential access to such goods as a process of positive discrimination for
equality of results. In short, a dialectical relationship between achievements and further reforms
progressives.
Then four strategic aspects are addressed in economic policy
achieve the development goals set by the Frente Amplio. They relate to: (I) the situation
regional and international levels; (II) macroeconomic strategy; (III) the production strategy; and (IV) the
institutional framework for competitiveness and productive transformation.

1. The regional and international situation
eleven
The current international situation and the medium-term outlook, which summarizes
possible scenarios for the international economy for the coming years.
Regarding the main topics of the current international situation and the prospects for medium
term should start bearing in mind the questions of global geopolitics that has changed
profoundly in recent years, with the rise of the South as actors
count in the world of tomorrow is being built today.
A first set of issues relates to the output of the economic crisis facing countries
central capitalist. The depth of the financial crisis in the USA in 2007 and then
spread to Europe shows features unprecedented in history. While there are encouraging signs
regarding completion, it is far from asserting that the output and economic and social recovery is
imminent. And if so, are raised doubts about the modality that can acquire this
Out of crisis impacts in the region and in our country.
Two aspects are particularly sensitive to devise economic policies next
Government: business and financial.
Within the commercial aspects must be considered the evolution of international prices
exports and imports. Along with this factor linked to prices and their effects on
terms of trade of the country, must be added the uncertainty regarding parities between
currencies in the region and the world.
Within the financial aspects are relevant exchange rate issues relating to new
mentioned, but a specific component of risk result increased rates added
international interest and its effects on the movement of financial capital.
While the debt policy has tended to take off the horizon of debt renegotiation
external, this is a factor that can reverse the favorable conditions known to date.

THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

24

Furthermore, a boost is observed to regulatory measures of
international financial intermediaries, something for which Uruguay should reaffirm its
commitment to transparent management of these institutions, evaluating carefully
consequences for the country of them, especially confirming their commitment in the fight
against money laundering.
1.2
The regional situation, which are considered some particular issues related to
performance expected from neighboring countries, and Latin America in the international context.
Regarding the conditions of the regional situation a regional commercial and financial strategy of
MERCOSUR must show substantial progress in implementing it during the next
five years considering that, while there has been progress in the commitment to strengthen
institutions and importance of MERCOSUR, the speed of change seems to surpass the
government response. While the regional and social integration of Latin American peoples is
a goal pursued by the governments of MERCOSUR, as realizes the integration of Venezuela,
some recent cases require special consideration.
In recent years there has been substantial progress in the design and subsequent implementation of a
regional trade and financial strategy. The implementation of these advances allow clear
uncertainties regarding levels of growth, price stability, exchange rate strategies,
intra-zone trade volumes. The Uruguay shall make every effort in this regard that
materialize will enable the region to respond together to the challenges internationally.
Regional integration, the achievement is a central aspect of the policy proposal
FA is one of the key instruments of international insertion, therefore the relevance
(current and potential) relationship of the national economy with its MERCOSUR partners, such as the
link through it is built (either by action or by omission) with the remaining
countries and blocs. With the region pursue deeper integration, exceeding the
purely commercial, promoting cooperation in science and technology, infrastructure, other
regional public goods, and cultural ties. But effective implementation progress and
the realization of the exchange channels is far from simple and is not assured.
1.3
Threats of medium and long term for productive Uruguay, which summarizes the
problems that require special attention are considered in the design of the development strategy.
A brief summary of the main risks and opportunities that the region and the
world arise in the medium and long term to strengthen the productive Uruguay.
First specify the policy requires Uruguay in the concert of nations and strategy
together with the countries of the region. Regional and extra-regional play essential roles,
although different in strategy development. Integration with MERCOSUR, the country sought the
construction of an expanded market conditions that generate the internal market does not provide,
for industrial activity. And, on the other hand, it sought a platform for the joint negotiation of
trade agreements with other countries considered individually and with other blocks.
It is noteworthy that the competitive core of our exports based staffing
natural resources faces the most powerful and sophisticated protection schemes
developed countries. The joint negotiation sought to overcome the difficulty of access raised.
In terms of development strategy, the option is to reaffirm the membership of the bloc,
persist in the proposition to build a deeper regional integration (involving, in making the
Economically, the full effect of expanded market access, compliance with rules,
existence of adequate and effective mechanisms of dispute settlement and institutional quality)
and simultaneously raise the MERCOSUR partners the need to specify the external agenda
block. Joint negotiations is the priority, considering alternative negotiation
flexibilities and formats to block members move at different speeds.
A second important aspect is the design of policies of engagement with the
multinational companies. They responded compromising investments in the country in the past
recent. Based on the confidence achieved must now rethink the political relations as well
to assess the impacts of large FDI towards horizons
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

25

longer term.
In this regard, Uruguay should put the emphasis on international conditions that encourage the
positive effects of these productive and enriching the social fabric of our country investments.
If attraction policies were satisfactory, consider how to strengthen the
aforementioned objective. The negative effects must also be considered, among which
highlights the associated environmental problems and concentration of wealth. Growth
based on the exploitation of natural resources and the concentration of ownership of such resources,
You can have negative social consequences for present but also for
future generations, to the extent that these are non-renewable resources.
To this must be added the economic and financial conditions based strategies
Foreign direct investment: a first phase of growth based on foreign direct investment,
which is then continued over a long period of remission of profits abroad. The governments
They should consider policies to address the continued growth dynamics response
these prospects. This shows the importance of attention to design policies
aimed at promoting national savings and national investment in general, and the public in particular.
In the financial sector it is considered important to prevent the emergence of scenarios such as those experienced in the
nineties both in the country and the region, in areas of growth in Asia, and recently
in the capitalist world, due to the movements of speculative capital.

2. Macroeconomic strategy
21

Macroeconomic policy

Macroeconomic policy should ensure stable conditions appropriate to the objectives
growth, job creation and income distribution; also it must be consistent
on three levels:

to. Internally consistent and avoid contradictions between the objectives of stability
and competitiveness between the fiscal balance and the tax burden, between monetary policy and the
exchange, and a coherent policy in the administration of international reserves. The achievement
these goals also involves integrating anti cyclical components and improve institutions to
make them safer and transparent.

b. Consistent with the objectives of employment and distribution, and therefore policies
sectoral aimed at changing the production structure and social policies and the corresponding
public social spending. Should aim to strengthen the pillars of economic growth in the long term,
increasing investment in physical capital and training of individuals; improve conditions
international competitiveness of our production and reduce intermediation costs
developing financial and capital markets.

c. Consistent with the draft global economy and particularly the positioning
of Uruguay in the Mercosur and finding new markets outside the region, based on agreements
commercial, discarding bilateral free trade agreements that contradict the discussion in the
Chapter VII International Insertion of Uruguay.
2.2

Fiscal policy

The period of growth in recent years with proper management of public accounts,
allowed simultaneously keep the deficit at low levels at the same time is processing a
profound change in the budget for social spending structure.
Fiscal policy will seek to achieve structural balance in public finances taking into
the effect of the economic cycle, both on the revenue and the expenditure side. For
achieve the development goals of long-term considerations will be prioritized, making it
predictable public investment and allowing spending to grow in terms of growth in length
within the economy. Also relevant report to Parliament annually on the occasion
Accountability of the tax waivers for the year. Moreover it is
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

26

time to complete the process of reform of the social security system so that all
components converge based on the principles of equity and fiscal sustainability.
2.2.1 Tax Policy
We understand the path to development as a process in which society, through State
appropriates a significant fraction of the economic surplus through democratic mechanisms
planning and budgeting, and returns via universal public services excellence,
shape an integrated and just society.
We claim the tax value of the tool as an instrument of equality, integration
and social development of the productive forces. Taxes, not as a "punishment talent" but as
a return to society part of the surplus thanks to its operation could be
create; not as a "dead weight" against competitiveness, but as a fundamental tool
to generate more genuine competitiveness. We do not want less taxes, but better and fairer.
Tax policy should pursue and promote greater equity in the structure
tax and social security contributions, from a holistic perspective of both aspects,
relating the tax burden and social security contribution capacity of the various
social and economic sectors. The goal, as in these two periods of government is to contribute
more who have more. It should continue to improve equity, seeking a leveling between
effective rates that support both capital income and labor income earned by
people.
The Tax Reform 2007 was the first comprehensive review of the tax system in the country
in the last 40 years. 14 taxes were abolished, the weight of indirect taxes was reduced and
It is increased direct, giving the system more progressive. Income tax were introduced and
IASS serving the taxpaying capacity of citizens and specific rules set out
of investment promotion. Later changes were introduced that allowed for better
the goal of greater equity with a systemic approach to settle the income tax as permitted Core
Family, admitting new deductions in this tax, such as those concerning the collection of
rent or mortgage payments, and raising the tax allowance while rising
the burden on higher income sectors. Has started a path of reduction in VAT,
lowering their rates in 2007 and then removing the burden of this tax on the benefits provided
AFAM and cards with MIDES in a clear redistributive measure benefiting households
lower incomes. At the same time the wealth tax was reinstalled Agricultural and taxed in
differentially mining of large size, as the latter aligned with a different view
As for the taxation of activities that exploit non-renewable natural resources, in line
with the latest international trends in this area.
More profound changes while maintaining the primary objective of replacing
gradually excises taxes on income and wealth. The reduction of VAT
It must remain objective, which may also be associated with containment measures
inflation when deemed necessary, as well as promoting horizontal equity in income tax
and encouraging investment with specific tax incentives to compensation.
The tax system must remain consistent with the various promotion mechanisms
investments available to the country, benefiting the development of generators ventures
better jobs or favoring vulnerable groups, with higher added value, innovation
technology, better quality of processes and products, cleaner production, with decentralization
emphasis on less developed areas, etc. The tax system will continue to promote
formalization of the economy and will discourage evasion, making possible the process of decline
individual taxation of the good taxpayers.
You can move forward in the new tax system selectively altering the pressure
tax without affecting sectoral competitiveness. For example, the population with the highest income, the
sectors or powerful windfall wealth, consumption of imported goods
luxury or competitive with domestic production with a very low quality. Consider also
a more selective use of investment promotion, which can be evaluated annually in each
Accountability in the context of reporting by the DGI on spending
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

27

tax.
Generalize primary tax base while keeping the existing minimum.
Reviewing the scheme sectoral tax burdens depending on a development project
the service of a national economy that favors adding value.
Continue the evolving nature and ongoing assessment of exemptions policy through
investment promotion and sectoral regimes, with greater emphasis on production chains
that generate higher value added and promoting regional development.
Progress in increasing the rate of corporate income tax and other tax tools for activities
Exceptional income linked to the use of natural resources and the concentration of land.
Consider creating an additional dividends transferred abroad, in
as they do not violate international conventions or agreements.
A successful implementation of the tax reform should follow a long analysis perspective
term results and consider further deepening of reform to achieve greater equity.
It should continue deepening the process of modernization of the Tax Administration
as well as increased coordination between agencies such as the General Tax Directorate (DGI)
and the Social Security Bank (BPS) and greater inclusion and financial education. Reducing
evasion-insofar as it is a trend permanently remain a stable source
financing of public spending.
The development of an industrial policy means having instruments (without discarding any of
priori) to encourage exports with greater added value, provided that conditions exist
to be industrialized in our territory.
The taxes should not be seen only as instruments of collection, tax specialists,
but also in their character finalist, as motivators of behavior and its effects
distributive. One of its central principles, which pay more the more you have, refers to justice
tax. Tax revenues must themselves ensure, on the level of resources obtained, provision
of public goods and services enabling the redistributive effects of public social spending.
Like any policy option, the end result of an increase in the tax burden has
some uncertainty. The choice is between maintaining profitability levels unchanged
of the major players in the private economy, or take the risk of a slowing of the
Current and accelerate the improvement of the living conditions of those investments still remain between the
postponed.

Try to accelerate the distribution of income through tax changes only involves
As dilemma of growth is willing to risk to get that goal. The system
tax reform that emerged by the FA in 2007 is the most appropriate framework for
further reduce inequity in Uruguay via taxation, making the necessary adjustments there
which are in line with the main objective of the left is to improve income distribution and
building equal opportunities. These two periods have set a course: distribute
distributing grow and grow.
2.2.2 Debt Policy
Servicing the public debt will continue to be managed with the same criteria
this period of government. It will seek to further reduce vulnerabilities and cost
financing.
Although the future context can not collaborate in this sense, it is necessary to persist in a
public debt management that allows continue gradually reducing the
importance of the interest in the national budget and net debt in the GDP. That's it
consider relevant policy management of international reserves of the country, attending
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

28

the concept of net indebtedness of the government and individuals.
2.2.3 Investment and Public Expenditure
The public expenditure policy is a powerful tool to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the
Public Management. It should strengthen the role of public offices dedicated to evaluating the quality
spending and investment projects, and expand the use of performance indicators and
management commitments as essential tools for achieving the desired objectives
terms of quality and quantity of services provided to the population.
The evaluation of program results constitute a fundamental instrument for decision
decisions regarding the allocation of new public resources. For this it is necessary to have
a powerful control system management, able to generate the right incentives and serve
mechanism of accountability of public bodies to the public.
It is noteworthy that the prevailing methods both public and private management does not facilitate the development
innovation. In this regard, government procurement can be considered a tool
useful for promoting innovation and domestic production of goods and services. Involvement
Citizen participants of the production process is a central objective. Need of
national creation by everyone; a renewed culture of work. Work as
creative and socially responsible action is essential to advance the productive country with justice
social. This involves organizing the management, development quality and productivity systemic
based on the circulation of knowledge and participation of all member organizations,
trying to give the example from the Public Sector with a transparent administration, definition of
plans, and strengthening the concept of public servants by their officials.
Continue to improve levels of social spending and income redistribution policies that guarantee
universal provision of public goods.
It corresponds to reaffirm the importance of public investment policies aimed at promoting
infrastructure necessary for productive and social development. The use of tools
Public Private Partnership financing methods allows to ensure greater investment
public and provision of public goods with an appropriate distribution of risks and burden sharing
intergenerational.
But we must also consider the effectiveness, in terms of quality, coverage and effective access,
of public social spending are key distributor to strengthen the role of fiscal policy. Otherwise,
little progress will be made in terms of distributional impact, even in a context where resources
intended to finance continue to grow.
It is necessary to continue the process of improving the quality and expanding coverage in the provision
of public goods and services with strategies that enable a differential access process
affirmative action for equality of results.
2. 3

Monetary and exchange rate policy

Monetary and exchange rate policies should also be consistent with the inflation targets
and maintaining the competitiveness of domestic production as well as long-term goals
As for the promotion of investment, employment and sustainable growth and efficient
management of international reserves and the domestic and foreign debt. This implies
consider the various factors that influence the rise in prices in the different national contexts
and international and economic cycles.
However, exchange rate policy should address competitiveness, that will translate not only
in export profits but also encourages investment in productive projects
They lack the comparative advantages that arise solely from our abundance in resources
natural. To this are important mechanisms hoc interventions in the market
distorting and mitigate exchange for speculative purposes, and also the regulation of flows
short-term capital.
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

29

A small open like Uruguay to face adverse shocks originated in economics
Outside, should continue appealing to mechanisms to reduce the impact of movements
speculative capital. Moreover, the exchange rate regime must remain functional to achieve
increasing dollarization of the economy.
It should continue to pay particular attention to the specificities of the Uruguayan inflation, given the
impacts that it has basically those with fixed incomes such as salaries and pensions.
Fight inflation is to defend the most vulnerable. The unorthodox policy mix
reductions in indirect taxes and administered prices, subsidies, with negotiations
Price, has been successful in the short term; however, macroeconomic policies are needed
more structural, anti-cyclical.
The social consequences of the inflationary phenomenon also involve designing policies
increase the supply of the products that make up the basket of essential consumer goods
our population.
To implement the concept of food sovereignty pointing to guarantee the prices and quantities
basic food basket, for which the State must collect foods that are included
in the basic package to mitigate the effects of inflationary impacts that can succeed on a
future.
2.4

Work and Income Policy

2.4.1 Employment policies
The world of work in Uruguay has shown a steady improvement since 2005, reflected in the
low rate of unemployment, employment growth and reducing the percentage of workers
without social protection, among many other respects, this product of a labor reform
implemented by the governments of the Frente Amplio.
In this context as low overall unemployment, concerns focus primarily
the sustainability of the changes and make further progress in improving quality
employment, particularly those population groups that are in situations
underemployment linked to job insecurity, low pay and informality. Continue
Reducing the levels of informality at work is paramount in the near Front government
Spacious, given the importance this has on social inclusion and the exercise of rights by
of workers.
It should then develop policies on labor supply, labor demand and
articulation of demand and supply of labor, recognizing the conditions or situations in which
are different groups of workers. Elaborating policies to collective
with greater employment difficulties: women, youth, older men, unskilled in
poverty and those affected by different processes of discrimination.
From the perspective of labor supply it is essential to improve education and quality
of learning, something that plays a key role in the creation of skills and capabilities
work with their respective improvements in productivity, real wages and job quality.
It should also be advanced in the democratization of access to the labor market and reducing
inequalities in the workplace.
From the point of view of the demand for labor the pace of economic growth is
not enough to solve the various problems of employment necessary but. He
high cumulative annual growth in recent years has become an essential factor
the decline of open unemployment, but also that it is essential to growth next
promote changes in the conformation of the productive structure. This means direct stimuli
prosecutors towards activities with greater capacity to generate productive employment and direct
indirect quality, with particular emphasis on small and medium enterprises for their ability
employment generation.

THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

30

The Tripartite Social Dialogue is key labor policy of the Frente Amplio, which should
consolidate the wage and working conditions, health, safety and environment
work and employment.
2.4.2 Remuneration policy
Collective bargaining in the field of Wages Board is a fundamental pillar
strategy of growth with social equity that the Frente Amplio. Unlike
other periods when the Uruguayan economy recorded high growth rates without improving
living conditions of Uruguayans during the two periods Broad Front government was achieved
accompany economic growth with a significant increase in real wages and an improvement
in the distribution of income. This was made possible by agreements reached wage recovery
in successive rounds of negotiations on the wage councils and policy Wage rise
National Minimum carried on during that period
Wage bargaining should facilitate the improvement in real wages primarily in those
sectors for wages submerged. In this context wage policy should be consistent
with the rest of macroeconomic policy for the purpose of achieving an appropriate balance, maintain
allowing stability and harmonious growth of the economy. The increased productivity is a
central element of economic development, as such, a target of Frente Amplio. But adjusting
submerged wages as has been done in the first two FA governments can not be
exclusively tied to this factor.
2.4.3 Reduction of the informal economy
Reduce informality in the economy is central to the growth and development
economic and social, which involves productivity improvements, increased generation of decent work and
strengthening the social protection system. Therefore a priority for a third term
Frente Amplio, further actions aimed at the inclusion of those economic sectors
that still operate in the informal sector, so they are less exposed to changes in
the economic cycle and further to appropriate the benefits of growth and development
transits the country. It should therefore be advanced in developing specific tools and devices
formalization for those sectors which, under the current rules, they do not.

3. The production strategy
In the V Extraordinary Congress "Zelmar Michelini" (2008) and we said: "The production structure
a country is related to possibilities for sustained and sustainable growth ...
It has a direct impact on income levels and quality of life of the people ... (and) generate
different traditional competitive factors. "(p. 36).
3.1

Productive transformation being experienced by the country.

The ongoing structural change is based on the natural resource base, which constitutes a
platform from which to promote continuity, and the emergence of new activities that are
able to grow with an export perspective and innovation: reducing exposure
markets that have the greatest problems of access; diversification of the structure of goods
and services; expanding the percentage of the production structure that finds opportunities
growth in regional and international markets; technological transformation sectors
traditional exporters (especially those most associated historically to the advantage
the endowment of natural resources); and the emergence of new activities that are able to
grow an export perspective.
While it is necessary to consider the risk of the "primarization" of the productive structure, it
noted that the agricultural sector has significant effects "broadcast" and multipliers on
economy as a whole, even in comparison with other productive activities.
The production structure determines the responsiveness of the economy to external changes,
especially in the context of the current international crisis. Generating a virtuous change in the structure
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

31

production depends largely on: why develop value chains; which links these
chains are retained in the national economy; and how new chains are created through
innovation processes, technology and stimulate the generation of new productive activities.
In this sense economic policy is political economy, is conceived as a policy for development,
that prioritizes structural change and leveling up the capabilities and opportunities
social.
This perspective helps to overcome certain limitations. On the one hand it is still pending resolution
structural heterogeneity, which allows the coexistence of different levels of productivity
hand generators pay differentials for work of equal qualification. A range
Small and medium producers require access to credit and technical assistance
improve their organization and incorporate technical progress. This requires programs include
supplier development and support family farming, cooperatives, companies managed by
workers, small businesses, especially those that can link to the value chains led
by large companies. In addition, further effort is required to transform the
production structure in key areas for sustainability in the long-term development
economic and social.
Whatever the trend of international trade is the opportunity to build a matrix
production and energy for sustainable development, to counter market pressures
primarization to excessive production, with active sectoral policies and construction
capacity, generating longer linkages in adding value.
The potential of technological improvements is present in all sectors, but there
that cater to those who allow introducing new technologies, more aggregation
knowledge and links back and forward in the value chain. It is also possible
move towards the creation of a sector closely linked to scientific and technical development
advancing industrialization in depth, involving universities, and ANII
EP.
Develop and deepen a line of sustainable productive development also implies: consider
especially the strategic significance of investment in infrastructure and logistics and generation
and energy distribution; forward in regional screening technology platforms based on
productive complementation agreements; the defense of the natural resource base of sovereignty
and source of food security, legislating on concentration and foreignization
land, large-sized investments, responsible use and preservation of the national heritage; discourage
the concentration of ownership and encouraging new forms of property and collective management.
3.2
Some conditions for progress in changing production oriented construction
the Uruguay productive and innovative.
Generating a virtuous change the productive matrix depends, among other things, what chains
value develop, what degree of dynamism and linkages have with the productive matrix
National and its potential for technological innovation and generating new activities.
The potential to generate or induce technological improvements and productivity is very different in the
sectors and value chains. On the one hand, some sectors can absorb or promote more
Easily new technological developments and to incorporate new knowledge. On the other hand,
It varies the degree to which different sectors or induce productive dynamism crawl back and
forward in the value chain.
Change the structure of relative returns in favor of knowledge-intensive sectors
or with great potential to generate linkages, it is a result that can be obtained by
economic policies that provide incentives or signals to direct investment and employment to
creation of these new productive sectors. These policies are a necessary component of
development, regardless of the transversal policies or competitiveness seeking improve efficiency
existing sectors. It is therefore important to consider economic policies and transverse
sector. Through active policies and capacity building, be pursued generation
greater linkages with longer adding value, the pursuit of development
intensive economic sectors in awareness and counter the risk of primarization
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

32

production inducing good prices for some raw materials or food originating
in the field.
To achieve the expected results will intensify efforts to develop infrastructure
necessary with a medium- and long-term. For this, the momentum required logistics
and port infrastructures and technological platforms regional projection
based on productive complementation agreements. Finally, it is essential to carry out
powerful R & D linking knowledge to production and associate companies,
State and academia. Prospects for development in areas such as mining and extraction
oil required to prepare the country for those challenges.

4. Institutional framework for competitiveness and productive transformation:

a functional state the objectives of Uruguay Productive and Innovative
The promotion of productive transformation and the implementation of active policies require a State
prepared and functional to that challenge. Uruguay in 2005 was far been found greatly
it; in fact -after decades of economic policies that considered the state should not
intervene and therefore the market practically solve problems-the only institution
cross to encourage the development that existed was the National Development Corporation,
organism which lost $ 100 million in its first twenty years of existence. It was imperative
then consider a radically different strategy. And in these first years of government,
FA resulted in substantial progress in a functional state role in productive and innovative Uruguay.
From the experience of the government in implementing its program, the following are met
steps: institutional strengthening and strategic change in the CND building programs
production clusters (Clusters) and microfinance DIPRODE's orbit, creating the
Innovation Ministerial Cabinet and National Agency for Innovation and Research, creation
National Institute for Quality and Support Unit of the Private Sector in the MEF, creation of INEFOP,
INACOOP creation, reform of Uruguay XXI, public private equity law, among many
others.
The key objectives in this process of change has been, and remain,
end the fragmentation of programs, the effective implementation of public resources, maximize
additionalities generated by the implementation of programs, applying transparent criteria
resource allocation, obtaining a clear view by the users and evaluating
impacts.
In this new period it is necessary to consolidate these changes and move strongly toward
functional institutions at this historic stage.
4.1

The role of ministries and thematic cabinets

A key criterion is that the policies to be defined and designed by the executive and
carried out by the ministries.
A vital contribution of our political force has been creating thematic cabinets since the
complexity of value chains in today's world, where live many sectors
different (primary, industrial, services, tourism, etc.) and with regard to the sectoral structure
ministries which owns the country, is essential to an instance of ministerial coordination
production policies.
4.2

A system of agencies to implement policies

Then, with the definition and design of policies established at the ministerial level and the level of
Cabinet coordination in the production and innovation, it is necessary to have an answer
flexible and transparent in terms of implementation and execution of these policies. To this should be
have trained, flexible, transparent and resourced agencies where you
implement policies.
The process of change and institutional construction that has been processed in recent years,
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

33

outlines the presence of transverse agencies directly linked to policies improving
competitiveness in the country:
1. Institute Uruguay XXI (related CIACEX, "the Foreign Trade Office"), which
It has in your area fostering the Uruguayan foreign trade companies, and attracting
investments into the country.
2. National Agency for Research and Innovation (related Cabinet
Innovation), which has in its scope the products and services for the promotion of research
science and technology, and innovation, establishing increasingly powerful links between
academia and the productive sectors.

3. National Economic Development Agency (established by law in 2009 without instrumentation,
Production related Cabinet) to be within its scope products and services, financial
and non-financial, productive development with special emphasis on supporting micro, small and
medium enterprises. Therefore, you must collect various programs and units that provide that
type of products and services, which are scattered in various places of the Administration
Central

4. National Development Corporation (specializing in Infrastructure), which will
in its scope facilitating mechanisms for infrastructure construction (civil works,
basic, and public utility) services in Uruguay.

5. National Institute of Employment and Vocational Training, which aims to be the
reference institution in training for employees and employers, being the executor of policies
Public Employment and Vocational Training of the private sector, actively promoting the System
National Qualifications.

6. National Institute of Cooperatives (INACOOP) which aims to promote development
economic, social and cultural development of the cooperative sector and its integration into the country's development, for
which corresponds - by its founding law - to propose, advise and implement the national policy
cooperation. In this context we must consider incorporating other forms of
property management and business cooperation and solidarity spirit that currently operate with
various legal forms, contributing to the redistribution of wealth.
A medium-term corporate objective must also be to encourage the creation of a Network
National Local Development Agencies, which permanently dialogue with these agencies
nationals.
On this basis, the Uruguay is in very good position to move in the coming period
Towards a National Competitiveness System, which form part of the relevant ministries
and agencies, trying to cover the universe of active public sector policies related
productive development.
4.3

Funding Strategy

It is worth stressing the importance of the financial aspects. The efficient use of savings
National is a must that requires solution. It is relevant to the creation of a Development Bank, where
the Bank of the Republic should be integrated as a central protagonist.
The way the financial system is structured can promote or retract development. Their
characteristics determine the resources among the possible destinations of credit distributed.
Direct funds to the purposes given priority according to the effect they have on speeding
the process of economic development is the role expected of a development bank today
absent in our country. Pension Savings Fund is another source of important resources
which is outside the national production process. It is not sustainable in the long term is almost Maximize
only public papers, without contributing in the future support of the economic process. He
Fondes - which has contributed to the recovery of major companies with participation of its
workers - is a specific tool that should be institutionalized, together with an assessment
other programs implemented to contribute safely to the tools of promotion
productive.


THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

3. 4

Chapter III
DEVELOPMENT AND DISTRIBUTION
PRESENTATION
The country is since 2005 a period of economic growth with a marked improvement in the distribution
income, promoted from the government by applying the Frente program. For
continue this path of development, more growth and income distribution, the FA proposes
promote a robust national productive system, diversified and integrated into the region through a
strong impetus to the incorporation of knowledge and technology, which will be promoted chains
of added value in industry and agriculture, services and logistics. Furthermore, it will continue
Search deepening and promotion of increasingly specialized production activities,
high domestic value-added and high quality products.
On the one hand, it is required to encourage the competitive insertion of agro-industrial products in the
international market, putting the cumulative development of goods and services with added value
and quality differentiation, based on the sustained growth of technology and domestic labor
qualified, simultaneous to promote and defend fair trade and regional integration.
Economic development requires diversification of the productive matrix beyond the advantages
traditional comparisons, and an increase in the number of products offered on the market
international; adding initiatives of strategic interest for the development and exercise
sovereignty from a participatory and robust democracy.
Social and environmental sustainability is an inherent part of the development process to power.
Therefore, the process of economic growth will be accompanied by a labor relations framework
each time more democratic, a cumulative improvement in income distribution, promotion
of citizens in access to sources of generation of wealth and of various forms of
social economy in the processes of production and wealth generation. Also, this process
will be structured in harmony with the environment; in a vision of sustainable development and justice
social. Natural resources will be valued under the consideration of social responsibility and
intergenerational its application, while propelling new ways to diversify
production and exports.
The challenge for our society is that these structural changes to settle in a process
development, in its various aspects, such as discussed in the first chapter. Developing
economic, based on a growing acquisition of technology-based with domestic skilled labor;
environmental, with accountable and democratic uses of natural resources; and social, based on
deeper levels of social inclusion and equitable development. Educational and cultural development as
by increasing individual and collective capacities of all compatriots.
In particular, the guiding role of the State and will be a key driver in strengthening those
national capacities that allow us to position ourselves at the forefront of those processes
research, development and innovation we intend to promote. In this role of the state
stimulate a strategic vision of balanced national development in the country and
seek to improve distribution in the territory of infrastructure, industries and services.
Standardize, as much as possible, the lives and work of all citizens and
throughout the country, is a strategic commitment to deepen in the next period
government.
Furthermore, the influence of the emergence of new production and investment chains, will promote the
renewable energy, information technology and communication, mining, tourism, exploitation
of oil and gas, and infrastructure projects such as the deepwater port and
the construction of the regasification plant. Therefore, our country will forward the difficult and arduous
task to achieve and sustain over time a high level of human development and tending to
values ​​previously presented.
In these programmatic bases for growth relevant issues they are: (a) the effort by the
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

35

diversification of productive chains in which the national economy stands, and particularly
creating differentiation and higher value added goods; (B) adequate productive matrix
that enhances all production, natural resources and facilities in pursuit of diversification
and growth of national wealth; (C) the development of infrastructure amended
qualitatively historical social construction of the country.
All this in the context of a vision and strategy for sustainability of natural resources and
the company itself, on a short-term and particularly with responsibility
intergenerational, which is a core value of this approach to development. Specifically,
This programmatic approach is, in turn, a central theme and innovative programs
of this political force and the country in general.

TO.

SECTOR POLICIES

1. AGRO
While a modern vision required to analyze land issues in the context of agribusiness chains,
for the sole purpose of organizing this presentation of matters specially exhibited first
linked to the agrarian question and then those that fall more heavily on the field
Industrial. However, it is stressed that the process of agricultural development, like that of the
processing industry of agricultural goods, are very strong and can not be concatenated
observed independently. Programmatic data will be processed with the vision of "chain
production ", understood as stages of the same process of production and processing
origin agricultural goods.
eleven

Progress and challenges

Major achievements have occurred in the sector over the last two periods of government are:
A sectoral dynamics extraordinary, unknown in the country in the last 5 decades, both for their
Quantitative levels of production growth, as in the aforementioned qualitative aspects to the
investment, technological change, organizational forms of production, cultural changes themselves
in the planning and execution of work and production management, where they settle and that,
in turn, they promote growth in the sector itself. The sector has experienced in recent years a dynamic
exceptional product of internal and external factors.
Undoubtedly, international trade has known structural transformations between
its actors and a significant change in the market and the prices of exported goods, which
They have led to the growth of our agriculture. While these processes are external, they have
been captured and utilized indisputably our Uruguayan economy and society,
in terms of macroeconomic and sectoral policies that have propelled both governments
Frente and institutional stability and transparency demonstrated by the country. The
combination of both external and internal processes have substantially changed the dynamics
economic and social, the volume of surpluses and to establish baseline conditions, among others,
educational and social policies of major.
These conditions have enabled remarkable advances in agricultural export capacity and
implementation of value-added processes (eg. traceability of meat), by the permanent
maintenance and / or opening of markets for the country's traditional products (meat, dairy, citrus,
etc.).
It has also been progress in defining and implementing policies to adapt to the variability
and climate change through the rationalization of access and water management, protection and management
Natural field, support differentiated by type of producer according to your needs and capabilities,
strengthening research, development and technology transfer. Policies
sustainability of natural resources (soil conservation campaigns) for better use
sustainable management of the environment and human health.
It has also established policies of inclusive rural development, to meet production
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

36

Family and rural workers, and strategic sectors traditionally neglected by the
colonization, strengthening of social organizations, and facilitating entry to chain
value. Examples in this direction are business plans in place for producers
Farm by the MGAP; or the creation and development of the sugar and alcohol complex Bella Union, through
ALUR, combining agro-industrial development of production and processing sugar cane,
the production of Biodiesel, Ethanol, Animal Feed and Energy, integrated with the colonial policy
INC, as settlers and include project managers to employees sugarcane, traditional
marginalized sectors of land ownership and management of resources and improving their
conditions of life and work while you participate as leading actors, of a draft
agriculture and local development.
Have built institutional capacities for the development of an innovation system that
promote technical change, maintenance of sanitary and phytosanitary status of the country, and
solving problems through technological and organizational advisory services and processes
technical and agricultural and rural extension.
In the sectoral field structures they have been strengthened and developed MGAP links
between public actors together, and between them and private actors, creating synergistic partnerships with
greater efficiency and effectiveness in the definition of strategies and action plan. The consolidation of a
decentralized and participatory institutions, such as tables and Departmental Councils
rural development, worth mentioning.
The main challenge to maintain a dynamic sector as experienced in the last decade,
It is to develop policy guidelines to agricultural production strategies, integrating
environmental dimension in the design of projects and sector plans and adapting to change
climate. Thus, the implementation of sustainable production practices will be sought, which
will promote the protection of natural systems, as these are the ones that generate the conditions
for growth. In turn, natural resources identified as social assets (soil, courses
water, genetic) for sustainable development resources, must be subject to regulations
sovereign, to ensure its sustainable use and through risk management, control, mitigate and / or
reduce impacts associated with growth, concentration and / or foreign ownership.
Other important challenges are: permanent work promotion and generalization of quality,
management and water management multipredial especially irrigation, agro growth
increasing added value, the search for a new territorial balance, to across the country,
population and quality of life; all within the framework of policies and participatory tools.
Be strategic cultivation of sugarcane and sugar production with local raw materials,
because it is culture that generates as much labor.
Institutionalize the operation of an advisory council for sugarcane with the participation
ministries of industry and livestock workers and producers; promoting sustainability
production, strengthening the most vulnerable players in the system -small producers
and wage earners and continue the process of accessing these same actors to land to produce
1.2

Program objectives


• The cumulative improvement of conditions of life and work of the whole population
rural and rural-urban territory, focusing on employees and family farmers. Promote
an agrarian structure based on family farmers with equal inclusion in chains
productive, to promote the integration of young skilled and / or trained to contribute to
generational change in the productive apparatus, Nest women and the rural family as a factor
determinant of sustainable development of the territory.

• The enhancement of natural resources and development activities
production through strategic plans of national interest oriented concepts
sustainability and intergenerational responsibility, generating wealth and development culture
based on values ​​of national defense and coverage requirements of food sovereignty.
The sustainable use of land, water, wind, solar and genetic resources, are
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

37

which should be recognized as social goods, productive resources essential character
strategic and finite, and the service of sustainable and inclusive development.

• sector development policy is conceived through a strong joint and
complementarity between the state and organized society. This requires on the one hand, strengthen
the guiding role of the state in the agro-industrial development through active participation in the
sectoral reducing asymmetries, especially institutional quality in design
and implementation of public policies, and the democratization of information in chains
agro-industrial declared of national interest. On the other hand, it is required to consolidate the participation
democratic and institutionalized social organizations and promote the territory
management capabilities in the decentralization of public policies in the territory
rural.

• To deepen and improve the supply of public goods: a) equal access to the system
public education and agricultural training, strengthening human capital in activities
agriculture; b) expand and strengthen the system of agricultural innovation and rural development, including
scientific and technological research; c) Rural Extension System, with priority to generation
capacity to explore synergies between all the actors of technical change and development
sustainable rural territory; d) creating access to new markets and e) providing information
market, technology, etc.

• The strategic vision and development model that set these goals, recognizing the
consolidation and improvement in all aspects required for agriculture development (economic,
social, technological, commercial, cultural, etc.) of an agrarian structure that combines, in the most
Harmonic possible, different ways of organizing production. They will be considered and supported,
differently depending on their requirements, family units, organizational forms
social production and production business. A measure that will promote and strengthen
organizations of family farmers will be the development of a program that gives priority to these
for collective procurement. Facilitation: for they propose measures such as
the requirements for state suppliers, set in tenders as a requirement that a
quota purchases come from associations of small producers (cooperatives, associations
building). Also, look for these chains fairly articulate and complex
agribusiness; avoiding oligopolistic agents, ownership of extraordinary margins
its dominant position in the chain, are expressed in the processing industry or stages
internal or external marketing.

• The value added in agro-food chains, along with promoting the development of
knowledge-intensive sectors and industries of medium and high technology, allow generate
better jobs and capture the value generated in our country for energy production
renewable, processed foods, biotechnology, electronics and telecommunications.

• This policy becomes very important in regions where rural families,
youth, women and workers can be trained to develop value chains from
origin of the products.

• In order to guarantee our food sovereignty, strengthening a seed industry
national alternative to the dominant multinational in the market, that draws on research
Basic and applied UDELAR - and others like INIA - according to the needs of our
population and region

• agro-ecological food production will be promoted through the development
Participatory a comprehensive extension program involving research and organizational support
Credit spreads among others. This program will be devoted to a process that gradually
can supply initially healthy schools and hospitals and then the entire population products.

• Include in the educational systems of first and second cycle education plans
children and young people containing: use of good quality land, river clean
and streams, generating organic gardens, prevent pollution, improving systems
agricultural and everything related to the environment.

THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

38

1.3

Sectoral Policies

These objectives will be powered by sectoral policies with a strategic vision, and articulated
with macro-economic, educational, political knowledge generation and development
technological, social and environmental sustainability, among others.
From the political point of view is seen as highly relevant dialogue members
value chains, between the government and representatives of various social organizations
chains and / or territories involved, considering that the weaker stakeholders
They should be considered and particularly supported to balance trading conditions.
In the area of ​​environmental sustainability, the main challenge is the early incorporation of the
environmental and territorial investment plans, production and political dimension and plans
sectoral and productive projects. Synthetically they indicated for this policy area
universal and comprehensive planning, implementation and control of the use and sustainable land management;
advance the use of water as a productive natural resource potential still insufficiently
applied planning their balanced power generation use, agricultural production and
aquaculture production; It establishes a strategy for the sustainable use of all basins
water and / or groundwater, especially those that supply the potable water to the population; are
will enhance the use of natural resources such as wind, solar and genetic resources
(Terrestrial and aquatic) in the production and processing of agricultural and fishery goods and
leverage sustainability and social integration of vulnerable social groups; will continue
and will advance in the study and discussion of ways to adapt to climate change; effective implementation
and / or updating of the regulation relating to discharges to the environment for productive activities
agroindustrial chains: and every effort will be made in maintaining the status zoo
and plant, understood as irrevocable National Heritage.
In the area of ​​Rural Development to build human and social capital will be strengthened.
Education, training and improving the quality of life of family production, is a
strategic priority that demands sustainable support their transformation-taking situations
different starting of departure-differentiated through comprehensive policies that solve problems
access to the means of production, market, technological knowledge, financing,
organizational or other. Also, rural workers will be promoted to participate better
the results of the sector, both in revenues and working conditions as well as
usufruct -sindicalización includes- labor rights and promote the comprehensive development of their
families. Young people and rural women, unique and genuine potential of the country to create the conditions
a modern and dynamic agricultural sector, will be supported by policy stimulus to employment, access to
land and credit; to encourage the rural entrepreneurship; encouraging the creation of companies
product quality and competition, especially associations based on family forms and / or.
The actions of the National Institute of Colonization be promoted actively participating in the
establishment of new settlements and the redistribution of land, based on partnership projects
collective management of land and / or means of production. The Institute will remain priority
on family farmers and rural workers. For these policies will support the INC
new financial instruments and / or developing those already established for
Effective planning of colonization. This requires a strong joint land policy,
guided by the INC, with the Rural Development programs. Progress will be made in implementing
differential policies to support family farmers in the economic, social
and environmental. Farmers, family farmers and dairy producers will be prioritized through
various instruments of public policy.
In the field of growth policies and encouragement to the business sector, whether of character
private and / or any of the various forms of association and / or capital, will be updated
the analysis chains to democratize the relevant information and promote structure
Business with less concentration and foreign to the current; promoting greater
balance between companies of different size and nature, along with capital projects
social. In this field the importance of reaffirming national sovereignty over natural resources
and agribusiness declared of national strategic interest, which are inhibited from any
form of ownership or possession by foreign countries or state enterprises.
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

39

Public policies will stimulate, aimed at reducing agribusiness investments
territorial asymmetries, inclusion and development actors less economic capacity,
national technological development, the generation of quality employment and sustainable development. In
these and other areas of sectoral public policy creation and stimulate public goods
chains structuring and development areas, such as agro-industrial parks. In
Here, the actions carried out by the National Government and the Administration will deepen
Montevideo, aimed at implementing the "Agro Park and the new market of fruits and
vegetables ", which is a national project with a high positive impact on the development of
farming and food chain.
The creative use of financial instruments such as (productive or trusts
credit, investment or technology adoption), apply to the encouragement of creation of agricultural companies
or productive activity complementary services.
In the field of agricultural education and training, should strengthen universal
primary and secondary education in rural areas and establish policies to mainstream training
tertiary (university and non-university) with quality technical training. The programs
They must recognize and accredit the knowledge and skills learned in job performance and
deepen the content related to the organization of production processes and capacities
for organized participation in the governance of the territories. This will be promoted by
integrated education and training which includes, among others, the Labour University system
(UTU), the new Technological University (UTEC) and the University of the Republic and will be promoted
regional programs with public and private organizations. The study will combine with work,
the development of various flexible education paths and non-agricultural formal one. Agencies
public training should promote coordination with social organizations, trade
and business.
In the field of agricultural research and extension system innovation will strengthen understanding
in its broader perspective, which includes research and extension subsystems, interacting
synergistically to promote innovation and adoption, production and export models
organization of production, overcoming social problems of agriculture and management
sustainable environment. The research and extension system is considered as part of
Public Goods to develop and strengthen.
In the field of research capacity building and research support
innovation, promoting the development and use of knowledge. The focus areas will
supplemented with research focus its focus on developing production systems
sustainable, that emphasize the biological, physical, economic, and environmental components
those related to human behavior. Technological research should be present
differentials by type of business requirements, especially requirements
family and associative properties. Increasing institutional coordination will be promoted, especially
in strategic areas of the national agro-industry, preservation and enhancement of resources
available natural, and new issues, such as climate change. It stimulates research
referring to the genetic diversity of the country itself and the region, and the promotion of species and varieties
with food and commercial future is not commercially exploited so far.
In addition, the extension will strengthen subsystem, continuing development efforts
agricultural public institutions, in which the MGAP constitutes the main articulator
responsible for outreach-training-knowledge management. In this sense,
coordination with rural schools, and other public and private actors is a mechanism
consolidation essential agricultural extension. Linking those working in extension
it should be permanent and varied work methodology is based on the type of producer and
the objectives pursued (farm visits, field days, demonstration plots, groups
producers, business plans supervised credit, distance education, organizational development,
use of ICT, etc.). The strategic guidelines will be based on two guidelines: i) the base
territorial extension processes, building capacity for governance in them, and
ii) the link with production systems for cross-cutting issues such as climate change
and sustainability.

THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

40

Sectoral policies depend to a degree in agricultural institutions, both
the classic sociological sense, institution building, and building rules
economic development and consistent with the objectives of environmental management partner. In this field,
will seek to deepen the democratization process in the management of pubic policies in the
rural territory through decentralization and the participation of social organizations in the
under Law 18.126 (Decentralization of agricultural policies). It will also continue
deepening the general direction and continued close coordination with the institutions
agricultural public, as well as their active integration in the fields of different Cabinets
Frente created by national governments; generation and expand democratization
objective information as capital construction, installing adequate instruments
survey, accumulation and public outreach.

2. INDUSTRY
Uruguay will consolidate in the coming decades a profound transformation of its structure
economic, social and productive, through the strengthening of their production chains and integrating
technically and economically agricultural production, mining, energy and pharmaceutical industries,
biotechnology, shipbuilding, electronics, and automotive design.
The following steps will lead to the formation of a national strategic vision, the role
State counselor and active participation of the private sector; setting ambitious goals
to commit resources on topics such as attracting foreign investment and negotiation
in sectors with high added value ("developers" of new competitive advantages), the
internationalization of our business matrix (intelligent globalization in specific niches
of the global market), and genuine boost to productive integration processes in the region. In this
approach will have a significant role in the Productive Sector Councils Cabinet, workers,
business, academia and government, who, jointly designed development plans
productive 2020 for prioritized value chains.
21

Programmatic Objectives






The main objectives are:
• Sustain and promote industrial and infrastructure growth.
• Propel the joint science and technology to the productive apparatus.
• Promote the productive integration in Mercosur.

2.2

Strategic Lines

These objectives require a set of sectoral policies hinged together and politics
macro economic. In the specific field, including policies include the following:
Productive consolidation of the Cabinet and the Sector Councils - Productive and Cabinet
Sector Councils are the cornerstones of the definition of the development of the sectors
agribusiness and services, providing a coherent meaning, in the same strategic plan,
to all existing programs. It will promote a more focused approach in defining
industrial development policies, objectives based on medium- and long-term sector (and chains
value), which in overcoming restrictions subsectors and / or market failures.
Commercial policy - trade policy will seek to diversify markets and products aligned with the
productive change strategy matrix (tariff policy, free zones, bilateral,
free movement of goods and services, etc.), attending technical trade barriers,
protection of investments and the formation of regional and global industry networks.
Production Integration in MERCOSUR - Strengthen and continue the various strategic aspects of
external agenda that make the deepening of ties with neighboring countries: infrastructure:
road, rail, waterway, energy and renewal of trade agreements and cooperation
the areas of science and technology. Increase trade volumes between our countries
advance a genuine integration process with the development of new regional value chains
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

41

such as automotive, shipbuilding and wind among others.
State purchasing power, public enterprises and infrastructure - Industrial growth
It requires, among other ways, in a strategic policy that articulates different instruments.
The purchasing policy is expressed both in the purchase of basic inputs industry
manufacturing, as in the acquisition of finished goods, services and major infrastructure
transport and energy. It is also understood that the role of public enterprises is key
shoring up the national productive and technological sector. Public companies support the
development of important sectors of the economy, as has been done with energy production
electricity from biomass and lock-in the metal industry. Defining
large infrastructure projects will be analyzed from the strategic perspective. Boost
transport electrical equipment, to achieve synergy between indigenous energy resources
(Hydro, wind, solar and biomass) with the potential development of new prototypes of transport.
The heavy investment developed in this period of government in the fiber optic network, generates a
opportunity for the development of technological services, and intelligent networks
energy application. State involvement promoting the development of new prototypes
and strategic technologies for the country must be sustained over time because of its direct impact
in the economy and indirectly on human resources training and retention of technical more
featured in national projects.
Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) - Strengthen the role and vision of the engine development status
in the negotiation process seeking FDI fostering linkages in industries and
national base services incorporate increasing levels of added value and contribute to
the generation of skilled employment.
Innovation, technology transfer and sovereignty - The process of globalization creates the need
to have very agile tools to promote new developments and shoring
innovative ideas. The National Agency for Innovation and Research is a key tool in the
underpinning policies in this regard. New resources should dump this tool and
implement mechanisms for enhancement of education systems such as degree scholarships, fellowships
students advanced in the industry, research grants in grade. Reward companies
hiring professionals with postgraduate training and further facilitate mechanisms
promoting the development of prototypes.
Creating a Development Bank - Creating a Development Bank, as indicated in the
chapter "The economic policy for productive, sustainable and innovative country," help provide
long-term financing, in order to promote the development of various productive sectors and
integrated into the region.
Training - training necessary for efficient Human Resources will be prioritized,
with different types of tools, among others, wage compensation for insertion
Early in the technology sectors with high added value. To do this, she will nest and select
demand areas of training depending on the strategic development of innovative sectors,
those with higher value added, or the promise in the creation of value and / or trade. Entry
educational institutions should be promoted technological developing scholarships
research degree and how to retain the initial teaching degree for sustaining and project
training of all stakeholders in the industrial sector.
Integration into training programs at postgraduate level, at regional and international level, it is
a fundamental tool for addressing certain issues which, by their complexity, have
difficulties to be addressed exclusively at national level.
Training in the framework of regional projects should be promoted, both in terms of
specific research as in the case of Academy-State programs. Spaces
associations of public universities in the region should be promoted as mechanisms
conducive to collaboration.
Adequacy of Regulatory Framework - A state that promotes the development must set frames
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

42

Regulatory suitable for promoting new productive sectors and also have the ability
to enforce them. To do this, a key issue is innovation in management models frameworks
Regulatory for structural change and expand the sectoral vision of the ministries.
Given the profitability generated in the manufacture of glass containers should legislate to go
gradually replaced by plastic containers of glass and simultaneously regulation
for recovery of plastic containers in pursuit of a cleaner habitat.
As a result of increasing forest production is time to demand a
production of tipping to the domestic industry to generate value added jobs
making role for local consumption and recycle creating conditions to gradually replace the
nylon bags for paper ones.
In the garment industry is needed in the rules issued by the purchasing agency and
State procurement, elimination of all exemptions on the import of clothing
to compete with domestic production. Clothing for police, military, fire,
public health, etc. You must have national workforce. They will result from national tenders for
undertakings under certain conditions agreed in a tripartite manner such
companies respect freedom of association and collective bargaining.
In the shipbuilding industry to build barges for transport of goods shall be encouraged on
cabotage; tugboat for ANP and ANCAP, namely the enhancement of naval cluster also
generate related activities such as maintenance and repair workshops. And rating
specialization of labor.
The sea is one of the greatest assets available to the country. A national debate is urgent
culminating in a modern and current fisheries law, an issue that is linked moreover
strongly to food quality of our people and development of the respective industry.
The long conflict in the fisheries sector demonstrates the lack of importance that is given to Uruguay
sector. We continue to back the sea, one of the greatest assets that the country possesses.
The national debate new rules is urgent to build new vessels for
permits and authorizations: security, incentive to consume sea foods, control and regulation
prices for the domestic market and opening new international markets. Also discuss what
corresponding to processing plants and small industries that move around
and employing female labor.

3. MINING / NON-RENEWABLE NATURAL RESOURCES.
"We will promote the exploration and exploitation, if any, of our mineral resources." Point
13. Under the heading: realizing the right to work for the first thirty government measures,
FA 1971.
Our country has a secure resource potential so far not participated
matrix solidly in mining, particularly metallic minerals and energy (gas,
oil shale). This potential ensures that mining will remain a
marginal productive activity to establish itself as one of the pillars of the future Domestic Product
Gross. That viable to diversify our production model derived from the activity itself
mining or transfer of resources generated by the same towards higher value and
added knowledge. This is critical for the state's role in leading the process
diversification and monitoring of the sustainability of the resources placed in value as
it is currently conducting the MIEM.
Foreign investment applied to mining should be seen as an opportunity
to create awareness and national capacities accompanying installation. Therefore, the
strengthening institutional and technical DINAMA, DINAMIGE and the entire education system,
As for mining knowledge from technologist engineer, should allow us to move to
the national component in training, knowledge and investment is gradually increased.
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

43

Non-renewable natural resources must be exploited rationally, mitigating
own social and environmental impacts of mining. This productive activity must be addressed
to national human and productive development with particular attention to regions where
activity takes place and commitment to future generations. The value will also be removed today
for the benefit of those. It should also strengthen the diversification of the production matrix,
through a policy of development of national suppliers, with state support policies
develop activities to supply goods and services to mining, thus achieving
generate added value, national technological development and quality work around the activity
mining, by way of do here what today is not done and must be imported. It will be necessary to make the leap
qualitative and move towards industrialization of the minerals extracted
The development within the country and commitment to ensure future generations if
revenues from mining are used: 1) for the creation of a sovereign fund,
for current benefits are also enjoyed in the future; 2) development of
infrastructure throughout the country and particularly in the regions affected, in order to cushion the
environmental and social impacts; 3) to ensure a decentralized education and especially
geared to technological development, to accompany the training process in these activities and
ensure the right to quality work.
Should assess the implementation of recently adopted regulations in the coming years
As for mining: Mining Code and Mining Grand Porte and regulations, to consider
the consequences of it. In any case the necessary corrections to be promoted
the objectives are met before mencionados.-

4. TOURISM
4.1

Progress and challenges

Tourism has become an increasingly important and is nested within the FA because it has
integrated into the productive Uruguay. Through own and forceful contributions generation
employment, specific public and private investment, with a growing supply of specialized services and
varied, tending to blur the seasonality based on the development of certain destinations-products
as the cultural, business, spas, water-river, linguistic and heritage among others, has grown in
significance to reach 6% of GDP.
While tourism was affected by border conflicts, democratic planning, technical and
It allowed strategic market diversification and the creation of new tourism products.
This allowed increase in number of people who came, but mainly in quality
tourist and associated expenditure.
Tourism as an economic activity, has helped to improve the general welfare of citizens
the country, the decline in poverty and unemployment levels; It is both a vehicle for the
Training, training and channeling investments demand more and better grades
and regulations.
Depending on progress in the FA governments may think that next
period the country will be able to deepen and innovate in tourism sustainable manner
socially, culturally, environmentally and economically. As well as institutional and regulatory level,
through the National Tourism Act, which arose with the public and private support.
The Ministry of Tourism will be able to negotiate a better budget, supported by funds and credits
favoring international training, decentralization, the implementation of the National Plan
Sustainable Tourism sector plans, improving competitiveness and satellite account.
Among the main challenges the sustainability of achievements and deepening identified
of them institutional, social, cultural, investment, and environmental matters. Fundamentally
It is convinced of the need to commit to innovation, because "it can not be more of the same".

THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

44

4.2

Program objectives

The main program objectives in this sector are:

• Develop Tourism and Recreation to gain access to the whole society,
facilitating travel and linking them to new products and destinations.

• deepen and update participatory National Sustainable Tourism Plan
2020, consolidating its achievements, expanding proposals, integrating its cornerstones and
sectoral, institutional and territorial coordination.

• Promote Tourism insert and consistent with the model of sustainable development
country, which promotes social cohesion, regional integration and to consider the local-regional level
as space for the exercise of governance as a tool that enables participation
multiactoral, reaffirming the transversal nature of public policy in relation to tourism
other policies.

• To develop quality tourism, which will be a key strategic objective.
It will include the expansion and multiplication of the National System, Training, Research
based tourism awareness and coordination of educational efforts, generation
innovative scientific and technological knowledge and disseminator of information.

• Encourage and train young actors and local tourism entrepreneurs, as
defense mechanism against competition from the big chains. Make a real study
differentiated from each tourist spot, with the use and exploitation of natural resources;
state support to investments or providing soft loans for projects in the region. Include
these destinations on the tourist map of the country and encourage year-round tourism with sustainable development.
Carry these destinations sporting, cultural and leisure activities of national interest.
4.3

Strategic Lines


• It will continue to strengthen the concept of sustainable tourism, in line with the 2020 Plan,
including not only access to employment and tourism for all, but also the quality of work.
Ensure the group of workers and union strengthening facilitate them.

• He will tend to greater and better distribution of the wealth generated by tourism,
which equally benefits the society and not just stay in the territories in which occurs
or concentrated activity.

• decentralization of management, already begun with the resources will be strengthened, and development
the critical mass of public and private sectors linked to tourism.

• He will reaffirm and enrich permanently and transverse positioning
international "Uruguay Natural" brand as a country with responsible and ethical practices.

• They will be encouraged in various regions and microregions, differential-based offerings
rescuing local values.

• comprehensive survey of the attractions and products of the territory will be conducted, as
input for the planning of tourism development.

• shall be deemed landscapes, natural resources and cultural resources are
scarce, so the enhancement rationally will be sought and managing it so
sustainable. To do this, it takes into account the fragility of the environment and the capacity of ecosystems
to cushion the effects of tourism implied. The National System of Protected Areas is a
ally for the implementation of this strategic line.

• It will continue to develop the "revolution of the offer", by increasing the value
added advantage of opportunities as balancing and re-balancing of the territories, and
generating synergies between complementary areas.

• It is understood that the National Tourism Council is a special body and properly
supported for participation and feedback from the public policy of tourism.

• continuity will be given to areas of regional integration in tourism
such as the RET / Mercosur will be planned and coordinated actions in terms of joint bids between
the countries of the region.

• It will continue to strengthen forms of public-private cooperation and civil society,
through networking at all levels.
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

4. 5


• The tax exemptions are used to guide and encourage investment in
delayed in the areas tourism potential; fiscal policy will be directed to the sectors / regions /
areas defined as strategic.

• technical-institutional strengthening of the Ministry of Tourism and Sport will be promoted,
prioritizing the implementation of its restructuring.

• It is proposed to provide the Ministry of Tourism investment capacity to comply
policies and program objectives and explicit.

• be incorporated in the planning of infrastructure linking with tourism,
According to ministries and regional actors: signage, roads, ports, airports, terminal
Cruise, information technology, among others, looking in all cases criteria
accessibility of destinations and products.

• It is proposed to expand programs of Social Tourism, which will have a synergistic function
with other programs: seniors, teenagers, children, youth, workers,
low-income citizens, other groups with low perception or access.

• The promotion will remain a cornerstone of tourism development in places
potential. It also means that domestic tourism will remain a singular importance
in the alternative tourism development; and therefore its expansion means midfield.

B.

INFRASTRUCTURE POLICY

1. ENERGY
eleven

Progress and challenges

For the first time in our history Uruguay has a comprehensive energy policy with a
look 20 years into the future that integrates a multidimensional view of the energy issue,
including economic, technological, environmental, geopolitical, ethical, cultural and
social. This policy is the result of continuity during the two Frente governments,
allowing develop and implement, through political and social agreements, a policy
public, designed and conducted by the State. Through investments of over 9 billion
dollars, profound changes were achieved to place at the center of national sovereignty
energy diversification with emphasis on renewable energies, efficient use of energy,
regional integration, capacity building and knowledge in the country and social inclusion.
An initial commitment of third frenteamplista administration is to ensure that the deep
continue ongoing transformations.
1.2

Program objectives

The objectives and guiding principles of energy policy to carry out the next government are:

• Sovereignty and energy self-sufficiency, with a firm commitment to indigenous energy sources

and renewable.

• Diversification of sources of energy matrix.

• Adaptation of the legal regulatory framework.

• Social inclusion and equal access.

• National Research innovation and development of sources and the necessary inputs.

• Development of petrochemical industry.

• Encouragement and support for the development of productive networks.

• national certification processes and energy products.

• Modulation demand.

• Regional integration and complementarity.

• Sustainability and environmental sustainability of production and consumption.

• Prioritize the use of energy for productive and industrial projects

nationals who add value.
1.3

Sectoral Policies

First a different electrical system shall be operated with a high
component of renewable generation, nontraditional distributed worldwide unpublished, which
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

46

challenges for both the office of energy to the expansion and operation of
power grids.
Moreover, in the next period will start the gas regasification terminal
LNG and from this instrument for the development of the chain will be consolidated
natural gas in our country, both in the residential sector, as industrial and transportation.
Also during the next government will have completed an important step in exploring
oil and gas, both in our platform and onshore, so we generate
conditions for possible exploitation of the resource, institutional design, environmental definitions,
defining a mechanism so that future generations can also benefit from the
income earned during the years of operation, etc. The eventual discovery of gas and oil
in our country should contribute to the productive and social development of the country from income
currency, but shall not change the course of the current energy policy.
In the next five instruments were also consolidated defined so far for use
energy efficient, particularly the mechanisms of energy audits and financing
Uruguayan through the Energy Efficiency Trust.
Regarding the generation of knowledge, deepen the instruments to finance
research projects, development and innovation in the energy sector in particular will be consolidated
Sectoral Energy Fund.
Finally it will be necessary to continue adapting the regulatory frameworks of all subsectors
to ensure the functioning and quality of the associated services.
1.4
After a period of learning during the past years, a third term
Frente some topics have reached the point of maturity appropriate to
to address new strategies.
First, it is necessary to deepen the transformation of waste into energy; in particular,
in the next five years it will be running a vast project that will identify
waste of various agribusiness chains in the country, define the most appropriate technologies
to transform them into different types of energy, implement pilot projects and define a
roadmap for multiplying across the country. For this, the formation of cooperatives arises
social, with the Municipalities or municipalities responsible for collecting the waste and generate
power; MIEM participate in the financing of power plants.
In this new period, it will also consolidate the deployment of wind energy in
necessary complement to hydroelectric and pumped storage plants; the appropriate level of
thermal support, development of photovoltaics, the construction of multipurpose dams (irrigation and
power) generation, and shall continue to accompany the development of new technologies such as
hydrogen fuel cells, wave power and tidal power.
There will also be time to deepen, in conjunction with private sector players
and local governments, the transformation of the transport sector, defining concrete ways
to change modes of freight transport (rail and river driving), promoting and
privileging the collective passenger transport quality, promoting technological change
(Electric drive, hybrid and / or natural gas), etc.
In this new period it will also be necessary to deepen the sectoral policies of consumption,
particularly in the industrial sector, promoting the use of energy and appropriate technologies and use
energy efficient.
Finally, to accompany this profound transformation, policies must be deepened
educational training, both at the university level (undergraduate and graduate) and education
technology.
1.5 Energy as an instrument for productive and social transformation
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

47

In all societies, the energy sector is a powerful engine; major corporations play
an important role to perpetuate the power relations within each country or in the world
globalized. But, if properly addressed, the energy sector can play a key role
in the transformation of society.
In our country, the sector moves today about 15% of GDP and generates annual investments
more than 3% of GDP, so it is able to generate local capabilities to serve this
transformation.
In a third Frente government placed the energy sector more strongly in the service
technology transfer to the country, generating national industrial capacities,
production of exportable energy inputs and services with high technological content,
creation of jobs with high skills, the generation of new knowledge
and innovation.
Also the sector can be a powerful tool for promoting integration and inclusion
social, ensuring energy access in safety, quality and suitable price,
regardless of social status or geographical location, energy policies of the third government
Frente contribute to national policies in the social area.

2. TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
2.1 Progress and Challenges
It is essential a significant investment in transport infrastructure and logistics to be
at the height of the circumstances and challenges that the development and regional integration indicate. Not
the necessary investments in transport infrastructure made the risk of slowing will run the
growth of the country, so that the development of transport infrastructure should occupy a place
very prominent and relevant in the priorities of public policies, mainly in the
issues Ports, Waterways, Railways and Roads.
Frente Amplio governments are developing a strategic plan for logistics and infrastructure
and its associated services, trying to enable the outputs to the output channels. He achieved
appropriate framework for political and social dialogue for Uruguay Logistics 2030 with the participation
of all political parties, employers and employees, but our commitment as a force
left politics on this issue is to define a strategic political position in the region,
closely linked to Latin American integration, enabling real complementarity,
coordination and coherence within the states themselves and promote cooperation in shares
operating in the country and the region.
2.2

Program objectives and strategic lines

3 Programmatic defined strategic objectives aimed at establishing complementarity
between the various modes of transport, and create an effective system that links Intermodal
roads, border crossings, railways and waterways, ports and airports, ports and drive
dry, multimodal terminals and logistics platforms. It should favor the momentum transport
river-sea with the consequent promotion of ports and accessibility, as well as transport
Railway freight. The necessary redesign, development and maintenance of the road network will be
national and departmental, to maintain production brokers. In short Goals
Programmatic Transport and Logistics are as follows, with their corresponding lines
strategic:
Port infrastructure and waterways
A strong national port system (PNS) to work on continuous improvement is generated and the
development of both state business, sports, tourism and fishing ports or under
concession, so that on a basis of complementarity, installed infrastructure
already installed as well as the necessary technology, can cope with the demand generated
imports, exports and transit, in a timely and efficient manner. It will continue
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

48

developing a Deepwater Port (PAP), as a logistics platform serving the
national and regional production, seeking to maximize their complementary vocation
system ports of southern Africa and its strategic value as a boost to the facility
production, logistics and industrial activities in its area of ​​influence, facilitating participation
Mercosur states and partners, in harnessing their skills, and respecting the
criteria and environmental standards.
Waterways - the necessary dredging will be undertaken to generate as many ways
Possible navigable, and the development of national and binational waterways. It encourages the use
of river-sea transport, it held in smaller sized vessels or ocean barges, and
will continue to develop a river merchant marine (coastal) with its own shipbuilding industry,
and complimentary shuttle to the port operations with ships overseas. It will form
technical staff for this purpose, and also they planned and built in La Paloma, Piriapolis and
Punta del Este new facilities for artisanal fisheries.
Ground infrastructure
Rail transport is strongly develop rail transport, with a role of the state
fundamental and dynamic mode. It will assess the effectiveness and convenience of the process
It is implementing the institutional redesign of rail transport, encouraging the use of rail
for cargo transportation as a sustainable transportation, trying to reduce its impact on
energy and the environment, taking advantage of the positive economic effects of externalities,
and seeking complementarity with road and river-sea mode. It was also established and
monitor the compliance of regulations to ensure greater quality in the use of resources
operational. In this process, AFE will play an important role in order to position
Uruguay as a Regional Logistics Center in 2030 to promote regional integration through
the railway infrastructure in the rail interface - port. For this to be carried out, it is
needed in the next five-year budget sufficient resources to recovery
the rail system. AFE it will seek to be efficient, specialized procedures
and roles both infrastructure as defined in cargo operator either in the form of Ente
Stand-alone or through partnerships carried out in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic and
the Charter of AFE. Mainstreaming of roads and redesign of branches will be analyzed.
Route Structure - It will continue developing, maintaining and redesigning the national road network
and departmental maintaining production brokers and prioritizing the rehabilitation and
road maintenance grain, timber and tourism, with a proper road safety
agile tenders for works that do not sacrifice fairness, justice and transparency,
to reward productivity and technological innovation in processes, methodology and implementation
constructive, with an exhaustive control of tendering and execution. Creation will be analyzed
a background of national and provincial road maintenance and payment system will be adjusted by the use
infrastructure to be more properly related to the impact that different
types of vehicle made thereon and who capture the benefits for better
routes and roads, as well as new and creative ways to finance increases in construction area
to increase the national road heritage.
He cargo road transportation plan and implement the development of a comprehensive system
Transportation, as a tool for integration of our country with the region, enhancing the
international trade. a better ordering of the load is generated and control the
compliance nesting tracks for loading and defining the responsibilities
freighters with strict control of the constraints, promoting Transfer Stations
Quality Truck and implementing a pay per use rate for transportation
load to generate greater equity in the distribution of the weight of the cost of rehabilitation, maintenance
and design of new routes.
Air transport
The creation of a national aviation policy will be promoted, trying to achieve the highest certification
International airport system of the country. It will work for a better and greater connectivity
with the region and the world, and professionalizing agilitando facilitation and aviation traffic
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

49

passengers, promoting our international airport because of its strategic location and its character
"free" airport, promoting the development of air cargo logistics and promotion activities,
and the development of airports within the country.
Logistical Uruguay
Actions will be encouraged to consolidate Uruguay Regional Distribution Center and Hub
Logistics quality, generating a cash Intermodal Transportation System. Control will be improved
public-private and public-public associations through the development of clear regulations that
allow for greater transparency and greater and more efficient controls on partnerships,
allowing best investments in the country. Resource optimization is searched for
moving loads and empty containers. And procedures are implemented to coordinate
actions of all agencies involved around new ventures and projects
country.
Prioritize the training of human resources by creating UDELAR career
Bachelor in Logistics.
Community infrastructure in the service of society
Passenger transport - a National Program of Public Transport (TCN) will be developed for
quality, analysis and development of departmental transport systems, to implement
accessibility strategies 100% of the country, connecting public transport
between the territory and the new large nucleation work with development
logistics cross highway trying to design a separate system of urban plots,
strengthening feeder traffic trunk to build future cities. It will run
a rearrangement and care system Collective passengers, including a Transportation Plan
Passenger public view of the evidence generated in the metropolitan area, with a strong
development of information technologies. The main objective is that all people access
equally quality service and a fair rate, generating a real accessibility and mobility
of people and goods, progress in the incorporation of technologies for sustainable management,
respecting the environment, and in support of social and productive activities. To this
the development of rail passenger transport will be added.
Road Safety and Coexistence Strategies - a National Traffic Police will be generated,
adequate staff and technology that allows not only the online verification of infringements
on national highways and urban centers interagency monitoring center, but more
control in traffic accidents in general. a Single National Registry will be implemented in
Drivers and sanctions, with unique driving license points, deepening political
Road Safety with a humanistic vision and definitions as transit issues
public and public safety, adopting mechanisms to preserve life and overall health
population, consolidating a system of Emergency Medical Care to optimize response
health after traffic accidents, and implementing adequate driver education teachers,
workers, children and the general population.
Community and Social Infrastructure - will continue with the planning, maintenance, construction
and recovery of assets civic work and public works building industry with traceability records,
geo-referenced, standardized, and the creation of an agency to unify data
Basic and Spatial Data Infrastructure of Uruguay mapping. It will continue to be
implementation of community infrastructure necessary to serve the joint coexistence,
departmental decentralization and democratization of land use through transportation,
with the support of social programs and agreements that improve the living conditions of the population
and deepen citizen participation in the resolution of the priorities of the respective
communities.

THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

50

3. TELECOMMUNICATIONS
3.1
Introduction
Telecommunications is one of the strategic areas of development of societies.
It is a dynamic and exceptionally relevant area in the world today and in general
our country in particular. The towers for cellular antennas become part of the landscape and
optical fibers replace the old clusters of cables and microwave networks.
The country entered a powerful connection to the world through a first submarine cable access
own, while a fiber optic project home that positions was deployed in Uruguay
first places in the world wide web and connectivity. The various forms of communication
households, companies and individuals, have a clear impact of meaning in life
daily for all of us. Hundreds of companies and thousands of people working on issues
commercial, technical, operational or services sector.
3.2

Objectives and strategic lines


• Access to telecommunications services is a right of all citizens
throughout the country.

• Basically we can distinguish three aspects in the development of telecommunications.
One that makes the deployment (in terms of scope and quality) of services that enhance or
enable the development of other sectors and we will call access; another makes your character
driver of a modern industrial development around specific issues in the area, which could
Development call factor, and finally referring to its inevitable connection with issues related to
Sovereignty, which call the same way.

• Access: public policy should establish lines of action that tend to broader
access to telecommunications services, to the extent in social and territorial terms.
Public policies should actively work to avoid asymmetries of access, which
usually it is enhanced with pre-existing economic and social factors and tend to leave out
job opportunities, culture and development in the sectors concerned.

• Development: The so-called "Information Society and Knowledge" as important
concept of the situation means that we are in an era where access to information
and knowledge is a key to the development of people and society factor. It is unthinkable
conceiving country in terms of sustainability, without incorporating all areas of national activity
components that stimulate and act specifically in the generation of value, requiring
.The heuristics elaborations telecommunication capabilities are not only a basic tool
Industrial development and ICT. So are many other sectors of the economy
in this modern world, where telecommunications infrastructure on beyond
which are based.
They are also a specific area with its own productive possibilities that the country should be encouraged.

• Sovereignty: An essential aspect in defense of national sovereignty must be guaranteed
cyber security in the country with policies in line with other countries in the region.
In this sense it is key to have international broadband infrastructure large capacity
own, with the countries of the region and the main centers of Internet traffic.
Data Centers necessary high reliability and capacity are also possible
concentrate and optimize the IT capabilities of the State and provide services that enable large
added value for the countries of the region, aiming to become a regional center of excellence in these
services.

• The Executive should really be the owner of the policy for the sector, the Ministry
corresponding (MIEM) and the National Telecommunications (DINATEL) playing roles
corresponding.
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

51

The Regulatory Unit (URSEC) must monitor compliance with those policies, and the rest of the
state actors should be aligned with them.

• The country preserved in the past and now has a public sector company, ANTEL, which
He has played an important role and should be the "Flagship" in the implementation of policies established
and in achieving the objectives and strategic lines you mentioned. Likewise the country preserved
this company, it is important to adapt to the challenges of today and tomorrow, the type of measures
constantly they are taken and which are the equivalent of what at the time was the stop
It is privatized, meaning understanding what currently embodies the development of a company
State high technology in a strategic area.
In this sense eg should complete the nationwide deployment of "Fiber to the Home" which power
national capacities, with all the associated opportunities, even for the company.
Strengthen and develop ANTEL is essential for the present and the future of the sector.
Indispensable is included among the country's achievements to include telecommunications,
Development Plan Ceibal. This Plan was an important to help fight the "illiteracy milestone
digital "future citizens of our country. Through it, young people will be provided the
access to telecommunications services and were given academic training in Technology
Information. It is an initiative with a look into the future that we must continue and deepen.
Promote decentralization of the state radio and TV stations in creating inside the
country, who not only relayed content created in Montevideo, but bet on the generation
content of local character.

4. WATER AND SANITATION
4.1

Water resources and their use.

The water resource is shared by all of society through various economic agents in the
various areas of activity such as drinking water supply, irrigation of crops,
storage for power generation and other uses in industry.
We are in a global context of depletion and pollution of fresh water, which has
made provision for the possibility of conflicts obtaining this resource, the forms already known:
privatizations, resource ownership by companies or states with greater economic power, or
directly by war. In this regard Uruguay is free from the effects of
pollution and climate change with alternate flood and drought events.
The volumes used in each activity are of different magnitude. The volumes of water used
irrigation in agriculture are much higher (about 10-1) to those used for supply
of the population. The proposals on resource utilization should consider the multiplicity
of these interests, but ensuring a priority factor for human consumption using both
quantity and quality of water available.
It is necessary to control and manage the resource for these purposes, without prejudice to the possibilities of
use collaboration or partnership between the areas, such as the construction of water reservoirs
for joint use of irrigation and water supply in areas where investments are needed
Relevant (rice and other areas), or in areas where water is scarce and there is a
heavy dependence on water for human and productive consumption such as the small
establishments in some rural areas.
For the use and preservation of water available should be enhanced instruments
regulation and control it through the competent institutions of the state, giving them
resources and funds, which could provide especially directed contributions to this end.
The water and sanitation concepts are necessarily related to the duty cycle
of the water. Available both surface and groundwater sources are vital
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

52

for the life and activity of people, and linked to this system healthy city
to control and reduce pollutant loads discharged into water courses, in a cycle
that must be controlled.
Access to these services is a key parameter in the quality of life and health of the population,
as one of the most important actions plans and land use aspects. The
they are basic and critical infrastructure to maintain living standards
dignified and safe from environmental and health point of view. Also they make the minimum conditions
required comfort in our societies, and equal opportunities in social development.
Inadequate disposal and treatment of waste effluents generated impacts and risks
possibility of serious consequences for the population in general.
Therefore collective water and sanitation services are considered essential character
and in our country, from the constitutional reform of 2004 enshrined as rights
fundamental human, which must be provided exclusively by the state and
participation of society.
It aims to generate and implement the conditions for achieving and maintaining the following objectives
programmatic and strategic guidelines in the next period of government of the FA, considered
Main.
4.2

Water service and sanitation

This field is intended to stimulate increased coverage of drinking water and
sanitation, with proper management and continued attention to the problems posed by the
People and their main objectives are:

• The supply of drinking water is proposed to continue with plans for service access
the population that does not already own, continuing to build systems in rural and
regularizing the supply in settlements.

• Sanitation: Strengthening technical and budgetary resources to increase substantially
sanitation coverage in the country. In particular further work to complete
and extend the sanitation system of Ciudad de la Costa, the System Route 5 (Las Piedras, Peace,
Progress) and the Black River in the metropolitan area.
It is understood as access to sanitation, adequate health and environmental solution for driving
and disposal of domestic waste effluents such as: collection networks for systems
conventional unit (including rainwater) or separative (sanitary effluent only); Networking
decanted effluent system (separation of solids by septic tank at the household level) and
Individual health systems or collective deposit small groups of dwellings with removal
barometric liquids by truck.
The corresponding institutions in the scope of its powers (DINAGUA, OSE, Municipalities
Departmental) define the characteristics of the most adequate sanitation
to authorize and build in each locality according to environmental conditions, health and
economic, establishing priorities for implementation plans. support will be given priority
sanitation solutions cooperative housing projects and other stakeholders
social construction and operation of the systems.
Deepen the actions of technical and financial support through relevant agencies to
the adequacy of internal housing facilities that enable connection to sanitation
(Project financing and construction supervision). Ensure from the beginning of the public works
commitment to connect neighbors, divert scarce resources to avoid being taken advantage
and achieve effective basins cleaned involved.
These actions lead to the application in the shortest period of compulsory connection
sanitation and determined by law.

THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

53

4.3
Efficient use of resources
This theme will continue and deepen the programs and actions to reduce water
drinking unused, ruling substantially reducing water loss rates in systems
distribution. Rates accounted for and billed water increase.
Also, the plans seek to increase replacement and maintenance of pipelines
defective, eliminating physical losses as well as the control and correction of informality
cadastral and trade. We will continue with the process of regularization of potable water
in settlements. To do this, it gives special priority to the metropolitan area of ​​Montevideo.
It will also continue and deepen plans for energy efficiency in water production
drinking and sanitation.
4.4

Maintaining and improving the quality of services.

Product quality: drinking water should be sufficient, with continuous supply and meet
Quality standards. It is firmly control the factors that deteriorate conditions
Water from rivers and streams and conditions of the treatment plants were strengthened, looking
the present and future security of supply.
Sanitation services must be appropriate to the environmental aspects including treatment
wastewater.
Quality customer service: The commercial management and customer service should give priority to
reducing access times to service, transparency and prompt response at all
aspects.
In obtaining these goals:

• the work will be intensified to implement all the new methodology services
the Water Safety Plans through the control and management of water from the catchment
to the point of delivery to the user's connection.

• Studies were completed and advance in the construction of new reserves and
alternative water sources in the medium term, particularly in the coastal area of ​​southern and eastern
Country, where most of the population resides and where most frequently reiterated
problems associated phenomena of climate change (drought), increased demand and change
the quality of the sources. Special priority will be given to ensure the water supply to the population
Montevideo and its metropolitan area.

• the efficient use of new technologies for improving will increase
processes of customer service, billing, insurance claims and data.

• the quality of maintenance of facilities in its impact will be improved
on public roads, ensuring adequate staffing.
4. 5

Adaptation of costs and fees, management control

On this subject the following lines of action will be implemented:

• The expansion and maintenance services A and S generally represent costs very
important, with the addition of new networks and connections involving the construction and
expansion of new units capture and purification, as well as new treatment plants
waste liquids. These investments have significant externalities, since their absence
affects disease transmission and environmental impact. Its realization strikes
directly in decent living conditions, social inclusion, recovery of housing and the environment,
among others, that they make sanitation should be considered as part of social policy,
health and environment.

• It is proposed to implement a National Sanitation Plan funds that do not come
solely by the rate of the institutions responsible for managing these services

• It is proposed to restudy the types and steps of the fee structure, considering
especially large families, permanent residents and small businesses and industries.

• The stay would be only applicable throughout the territory ensuring continuity of supply
all users of the service to sustainability, both in places with more possibilities
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

54

saving or located in more densely populated areas, as others located in areas more
disadvantaged or isolated.

• Payment of utilities is one of the elements that define social inclusion
in terms of citizenship, we all have rights and obligations. Must always be a
consideration of every person in the service you are entitled to access.

• It is proposed to continue advancing in the regulatory model adaptation to the characteristics
of the situation, then defined the Constitutional Reform, which states that
provision of services A and S will be made exclusively by State agencies. Unit
Regulatory URSEA created prior to the Reformation, must fulfill its role as defender
user, as part of this reform.
4.6

Environmental Sustainability

Complete projects and construction of plants Wastewater treatment in all
provincial capitals and cities with more inhabitants, continuing an aggressive policy
connection to sanitation.
It should accelerate the establishment and full functioning of the Basin Committees
provided for by the Constitution. In particular they should prioritize basins used
mainly for drinking water they are like the Rio Santa Lucia Laguna
Willow.
Continue and advance policies and plans for evaluation, management and control of spills

effluents into waterways, as well as improving the existing water sources through
Institutions (MVOTMA, Departmental Administration, Universities) promoting participation
and commitment to economic and social actors.

C.

Transversal policies

1. SOCIAL AND SOLIDARITY ECONOMY
eleven

Progress and challenges

The social and solidarity economy (ESYS) is present in our country for over one hundred years ago,
when the first cooperative ventures emerged as expressions of solidarity
applied both labor and obtained the distribution of economic result.
The eSys is distinguished by the peculiarity that the media and work organization match
collective property, democratic management, self-management and solidarity. The ethical foundation
are the values ​​of equality and solidarity, and its central features: a) human management,
democratic and participatory by their members; b) the centrality of the human person and
particularly labor over capital; c) distribution of the wealth generated by prioritizing the
people, work, commitment in using the services of the organization and the community; and d)
the distribution of surplus is not carried out according to the capital.
During these two governments Frente Amplio have consecrated historical claims including
They are: (a) the consistent unification of fragmented legislation that existed until 2008, with the
approval of the General Law on Cooperatives (Law No. 18,407); (B) the creation of the National Institute
Cooperatives (INACOOP); (C) implementation of various public policy tools
Promotion Unit of Social Cooperatives of MIDES; Recovered Companies Unit of the MTSS;
Support programs for cooperatives and social economy MIEM; promoting component
partnership in rural development policies MGAP; (D) the Fund Development
(Fondes) as a funding instrument for the development of these experiences.
The different forms assumed by ESYS whether cooperative, solidarity economy enterprises,
recuperated enterprises managed by their workers or other formats that fall within
This aspect of the economy, are in various stages of its evolution and present
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

55

own needs and require specific strategies.
Hence, it is necessary to define objectives, strategic guidelines and specific tools to guide
the political action of the next administration Government to achieve real progress in the sector
within the whole economy and society.
ESys is expected to develop an economic and social dynamism that while it
thriving, is also an alternative to other modes of economic organization (state and private) and
It is a source of generation of economic and social value.
1.2

Program objectives and strategic lines


• Growth, consolidation and development of the ESYS - Contribute to units ESYS
They consolidate demonstrating autonomy, viability and capacity for growth and development achieved
more weight in the economy (in terms of GDP, GVA, PEA, in their participation in chains
strategic value, in areas of high innovation) and society as sustainable models
organization and management of economic activities. For this purpose a National Plan will be promoted
Development of the Social and Solidarity Economy.
Strategic lines:
We will have to consolidate a National Development Plan that is ESYS result of the alliance between
government and social movement. The impulse to self-management must be accompanied by an increase
in the capacity of general planning of the economy that is compatible with the changes
They want to promote in society. In that sense we must create opportunities for interaction with state
ESS to build together the various policies.
Priority is to recreate a new institutional framework, able to articulate the various
and other existing instruments to create an institution with the possibility of direct dialogue with
ministries, public enterprises and government departments; so as to consolidate a political
having public power and relevance in the next period of government. Within this point is
institutional strengthening required by Law Fondes (National Development Fund).
The ultimate goal is the creation of a development bank for development that meets the
financing needs of companies of social economy, and the medium
and small businesses. This bank will need to provide comprehensive assistance to the enterprises
self-managed workers and family farmers, as strategic development projects
agribusiness and access to land.
Study and set up mechanisms for the certification of enterprises, as well as granting
stamps or marks ESS while building a system of indicators to identify and
measure the enterprises since its comprehensiveness and diversity.
Implement public policies to promote inter-cooperation and the creation of networks
consolidate the movement of the ESS as a social actor of the changes. The new law covering the
ESS must establish conditions that preserve the ethical principles of it.
Introduce the principles and instruments of the ESS in the curricula of all levels of education,
emphasizing learning collectively, teamwork and solidarity.
The technology play a central role in the processes of social change is necessary to generate
research networks to co-participate in academic knowledge and the knowledge accumulated in the
ESS workers, in order to select technologies appropriate to the preservation of principles
Quality of life: work unaligned, income distribution, environmental protection, etc.
It is necessary to consolidate the regional policy less ESS. If this is to be a central player in the
changes, you must coordinate and look all possible synergies in the region.

THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

56

2. MICRO, SMALL AND MEDIUM-SIZED ENTERPRISES (MSME)
Introduction
In Uruguay, according to data presented by the MIEM, more than 100,000 micro, small and
medium enterprises, which generate 65% of employment in our country (which makes the main
generating employment) and are the main providers of goods and services locally. Of total
of MSMEs, 84% are micro, that is, they have up to 4 employees and 13% are small
companies with between 5 and 19 employees. These companies operate under different situations; in fact
or right, sometimes as natural or legal persons, etc.
For MSMEs are maintained and developed, the implementation is considered essential
Differential urgent policies for both urban and rural MSMEs.
21

Program objectives and specific policies

The objectives for this sector are:

• To encourage MSMEs have a permanent and sustainable productive activity,
Physical available qualified human resources and management according to the requirements of
development of the country and operate under the guise of formalized natural or legal persons,
industrial, commercial, service and craft activities.

• To promote the quality and numerical growth, structure, services, formalization, etc.,
MSMEs.
Implement specific policies for this sector are:

• Micro-enterprises and entrepreneurs will be supported by:

• Reduced fees, contributions and any other national tribute for the medium term.
Also, be promoted to departmental governments adopt similar schemes or other
special arrangements on departmental taxes.

• will seek to remove administrative costs essential process, for example
firefighters.

• the decrease in the commercial rate on consumption and water availability will be sought
Differential rates lower in other public services.

• As part of a development bank or entities promoting MSEs, it will be included within
of the cost of loans to help site managers to improve efficiency.

• Extend proposed in the previous section, and decreasing proportionally according
size, small businesses, to maintain incentives commensurate with their level of development
and considering its inclusion in strategic value creation chains.

• Develop training, training and business development support
MSMEs from public areas, university and specialized agencies.

• Encourage the creation of lines of credit commensurate with the size and development of MSMEs.

3. INNOVATION, SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
3.1

Progress and challenges

The implementation in Uruguay, from the first government of the Frente Amplio, a public policy
Science, Technology and Innovation (CTI), a diagnostic framework and program development with
high degree of consensus among the main actors in the system of Innovation, Science and Technology,
It was an important achievement that allowed essential momentum in subsequent years of changes
relevant to the country in this field.
The innovation system showed weaknesses in Uruguay both offer scientific - technological
(HR, infrastructure, institutional dispersion, etc.) and business demand and
State, in its role of promoter and coordinator.
From 2005, the reform of the innovation system began creating the Cabinet
Innovation (GMI), a political field of strategic decisions made up the
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

57

heads of the Ministries of Education and Culture (MEC), Economy and Finance (MEF), Industry,
Energy and Mining (MIEM) of Livestock, Agriculture and Fisheries (MGAP), and the Director of the Office
Budget Planning (OPP) of the Presidency; this area was a Task Force (EOGMI) who led the founding of a new institutional phase, negotiating programs with
different organizations, deploying instruments to operate, such as the development of the foundations of
first National Strategic Plan for Science, Technology and Innovation (PENCTI) designed in Uruguay,
which it was finally adopted on 25 February 2010 (Decree 82/010).
Institutional reform allowed: a) the creation of a political body - Operating: Agency
National Research and Innovation (ANII), which was transferred instruments
They were scattered in other institutions while developing other instruments with
corresponding financial support; b) redesign the National Council of Innovation, Science and
Technology (CONICYT) as a consultative body and control; c) the installation of new institutions
scientific and / or technological (Pasteur Institute, CUDIM) as the momentum of proposed parks
Technology (Science and Technology Park of Pando, Science Park) and d) approval
laws and / or regulations so as to grant tax exemptions to productive investments
grounded in research and development (R & D).
Strengthening the scientific and technological national platform also included support
other existing institutions such as INIA, LATU, IIBCE, PEDECIBA, Udelar etc. deployment
instruments to promote human capital as the National System of Researchers or
National Scholarship System; National Postgraduate Tertiary formations in strategic areas,
infrastructure development as TIMBO Portal and the creation of new knowledge through
competitive funding as horizontal stable and Mary Clement Vineyards and other Social Impact and
Sectoral, such as Energy, Health and Innovagro.
Business innovation was also promoted both ANII, through subsidies
partial, and from the MEF, through tax exemptions, and productive ministries like MIEM,
MGAP, Ministry of Tourism, through specific programs.
The development of clusters as PACC programs and is also accompanied PACPYMES that
They included the promotion of R + D + I, executed from the OPP and Mining.
Transversely to the whole process, the promotion of scientific and innovative culture stood by
through instruments such as the Nova Awards for entrepreneurs and companies Program
Popularization of CTI, the Innovation Forum and DICYT MEC (Science Clubs; Week
Science and Technology).
In addition, public investment in activities Technology (ACT) had a
marked increase. In gross terms it rose from nearly 40 million in 2005 to more than 200
million in 2011 as a result of the investment in existing institutions and
those created. However, still remaining make further efforts to achieve levels
required by the country
In the future, one of the main challenges as a government will strengthen the impacts of policies
innovation, science and technology to achieve the model of inclusive national development
productive transformations related to industrialization and technological change we
We propose.
3.2

Program objectives and strategic lines


• Deepen the Innovation, Science and Technology, as a public policy that allows the improvement
work and income, social inclusion and regional integration, simultaneously face
the serious problems of marginalization and social exclusion.
Strategic lines:

• Define ICT policies of state for social inclusion oriented, with a strong priority
to provide it with resources to enable it to be effective and articulators of all the actors of the
social, within the state or civil society that fosters, identifying policies and
relieve the demand for knowledge from these policies.
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

58


• Develop the commitment of organizations and companies (public and private) to
innovative solutions needed, making understand the side effects of this participation,
such as structures and products that can be applied to other activities.

• To promote the social use of knowledge essential aspect for reuse
knowledge generated.

• Use innovative capacity to create multidimensional oriented policies
collective fractured by economic extract, gender, ethnicity, among others, avoiding the cost of
superposition of individual treatment of the problems and inefficiency in the final result.

• Communicate and promote the use of ICT tools, for inclusion naturally
in the perception of different social groups as valuable to resolve issues of their daily
live, in a timely manner, creating a trained and demanding society that promotes strategies
formulated.

• Promotion and development of a country's development-oriented research; promoting
(basic and applied) research, development and innovation goods and services from the
using various stimuli.
Strategic lines:

• Promote that promotion from government procurement and policies of the Agency
Procurement and Contracting (ACCE), improving the conditions of the specification
tenders in order to increase the chances of domestic supply, and in case of being necessary
purchase abroad, make a real technology transfer that can be used by the
rest of the national system.

• Design and implement a policy of software and IT assets. This policy
should promote the development of software ecosystem and encourage national development
Free software socializing promoting a model. Establish the regulatory framework for use by
resources, including the computing in the "cloud" in its various forms of services, both
software and data. This regulation will ensure national sovereignty over these
data and services, so that they are fully localized in the country and prevent
generation of private monopolies and ensuring state management of these services.

• Expanding Sector Funds, generating own innovation through interaction with
national research centers. These funds could capitalize taxing exports
of goods and services without added value, as well as the import of technological equipment and services,
(Except those for R + D + i) and the payment of royalties abroad. This policy tends to
generating a virtuous circle whereby the employer in order to qualify for these funds, should
develop national innovation.

• Dissemination of knowledge: promoting it generating national dissemination tools
and the development of linkages with knowledge networks and dissemination. Promote the publication
open research results and innovations funded by the State to promote a
rapprochement between academia, production and citizens. Promote access to knowledge
from the open publication of results of research funded by the State and
innovations generated similarly.

• Protection of the applicability of knowledge: develop protection strategies,
via intellectual property or other means, in order to preserve the applicability of knowledge
foreign ownership but also facilitate the transfer when it sees fit.

• To promote the development of Innovation, Science and Technology (ICT) as a
tool at the service of sustainable and comprehensive development of the country and improving the quality of
lives of all Uruguayans, based on the principles of equity and social inclusion and productive, to
competitively position ourselves globally and integrate international knowledge networks.
Strategic lines:

• Joint supply - demand of ICT: Define an institutional policy (state / civil society)
allowing expression of the demand for both public and private sector (businesses
and families). The demand must systematically identify the needs of innovation for
development, with emphasis on those most vulnerable and strategic value chains.

• Preservation of the environment: Promote innovation to manage an environment
sustainable both from a productive approach (agriculture, industry, mining, energy) as a citizen
(Treatment of domestic waste, etc.)

• Development of quality infrastructure: Strengthening the Uruguayan Standardization,
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

59

Accreditation, Metrology and Conformity Assessment (SUNAMEC) so that it is at the service of ICT,
and conversely, that innovation will improve the performance of this system to the extent that the life of
citizens and the production of goods and services depend on the standards, processes
and appropriate controls are implemented.

• Integration and international integration: Consolidate ICT integration in the country in the field
regional and international agreements encouraging and promoting projects to fund
incorporate knowledge generated abroad and to other countries to dump our learning.

• Finally, promoting innovative approach will promote cross way
encouraging society, especially in education, innovation in all fields
knowledge and the use and dissemination of information technologies and communications.

• "teach to learn" as it currently stands educate as never before of
develop the skills of young people studying learning-research-through effort
own team. Therefore, it is necessary to work in combination to specialization
universalist develop skills and training through the use of capacity
and the application of new technologies.
Strategic lines:

• Incorporate the educational model cross-cutting issues such as the need to bet
innovation and research from early education, quickly and mechanisms
systematic evaluation.

• Promote learning innovation with different educational tools, such as
the generation of educational games and other tools

• Create opportunities for the formation of collaborative environments for the production of
knowledge and technology, working in particular gaps in access and content for different
reasons (age, location, social status, gender).

• Encourage widespread use of ICTs so as to achieve promotion at all levels of use
of these technologies. Establish policies to contribute to the reuse of software and support and
promote the use of free software in the State.

• Do not allow Internet content controls, so as not to limit access to
knowledge, beyond the precautions you should take with regard to defense and sovereignty
nationals.

• Develop tools to generate a culture of use and dissemination of the risks associated
the use of tools such as social networks, emails, using servers
Data not subject to national legislation. In particular, this culture should include on the
protection of personal data.

• Develop legislation to the computer area in protecting the rights of
feasible people to be victimized by their use.


Chapter IV
Environmental Sustainability
Our commitment to future generations, alongside economic growth becomes necessary
formulation, environmental, social, economic and territorial policies that promote
sustainability of natural systems. The development plans of the country and the region should ensure
proper functioning of natural systems and take environmental management planning
as an indispensable requirement for development. Consequently, investment initiatives both
private- public and must be selected, designed and tailored to ensure protection
of the elements of our natural systems. This is one of the strategies
It will underpin the increase in welfare in the long run. They will propose lines of action
allow a social, territorial and economic development compatible with environmental sustainability.
To do this, you will advance to the responsible use of the goods provided by nature; planning
land use and water; the responsible management of chemicals in industry and agriculture,
the restoration of degraded sites and the incorporation of the ecosystem approach to human health.
Fundamental to this, the capacity building of state regulation,
the incorporation of appropriate parameters for land use planning and environmental justice
social participation. It will also seek to have an open look of innovative experiences
around environmental issues.
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

60

Environmental protection aims at the defense of life in all its forms and search
conditions to improve the quality of life of the population in harmony with the environment.
All based on sustainable use of nature, where cultural diversity
and natural communities, involving a form of occupation of the territory that includes
such harmony.
From the perspective adopted by our political force the territory is both the natural environment and
built (a set of ecosystems and infrastructure to manage, protect and renew); the field
of life of the population (socio-cultural space); a factor of production (field interactions
economic); and political space, multiple interactions between various stakeholders.
These definitions underpin our commitment to current and future generations,
becomes necessary policy of social and economic development that promote
environmental sustainability in all its dimensions (environmental, social, economic, political,
cultural, etc.). The plans for social and economic development of the country as a regional integration
and international, should ensure proper functioning of natural systems, assuming
environmental management of the territory as an essential requirement for the development of life and
achievement of objectives.
Environmental problems that mankind has generated throughout history are significantly
important. Among them we can highlight the growing production of greenhouse gases,
soil erosion, loss of water quality and air pollution. In turn register
an increase in the loss of germplasm variability, natural areas and reducing loss
biodiversity. The concentration of land ownership in a few hands and the increasing control
Private are actions that lead to the deepening of environmental problems.
The global environmental crisis is expressed sharply, particularly in the social dimension in countries
developing, where growing population segments segregated and excluded are observed and
significant fragmentation of the territories. The most vulnerable sectors are most affected
by environmental pollution and those with less access to natural resources. The injustice
social environmental level is expressed in difficulties in exercising the rights to territory,
water, livelihoods, health and enjoy a healthy environment. Where raw one
neoliberal vision of development or human life or culture, or ecosystems are not respected. "...
The growth based on the exploitation of natural resources and the concentration of ownership of
these resources can have social consequences for present generations but also
for future generations to the extent that these are non-renewable resources "(Chapter: The
economic policy for sustainable and innovative productive country).
The causes of the critical environmental situation are in the historical style of development that does not
notices apply aggressive methods and technologies to humans and the environment in pursuit of a
overconsumption and waste of resources, encouraging the concentration of wealth, exclusion and
underconsumption in most of the world's inhabitants.
In this period of sustained economic growth underpinned by policies and reforms
driven by our national and departmental governments, fundamental advances in
institutional and legal issues the presence of the environmental dimension become necessary and vital in
all areas.
Consequently, investment initiatives - public and private - must be selected,
designed and adapted to ensure the protection of the elements of our
natural systems. To do this, the strategies that will support the increase of social welfare
recognized in the long term support pillars that are present in some of the
laws and actions that the Frente Amplio has approved and implemented during these periods, such as:

• the state's role in leading the process of social and economic development
interpreter of general interest,

• substantive planning as a tool for development and management of processes
developing,

• citizen participation as a guarantee of transparency and democratization of
decision-making processes.
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

61

In short, the ability to affect our complex and troubling environmental situation will
by the political ability to define the style of economic and social development in the context of the
determinants and national conditions, and our regional and international integration. To his
instead, establish harmonious social relations that favor sustainable development, demand
also profound changes in our attitudes and behaviors, individual and collective, with
In order to transform the values ​​and goals of the dominant social mode of production and consumption.

1. Progress and Challenges
A little more than 10 years of one of the most important crises in the history of the country, the Frente Amplio
It has failed to show that Uruguay can have a good economic performance (GDP increase
2004-2012 annual average of almost 5.5% per year), while the ability to drive
structural improvements, especially in the field of social policy, where the abatement of
poverty and employment generation include, among many others.
FA governments promoted a set of substantive changes to advance the construction
a new style of environmental management, with the aim of overcoming a role of the state, characterized by
the prescindente bias, unregulated and fragmented look, within a general conception
in its objectives and purposes it was unrelated to the interests of the majority.
In environmental legislation, significant progress was materialized through the adoption
laws that reformulated conception of this problem. In particular, we highlight the Law
Land Management and Sustainable Development, the Law on National Water Policy and Law
Decentralization Policy and Citizenship. Implementation also highlights
National System of Protected Areas (SNAP) through the implementation of the law that created the
System in 2000 and was implemented with clear guidelines from the first new government
the Frente Amplio. SNAP is an essential tool for the conservation of biodiversity
from the country.
These actions marked a turning point to transcend the old management mode,
proposing a comprehensive and integrated approach to land management, and creating new skills
committed in the national and provincial levels of government, with the explicit purpose of promoting
"Social integration in the country, improving the quality of life of the population and use
environmentally sustainable natural and cultural resources "(Law No. 18,308, Land
Territorial and Sustainable Development), as well as deepen their effort to enable participation
social.
In this context it emerges as a need and opportunity, early entry into the discussion
on economic growth, environmental and territorial dimension, so that it incorporates the
necessary elements that come to a discussion on sustainable development.
The strong national support for the planning and environmental planning in
all scales, has allowed to develop departmental and local plans, having started
land use planning processes at regional level. In this context the Management Plans Areas
Protected are a tool that helps compliance with the purposes for which they were
created. Also, the implementation of plans of Use and Soil Management MGAP begin
to be a significant achievement considering the care of this resource in the long term. It remains to solve
that environmental management plans are developed territory from the perspective of basins
basins.
The budget program areas is a preview of this period of government. Contributes to
place the issue with the relevance and visualize, from state spending, investment policy
environmental transversely. Thus, the budget recorded environmental policies
a sharp increase from 2005 to date. But to meet the new central role of
State environmental and territorial matters need more effort. The politics
environmental public must be supported by the state budget, looking for that contributions or
International contributions -alineadas support only those subject areas with the objectives of
the public policies- that can not be covered by the national budget. We must move
in the allocation of resources for capacity building of control, monitoring and
production of information, together with the promotion of citizen participation.
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

62

During the next period of government development plans will generate a scenario projected
where they could be affected ecosystems and the people living in the territory. Against this
context as a country we should be able to design alongside the economic development plans and
social, relevant management plans and environmental management planning, generating
orientations and concrete measures to ensure that natural systems continue to function
properly, a sustained improvement in the quality of life of the population is generated and
deepen social integration processes in the territory and redistribution of wealth.
Therefore it is necessary to promote and consolidate the development of economic activities, guiding
and regulating their orderly location, its consistent articulation and integrating sustainability
environmental, so as to contribute to social cohesion and social justice in the territory. The politics
environmental and land use are defined precisely to accompany and sustain
model of sustainable social and economic development.
Consequently, the main challenge of environmental and land management is the early incorporation
of that dimension in investment plans, production and sectoral policies and plans.
All development initiatives must be selected, designed and adapted to ensure
sustainability over time of the elements that create the conditions that allow the development.
This requires improving the generation of environmental and territorial information, increase
controls and coordination among the ministries and other state institutions have
environmental responsibilities. It should encourage the continuous process of capacity building
Human national and departmental level, and the articulation of the same. Particularly generating
education policies at all levels of formal and informal system, to promote the necessary
cultural changes that accompany and sustain the new style of sustainable environmental development,
sustainable and fair.
The negative externalities of production systems and consumption affect the entire population
and more to the most vulnerable; This obliges us to act effectively and
responsible for promoting the maintenance of environmental quality and ensure equal access
to a healthy environment.
The management of water quality is a challenge to be addressed through a comprehensive approach, taking
into account environmental, social and economic aspects. In the same vein it is critical
the challenge of pollution arising from all types of emissions and waste and
treatment and disposal thereof. Also relevant is the consideration of change
Climate-for high uncertainly because causes impairment of the population, activity
agriculture, ecosystems and coastal processes, among others.
Public participation in environmental management is an element of strategic importance to
a leftist government committed to locate in the center of the development project in the country,
collective interest over individual interest to ensure the use and enjoyment of natural systems
for present and future generations.
Public participation should be considered in the environmental and territorial institutions,
by strengthening the legitimate mechanisms for citizen participation in planning
and management in the territories.
For this we should integrate some tools already implemented locally by various
State institutions that have legitimacy in the territory, such as tables Development
Rural, the Inter Tables Basin Committees. These tables coordination of actions
incorporating environmental and territorial transversely theme, which is fundamental to the
sustainable development of the various areas. They are presented as an opportunity to promote
planning and management of environmental programs at the locations posing
similar ecological and sociocultural characteristics, agreed with local stakeholders.
For citizen participation around environmental and territorial issues more effective,
it is necessary to broaden the channels of participation, support civil society organizations and continue
advancing environmental aspects inherent, such as access to justice, the duty
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

63

to participation and to information. It is necessary to promote training and awareness in
environmental issues, in order to ensure active participation of the population in knowledge
prior to development projects that require it. Likewise it becomes necessary to review the
public participation mechanisms already provided for in the legislation, so as to improve them
allow active participation of the population that contributes to decision making, in control
performance of the public system and private actor involved.

2. program objectives and strategic lines
The proposed environmental policies and land use are registered and placed on the
very definition of policies on social and economic development. This is how environmental policies
and territorial precisely defined to accompany and support a model of social development and
sustainable economic, social equitable distribution of the benefits and results.
Considering the first definitions of this document is necessary to analyze
deep institutional to consider a change in the rules for Uruguayan society
begins the transition to a new style of sustainable development, which is articulated on the sustainable use
and democratic development of their natural and cultural resources and the effective social integration into the territory.

• To promote the institutional strengthening of the Environmental Area Government, improving
substantially transverse coordination and participation.

• Define and implement the National Environmental System (SNA). In the state of the presence
environmental dimension not only MVOTMA but it traverses the administration, which
It is a significant step forward and a positive deepened FA governments. The politics
Public environmental protection and sustainable development must nourish all views
SNA sector and is suitable space for it, reaffirming the coordinating role in the field of
Ministry and the necessary rationalization and reformulation of many competing areas
planning and environmental terms. Reengineering is therefore essential to optimize resources and
efficiency.

• To promote the formulation of a National Environmental Plan to deepen and articulate the set
today scattered in its conception and management sectoral aspects, defining explicit policies,
and plans and programs for coordinated and consistent implementation, considering
planning powers granted to provincial governments by law 18,308. In
particular on solid waste, climate change, protected areas and biodiversity, resources
water, emissions from all sources, among others. It shall contain precise definitions of
procedures for monitoring, evaluation and control of production processes and performances,
capable of generating changes in environmental quality.

• Implement a National Plan for the promotion of agroecology and organic agriculture. He
it will prioritize rural areas near towns and cities, basins used as sources of
water for human use, areas of interest for its biodiversity and areas of concentration of farmers
family. It will facilitate processes of transition to ecological production and strengthen
existing experiences. Will be central actors rural producers, especially farmers
family, young and rural women. It will integrate stakeholders in food security and
nutrition, food sovereignty and health and environmental conservation. The Plan will be subject
a transversal intervention, involving the ministries linked to agricultural production,
environment, land management, public health, social policy, education, foreign affairs;
Local governments and institutions of research and development. It will have a level of participation
and social control, integrating representatives of the social sectors involved.

• Implementation of an Integrated Environment and Health Strategy. Whereas only
Sustainable development is consistent with the preservation of the health of the inhabitants, it is necessary
implement a strategy that integrates the relationship between the environment and human health. The state
It shall identify and prevent new health threats caused by environmental factors and
reduce the burden of environment-related diseases. knowledge generation will be provided
in the complex link between environment and health. The absolute dependence atmosphere makes us
vulnerable to major environmental changes, therefore new technologies and practices
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

64

whose aim productive development should be evaluated in terms of the risks
They pose to human health.

• Weigh the effective incorporation of environmental and territorial dimension in plans
and programs of formal and non-formal education, promoting the formation of values ​​of respect and
solidarity to all forms of life and diversity, so as to generate a cultural change around
to environmental issues. Coordination between different disciplinary areas will promote and articulation
curriculum content with the contemporary processes of transformation of nature and
society. In non-formal settings and nationwide operation of the network will be enhanced
National Environmental Education for Sustainable Human Development in the field of articulated
MEC all social, private and public organizations in relation to these issues.

• Promote the implementation of sustainable technologies in different production systems
Country (agriculture, forestry, mining, industrial), in tourism activities and services.

• Continue implementation of the National System of Protected Areas expanding
number of areas within the system, increasing the surface current integrated. Promoting
capacity building for the generation and implementation of management plans.

• Form the National System for Integrated Waste Management, by which it will solve
management of municipal solid waste from the metropolitan area and other parts of the country.,
progress in the implementation of management systems other waste disposal
problematic. The Executive and the Congress of Mayors have initiated a process to
forming the system.

• To consolidate the current process of formulation, implementation and monitoring
Zoning instruments under the Act, at national, regional and
department. Complete the process of elaboration of Regional Planning Strategies
Land for sustainable development of the regions: North, South and Central Coast, completing the
advanced in this process and territorial level, consistently articulating the intermediate level
planning with the departmental guidelines.

• Promote the development of regional instruments for Land Management
spatial areas of the main river basins; particularly, Santa Lucia River, Laguna
Merin, Black River. Since then identify other sub basins, which for various reasons demand
rapid response environmental and land management for proper management and handling.
Also develop tools for land management and coastal zone border areas.

• To promote: (a) the ranking of environmental issues at the institutional level so
to integrate and mainstream feature set and committed environmental and territorial today
scattered in several paragraphs, enhancing the capacity of environmental management planning; (B)
identification of necessary changes in regulations and institutional management organization
environmental public in the different areas of government.

• Deepening the functioning of the National Committee of Land Management and Development
Sustainable, as a space for coordination, for environmental instrumentation
the territory of the public policies of social and economic development created by the FA within
of the Law of Land Management and Sustainable Development. To this end it must integrate
municipal governments and extend some tasks.

• Creation of the Advisory Commission for Sustainable Development. Gathering in it the
COTAMA current roles, COAOT, COASA and CAAT, which overlap functions and institutional actors
and social functioning, creating a single committee that integrates the set of actors and
social, public and private institutions related to these processes., thus ensuring the
and greater democratic participation. (COTAMA - Technical Advisory Committee on the Environment, Territorial Planning Advisory COAOTComisión, COASA - Advisory Committee on Water and Sanitation, CAAT
- Committee on Water, Environment and Territory)


• Review and improve the mechanisms of public participation-and provided by law
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

65

force- so as to facilitate the active participation of the population in the analysis of interventions
in the territory and control of the performance of the public system, based on information and
transparency in management from the beginning of the process.

• Promote the legal framework for a National Policy on Climate Variability and Change.
Progress is needed on the institutions of the system, since the legal framework would level (forcing)
all sectors to adjust their actions to specific rules of protection. The National System
Response to Climate Change (SNRCC) created in the first government of the FA, was a qualitative leap in
As for the formalization of the cross participation of the Administration, by Order in
PE.

• Promoting review and consistent articulation of environmental and territorial legislation
in effect, seeking a reformulation with comprehensive and inclusive vision of development processes
social and economic development in line with environmental and land use policies.

• To promote the improvement of the existing regulatory framework for evaluation
Strategic Environmental.

• Continue to promote the regionalization and decentralization of management processes
environmental and land management.


Chapter V
EQUALITY AND RIGHTS
PRESENTATION / BUILDING SOCIAL WELFARE EQUAL
The first national government of the Frente Amplio administration began responding to the
social emergency through the National Plan of Social Emergency Care - PANES (2005-2007)
and then he pointed to build routes of social integration through Equity Plan (2008 onwards).
It is clear that in 2005 the social context was different. In the years improvements were achieved
in transforming growth in distribution: income, access to employment, access to services
social. Improvements in employment, real wages and pensions, low unemployment and
impacts on poverty, extreme poverty and inequality are notorious. All of which was accompanied by a
substantial increase in social spending. For this they have converged structural reforms (health, tax,
labor) with specific measures in every area of ​​social policy in a context of growth
economic and distributive decision. Today the task is to consolidate comprehensive social policies and
quality. The key lies in the integrity of a strong articulation of policies in the design and in its
execution. The key to quality is based on the design, implementation and evaluation.
The Broad Front political purpose is to ensure the full exercise of the rights of each and all
the inhabitants of Uruguay on equal terms, especially those who are or
They can be found in situations of social vulnerability; ensure equal opportunity in
access to decent work, universal social services and social benefits of quality; and promote
social integration.
To achieve the FA proposes:

to. Consolidate and continue the reforms already undertaken in the sector universal policies, and
proceed with the review and reform of the others. This will lead to a strong impetus to the process
transformation in education, health, housing and habitat, labor and employment, sport
and culture.

b. Develop new universal components, particularly the care system
dependents.


c. Provide the set of reforms of a social integration approach which involves pro
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

66

provision of public goods and services of quality, incorporating specific actions on
means defining socio-economic sectors and service location protocols addressing
to coverage ratios and social integration.

d. Consolidate Network Assistance and Social Integration as a structural component
policies and targeted actions against social risks and business cycles.
e. Develop universal services, mechanisms link with people
and families, particularly those in situations of social vulnerability.
f. Define specific protection paths in response to the cycle of life of people
and families with a focus towards upward mobility.
g. Develop cross universal policies related to gender, ethnicity,
sexual orientation, etc .; and the geographical area of ​​residence (region, department, micro-region;
urban Rural; periphery, center; etc.).
h. Consolidate the Social Cabinet, the National Council for Social Policy and Tables
Inter Social Policies and develop specific mechanisms for development
and proper functioning of the joints between:







• social, territorial urban and economic policies;
• universal sectoral components;
• universal and components Network Assistance and Social Integration;
• sectoral dimension and the territorial dimension especially those
areas of public policy where there is decentralization of powers;
• national policies and departmental.




TO.

UNIVERSAL COMPONENTS INDUSTRY







eleven

Background

The FA with his rise to power in 2005, had to be positioned in a conditioned by scenario:
progressive and profound deterioration of the education system occurred since the 60s, the
institutional remnants of the dictatorial period, conservative and neoliberal policies of the
90 and the consequences of the social fracture that reached its climax with the crisis year
2002.
This context of socioeconomic crisis, generated strong impacts on the response forms
families, and of the students and their teachers, affecting the educational environment and further weakening
institutional capacities to respond to the educational needs of society. East
context sharpened the dismantling of the educational subsystems, no agenda was constructed to
will face changes and the public system was hit by those advocating privatization and
commodification of education.
In response, in 2005, our political force began a slow path of institutional reconstruction
calling the participation of all political and social actors and taking as a platform
historical axes that marked our education project, which remain concerning
substantive program for 2015 -2020:
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

67











• democratization of education
• Defense and transformation of public education.
• Respect for the autonomy of educational institutions and State
decentralized organizations, deepening interagency coordination
Public Education System.
• Increase the budget for education, meeting the
transformations that promote inclusive education with equity, which responds
to reality.
• Participation of the various stakeholders.

However, one element that marked these years of government, along with the attention of the
Emergency raised was the difficulty as a political force to build a shared agenda
discussions, and action on education issues.
In the early years of the new government, 2006, it has been held for Educational Debate to the widest
diversity of individuals, groups, social organizations, unions and institutions, developing
Congress later Education. The institutional unrest and leading actors
(Students, teachers, families) education remain today.
It is considered essential to move forward on developing a pedagogical framework for education in the
next period, to be inserted into the foundations of our national project, become
a clear and enriching guide the task of government and guide the actions that we develop in
the field of education.
1.2

Basic principles of education











• The emancipatory education as a human right must be protected and guaranteed
by the State.
• Secularism as acceptance of divergent thinking, diversity of opinion,
critical analysis, rational and democratic debate of knowledge, respect for the expression
the diversity of ideas, beliefs and approaches.
• Public education as a privileged space of active appropriation of knowledge
and building democracy, citizenship and social cohesion.
• Education as an integral part of a pattern of human and social development,
egalitarian, supportive and sustainable.

1.3

Progress and challenges

Education policies should be centered on the learner, developing strategies
pedagogical allowing boost continuing education, learning and good practice
teaching. In this sense it is essential to design and implement new instruments or mechanisms
to promote access, retention and progression of students in the educational system, factors
that will reduce the dropout and repetition.
The achievements and difficulties arising from the present complexities that develops
the educational event. Each achievement reached is neither complete nor permanent, but when implemented
new shares arising on the constructive dynamic of its own, new difficulties in the
execution.
Thus, we noted the main achievements and challenges facing a future government
Frente Amplio:

• Increase the budget for education. The education budget tied to 4.5%
of GDP, though still insufficient, it has been a goal of progressive governments that allowed
realize a substantial increase in the budget for education. The challenge is that
budgetary efforts visible to the actors guaranteeing the right of all. He
salaries of teachers and non-teaching ANEP in the period 2004-2012 increased in terms
real, but from a low level that still prevails substantially improve standards
wage.

THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

68


• Strengthening the functioning of the education system as such. He completed a
greater coordination between public educational institutions, although the mechanisms should
deepen and generate greater synergy. Driving certain problems are observed relative to
continuity, planning, execution and controller-agency policy, but are notorious
advances in innovation and development of proposals for educational inclusion.

• Plan edilicia recovery. Much progress has been made, but reverse the deficit carried by
over 30 years, it still requires great efforts to achieve budgetary levels
infrastructure to ensure quality inclusive education of children and youth.

• Universal early from 4 years teaching. Although girls and boys
enroll, the difficulty is recognized for the effective assistance of children to school.

• Strengthening Early and Primary Education through:

• Diversification of the educational proposal: extension of teaching time in Education
Initial and Primary in the service of an integral education, creation of opportunities for teachers
talleristas carry out their activities, implementation of actions to support the work of the master,
inter- disciplinary work teams involved in reality and based in institutions.

• trend "programismo" is drawn through proposals that do not integrate the system
in place and appropriate purposes, which have low coverage and a low impact
to seek to address the problems.

• particularly appreciates the inclusion in the curriculum of an approach supported by the
human rights, sexual education, the study of recent history and the study of languages ​​(English,
Portuguese). Also the inclusion of physical education in all schools, which challenges us to
overcome the shortage of teachers and adequate space for development.

• universalization of secondary education. Although globalization requires effective
Institutional redesign and review the current institutional architecture. Concerned that it has postponed
access to education by incorporating technology from 15 years, which is a factor
motivation for teens.

• Promotion of technical and technological education. It requires further progress both
mid-level and non-university tertiary level, increasing the weight of technical education
and technology regarding the general upper secondary education. It is necessary to continue
enhancing the technological and professional baccalaureate, the tecnicaturas and Training
Basic professional in education inclusion policies or labor market, combining perspectives
social and productive development.

• Deepening the Ceibal Plan as a tool for social inclusion with an impact
sociocultural and family and educational transformation and addressing the technology requirements
teaching of the information society in development. It is challenging the ownership by
teachers and students for learning purposes.

• Professionalization of the teaching profession: In this area considerably advanced, it is
He restored a policy of courses and competitions in various forms aimed at teachers,
technical teachers, principals teachers and inspectors, highlighting the emerging opening
graduate.

• University Education: The budget increase, most linkages with the rest
the education system and fluid dialogue made possible the reform process at the University of
Republic.

• Expansion of course offerings, diversifying and modernizing its modalities
education.

• Expansion of the contingent of researchers.

• Strengthening of university extension and joining all Plans
Study.

• Development Plan of the University in the Interior, with a decentralization strategy and
for regionalization of interagency collaboration.

• Collaboration with the ANEP systematic, particularly in the creation of several races
UDELAR-UTU technologists in training programs for teachers and agricultural education.
Particularly concerned about the problems generated by the mass of learning
students and considers unacceptable the quota policy generated by corporate pressures
some Faculties and Institutes UDELAR.

• Creation of the UTEC and work towards the UNED. New educational institutions were created
Public tertiary, taking into account the tasks in this direction under the Education Act. They
created the Technological University (UTEC) and works to create the National University of Education
(UNED)
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

69


• Creation of the National Institute of Educational Evaluation. Advance is recognized as having
generated its own evaluation matrix that provide information and study on education
Uruguayan.
The necessary assessment of educational development at all levels should be predominantly
of ends and not merely in relation to the results; should be within the framework of autonomy
and healthy overall coordination and the attention of national and international parameters
for comparative purposes in relation to the purposes of the Uruguayan public education.
1.4

Programmatic Objectives


• Ensure the public education as a fundamental human right, which is done
Throughout the life of children, youth and adults and is a tool of democracy
and civic education.

• Ensure universal access and the real possibilities of retention and graduation in
all levels of the education system, facing learning gaps generated by the
unequal opportunities and conditions as well as those produced by the devices themselves
institutional or pedagogical, and acting on the various factors of social discrimination and
cultural.

• Retrieve the social value of public education to strengthen the educational function
educational institutions as active learning space.

• Strengthen the National System of Public Education as an institutional mechanism
responsible for meeting the demands of research, training and education of the population.

• Align the conduct and management of the educational objectives ANEP strengthening
principles of participation, transparency and accountability.
fifteen

Strategic lines (road to reach the objectives)


• National Plan and Budget for Education

• Develop a National Education Plan long-term, broad social consensus and
political, aimed at transforming public education that takes into account for debate:
aims and objectives of education; system coverage; the teaching profession; learning
Desirable: its diversity, comprehensiveness, universality and democratization; continuous assessment, and
social construction and distribution of knowledge. For discussion, development and monitoring
take into account the contributions of the National Congress of Education planned by the Education Act.

• Continue the process of wage improvement, recovery and building industry changes
Institutional through a budget increase commensurate to the new educational realities.

• In compliance with the objectives set in this program for the transformation of
education and strengthening the public education system, can be required to go budgetarily
to 6% of GDP.

• Various educational formats

• Prioritize the expansion of early childhood education of children up to 3 years,
by adequate education professionals proposals, strengthening in turn, routes
interagency coordination.

• Generate the necessary devices for universal preschool education of children
3 years

• Develop schools of small and medium size to ensure links
Interpersonal between teachers, students, staff and families and enable the development processes
centered teaching and children learning.

• Advance the construction of campus where becomes effective integration of different
subsystems, providing various services and creating shared areas for some political
educational, cultural and social institutions -Maintaining different specificity and
spaces- coordinate actions and optimize resources.

• Build a common curriculum framework to provide consistency to work in different
fields of knowledge throughout the different cycles and especially enable transit
and the adequacy of primary school students to the basic cycle.

• To specify an institutional redesign for the educational centers develop projects
institutional contextualized, -in the context of national-curricula with actions and services
coordinated with other state professional organizations, stable teaching staff and,
conditions to bond with families and their environment, and extended teaching time.
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

70


• Promote educational experimentation proposals to develop diversity
educational strategies, involving pupils, students and teachers.

• substantially transform the primary and secondary education by implementing the Council
provided by law and developing various strategies: policy proposals that respond
the needs of the adolescents, with an integrated approach and support of various
subsystems.

• Ensure that upper secondary education integrated into their educational design different spaces
building, project development and intellectual development, assuming the culture, science and
relevant social practices.

• Develop technological education and professional technician to enhance
social, educational and productive integration of young people, encouraging the expansion of education
higher education options to promote work-related media, production and development
technological scientist.

• Install a National Accreditation Scheme those knowledge workers
appropriated in its relationship with the world of work. Recognize knowledge to sort competitions
different government agencies on the issue.

• Encourage consolidation of participation councils in schools.

• promote coordination and cooperation of public policies so that meet the
socio-economic and cultural conditions of living necessary for the development of the mission
teaching in schools.

• Coordination with strong educational institutions, performing networks that integrate gardens,
school, high schools, formal and non-formal institutions (NGOs) dealing with education. A
approach by reference zones and near the school radio, seeking to strengthen the
institutions.

• Building protective mesh educational point to coordinate and link
existing support programs, and incorporating the institutionalizing SNEP (Commitment
education, community teachers, educational Transit, etc.) creating a National Strategy
Support for learning.

• An inclusive education.

• Expand the use of technology in education through the Plan Ceibal,
promoting their wider use in teaching and innovative way in order to improve learning.

• Ensure the inclusion of disabled people in schools making
accessible spaces and providing training and support to teachers.

• Create a national scholarship system, integrating the various mechanisms and
studying possible ways of financing based on the progressivity of the tax, and
other incentives for educational inclusion.

• Promote public education throughout life, including adult and youth
excluded from education, pedagogical approaches from complementary spaces to the
formal education.

• Develop additional training options for youth and adults that permit
ongoing training in innovative and binding areas with the world of work.

• Develop a policy of non-formal education to meet the diverse needs
education of the people today, extending the state's participation in both implementation
of shares in the evaluation of proposals developed by the private sector and society
civil

• Develop and promote education in rural and realization of the right policy
the education of children, and as productive development strategy.

• Consolidate tertiary education as a complex subsystem, multi-institutional,
decentralized and geographically diversified.

• Strengthen mechanisms for accreditation of private tertiary education.

• strengthen coordination between different public universities recognizing the
tertiary education as a new subsystem.

• Promote cooperation and transit of students and teachers in the educational subsystem
tertiary.

• Teaching profession

• To promote career development for education professionals based
more stable conditions and competitive promotions.

• Build institutional channels that facilitate planning, continuing education and
constant improvement in teaching.
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

71


• Designing incentives for increased enrollment in training options
teaching to meet the growing needs of the SNEP.

• Make effective professional development of teachers and increasing levels of
qualification of teachers in activity by specific training proposals, strengthening
Grade initial training, updating, specialization and perfecting / teachers
graduates.

• Encourage the development of new educational approaches, skills and
didactic proposals to give answers to new realities and cultural changes
Uruguayan society.

• To specify a policy of graduate programs that impact the quality of teaching practices,
and include lines of applied research and extension.

• Ensure the pedagogical task of the principals of initial education and
Primary and support and support the teacher / a in the classroom.

• Train teachers to the effect that they can not implement education
sexist that promotes reflection and criticality in terms of traditional roles of men and women
in our society, including non-sexist language.

• Generate proposals of specialization and contests for the posts higher
dedication and risk with special incentives and especially pondering the previous experience.

• Learning

• Deepen the mainstreaming of human rights in the content
education, strengthening the values ​​of integration and recognition of the diversity of generations,
gender, race-ethnicity, sexual orientation, gender expression and identity and disability status
human.

• Point the comprehensive development of students and encouraging critical reflective spirit
interpreting reality.

• Move towards discrimination free educational centers and generate protocols
clear response to situations of bullying.

• To promote the culture of peace as an alternative to coexistence, incorporating development
curricular content and actions to promote ethical reflection on violence, drugs,
responsible sexuality, consumerism, among others.

• Forward - particularly in basically towards an inclusive education proposal
fundamental knowledge for citizens, scientific and artistic training with resolution
problems, building strategies own knowledge and know including fields.

• Promote a policy of support and active learning to lower the dropout
in all levels of education, teaching practices by reviewing, from assessment and roles
addresses and inspective bodies should propose, evaluate, manage and monitor.

• Deepen the specific programs related to language, sexual education, prevention
drug abuse and road safety education in all branches of education.

• inclusion policies for children and adolescents deprived of liberty strengthened. Modernising
equipment and training in trades for the purpose of reducing hours of confinement providing tools
necessary for faster social integration.

• Institutions

• Strengthen the role of coordination and joint CODICEN as a body that enhances
channels of communication, interaction and coordination between the Council of Early Childhood Education and
Primary, Basic Secondary Education, Upper Secondary Education and Technical and Vocational Education
(UTU).

• Generate processes of bureaucratization, administrative simplification and mechanisms
delegation in decision-making, in the whole structure of the education system.

• Strengthen the recovery plan and building infrastructure to ensure edilicia
physical required for the changes envisaged.

THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

72

2. HEALTH
21

Progress and challenges

The construction of the National Integrated Health System (SNIS) is a major
structural changes promoted by the Frente governments. In 2004 the
health sector attended a serious structural crisis, which closed health institutions, impoverished
public health and generated a deep inequity in contributions in the distribution of spending in the
access and quality of care, and unequal health outcomes that recorded the country.
The construction of the NHIS claims the right to health guaranteed by the state and beyond the concept
health as a commodity, promoting social participation to achieve health actions more
effective and as an end in itself, as the right to health goes far beyond medical care.

• The approval of the law 18211 and subsequent laws laid the foundations of the NHIS constituent,
giving sustainability to the health sector, strengthening the guiding role of MSP as separating ASSE
health provider, with more coverage, more features, and better services.

• The creation of the Health Insurance and FONASA, with social and institutional control, allows
greater social justice (who have more pay more) and solidarity between generations and between healthy and
ill. Health coverage reaching those who do not have expanded. The reduction or elimination
of tickets and orders improved access to services for broad sectors. Payment for compliance
goals sought a strong incentive to improve health care.

• Creation of the Comprehensive Plan for Health Care (PIAS) as "benefits package"
mandatory for all institutions of the NHIS, which includes all priority health programs.
Control the child / pregnant, adolescents and the elderly are now a requirement for
the health system.

• Strengthening ASSE and Integrated Network Public Health effectors (Rieps). The
huge inequality of resources between the public and private sector decreased substantially and
improved performance. polyclinics network was strengthened in the first level of public attention
throughout the country as well as the hospital network.

• The prevention and health promotion occupy a more prominent place in the policies of
intersectoral work with health education, municipalities and municipalities, social programs and
community organizations.

• Policies regarding: a) Children, promoting more control, better care and
rearing practices, expanding the Customs Plan, creating Grows with Uruguay. b) Sexual rights
and Reproductive including the decriminalization of abortion and gay marriage. c) Benefits
psychosocial and psychotherapy Decree 23.08.11, National Plan for Suicide Prevention and
implementation of comprehensive drug policy. d) Eye Health, consolidating Eye Hospital.
These advances are the starting point for new steps, with multiple stakeholders, focusing on
health and not just the disease. In every field needs to be done and all you have to
defend the gains achieved. The reform changed the axes, but remain reversed collapse
critical nodes in changing the model of care in health integrated networks and objectives
health. Despite the increase in the population covered, there are problems of vertical growth,
understood as a greater requirement to ensure the exercise of health rights.
2.2

Program objectives and strategic lines



• Priority Health Programs

priority health goals and targets shall be set to achieve the health of the population, defining
priorities with measurable goals over time. Its implementation requires resources and actions
Inter and definition of efficient policies in public spending. The health sector alone
You can not encompass all actions necessary to improve the health of the population and therefore
It requires incorporate health in all public policies.
Develop skills in epidemiological research management
health system and decision-making and information systems will be implemented to enable
a substantial performance improvement.
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

73

It will continue prioritizing health care in rural areas to ensure the rights of the
people who live and / or work there.
The review and adjustment of existing health programs in the light of existing information will be made,
for renewed problems and possibilities with diagnostic health teams, schools
research, academia and the organized citizenry.
The priorities are:

• The health of children with emphasis on breaking down the figures of infant mortality, low birthweight
birth, prematurity, child and maternal anemia, malnutrition and chronic malnutrition and obesity
promoting adequate development within the framework of the implementation of the National Strategy
Children and Adolescents and the definition of early childhood as high national priority.

• The Chronic Noncommunicable diseases called acting on its determinants
throughout the life cycle, with emphasis on food and nutrition habits, physical activity
healthy and cessation of smoking.

• Sexual and reproductive health focused on the full and responsible exercise of these
rights and the prevention of sexually transmitted diseases.

• Mental health with emphasis on the involvement of severe and recurrent mental disorders,
the problems of violence and violent death and the problematic use of substances and
addictions.

• The prevention of accidents in transit and other areas of daily life, where
intersectoral actions of prevention must be linked to the implementation of a system
give adequate national response to this problem.

• Incorporate the SNIS universal and comprehensive oral health care including promotion,
prevention, treatment and rehabilitation to achieve universal access of all people,
expand the delivery of the services included in the PIAS.
In all cases it is important to develop a transversal vision and decisive action to overcome
obstacles and discrimination based on gender, sexual orientation, ethnicity or disability and
eradication of violence in human relations.
Large program priorities should be expressed specifically in national plans,
Zonal departmental and widely discussed by civil society, health institutions
and different levels of government through workshops, meetings and conferences, where they define
guidelines, objectives and instruments and render accounts annually on progress.


• Affirm the health system stewardship

The rectory in the construction of a health reform loaded with challenges and opportunities
It represents progress in the democratic transformation of the state. Its role is substantial, for which the
reform requires clear policy frameworks that set the course, a strong and growing based driving
a computer and credibility and confidence, with techno-political accumulation.
In this context, it emerges today as a condition for advancing the reform, leadership development
Health Authority. Similarly new legal developments are necessary and
regulation that create the conditions for the sector driving the development of mechanisms
complementation of public and private providers and network building integrated
Services, Human Resources policies, changes in the care model and improving
the quality of services. Progress will be made in developing policies to ensure guarantees
quality health benefits.
The structure of the MSP should be provided with technical equipment (in particular in the areas of control
and control) adequate, stable and highly professional in order to develop design and
control of processes in the public and private subsectors. The agenda of the rectory to be defined
and hold firmly with the participation and involvement of civil society organizations
and the different actors in the field of health. This form of governance should be based on
intersectoral approach to the definition of public policies.

THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

74



• More attention model changes

The model of care that promotes the Frente Amplio has the strategy pillars Care
Primary Health, promoting healthy lifestyles, building a First Level
Strong attention, articulated networks solving capacity by Health Equipment
territorial level.
We have an epidemiological reality linked to the growing impact of so-called
chronic diseases. To that end it is essential to develop a strategy to act
on the determinants and a welfare model which enables the monitoring, accompaniment
and training of the population on the positive changes in lifestyles and access to
continuity of care in terms of control and adequate access to medicines.
Prevention, promotion and health education and empowerment programs and
rehabilitation of those with disabilities, are directions to deepen the model
Attention. Humanization and continuous improvement of treatment of users must be a priority of the new
model of care and the review of procedures that create barriers to access and
quality of care they receive.
Commitment by an adequate and healthy food will translate into a strategic line
changing nutritional habits, reducing the excessive consumption of salt, fat and sugar,
promoting consumption of fruits, vegetables and processed foods properly. The creation of
a National Food Agency will be an instrument of this policy. Healthy physical activity
It will be promoted at all levels of government and civil society.


• renewed and strengthened social participation

The NHIS has as one of its strategic goals to consolidate spaces of social participation within the meaning
that social organizations and the community can exercise their rights and influence the process
health-disease and orientation of the health system.
Forging progressively more democratic and democratizing power of network systems
social is a key also in terms of health strategies. The transformation of a sector
Health commercialized and subjected to logical concentrated power can only be ensured on the
wider and more democratic by users and community participation.
We understand social participation in a broad sense that goes far beyond the open spaces
JUNASA in the directory and ASSE, promoting the participation and influence in planning
territorial, that is; Positive identification of potential problems and health, and prioritization
the lines of action to develop towards changing the care model
Participation involves the design of new contradictions inclusive responses, in addition
of class inequalities imposed on the grounds of gender, sexual orientation, race and
disabilities.
These responses should emerge from collective, community, and agency processes
intersectoral, with the ability to be adaptable and tailored to the specific needs of
different populations based on the characteristics of each territory. Those spaces
promote participation and action plans on priority health problems together.
A territorial structure serving as a permanent reference to the representations set
social and institutional JUNASA extending the implementation of Decree 237 building
departmental and municipal agencies NHIS.
instances open, with regular functioning of territorial base will be strengthened, as
assemblies, workshops and annual conferences convened by town where all users,
workers, effectors of public and private health and social, cultural, religious organizations,
business.

THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

75



• Strengthening of integrated networks of health services

The health reform's main purpose is to overcome the fragmentation and duplication
defining services based on the Primary Health Care System renewed and organized in
Comprehensive and Integrated Services Networks articulated in the territory. To make it:

• Territorial Networks supported on public-public complementarity will be strengthened,
private-private, joint actions in comprehensive care programs. Public-Private
The networks include the territorial accessibility taking the link between population and base
health care providers, administrative management, integration teams from health and
continuity between levels of care.

• progress will be made in a logical assignment of users and families effectors of the first level,
by territorial district into areas, areas and health regions to municipal, departmental and
national. Within a model of care that relates to land-population units, providers
health should ensure themselves or through service agreements to have users in the territory
and users can not choose providers that do not have services in the territory.

• the contents of complementing services that give rationality be defined and
efficient use of resources to improving the conditions for the deployment of policies in the territory,
overcoming the logic of reciprocal sales service and adjusting the legislation to that effect. In
that sense the mechanisms of state control over this type of agreement will be defined, creating
specific instruments for this, such as associations management committees
health. Public Private

• the Regulatory Framework will be adapted to build complementarity. This implies
18211 amending the law creating the obligation of public health and effectors
territorially private supplemented where necessary for the realization of
defined health goals. policy adjustments will be made for greater coordination and
complementing public services articulated in the Rieps as part of their full integration
the NHIS, including participating as a full member of ASSE JUNASA representing the Network
Public Health. The participation of teaching-care services and facilitate research
UDELAR extension toward its full articulation in the public health sector.


• The leadership of ASSE and Integrated Network Public Health effectors (Rieps)

The strengthening of the Integrated Network of Public Health effectors (Rieps) coordinated by ASSE,
with the development of its Strategic Plan will advance one of its objectives is the
rationalization in the public sector avoiding overlapping and progressively decreasing
inequities.
ASSE is the centerpiece of the reform, it is the lender who is leading the implementation of health policies, through
frenteamplista which the government must ensure the realization of the care model change. The
economic stability - Financial ASSE, and progress in reducing the gap in spending per
user with the private sector ensures that there is "poor to poor health." It will advance
the professional management of ASSE and its Executing Units, with a political management -
technique through appropriate mechanisms of selection, admission, appointment and evaluation
Management Commitment instrument is also refined, with compensation for compliance
goals and objectives of the entire health team.
The consolidation of the Integrated Health Services Network on a regional basis with emphasis on
decentralization of care processes, personnel and administrative resources allow
ensure accessibility, timeliness and continuity of care users, with history
electronic medical records, and the use of information technology to improve access to
drugs and diagnostic studies.

THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

76



• Strategic plan for health personnel

The construction of the NHIS required to establish a public policy to ensure availability
health personnel in quantity, quality and diversity, as well as distribution and preservation
such personnel, the direction of change in the care model.
The rector of the MSP role will be strengthened through the design and implementation of a Strategic Plan
Health personnel, as required by the NHIS and legally establishing the rules for the
planning, distribution and preservation thereof
The construction of this public policy will be made with input from the Observatory of Human Resources
Health, involving comprehensive health care providers, trainers area services
Health at the University of the Republic, and social and trade union organizations, articulated in the
orbit the rectory of the national health authority.
It also will continue to work in inter fields on changing conditions
work of health personnel to achieve folding the multi-tasking, consolidate teamwork
multidisciplinary and continuous training.


• Appropriateness of financing

The system of public financing of health will continue gradually incorporating sectors
population, achieving universal coverage through the National Health Insurance, providing greater
equity and access of the population to health. Progress will be made in a more sustainable model of
financing, gradually incorporating the FNR keeping with its current specificity
the Single Fund Public definitively achieved. Therefore, the contributions of citizens will
to rely increasingly on the national tax structure and its distributive role, implying a
greater social justice.
Equity objectives being pursued by the Frente government policies
health should include funding chord, which implies both a review of the current capita as
generation of instruments to include the social determinants of health.
The moderating rates, particularly of orders and tickets, continue to dwindle
progressively according to health reform goals.
ASSE budget will increase, by assigning the same as age-adjusted capitation and
sex of your user population for the performance of equivalent value PIAS users
FONASA. PIAS benefits will not be funded under the current regime.
The stimulus that the institutions have to meet the goals linked to plans Relief
Comprehensive Health should incorporate the promotion of complementarities and synergies between
public institutions and private members of the NHIS and deepen health promotion
with emphasis on the determinants of the environment and lifestyles of the population. They
They implement territorial goals to strengthen joint work of effectors according to
health plans developed in a participatory manner.
Regulatory Mechanisms market prices of sale of services defined in the
SNIS in order to eliminate the profit within the system.
We establish criteria for allocating funds for investment in health institutions according
contribute to the development of the primary care level, as is established in the Law establishing the NHIS
and decentralization of ASSE and the requirements of the renewed PHC strategy, both in the area
public and private. Also in the public sector investment will be implemented to complete the
lag recovery in infrastructure suffered in past decades.
The principles of solidarity in the financing of the system by adjusting reaffirm criteria
Contribution (percentages, return, etc.) in this regard.

THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

77

3. Housing and Habitat
3.1

Progress and challenges

As main achievements of the governments of the FA in habitat and housing, are:

• The use of a battery of instruments to address various different problems,
as the prioritization of self builders and cooperatives; multisectoral programs
sociohabitacional inclusion approach; MEVIR action in rural areas; guarantees and
rent subsidies; connection services; restructuring and debt refinancing; credits
for renovation and improvement of housing; recovery and allocation of vacant units; the
programs for liabilities; regularization and relocation, where appropriate, of settlements; the search
investment from different sources; programs for middle-income sectors, etc.

• Establishing a system of assessment, approval and monitoring the use of
new construction and management systems. Consider predominant materials in the regions,
such as wood. Support construction enterprises with alternative materials,
with energy and environmental sustainability.

• Diversifying MEVIR programs, including home improvement and
production units, considering addressing those environmental scattered dwellings
rural, coordinating with other institutions such as the Institute of Colonization, MGAP, MIDES, with plans
integral habitat and production.

• The effort to better understand the dimensions of the housing deficit,
let face it with the right tools.
Continuity, development and deepening of all these lines of action and the need to cover
Today sectors not reached by the same implies the following challenges:

• Removal of the housing emergency situations.

• Overcoming the shortcomings of households without basic services
necessary, especially water and sanitation.

• The extent and development of the real estate portfolio for Housing MVOTMA (CIVIS) to
enabling access to urbanized land for low-income sectors.

• The increased use of existing stock, both at ground level and in buildings,
according to the characteristics and needs of different sectors of the population.

• Strengthening social inclusion through programs that integrate families
different socioeconomic status,

• The provision of necessary resources to carry out the necessary actions.

• The deepening of coordination between the various agencies involved, to
improve program efficiency.
3.2

Program objectives and strategic lines

The objectives listed below, to the extent that they are all interrelated,
not imply, except the first, an order of priorities.
Prior to the development of the Five Year Plan 2016-2020 will be an evaluation of all lines
the policy carried on in this period, involving all stakeholders, and
in particular recipients, in progress, from the conclusions settings
necessary in its institutional design, operation and resource allocation


• Remove housing emergency situations.


• Priority will be given, in housing policies and habitat, emergency situations
housing. These effects will deepen and refine existing mechanisms and
will create others as needed.

• exceptional existing instruments will be used to address these situations,
so to eliminate bureaucratic obstacles.

• the integration of all housing policies will be deepened with the remaining
social policies, assigning specific resources for joint actions and strengthening the
coordination of actions among government agencies involved.
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

78


• the "Together", the Neighborhood Improvement Program (ex PIAI) and others will be included Plan
existing programs in the Five-Year Housing Plan.

• Actions on the existing stock and in particular on vacant lots and homes
permanent unemployed will be part of the policies for emergency housing.

• solutions for immediate and temporary intervention in serious cases be guaranteed,
that make viable the realization of the objectives of social policies (empty units of PNV,
rents, a stock of housing that end, improved housing materials available to the core,
and others), extending existing coverage.

• operationalize the relevant state involvement in the market of developed land for
allow access to it from lower income sectors.

• the CIVIS, including a stock immediately available for emergencies will be strengthened.

• obtaining urbanized land for CIVIS be encouraged. In the case of soil property
public, the passage to MVOTMA of all land suitable for housing property will accelerate
Major state public person, not used for priority purposes and that requests and is available
compulsory and immediate use of abandoned or idle property owned by the State
all levels. Progress will be made in the regulation to allow private property declared
while stranded are in the service of society. The ban will be established
that corporations can access the property of urban land for residential use, which
only registered companies can do; execution will speed up debt with the State
levied on real property, unless such a unique and permanent residence of the debtor
and not mediate economic difficulties for payment, in which case they will be awarded to facilities that
effect; tion mechanism property in payment of debts will be encouraged, and take the
measures to speed up the expropriation process.

• shall be regulated, in everything related, the Land Management Law and Development
Sustainable (LOTY DS).

• to acquire urban land resources are enabled, even without complete infrastructure
service.

• Implement housing and habitat policy aimed at all sectors of the population,
without prejudice to the establishment of priorities, with different modalities and strategies.

• the income ceiling to be eligible for credit Housing Plan will be raised, considering
integration at the top of the household, taking as a parameter the income per person; are
They also comply with the requirements of savings to facilitate the same.

• We will continue with the policy of prioritization in the allocation of credit support
cooperatives and family experiences self.

• the results of the adoption of Law 18,795, of exemptions to be assessed
private investment in social housing, to ensure that the tax waivers made arrive
recipients effectively adjusting existing controls. Evaluate the possibility of
extending the regime of tax exemptions to other housing programs.

• These are expanded and strengthened the lines for repair and home improvement, to address
the major qualitative deficit.

• relocation operations continue emphasizing its inclusive effects, for which
deepen the comprehensiveness of the coordinated actions of the various agencies involved,
the solutions adopted by diversifying and concentrating prevent families with similar problems,
promoting social integration, sharing public spaces, coexistence and non-
discrimination.

• participation mechanisms be instituted recipients with accompaniment
Multidisciplinary from the earliest stages in programs managed by third parties as a way of
improve quality and efficiency.

• Efforts will be made to increase the collective sanitation options, the maintenance should
be the responsibility of OSE, seeking solutions that are technically, environmentally and economically
sustainable within the criteria of solidarity and equity.

THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

79



• Optimize the intensive use of existing stock of housing and habitat.


• the duty to use, make, maintain, etc. regulate, real estate, provided
in LOTyDS, which implement them immediately for a better use of stock
housing and existing infrastructure.

• For the same purpose a line of soft loans will be available to renovate
houses for rent, with lease commitment before the year through withholding payment
rentals. This will be complemented by the charging of the vacant homes
and vacant lots.

• lines of financing for the renovation, will be strengthened and complementation
housing maintenance, both individual and of the proper and common property of
housing complexes, as well as for connection to utilities.

• the implementation of the energy basket (internal connections, tariffs, usage) efectivizará
to improve the living conditions of housing and provide permanence.

• It periodically quantify the stock of empty homes (not temporary use) to the
effects of implementing the corrective measures deemed relevant.

• special priority will be given to recycling programs of housing and other buildings for
production of new housing units of social interest.

• conducting urban operations concluded between the State and will be promoted
owners to make housing stock in urban areas and neighborhoods and social interest.

• system currently existing guarantees will be extended.

• Strengthen the system of public financing through loans and grants
facilitate access to housing for the population groups with fewer resources.

• the National Fund for Housing and Urban Development will be strengthened in line with the
give priority to the issue of housing and the need to provide resources to enable it to finance
development works. The FNVyU have stable resources that allow long-term planning.

• public and private savings will be used by issuing securities to finance
housing, BHU, AFAP, profits of public companies, etc.

• saving for housing will be promoted as a basis for obtaining credit
public, except for low income sectors.

• hire a system be established to own, to the Gaza population
It has ability to pay unsubsidized but not savings while paying rent.

• a review of the method of calculating the adjustment of quotas will be made to prevent the
same exceed the ability to pay of the debtors and these fall into delinquency.

• Funding will be granted free access to quotas user cooperatives.

4. LABOUR, EMPLOYMENT AND LABOUR RELATIONS
4.1

Progress and challenges

The two governments Frente Amplio developed a real labor reform since 2005
till the date. This reform was orchestrated from different angles and involved several advances
on rights, poverty reduction and reduction of poverty and inequality.
Also improved employment levels and consequently low unemployment up
located at historic lows; increase in real wages and formal employment, and others. They presented
Some of the main topics:
Legal reform. Have made great strides in protecting the work generated more than 40
standards among which are the following laws:







• Collective Bargaining Act, for workers and for the public.
• Law on Protection of union activity.
• Domestic Work Act.
• Law of 8 hours and other rights for rural workers.
• outsourcing Act.
• Youth Employment Act.

THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

80

At the same time the conditions of access and benefits of unemployment insurance law were improved,
law family allowances, improving access of workers (especially women)
to retirement benefits, etc. The legal progress also included specific regulatory standards
on issues of Occupational Safety and Health, expanding the list of occupational diseases
and generating specific rules for sectors that have increased their activity in the period
(Construction, call centers, etc.).
Minimum Wage evolution. The national minimum wage in 2004 was 1,310 pesos
permanently increased every year up to 7,920 pesos in 2013 and reach
10 thousand pesos in January 2015. The increase in the national minimum wage has an important
effect on the lowest wages in reducing poverty and inequality.
Wage Councils. Collective Bargaining widely developed, has been a strong
contribution to democratic deepening Uruguayan society and also a key element in the
combating poverty fell from 40% in 2004 to 13% in 2012.
Also significantly it contributed to the improvement in the distribution of wealth in this period.
It harmoniously developed a process of increase in real wages of workers in order
36% in the period 2005-2012, simultaneously with a sustained drop in the unemployment rate
reaching a record low in 2011 and 2012 (6% and 6.1% respectively) and a fall
persistent informality.
Considers that after two terms in office of FA, the main objective is sustainability,
continuation and expansion of progress, trying to improve the quality of employment, the
order to contribute to the advancement of the development process.
Among the main challenges that must be taken into account, it is considered:

• Deepen policies aimed at groups with even greater difficulties to use:
women, youth, older men, unskilled and in poverty, the disabled,
and trans people of African descent. The wage gap and roof is displayed with concern
Crystal gender and incorporation of women into the labor market, the reconciliation between
study and youth work, the vicious circles of poverty-poor unskilled-insertion
in the labor market.

• Combating informality, which is heterogeneous and still close to 20%, as many injured
workers' rights and creates situations of unfair competition in the labor market.

• Increase in minimum wages, a strong increase will be made especially in
some sectors, among which are rural, domestic, trade and services.

• Expand the democratization of access to the labor market, since contacts and capital
social, they continue to have a fundamental role.

• Development of Entrepreneurship, which also affects the generation of decent work.
Special support to compatriots who meet again to settle in the country.

• Deepening of tripartism and social dialogue for Employment as a tool to
achieving a more just and democratic society.

• Promotion of the themes of worker participation in management and
self-management in companies recovered, continuing progress in this period.

• Continue to make progress on issues of Occupational Safety and Health: improving quality
Life at work, with the prevention of occupational accidents and diseases and
environmental care.



4. Programme Objectives and strategic lines


• Consolidation of the process of improving the level and quality of employment, growth
productivity and real wages.

• Develop permanent professional education and training of workers
and entrepreneurs, including values ​​(culture of work) in all areas. Strengthen
competitions organizers and coordinators of production processes in companies
self-managed and / or recovered.
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

81


• Deepening the Dialogue for National Employment continuing the tripartite process initiated in
2011, addressing the theme of the necessary increase in productivity.

• Enable greater incentives for investment, domestic and / or foreign to generate
Quality jobs and highly qualified workers.

• Continue the policies of differential adjustments to the minimum wage of some
particularly sectors and increasing the national minimum wage.

• Consolidate the Integrated Vocational Training System, coordinating resources and
efforts of all public training institutions, in order to further provide a
comprehensive coverage for qualifying workers and former workers, detached from the system
formal education and from low-income sectors.


• Reducing informality.


• To expand, develop and disseminate new tools for promoting formality online
with already implemented (social monotributo Law and compatibility between work and retirement).

• Deepening interagency coordination to address informality (Scope for the
Inclusion and formalization of work)

• Continue the process of quality improvement in the inspection.


• Improve the democratization of access to the labor market.


• Consolidate the network of public employment centers.

• Increase interinstitutionality Employment programs, with emphasis on training,
training and job placement.

• Develop programs to first work experiences, both companies
public and private.

• Encourage guidelines for entry and gradual exit from the labor market.

• Publicizing the rights and obligations of workers and employers.

• Reducing inequalities in the labor market (gender, youth, race, no
qualified, etc.)

• To deepen the fight against child labor and protection of young workers.

• Provide greater incentives for the incorporation of women into the labor market;
eradicate wage gaps and barriers to access to senior positions.

• Eliminate discriminatory elements at work, in particular of African descent to,
women and transgender people; affirmative action towards realization of these sectors of the population.

• Tender intra reduce inequalities in pay and
benefits.

• Advance on ways to reconcile family and work; gender clauses in the negotiation
collective, compatibility between work and parental care, with emphasis on support breastfeeding
maternal and early childhood care.

• Expand programs to reconcile work and study for youth


• more efficient and ethical development of employment in the "public function".


• Update and strengthen the training of officials in all
agencies and levels.

• Promote new policies for the development of competencies (knowledge and attitudes)
essential to honor the public service.

• Ensure the permanent ethics and transparency of function.

• Promote the use of tools such as planning, policy development
active employment in the public sector.

THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

82

5. SPORT
5.1

Progress and challenges

Key achievements include: Universal School Physical Education; Tournaments
domestic and international high school students and youth sports; National Congress of Sport; First
National Survey on sporting habits; Planning and construction of the first two places
XXI century, renovation of facilities, tennis, etc. and closing of pools and calefaccionamiento
swimming; Integrated Sports (PNID) and put into action the Pilot Project The National Peace Plan;
Commissioning of the Uruguay Sport Foundation increased support for federations
sports; Goal to the Future program; Program Knock Out Drugs, Sports Promotion Act;
integration of DINADE to Youth Network; Commission of Physical Education (Education Act); and others
projects.
The main challenges are:

• Overcoming the current institutional situation subordinate organization of sport.
Reaching an institutional model that articulates a rational, orderly, plural and sustainable the
State and participation of all stakeholders in the sport system. This implies:

• Strengthening the area of ​​Sport (National Directorate of Sports- DINADE) encouraging
dynamic structure formed by proactive technical equipment, highly trained and responding
the PNID, through a matrix organization

• To exercise a leadership role in sport, coordinating, supervising and promoting the sport
competition and community, shedding much of the direct management of services

• high degree Decentralize community management, moving to the local level

• Check and certify the transparent functioning of sports using
appropriate legal instruments, such as the Law on Transfer of Sportsmen
Professionals, and Uruguay Sports Foundation.

• Change the sporty model from the current situation to craft a production model
Modern sport competition. Which it involves:

• explicitly adopt a model for sports-based system of governance.

• Manage the federal and clubístico system effectively, dynamic, planned, coordinated
and according to scientific guidelines, which involves systematic evaluations and audits
processes and results, which must strive for excellence.

• To prioritize objectives and disciplines according to the sporting culture of our country and the
international possibilities.

• Avoid the current dispersion of support to the sport. It implies a political decision at the highest
level to get take the criterion - without compromise statewide - that measures
and public investment policy carried out by different agencies, and taking into account
oriented according to the PNID.

• Involve the population strongly promoting mechanisms to reach
Community universal sport, with its integration to social policies
cross, health and cultural, gender and generational with emphasis on the development of
citizenship. Which involves distribution of decisional power, training organizations
community in the territory and expansion of the public, social and private offering.

• Overcoming fractures system, achieving an effective policy coordination
sports with education bodies, moving towards a quality physical education and
tertiary incorporating the practice of sporting activities physico. Adapt formations
Professional needs in the various areas of Physical Education, Sport Community
and high performance. Joint sports policies with Udelar in his role training, extension
and research.

• To promote the equitable participation of women athletes. promoting the application
of affirmative action to ensure meaningful inclusion of women in the
sport activities.
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

83

5.2

Program objectives and strategic lines

Sport is regarded as a field of social, cultural and economic characteristics
particular, with significance and fruitfulness for the development of processes of social cohesion and values
coexistence, to the quality of life.
universal access will be promoted to various sports and skills development programs
national, publicly financed - private, directed to all the citizens and
every age, gender and condition, with particular emphasis on young people, in order to promote
meeting and socializing networks as spaces for personal development and social integration.
The progressive orientation to face the third Frente Amplio government, should be directed towards a
date and effective approach to deal with the challenges that the country requires to develop
a national, inclusive growth and sporty model. This is central to the application
technological advances, appropriate communication strategies, participatory management
However, extending that sports development to all our people. It is also necessary
modification of the institutional structure that encourages greater hierarchy, decentralization
and social participation in State management processes. In that sense it is essential
agency coordination with other public policies such as health, drugs, children,
adolescence and youth, coexistence and security.
A strong development of Physical Education in Teaching will be promoted by extending their integration
cross, finding motivation and teaching quality in learning, promoting proposals
curriculum related to the different realities and contexts.


• General modernization and transformation of sport competition.


• Professionalism and re-structure of management in the federal organizations, with a
improving training of human resources in all areas and a governance model
(Involvement of civil society with a strong orientation of the State) for the national sport,
Consistent with the Integrated National Plan Sport, government guidelines and development project
national production.

• Creation and implementation of a National System of High Performance Sports,
including effective and efficient tools to attract talent, ongoing support
sports training divisions, evaluation and updating of training methodologies.

• Nesting priority sports and channeling their support through the Ministry,
coordination with public and private sectors.

• Update and creation of adequate sports infrastructure, adequate to new
technological standards of high performance sport.

• Review and institution of a legal framework with clear and specific instruments to achieve
transparent financing of the sports phenomenon and a secure environment in their shows
including prevention, supervision and punishment of offenses found.

• Promoting healthy and recreational sport and physical activity, decentralizing
management and promoting community participation.

• Transfer of the healthy physical activities and sports and recreational area
Local. According to the Congress of Mayors and the departmental governments to achieve their
institutional strengthening in line with the Integrated National Plan for Sport. Strengthen
the exchange of knowledge and experiences, and coordination between Municipalities with
regional approach to improving sport management.

• Allocation of new management skills and coordination of programs
the territory, with emphasis on proposals that include sports schools, spaces
self, theme parks, including women, persons with disabilities and senior citizens
the exercise regularly.

• Resource allocation from the executive branch, supporting the changes and
exploring alternatives such as public - private partnerships and agreements
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

84

international.

• Further promotion of local sports associative network and institutional coordination, as
a base model of organization.

• Expansion and improvement of Sport Touring model Siglo XXI Project
Pilot La Paz.

• Encourage physical activity within the working hours in the public and private sectors,
as a tool to improve occupational health and work performance.

• Promoting sports in prisons.

• Impulse decided to implement "healthy community spaces" or active seats
in public spaces.
•
Incentives to use bicycles as a means of expanding transport infrastructure
bike paths, creating functional networks for access to education and employment centers and end
recreational and healthy


• Optimization of Physical Education and School Sports.


• Increased frequency and quality improvement activity and curriculum content
teaching physical education, with emphasis on the most vulnerable populations:
(Schools in unfavorable contexts, inclusive and special schools, etc.)

• Development of play spaces and play sports as a tool for cohesion,
development, taste, motivation and self-regulation.

• Supply of sports equipment and support infrastructure and public spaces
schools.

• Increased sporting activity expanding access to knowledge and practice of
sports through a diversified proposal sports

• Promotion of agreements in the educational and technical training providing for their correspondence
with the broad guidelines of the Integrated National Plan for Sport.

• Expansion and coordination with the Future Program Goal as joint subsystems
Formal education and sports.

6. CULTURE
6.1

Progress and challenges

At the last congress of the Frente Amplio program it was stated that the Uruguayan culture came
out of an emergency situation. Emergency deepen coming from
decades and was characterized by the abandonment of the building facilities and the lack of support
specifically from national governments to the development of cultural policies. It is noted that for
leave it was necessary to deploy a series of "cultural development strategies in all
the actions that the State made according to address social emergencies. Must exist and
coordinating bodies operate statewide to optimize resources, set
Common strategies, analyze the cultural impact of each action (not just "cultural") and generate
measurement indicators and schedules targets for cultural development and respect for
cultural rights of citizens. Reaching all areas and at all ages through
established institutions such as neighborhood centers, etc. "(V Extraordinary Congress" Zelmar Michelini "
13 and December 14, 2008)
Several policies have been developed in these two periods of government:
Edilicia Recovery:

• Recovery of cultural infrastructure, particularly in the interior

(Bella Union, Artigas, San Jose Rocha).

• Completion of construction and inauguration of the Auditorium Adela Reta and reopening

Nelly Goitiño auditorium.

THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

85

New spaces

• Creation of more than 100 "MEC Centers" points of access to knowledge and the Internet,
with special emphasis on self-management, accompanied by a digital literacy plan by which
spent more than 42,000 people, of which 83% are women. In turn, not only achievement not only increase
access to cultural assets, but also said the production of local artists.

• Opening of the Contemporary Art Space

• Agreement with the Central Bank of Uruguay for the installation of Figari Museum

• Centers border.

• Factories and plants of culture.

• National Prize for Music.
Incentives and support programs.

• Creation of competitive funds for culture (formerly had no resources).

• Professionalism of managers and specific actors of culture.

• Act as an incentive to support the private contribution.

• Resetting the grand prize to intellectual work.

• Creation of the Institute of Cinema and Audiovisual funds.

• National Institute of Performing Arts .;

• Performing Arts Festivals (FIDAE) .;

• Creation of a National System of Artists.

• Participation in the Venice Biennale.
SODRE





• Notorious diversification and improvement of the programming proposal SODRE;
• Preservation and development of stable bodies (orchestra, ballet)
and schools (dance, opera)
• Qualitative improvement of leasable and TNU;

Right of workers

• Adoption of the law of social security for artists; Law 18,384, Artists and Statute
Related trades and the decree of Art. 11
While under the current administration they have made multiple actions through projects and / or
programs, which have helped to make possible the access, use, production culture at all
neighborhoods and towns of each department, there is still much to be done in a country that has suffered
a massive assault on the socio-cultural fabric.
The culture is related to almost everything but is itself able to understand and enjoy the phenomenon
human, "... is not a means to material progress: it is the end and the soul of development seen as the
flourishing of human existence in all its forms ... "It is a hallmark of our Front
Broad conception of culture as a human right and thus as a social and political duty. Yes
it does not need justification is undeniable that brings externalities very welcome, as the
setting an international image, employment and added value.
6.2

Program objectives and strategic lines

Just begin to meet basic needs appears very happily, the need for
culture. And we will the health of society in it; because the gaps are always filled with cultures
not promote personal and social development, which do not divide it.
Therefore, cultural development can make a valuable contribution to the necessary reconstruction
the social fabric of our people, while the starting point is an understanding of culture and art
as self-expression and exclusive of all human beings and that everyone is a carrier and
construction of their own culture. We intend to strengthen infrastructure and cultural offer
the whole country.
The aim is to ensure in our society: i) the right to be considered / a 'subject' creator
carrying their own culture in community and ii) the right to use and enjoyment of all
cultural property.
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

86



• Promoting access to the enjoyment of cultural goods

Create the conditions that allow real access to both the enjoyment and the production
artistic and cultural events, starting with the material and with a specific focus on the
most vulnerable: no infrastructure or can not pay an entrance fee or buy a
book, there is no access. Certainly that's not enough, but necessary. The so-called democratization
You must be on the access and the possibility of appropriating; should not be selected by others or fall into dirigisme,
as it would take only a certain expression to certain places or public. For all this cultural management
It should be governed by the values ​​of freedom, justice and equality.
One possible way of stimulating demand for cultural consumption card (books, tickets
shows, etc.) that enables the expansion of all citizens access to goods and
cultural services. It is a tool that can allow access to people today away from these
goods and services and encourage their participation.
Make policies on arts promotion abroad.
Incorporate as policy Cultural Tourism.

• Development of urban interventions endowed cultural quality infrastructure for
social integration
Specialized recovery and construction of buildings for the presentation of shows
art, particularly in the departments of interior. Attending to these projects
infrastructure born with a cultural project, with the participation of the local group. Look for
agreements with municipalities. The new spaces are to be built in urban interventions
infrastructure areas without taking into account demographic, urban, social aspects
and cultural, which is necessary to raise the quality of life of the / as citizens / as and rebuild
the social fabric. They should promote cross-connect actions that may include
culture, education and creating opportunities through spaces dedicated to reference
most vulnerable sectors, with particular emphasis in the areas of early childhood, youth,
young mothers and elderly people.


• Impulse renovated heritage policies

Promote a change in the law of equity, consistent with protected areas,
encourage the maintenance and preservation of heritage also by private actors (not
expropriate always the best solution) that includes edilicio, natural, artistic, documentary heritage,
underwater and intangible nationwide. The archipelago of subjectivities must be taken into account
that through expression construct our diversity. It is imperative to reorganize the legislation
and regulations at the departmental level according to a new text to order and honor the
public interest.


• Development of production, dissemination and distribution of cultural goods

The chains of production, dissemination and distribution, both in books and audiovisual and music
They should be supported so that each fulfill their role and have your benefit. Failing that there is a
multinationalization and cultural homogenization; hegemonic certain auto products appear
fulfill the prophecies of ratings or readership. Therefore all the be stimulated
chains and their interactions.
Support private, community, cooperative actors, non-state stable groups that make
contributions to culture sustained and explicitly, in exchange for certain benefits for
citizens. For example a workshop for teachers, provide scholarships, keep some assets
important for the country (edilicio, documentary film) although not in state hands,
in exchange for an agreed access. The competitive projects are a good tool but here
it is sustained support multiple actors through management contracts. It's a question
limited resources and also of principle: the multiplicity of views makes the nature of the
culture.

THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

87

Incorporate indicators on cultural policies for assessing benefits for
competitive funds, as well as agreements made with municipalities.
Inclusion in TV programming and newspaper independently produced programs
research, whether by regulatory or stimulus at this point are scarce road.
Promote research, production, debate and circulation of culture for children and
creating culture laboratories to train young artists that focus and specialize
productions for children (theater, dance, music, video, literature, web tools) that
inserted in the territory and nurture of work and experiences such as corners of culture, INAU,
CAIF, MIDES or MEC Centers.
Convene artists and educators for reenactors with television producers generate
TV programs in the state or a specific signal that is directed at children with national sense,
regional and global, deploying entertainment and non-formal education about the axis tradition of contemporary culture. Systematize a space "for children" in calls and
MEC national awards.
Promote the arrival of TV and national radio Sodre small population centers as a way of
democratize, decentralize and spread national culture.
Continue with the National Assembly of Culture.
Recreation Departmental Councils of Culture, composed of managers, actors and authors
culture.


• Protecting the rights of workers of culture

The actual exercise of copyright is a matter to be resolved in a creative, stimulating
legality through some form of participation, such as access to shows or other, inspired
in the process of formalizing the software. Insufficient technological barrier to prevent
diffusion; On the contrary, there are opportunities to leverage the Internet. For example free portals
for citizens in the state (Archive image of the word) rewards to the authors,
propaganda benefits of shared web pages, internet synergy - ceibal - presentations.
Before the development of the knowledge society, it is important to make progress in improving management
of copyright from the State to ensure full compliance with the law at
which refers to the control and the provision of services to authors and management agencies. Between
other actions, computerization would provide a one-stop registration of works, trademarks
and systematic and transparent patents. In the same line of quality improvement would be
incorporate relevant research and development in the area, update applications in ICT,
and promoting the creation a specialized chair that can put our country in a day
copyright matters and create inputs for the productive sector.
Progress in social security and labor rights of artists, improving what exists and including
visual, audiovisual artists and literary authors. Care and respect for labor standards,
safety and health at work.
The FEFCA (Fund for the Promotion of Education and Artistic Creation) is a commitment acquired
past period must be much larger, more comprehensive and transparent.
Of particular concern are stable bodies and schools where the state acts directly.
Allocating resources to schools dance, opera and youth orchestra. Encourage invitations
established musicians but also stays young people starting their careers, and that during
one or two years to contribute to the orchestras, equivalently to the post doctorates at universities.
Promote the creation of university training of managers UDELAR culture.

THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

88



• Promoting good use of language for social integration

The Spanish of Uruguay is a prime cultural tool. Respecting their particularities
geographical, generational and trades, education and culture should constantly contribute
understanding the language of the whole society, for the separation of groups with versions
Connecting a phenomenon that has occurred in several countries, it is a form of segregation between the
stronger. To value this instrument in terms of social inclusion leads to promote
actions with the education system.

B.

SOCIAL PROTECTION

1. SOCIAL SECURITY
eleven

Progress and challenges

Since governing Frente Amplio, many advances concretized. They are clearly displayed
instrumented through legal solutions and fundamentally, what emerges from figures
comparative. As a result, growing numbers refer to the minimum pension, the
real increase in pensions in general, the significant increase of contributors to the BPS, which in real life
It means rights for workers and their families and as future retirees, the record coverage
social security, cataract operations and Eye Hospital, the many and varied solutions
housing for retirees and pensioners, access to social tourism, promotion through
associations, elderly homes, clubs, etc, are all too eloquent.
Concretized the most important developments that had a positive impact on our
society, do not hide the fact that there are still structural problems and parametric to
address, in order to continue to consolidate the centrality of Fundamental Human Rights,
redistributive solidarity and deepening the matrix in our society, applying adequate
articulation of social and economic policies:

• aging society. It is a process that deepens, being
promoting policies essential background face it about, beyond reforms
Parametric that can be implemented. Time should be provided with their consequences
medium and long term, in order to analyze and promote measures, beginning with a very altered
gradual retirement ages, anticipating and avoiding situations that can generate policies
"Shock", without ruling course, other necessary measures for the same purpose. Between them,
for example, compatibility between work and retirement (initiated by law 19,006), partial retirement,
accessibility of integrated health care actions, progressive replacement rates system.

• National Integrated Care System. Phenomenon linked to aging and already the
2008 marked the program. Hence the need to develop a National Integrated System
Care.

• Disabilities. This is an issue that so far, although there are positive measures
aimed at addressing the situation should be recognized that it is necessary to analyze and solutions
integrated thereon. We will have to address it further in the future.
1.2

Basics program guidance


• Social security and social protection are fundamental human rights
and substantial responsibility of the State

• Reason why the state takes on political, legal and ethical responsibility to act
According to that nature, promoting both rights and must have visions and strategies
comprehensive, resulting in cross-agency approaches and Relationships, as
all human rights.

• Which is why the state has the rectory in social policies and in the relationship
public-private, governing policies defining lines.

• If we are faced with Human Rights, it is obvious that reaches all generations: from
birth, infancy, childhood, adolescence, elderly, disabled, etc, acquiring
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

89

consequently the right to require policies and actions that promote and develop their
Rights and obligations.


• Labor and social security and its influence on society.

Work and social security as a fundamental human rights form a system whose
It makes the quality of society. A quality society is inconceivable if the partner system does not work
it is. Of course and as appropriate, it also requires responsibility organizations
social and representatives, and all persons considered individually.


• Principles of social security and social protection.


• Sufficiency, which means that social security and social protection is required to
ensure proper to every citizen (art. 67 of the constitution) benefits.

• Universality. Sufficient coverage for the entire population must be guaranteed:
childhood, adolescence, old age and family in all the risks and minimum requirements for life
worthy. This requires balance in resources for the entire society.

• Solidarity, politically, economically and socially important. financing involves not only
horizontally: from one generation to another, but also the vertical: high-income sectors to those of
low resources. this is essential for the redistribution of wealth with social justice, promoting
a society based on solidarity awareness.

• Participation. Aspect that characterizes and distinguishes our country in the regional concert
and global, constitutes an essential tool enshrined in our constitution,
obviously differentiating what is government cogobierno and tripartism.

• Equality. Everyone has the right to social security, without discrimination
of any kind.


• A comprehensive vision: the contributory and non-contributory.


• Both Human Rights aim to provide security to all persons
revenue, promoting a process of protection and increasingly comprehensive social integration, and
an increasingly cohesive society. Considering further that Social Security and Protection
Social are substantial tools for social growth and economic development, through
synthesis between contributory and non-contributory benefits, on the one hand, and on the other, harmony
between universal and targeted policies, it is necessary to define the boundaries between the financial
contributory and non-contributory.

• social security and social protection are investments and not expenditure. This at a glance
progressive, unlike the neo-liberalism that sees social policies subordinate to the
economic. By contrast, in our conception must be coordinated, promoting visions
global and comprehensive for the purposes of a comprehensive social protection. When speaking of investment, it becomes
Reference to any disbursement of money, securities or similar, to work with construction
human and social capital, emphasizing that originate returns with ethical backbone, moral,
social work, education, environmental, etc.

• Efficiency, balance and financial autonomy. Promote this requires of necessity
to act efficiently - balance- financial autonomy, for which you should proceed with
unity, integrity and fairness, in order to manage resources efficiently and responsibly
available, in order that the benefits are provided on a universal basis, sufficient,
timely and appropriate, tending to sustainability and self-financing system. What
ultimately contribute to capitalize the Social Security Bank. In our two governments have
shown how it is possible to increase the protected population and improve performance, more
financial balance.
1.3

Program objectives and strategic lines

Given the aging process by which transits our country, recognized by all
specialists, as befits a defined second demographic transition, the third government
Frente Amplio will address the study of an appropriate transformation of the security system
social guaranteeing their long-term sustainability.

THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

90

This transformation will be marked by the criteria that guide this program are improving
permanent equity and distribution and reducing inequalities.
A process of this nature is of utmost importance to ensure the sustainability of a
welfare state as intergenerational and requires a process of gradual harmonization
that integrates all present and future society under a relationship of solidarity guaranty
human rights.
So they continue on the path approved by the V Extraordinary Congress of Zelmar Michelini
2008, for it is proposed:

• Ratify the guidance of the State in social policies.

• Continue the process of reforming the social security system so that all
components converge based on the principles of universality, solidarity, equality, sufficiency
and social participation as well as equity and fiscal sustainability, pointing to the extinction of the profit in the
part of a structural reform and improving security for workers and
your families.

• Maintain the requirement for progressive for defining and implementing the changes
decisions.

• promote changes in regulations seeking to harmonize the legal framework. For
This requires modifying the Institutional Act No. 9 and following the same laws, including the Law
16,713.

• Recognize through social security and in building the system of care,
how motherhood and caring influence the careers of women and the non-realization
contributions during the years when performing such work.

• Continue to develop the areas of social and political participation, something that distinguishes
our country in the concert of nations.
Form an Advisory Working Group devote itself to study and propose next steps in
As for the structural and comprehensive reform of social security, from the development
and by our political strength in this area; both in the program unit and the
Congress resolutions "Hector Rodriguez" and "Zelmar Michelini", taking into account also
the contributions and proposals from within the National Dialogue on Social Security, in both
periods of government of our broad front.
The aforementioned Working Group will take as inputs the following proposals:
to. Tender to a single basic income to ensure the adequacy of income for all priority
work and contributory and non-contributory benefits (cash and services) based on the pillars:
Security and Stewardship.
b. Tender to a reform that contributes to the distribution of wealth, deepening
social dialogue.

c. Rever pension replacement rate, raising the percentage of fixing the
retirements, being elementary social justice and especially meeting the needs of the
population.
d. The system is changed increases for retirees, either stripes or scale
down to mitigate this way the gap between passive and another.
e. Reinstatement of the bonus for retirees and pensioners.

THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

91

2. CARE SYSTEM
21

Progress and challenges

In 2005 the first government of the FA began a process of reform of the matrix protection
social order to improve the welfare of the population and ensure equal rights and
opportunities for all. The third challenge facing the government is the creation of FA
National Integrated Care System (SNIC), catering for the growing deficit of care.
Since 2010 care are part of the government agenda. On the one hand, through Resolution
863/010 that created the Inter-Agency Task care system that meets the
ministries and agencies of the social area. Furthermore, through debate in 2011 with extend
participation of civil society organizations throughout the country. In 2012 the Social Cabinet
validated a framework document on the subject on which we base this program now proposed.
Also in this period, progress was made in the training of caregivers / as; a new experience
care related to priority programs of combating poverty; the inclusion of girls and
children with disabilities through CAIF Inclusive; in home care pilot projects; Y
on the basis of information necessary for the design and implementation of the system (survey
care centers throughout the country; analysis of each of the target populations; scale
to measure the dependence of people, etc.).
Uruguay is experiencing demographic, economic, social and cultural changes, for
hand, lead to an increase of people needing care and, secondly, decrease
-responsible capacities of families so far almost exclusively, to provide them.
For care we mean a social function that implies both the promotion of personal autonomy
as care and assistance to people in situations of dependency, namely, those that
require others to perform basic tasks of daily living (eating, dressing, walking, etc).
The deficit of attentive care the welfare of the population, limits the exercise of rights and
a factor unequal to the extent that access to services depends care
the purchasing power of those who need them. This is a huge social inequality. Also,
concentration in women of care responsibilities is one of the factors
most in the production and reproduction of gender inequalities. Finally, the lack
alternative care and utilities limits the incorporation of women into the
I work in times in which the lack of control work is a bottleneck for growth
economic development of the country.
Promote a partnership model of care is therefore a central challenge to advance ina way
sustainable development with social equity and gender.
In this challenge the SNIC aims to socialize and redistribute care duties involving new
actors who take co-responsibility and share more equitably the costs and benefits of
this transformation. From this new perspective, the provision of care is a responsibility
shared between the state, market and community, and between men and women, and involves
a profound cultural change.
The creation and development of SNIC will expand and complement the array of social protection, impact
on the other sectoral policies (employment, education, health, social security, etc.)
constituting the most important social policy of the future government Frente innovation.
2.2

Programmatic objective and strategic lines

Structural move towards a new social policy, articulated in a framework law to ensure: (1)
exercise of the right to care for those who are in situations of dependency
(Permanent or temporary); (2) the exercise of the rights and responsibilities of people
paid or unpaid caregivers way; (3) the shift towards a culture of responsibility in the
care between state, market, community and family, and between men and women.

THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

92


• Launch a political, social and cultural transformation in which the care and caring
They are understood as rights and responsibility between state, market, community and family, and
between men and women, and as a guideline for performing this task.

• Men and women trained for all tasks related to the care

• The SNIC requires people trained in sufficient numbers and quality to play
the various tasks that involve its implementation: training of caregivers / as, training
trainers / as, managers / as services, supervisors / as, inspective bodies, etc.

• Training should clearly be included in a framework of Human Rights
and Gender. The formation of both women and men as carers will be promoted
-together emphasis on technical expertise in developing indispensable- subjective capabilities
contribute to the improved performance of care tasks.

• It is necessary to advance the accreditation of knowledge of those already engaged in this
task and differentiation of levels of complexity to the task of care.

• The institutions created for the SNIC give coherence to the definition of programs,
regulations, accreditation, regulation and supervision of the training of workers and
promote non-gender segmentation.

• regulated and supervised public and private services

• standards of services (infrastructure will be fixed; type of basic actions to define
as part of the service; number, quality and organization of human resources, etc.)
aiming to improve the quality thereof.

• progress will be made in the regulation and supervision of care services within
and outside the home.


• Services tailored to the needs and preferences of people

A public policy based on a conception of human rights should have a range
services and benefits to suit the needs and preferences of both the person
dependency status (permanent or temporary) and his family. Access, type and / or level of
service or benefit subsidy taken into account: the level of dependence, level of income and
time devoted to caring for the family. In particular:
Children:

• Continue to expand the maternity and paternity

according to ILO recommendations.

• Advancing strategies to support families at home, in the care

of children from 6 months to a year.

• Tender to the universalization of early childhood care

concentrating on advancing strongly in the coverage of 1 and 2 years.

• Achieve universal public offering day care for children from 3 years;

• Establish by law the creation of centers for early childhood care

centers of study and work taking the best Latin American experiences.

• Promote the extended hours to 8 hours.

• Expanding care services to existing anti-clockwise school

and generate other for children in this age group.












People in situations of dependency disability of all ages:
• Ensure the inclusion of children with disabilities in the performance
provided for children.
• Assignment of personal assistants to support both at institutional level
as for care in the home, on a territorial basis.
• Strengthen existing day care centers care, regulating them and create new ones;
support the creation of halfway houses, assisted living and nursing
short and long stay.
• Deepen regulatory adaptation, in the light of the Convention on the Rights
people with disabilities, mainly in revising the institute curatorship.
• Generalizing telecare services in this population.

THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

93













Dependent older people:
• Implement a National Home Care Program for people
Older women in situations of dependency.
• Promote the creation of day centers pivotally to the third level
of government.
• Promote the development of regional centers and public long stay
inside the country as part of a new regulatory strategy
and monitoring of residential and households.
• Go towards effective regulation and supervision
"Escorts" in residence.
• Generalizing telecare services in this population.

Caregivers / s:

• Promote the definition of the employment status of "caretaker / a" and its different levels

complexity and incorporate it into the spaces of collective bargaining (wages councils).

• Inform widely and care workers of their labor rights.

• Have mechanisms of care for people who are dedicated to the task both

so paid and unpaid.

• Promote the incorporation of men in care tasks.

• Educate families on the proper care of children and dependents.

• Promote mechanisms for flexible hours and licensing responsibilities

family caregivers for relatives in situation of dependency

as unpaid, if they are busy.

• Advance training with perspective Human Rights and Gender

that would modify the classic sexual division of labor.










• An institutional framework to articulate the system
• The Ministry of Social Development will be responsible for coordinating the system through
a National Care Board composed of those institutions with competence
rectory care policy, and social participation
• To promote and monitor the mainstreaming of gender in all
the system, the Board shall include among its members a / a representative of the National Institute
Women's.
• The territoriality and proximity are key components for deployment
system that will articulate and support in the second and third level of government.










• A model of solidarity financing
• For the SNIC a reality is necessary to have a model
financing according to the mobilization of resources. Funding
necessary for the construction of the National System of Care will be included
in the five-year 2015-2020 budget. Various sources are considered
(Public, private, mixed) to be committed in the framework of a model
funding that is progressive, systemic solidarity and promoting management
unified through a fund.

3. E SOCIAL SERVICE NETWORK INTEGRATION
3.1

Progress and challenges

The Frente Amplio, in 8 years of management, significantly reduced poverty and indigence and improved
income distribution. This was achieved with a new institutional framework, policy development
public and social spending in 2012 reached 24 points of GDP.
In the past four years, progress was made, among others, in an intensive schedule of home visits
in worse condition; in the design and implementation of new programs aimed proximity
the rebinding of citizens to social services; in the implementation of the System
Integrated Social Information Area (SIIAS). New issues are also addressed like
transgender and transsexual people promoting - through change of name and sex registry,
Social Uruguay card, and the training of civil servants and - linking
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

94

the social protection system. As part of the Strategy for Life and Coexistence progress was made in
the territorial targeting of poverty alleviation, articulated with the policies of public security,
aiming at combating social exclusion. The PIAI and rehousing programs as well as the Plan Together,
They pointed to respond to socio-housing emergency.
It is a challenge for the next government to make sustainable reduction of poverty and extreme measures
by income. This is essential to advance the access and retention of people
public services and strive to ensure social and territorial cohesion, and boost generation
Autonomous income families through access to decent work.
The country still shows lag in access to public goods and essential social services
human development such as education, housing and habitat with significant gaps in
urban-territorial terms, age, racial and gender identity descent. In turn, the
disability policies, and aging and old age should be consolidated as part of a system
social protection responds to multiple social risks.
The sustained success in reducing poverty and indigence appears closely linked to the
care needs of the different families and their public response on key human right.
Is central, then the progressive and sustained implementation of public care services
of children, older persons and persons with disabilities, and pivotally
sustainable, under the National System of Care.
Finally, it is also important for sustained poverty reduction, continue and deepen
the mainstreaming of human rights, equality and non-discrimination in the set
social policies.
3.2

Programmatic objective and strategic lines

Contribute to sustained and sustainable poverty reduction, social segmentation, inequality
socioeconomic and special rights violations associated with those and the elimination of
extreme poverty
To make this possible, along with the changes in universal policies, should be consolidated
Network of Assistance and Social Integration (RAIS) from a range of services targeted
socioeconomically and other care oriented specific vulnerabilities associated
situations of poverty, social segmentation, inequality and rights violations
associated with those (homeless, problem drug use, violence, etc.).
The performance of the RAIS should be linked to the performance of universal character (which
They must be of good quality), and clearly aimed at sustainable poverty reduction and
social integration. It is a support that, following situations of social vulnerability, has
the horizon of the social integration of people and families. This assumes that population
should not only participate in targeted programs, but finally revincularse services
universal and build capacity in entering the formal labor market.
Actions were developed in the following strategies:

• Expanding coverage and improving the quality of social public services

• Further expand the coverage of proximity devices, knowing that the intervention
psychosocial with these characteristics should be accompanied by material conditions and services
adequate demand (housing, work, education, care, mental health, etc.).

• Develop mechanisms of universal services link with individuals and
families living in poverty or social vulnerability. Protection paths are defined: a)
output modes benefits Network Assistance and Social Integration; and b) forms
alternative protection when risks persist, leading to the realization of rights.

• Simplify similar programs gaining in coverage. Relocate programs in the
specific agencies jurisdiction over the issues or matters addressed.

• Promote the economic empowerment of people through training and policies
active employment.
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

95


• Reaching out to situations of vulnerability and social exclusion aggravated by
discrimination. In particular by mainstreaming a gender perspective, taking into account people
with disabilities, and training public officials in non-discriminatory practices
particularly in relation to people of African descent, sexual diversity and people with
disabilities.

• Improving the quality of money transfer system

• Articulate cash transfers to the provision of public goods and services
quality. They should complement and facilitate access to these without replacing their adequate supply.

• Articulate a unique set of monetary transfers they are by
target social assistance. For exercise to be effective coordination for the population,
It is necessary to improve the quality of cash benefits provided by the State avoiding
overlapping them, streamlining and simplifying management windows processes
and selection of the beneficiaries thereof, strengthening the roles of the Ministry of
Social development. Give widely publicizing the criteria for entry and exit to benefits.

• Reform the monetary benefits of how to mitigate potential incentives
informality presents the current design and improve the mechanisms of accountability.

• With regard to the conditionalities of the Family Allowances generate a protocol
actions and decisions in case of default to reinforce the aim of re-linking to
the education and health systems. In this sense it necessary to consider the adequacy of
the supply of services in order to enforce compliance with the requirements of controls
and assistance.

• Formalize the Uruguay legally existing Social card similar to Assignments
Family and Assistance to the Elderly.

• Progress towards an increasingly integrated and articulated generation of social policies, the
which devices should be part RAIS.

• Articulate and synthesize Public policies like social segments,
which they were and still are located in different ministries and institutes
belonging to the central government and decentralized bodies and require
intersectoral actions and / or comprehensive.

4. POLICY ON DRUGS
4.1

Progress and challenges

In 2005 a comprehensive overview of the policies, which is incorporated deepens the perspective of
risk management in the field of demand reduction and includes a different view of the
supply control. Persecution against drug trafficking is more complex, since the persecution of micro-traffic
to further research and action operations against criminal organizations installed
locally supported with logistics and infrastructure of big cities. This includes a
determined policy of preventing and combating money laundering, creating the National Secretariat
Anti-Money Laundering.
It gives greater political significance to the National Drug Board (JND) as the governing body
drug policy and observers (ASSE, ANEP and INAU) are incorporated. The JND / SND strengthened
significantly in terms of budgetary resources.
In the area of ​​demand reduction, the JND-SND leads a new inter-state institutions,
giving relevant answers in the care of drug users. It begins to build a
Network supported by the primary care level, and installed devices care and treatment
drug users that includes two residential centers, the Yellow Portal in Montevideo and
Jagüel in Maldonado. Initiatives involving civil society in developing and driving
implementation of community devices, listening and counseling centers; and fields are generated
inter-institutional in the field of education from which interventions are targeted
preventive universal.
The strategy for 2011-2015 was based on the approved program guidelines FA
Liber Seregni Congress. Its aim is to build a comprehensive drug policy from the horizon
ethics of human rights; strengthen aspects of communication and awareness
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

96

social; design and indicate guidelines for new ways to control and regulate supply
of drugs; promote new regulations and control mechanisms and regulation suited to these
policies.
It extends and consolidates the national network of care drugs have up to five regions;
19 local guidance devices and diagnostic information with an active involvement
MSP, ASSE, Ministry of Social Development, INAU, MEC, MI, MTSS, and other State; a residential device
by region and two specialized national centers, as part of a vast network of devices
Community
For the period 2015-2020 will continue and deepen existing policies on the matter.
4.2

Programmatic objective and strategic lines

The perspective of human rights is the ethical framework of all the policies, plans, strategies
and actions developed in the field of drug policy, adapting all aspects
institutional, regulatory, budgetary and participation in the design, implementation and evaluation
a comprehensive policy on the subject.

• Promote the adoption of new rules on drugs, with a frame
general legal on the production, storage, distribution, sale and use of psychoactive substances
(Including snuff and alcohol) potentially hazardous and harmful to health. In particular:

• Strengthen the JND as the appropriate scope to define the policies to be followed in this matter.

• Strengthen coordination between the State and social organizations. Prioritize the role of
civil society organizations realizing its long-term strategic role.

• Develop a communication strategy design and assembly agencies
State about the use of psychoactive substances, their risk and damage, the communication axis
stop by the stigmatization of drug users by promoting inclusion and social integration,
cultural, economic and educational thereof.

• Addressing the demand for drugs from a focused approach in promoting the quality
of life of people, prevention, education, treatment and social integration, from
perspective of risk management and harm reduction

• Deepening of plans, programs, promotion of healthy living
through skills development strategies and psychosocial skills universal,
indicated and selective; directed to populations, family, education, community work areas,
with special emphasis on vulnerable populations. To that end it is important the articulation between
educational, social, recreational and political use of public space.

• Consolidation of the National Network for Care and Treatment Drugs - generating RENADRO
monitoring devices, monitoring, control and evaluation of compliance with the goals
prestacionales and quality of care services both state-run and private.
Promoting prevention centers, comprehensive treatment, rehabilitation and reintegration for users
drug problem, with outpatient and inpatient devices in each department,
using the variety of existing infrastructure. These benefits should be part of the
NHIS coverage.

• Deepening mainstreaming gender in all plans,
programs and actions that are carried out from the various state agencies on
drugs.

• Consolidation of the strategy of territorial and Decentralization Policy
Drugs, strengthening coordination and articulation devices at the departmental, municipal,
local and neighborhood.

• Deepening the perspective of risk and harm reduction for all
policies on drugs developed in the country especially the risks and damage
associated with the consumption of alcohol-based and pasta.

• Deepen services including treatment of problematic drug use in the
rehabilitation and social reintegration of the prison population.

THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

97

• Strengthen mechanisms for controlling and regulating the supply of drugs.

• Under the institutional strengthening of the JND consolidate prevention policies
and suppression of illicit drug trafficking within the guidelines of the JND and comprehensiveness of
policies defined from this area.

• Strengthen policies for prevention and repression of drug trafficking and crime
related crimes, especially organized crime, crimes of "white collar" and arms trafficking
people, and assets-laundering.

• Encourage the coordination and integration of the control bodies at the state level,
both at the national and departmental. Promote new rules and mechanisms
control and regulation adapting these policies to the territorial characteristics especially in the
border policy making.

• Contribute to the design and installation of control mechanisms and oversight of sale
psychoactive models under market regulation substances such as alcohol,
marijuana, snuff. Regulation of the cannabis market with emphasis on public education about
consequences that brings the problematic use.

• Promote alternatives to imprisonment and early release,
developing plans and programs of socio-labor and educational integration, which account for the
most vulnerable populations who engage in criminal activities related to micro-traffic
drug including a gender perspective.

• Strengthen policies of prevention and suppression of money laundering including
asset investigation, seizure and confiscation of assets of criminal organizations.
Strengthen tools for monitoring, management and allocation of assets seized and
confiscated in cases of drug trafficking and money laundering.

• Promote the design of evidence-based policies

• Establishment of a National Research Uses of Substances
Psychoactive, coordinating with the various areas and existing research centers both
UDELAR field, as in other academic institutions and civil society.

• Assess progress observed in relation to market regulation and marijuana
consider whether other steps as part of the overall strategy of regulation and control
state. .

• At the international level, continue to promote discussion and policy review
to deal effectively with the World Drug Problem.

• Expanding into new areas dealing with the subject (Commission on Human Rights, WHO Commission
Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice, United Nations).

• Promote the revision of the Convention on Narcotic looking for alternatives
regulatory, and review the status of cannabis in the lists.

• To prioritize the debate in regional areas such as UNASUR, MERCOSUR, and search
bilateral dialogues with neighboring countries on the need for change in drug policy.

• To favor the processes of market regulation of psychoactive substances
current is positively discriminate national stakeholders in a development perspective
citizens and sustainable communities.

THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

98

C.

LIFECYCLE

Social policies to individuals and families must accompany lifetime.
Miscellaneous, complex, sometimes unstable family is the basis of human development. The
profound changes that have occurred in it not omit its functions. On the contrary, it is reinforced and
It adopts own content, recognizing multiple arrays. This family should be able to develop their
roles, that remains the privileged place where affection and protection will be provided
for children the first lessons, allowing learning those necessary for
interact with their peers. It is the family that transmits values ​​and ethical models of tolerance and
respect and forms of personal and social relationships.
The Frente Amplio recognizes these roles and commitment to consolidate and legitimize what the law already consecrated,
enabling undeniable in the context of new forms of coexistence changes that reflect the best
humans, betting on the development of people, beyond their circumstances and
community.
Early childhood national priority
Child development requires adequate nutrition and stimulation and care that will enable
children express their potential and acquire skills and competencies in cognitive areas,
emotional and social. Neuroscience have shown that in these early stages of the cycle
there are fundamental vital opportunities for human development, which determine the stages
later.
In contexts of poverty are verified in pregnant women, nutritional deficiencies, anemia
and infections before and during pregnancy; low birth weight and prematurity; and nutritional deficits
and development in young children. All this adversely affects the development of the
cognitive-linguistic skills of children and then translates into strong learning difficulties.
These distinctive characteristics, according to the socioeconomic and cultural environment to which belong
children, facilitate the reproduction of the mechanisms that generate social inequalities.
In all contexts, the breeding habits and care are elements to prioritize policy
towards universal early childhood.
Therefore, for the Frente Amplio, early childhood is a national priority. It is a national priority
all pregnant transit pregnancy under proper conditions of health, giving birth
children / healthy as, accompanied by his partner and may develop life projects; and all
children from birth to 36 months to fully develop health,
food, affection, education and proper socialization.

1. Childhood and Adolescence
The lack of intergenerational equity in access to welfare, in particular the concentration
poverty in households with children and adolescents shows that Uruguayan society not
He has successfully protected the same way to all age groups. The imbalance in access to
welfare between generations jeopardizes the possibility of expanding the opportunities for
people in our society, necessary for sustainable human development.
Therefore, change this situation is not only an ethical imperative but a condition for
social sustainability of the country.
eleven

Progress and challenges

In the years 2008 and 2009 were developed and approved the National Strategy for Children and
Adolescents (ENIA) 2010-2030 and its corresponding Action Plan 2010 - 2015. This Strategy
A major milestone in the conception and design of public policies for children
and adolescence for its medium-term look, its comprehensiveness and the broad consensus
nationals collected for processing and approval.

THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

99

As for the offer of services for early childhood has been progress but no
They are available to everyone. The Plan has achieved CAIF operate as an integrated intersectoral policy
public effort to involve civil society and maintain its continuity through two
and a half decades. To this other public sector efforts are added such as childcare centers
INAU and diurnal centers Our Children program Departmental Government of
Montevideo. The pooling of these services reached an important level as a result
of the effort, to expand coverage and improve the quality of care
early childhood under the Equity Plan.
They have taken decisive steps to strengthen the links between these services and services
health primary care oriented to the proper development of the pregnancy and the first
childhood. However, there is still make a major effort to serve the entire population
potential recipient of these services and achieve universal. In that direction
It has approved the first basic curriculum for children aged 0-36 months. To this is
adds improved monitoring and control centers Private kindergarten by the
MEC. In 2012 it began implementing the national program "Uruguay grows with you" oriented
care of pregnant women and children in health risk (reflected in malnutrition, anemia and problems
growth).
In the initial and primary education, the education system has to define the relevant steps
Initial compulsory education levels 4 and 5 and meet the needs
the various contexts. A level of secondary education, have also implemented actions
aimed at promoting the permanence of adolescents in the educational system, although its
coverage is still insufficient to overcome the problems faced.
In the area of ​​health, the National Integrated Health System aims to correct inequities in
access and quality of services to less populated areas referred to in
above, and in particular children, adolescents and pregnant system. However even
It presents significant challenges that limit appropriate access to these services.
Under the Equity Plan a new family allowance system was implemented
which it has had a major impact on lower-income households, impacting both
reducing poverty and indigence by revenue.
In relation to situations of particular vulnerability various actions have been implemented. In
regarding child labor has continued to operate the National Committee for the
Elimination of Child Labour (CETI). The Committee for the Eradication of Sexual Exploitation
It has enabled the development of human resources and awareness actions aimed at technicians and
community. INAU has promoted the creation of a program of care for Children
and adolescent victims of trafficking and / or commercial sexual exploitation. They deepened the scope of
SIPIAV (Comprehensive Protection System for Children and Adolescents Against Violence) developing
training activities, awareness and assistance in situations of violence to children
and adolescents. A new form of care that favors developed desinternación
of children and adolescents. As part of the approval of the Adoption Law, they were created
modalities "family friend" and "reception center" as alternatives that add
to set by "caregivers" and aims coexistence in an average system
family. Also, the processes related to adoptions were improved. Regarding care
to adolescents in conflict with criminal law, ARDS (Accountability System was created
Criminal Adolescents) that have greater autonomy in the performance of their duties. He created the
strategy to strengthen family capacities, "commuter", which develops actions
Proximity through regional teams and seeks to promote access for families living in extreme
vulnerability to services and benefits.
1.2

Program objectives and strategic lines

The general orientation is expressed in a strong commitment to universal public policies
in the art. These universal policies should include actions for inclusion in the same
of children and adolescents in households in poverty. Thus
It will help to avoid the perpetuation of poverty in our society.
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

100

The program objectives and strategic lines for the five years 2015 - 2020 as part of the
National Strategy for Children and Adolescents (ENIA) 2010-2030, are:
Support for families with children and adolescents, allowing mothers and fathers to
educational and work confident that their children are properly cared for and also have
the means and the time necessary to fulfill their role responsibly and enjoy parenting
of sons and daughters.
•
Development of universal public policies to support families including systems
care and improvements in working conditions (leave, flexible schedules, conditions and
flexibility to study, etc.).
•
Strengthening the mechanisms of attention and support to families (health centers,
CAIF, etc.) and eliminate overlapping of programs, initiatives and devices.
•
Promote substantial improvements in the mechanisms for adoption.
Protection pregnancy and early childhood, with a national and universal system of protection and
Comprehensive care during pregnancy and early childhood. This system will enable all
all pregnant women and young children have access to health services, education, recreation
and supports quality. Therefore shall include devices to meet specific and include
families in situations of high vulnerability.
Pregnancy

• Strengthening of services and care and support mechanisms for pregnant

with a comprehensive and universal approach.

• Expansion of the network and improve the quality of (public and private)

health care first-rate, surpassing the purely clinical shouldering.

Promoting early detection of pregnancy and carrying out checks

Recommended health. Infection prevention and comprehensive care for specific diseases.

• Promotion of adequate food for all women of childbearing age

and assistance with fortified foods.

• Promotion of male involvement.

• Creation of opportunities for comprehensive care for pregnant adolescents

favoring the assumption of pregnancy as a vital milestone to be incorporated

in their life project.

• Promoting the development of parenting skills and responsibility

parents of adolescents, as well as the commitment of families and institutions.

• Protect by law for working women to not lose incentives

weekly and monthly when attending pregnancy control and

mothers and fathers for health care of children in their early childhood.

Early childhood

• Strengthening and improving quality, the system of health care and development
children / as: extension, the entire health system, monitoring system (Plan Customs in ASSE) in
prestacionales compliance targets linked to comprehensive home visit; compliance
health checks; effective universal assessment of child development at key stages
(4 months, 18 months, 4 years) to be applied to controls healthy child health, strengthening
attention deficit situations or lag; development of a National Elimination Plan
Anemia.

• Promotion of exclusive breastfeeding up to six months and creating a system
food fortification and micronutrient supplies for those children / as and
Pregnant women who present some kind of deficit.

• universalization of early childhood care development by reference
the CAIF Plan. Increased coverage CAIF Plan (main public effector) reaching, in a
first stage, all households in the top two income quintiles; and in a second stage,
developing it - with corresponding adaptations - in the whole society. Continue
expanding day care for children between 12 and 24 months without neglecting the proper development
by appropriate experiences with the parents of these children / as oriented development
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

101

good parenting practices. CAIF Plan provide the greater management autonomy (in line with what already
made for the ARDS). Ensure educational continuity of children.
Strengthening the bond of children and adolescents with the educational system and its
achievements, the population with adequate educational proposals to that target, with increased
teaching, flexible and compatible times with the new family and social realities; a
personalized education; opportunities for participation of children and adolescents in schools
education; and increased dialogue and understanding between students and teachers.
Promoting healthy lifestyle habits in childhood and adolescence, good care oriented
health and healthy eating, prevention of addictions and lead generation for
development of recreational, sports and cultural activities throughout the country.

• Creating new teen space in health centers; promotion and real access
methods of contraception; universal annual preventive health control; use of the card
health as a public document with valid educational, labor and sports fields.

• Promoting sex education in schools and linked to the system
bless you.

• Implementation of special programs of prevention and behavior
risk adolescents (problematic substance use, accidents, attempts
self-elimination, violent forms of conflict resolution).

• Development of recreational and sports activities for children and adolescents.

• Promotional activities and prevent proper development in children and adolescents.

• Promotion of healthy eating to prevent early onset of disease
as the epidemic of childhood obesity or hypertension, protecting children from advertising
deceptive food.
Strengthening the system of protection, so that every child, every girl and every teenager
is in a situation of vulnerability, find suitable areas of support and backing
to enable it to recover the full exercise of their rights.

• EXTREME POVERTY: Collect and consolidate policies and guidance to support
families in extreme poverty with pregnant women and children / small / as.

• MENTAL HEALTH: Continue strengthening referral services and attention.
Develop community-level preventive and educational centers, specialized equipment
care in health centers, places of hospitalization and rehabilitation, support and egress
family and social integration. Distribute responsibilities appropriately between agencies
with competence in the subject.

• DISABILITIES: Ensure specific and comprehensive care and strengthening educational inclusion
in public schools having specialized support through special schools acting
their role as resource centers. Addressing the socio-educational continuity of education graduates
primary.

• ABUSE AND ABUSE: Strengthen the Integrated System for the Protection of Children and Adolescents
Violence (SIPIAV) and achieve its presence in the entire country and application
institutional protocols and guidelines developed for this purpose.

• SEXUAL EXPLOITATION: Consolidate the National Committee for the Eradication of exploitation
sexual / Child and adolescent and its Action Plan.

• STREET SITUATIONS child labor: Develop care systems
to avoid the intensive child labor within the household. Eliminating the worst forms of child labor
(Poked and classification of waste, brick kilns, construction, rural risky work, etc.).
Eradicate informal work and dangerous teenager hindering the study. In cases
appropriate, help reconcile study and work - formally - of older teens
15.

• SUBSTANCE psychoactive: Expand information and education. Expand
care coverage with territorial logic through Health Centers installed nationwide
adequately preparing technicians carry out their work there. Strengthen treatments
outpatient. Devices generate specific admission for children / as and expand existing
for teens.

• CONFLICT WITH CRIMINAL LAW: Deepening the socio-educational approach to accountability
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

102

of juvenile offenders, from a rights perspective. Socio prioritize non-custodial measures. Adopt deprivation ordered inpatient centers
a progressive graduation in the use of freedom of movement. Improve the training of resources
System humans to deprivation of liberty, where appropriate, is really a
rehabilitative measure. Expand specialized courts across the country.

• Experiences of educational and employment as INAU - ARDS (Insertion Program
Social and Community) and the PIT-CNT with adolescents in conflict with the law help to focus
again the focus of the discussion to the rescue of solidarity as the identity value
Popular sectors, social organizations and leftist sensibility, creating a
new management model in public policies, and fighting stigma multiplied by
mass media.
Promoting the participation of children and adolescents and transformation of the links
intergenerational. Children and adolescents to express their opinions, make
demands and proposals and participate in decisions in the family, school and high school, in the club,
in the neighborhood, etc. Recover public spaces as key area of ​​contact between peers and between
generations. Promote opportunities for dialogue between adults and children and adolescents in the
family in the neighborhood, in schools and in society.
Institutional strengthening. In the framework of ENIA, the joints and improve coordination
intersectoral and inter avoiding overlap of roles and functions; It will be designed and
will implement an Action Plan 2015-2020 ENIA based on these program guidelines.
INAU rectory will be established in the matter by reviewing its structure and functioning and differentiating
the stewardship role of the implementation of services and programs.
Recognizing the advances of the last decade in the set of policies, plans and programs
support the diversity of families and accompanying people throughout their life cycle,
understand basic articulation, supervision, monitoring and control in implementation,
and subsequent evaluation of these, as a condition to deepen in the third government
left, both when the implementation is straightforward as when performed through organizations
civil society.

2. YOUTH
21

Progress and challenges
A country that bet on young people is a country that invests in youth policies, is also
a society that is afraid, thinking and looking young and possibility of development and
which aims to break the intergenerational inequities in access to social welfare. Is
bet also generate real mechanisms it involves listening, participation and protagonism
facilitate the incidence, also contributing to positive visibility to the young people in our
society.
2.2 program objectives and strategic lines
Participation. Strengthen the leadership, mobilization and advocacy capacity of movement
Uruguayan youth in national and regional political scene.

• Promoting legitimacy and trust: this means that to participate you must believe,
trust, build and give meaning and purpose to participation it means giving value without these elements
it is impossible to think of any participatory process.

• Promote youth mobilization: the third Frente Amplio government should also
tend to deepen ties with social organizations and youth social movements
They constitute the historical basis of social support.

• Extend DRIVES program: to develop and promote participatory processes,
leadership and civic exercise is necessary to stake training strategies
regarding the incorporation of knowledge and learning related to trading, formulation
projects, communication strategies, group techniques, communication, citizenship rights
human, mediation, conflict resolution, etc.
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

103


• Youth Initiatives Funds: it is necessary to understand that to promote participation
you have to invest and allocate resources where the protagonists directly to choose and route
the allocation of resources.

• Visibility: youth participation policies must allow these spaces play
power, for the purpose of enabling new symbolic constructions youth and allow
impact on the construction of the public agenda.

• Youth Law - National Youth Platform: through legislation will be created
youth participation platform that addresses the country. As it will
objectives: to stimulate, promote and coordinate the participation of the young people of our country, creating
a benchmark for youth organizations.

• Legal Clinics for young people: it is essential to install and extend to the territory
National legal clinics that provide service assistance, advice and sponsorship
promote enabling legal rights and address situations where rights are violated
younger generations.

• Promotion of youth culture as a contribution to building a democratic society.
Education. Strengthen the educational trajectories of adolescents and youth reducing
decoupling, the lag and universalize the completion of secondary education. While reducing
educational gaps between young men and women and of those from households
poor and non-poor. Promoting the redefinition of schools through the development of
strategies to promote youth participation and the development of new educational content.

• Educational Policy Integration: Strategies for achieving this goal will be implemented
and actions covering diverse situations and different profiles, which involve actions
and instruments unified between programs within the educational system, INEFOP, and MEC
MIDES.

• Extend partnerships and educational cooperation: cooperation, complementarity and
combination of capabilities and functions between bodies responsible for education policy,
youth and social policies be better answers to address situations that no
body in isolation will respond appropriately.

• Information System accompanying educational trajectories: this
instrument will serve educators and teachers for making daily decisions in the
developing strategies for inclusive education, prevention and decoupling lag.

• New strategies of institutional communication: the media, ICT and
social networks have great relevance and centrality in youth socialization therefore be
should invest significantly in providing communication messages (trusted, call,
etc.) students and for those who want to be students.

• To universalize the system regarding peer tutoring or: will be extended and expanded in the
Basic upper and incorporating the concept of "reference pair" media education as Strategy
Proximity accompanying priority. At the same time it will promote in the whole
tertiary education development practices as creditable solidarity practice.

• Extend the strategies of vocational guidance in the education system and
animation courses, volunteering and youth leadership that allow students to incorporate
tools and learning related to communication, group techniques, conflict mediation,
planning activities, training in values.

• Care System Education Centers: this policy will address in particular the
situation of young women excluded from the education system will be developed in parallel to
classroom and will strengthen the educational trajectories of adolescents and youth, thus allowing
completion of secondary education cycle.

• Extend Commitment and More Educational Center program in educational centers
secondary education: both programs have become strategies that allowed - through
the joint participation of tertiary students as reference pairs students
secondary education, from the opening of schools to the community and the formation of
estudiantiles- volunteers and animators, develop innovative actions that have improved
the educational climate and institutional culture of schools. These initiatives should
join strategies aimed improving coexistence and conflict resolution within
schools.

• Training in second language: it will operate a national strategy
massively allow the formation of at least one alternative language to the Spanish language, allowing
new generations take on new skills and abilities that allow better integration
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

104

social, cultural, economic and employment scenarios in the regional and international integration.
Employment. Improving opportunities for integration and continued employment under working conditions
decent. At the same time, reduce gender inequalities in access to the labor market; Y
Study reconcile work as a strategy to promote the completion of educational cycles and
enhance future employment opportunities for youth.

• Integrated System of vocational training and youth employment policy must be
involved with education policy. Vocational training system will become operational
that involve coordination and articulation of the curriculum programs
training for (formal and non-formal) work. This main objective will allow mobility
ascending, horizontal and vertical youth, creating incentives to advance curricular and
educational cycles finish.

• Devices intermediation specialized in youth: it is essential
strengthen youth intermediation strategies that have as main objective to generate
decent employment opportunities for young people with greater difficulties of insertion
labor and identify skills needs and profiles arising from the productive project
our country.

• First Youth Policy Experience: In the framework of the implementation of the new law
youth employment program that will target young people between 16 and 24 years develop,
for the purpose of developing its first formal job opportunity in a limited time period and
under various forms in public, private and central government agencies.

• Ensure labor and trade union rights of workers and young people with special
attention inside the country.
Living place. Promote and facilitate the access of young people to a permanent or temporary housing solution
appropriate to the needs and potential of young people.

• Youth housing program: facilities, flexible criteria and actions are incorporated
affirmative youth in all housing policies developed by the MVOTMA, the
BHU and the National Housing Agency. Primarily a system is put into operation
rental guarantee for young people.
Bless you. Strategies and actions to promote the development of healthy lifestyles and coexistence
facilitating access to and effective use of health services from an integrated model of health,
encourage the practice of physical and sporting activities as well as opportunities and spaces for
recreation and tourism.

• Increase the number of adolescents in different areas of health effectors.

• Polyclinics open to teenagers equipment formed in youth work (team
Teen space) to generate recreational and sports activities such around the polyclinic
promoting the concept of health as a healthy living and healthy lifestyles.
Agreements with other institutions by conditions of physical space for such activities.

• Strengthen public spaces that facilitate sports activities and meeting
youth and inter-generational in neighborhoods where there is lack of these spaces. To recognize
public space as the privileged meeting place for young people and allow
healthy living and healthy lifestyles.

• harm reduction campaigns from health centers to encourage consumption
responsible.
Institutions in youth policies. Strengthening public institutions specialized
in youth and opportunities for coordination and articulation to the effects of
mainstreaming a generational perspective into sectoral policies and achieve higher levels of
interagency cooperation and complementation.

• Budget with youth perspective: public investment in youth should be reflected
in drawing up the national budget. Therefore it will be incorporated - as a criterion for
elaboración- generational dimension, this means that every body must give visibility
the amount allocated budget policies, programs and initiatives for young people.

• National Youth Institute: agency specializing in youth must continue
institutional strengthening process, this will further develop the role of joint,
coordination and steering of youth policies. It means the INJU / MIDES must ensure
incorporate generational look into sectoral policies and be laboratory and promoter of actions
innovative. It should further develop national plans of youths in a participatory manner, and
look medium to long term, it is about accountability must annually effects
to account to citizens on progress and challenges.

THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

105

3. AGING AND AGING
3.1

Progress and challenges

The country moved into a new conception of aging and old age through commissioning
up of the National Institute for Older Persons and the first National Plan
on this subject. Similarly, he went out to meet outstanding vulnerabilities care
as situations of abuse and put on the table, with discussions and experiences
significant-the problem of care in aging population.
The XXI century will marked in their demographic by the phenomenon of aging and Uruguay is not
exception being, along with Cuba, the oldest population in Latin America. This is a product of
advances in social welfare in our society and must be addressed in terms of opportunities
and challenges.
The cross look of aging in all its complexity is thus a priority
to the social, health and demographic challenges ahead for population policies
in the next years.
They are strategic, and should be part of the development of public actions aimed at people
elderly women: the rights approach, broadening the array of social protection and
prioritization of the most vulnerable groups (including dependent persons, those
destitute people, the Afro group, and people with difficulty
access to public goods and services).
3.2

Programmatic objective and strategic lines

Advancing a new perspective on aging and old age, strengthening public policy
promoted by the last two governments.

• Centers for long stay
Implement a new policy of regulation and supervision centers in both long stay
social services building a specific information system, supporting centers
move towards formality. Provide supervision with sufficient technical resources and
materials to properly carry out their work.

• Day care centers
Install Day care centers for older people in each municipality.

• Accessibility
Open a support line habitability and accessibility of housing for adults
higher.
Eliminate physical barriers in public spaces, in buildings and on public transport,
friendly environments favoring the elderly.

• Attention to situations of vulnerability
Check the old age assistance program to be not only a financial benefit but a way
Access to all social services.
Consolidate and expand the services of a comprehensive approach to abuse and mistreatment of people
higher.
Promoting new approaches such as aging in rural areas, and black population
age, sexual diversity in old age, etc.

• Integration and contribution to society of the elderly
Promote active aging approach and promote the recognition of adult and adult
older persons as productive; to value the skills and cultural wealth and
knowledge of older people; promote access to technologies and the
combat loneliness in old age, in particular by promoting volunteer programs
intergenerational.

THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

106


• policy and institutional aspects
As part of this new conception of old age 18,617 amend the law creating the Institute
National Older Adult in the integration of its Advisory Council incorporating the Ministry of
Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Education and Culture and the University of the Republic; and change
Law 17.817 to make explicit reference to discrimination on grounds of age.
D. Cross-cutting policies for equality
Uruguay This program recognizes the country as a diverse, multiethnic and multicultural, and in this sense,
the Frente Amplio combat all forms of discrimination gender, generational, ethnic-race by, for
sexual orientation and gender identity, disability and ancestry population
indigenous and migrant.

1. GENDER
eleven

Progress and challenges

The following developments are:
Consolidation governing institutions of public policies aimed at equality
Women in Uruguayan society with increased real resources
Creation of the National Gender Council
Approval of a Plan for Equal Opportunities and Rights covering the whole Uruguayan State
Approval of the National Strategy to Combat Violence Against Women
Creation and extension services addressing violence in most departments
from the country
Extension of the Quality Program with Equity in Public Companies and other agencies
Been
Protocols progressive construction of action in the state that provide gender
and generations
Approval and implementation of the Law on Sexual and Reproductive Health and, specifically,
adoption of the Law on Voluntary Interruption of Pregnancy and rapid implementation.
Formation of the Interministerial Working Group to design the National Integrated System
Care with a gender perspective.
The effort of promotion and installation of concrete policies and advances in location
the country in comparative terms with others in the implementation of gender equality required for the
third term of the Frente Amplio a qualitative leap from a coordinated assessment
and comprehensive of all state actors involved in the process. Only then will take shape
the necessary cultural change in the areas of political and economic decision to build the
equal sharing of goods and services, equality and inequality must contemplate
starting point vulnerabilities faced by adult women, girls and adolescents and
conspiring with the development of a sustainable and equitable democratic country.
1.2

Program objectives and strategies:


• democratic transformation of society and the state with gender equality:
It will work in pursuit of substantive equality that deepens the effects of accessibility and
fair distribution to the entire population.
Deepening the affirmative policies in training, research, monitoring and representation,
aiming to identify barriers to equal participation in access to
economic goods, universal service and cultural equality Uruguayan women.
It is therefore essential to include the strategic and budget planning of the next government
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

107

National Integrated Care System, seeking to balance the unequal distribution in the use of time
of men and women and the invisible economic contribution that women made today for production
and social reproduction of Uruguayan society.
Take all necessary measures to strengthen the technical and advocacy capacity
governmental mechanisms for the advancement of women and ensure they reach the
highest hierarchical level in the structure of the state and strengthening the institutional and Nest
genre as a whole, to enable them to fulfill their missions.
Mutidimensionales optimize and coordinate policies towards avoiding the most vulnerable groups
These overlapping and bureaucratic inefficiency.
Integrate the gender perspective in the national budget and accountabilities in order to measure
the impact of policies based on gender. Visible resources are turning to these objectives in the
National Budget for the purpose of being able to monitor progress in deepening reform
democratic state and an effective redistribution. This requires deepening the System
Gender Information Inmujeres implementing in coordination with other agencies
State to apply specific policies and are part of the Plan for Equal Opportunities and
Rights.
Effective implementation of parity in government subject to control and including all charges
public without exception as already stated in the previous Congress.


• Increased democratization and political participation of women

Work on the extension of the law of political quota in time until reality has
transformed and therefore this tool is no longer required.
Extend the application of the quota to the third level of government through a legislative initiative
boost our political force
Keep working on finding parity aim of deepening democracy in a
start making effective political force, their sectors and in government positions.
Implement the program of quality with equity to all state agencies
Use the education of women from infancy to promote knowledge and exercise
their rights and duties, and the development así¬ preparatory skills for participation
citizen and polí¬tica. It is necessary to implement mechanisms to strengthen leadership
children, youth and women from school, to ensure full access and permanence in space
decision-making and participation.

• peaceful coexistence and violence: Installing an Integrated System
Responses to a free of Domestic Violence and Generations
Policies and programs further progress towards a Comprehensive Response System to a
Country Free of Violence against Women and Generations. It is understood that to the extent that violence
domestic and interpersonal relationships is not judged or explicit, the feeling is favored
collective impunity against which a progressive force must fight.
The same should broaden the agenda with equal emphasis integrating the different types of violence
genre: domestic, sexual, trafficking and smuggling, commercial sexual exploitation of children and non-commercial,
and adolescents, sexual harassment, symbolic violence, violence against and sexual rights
reproductive, institutional violence, among others.
Integral System should ensure the presence of the various state institutions in the
territories, through decentralized programs and devices that ensure proximity
early detection and facilitate access to the network of support services, always based on the
promoting, respectful of human dignity equal education.
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

108

The main areas that make up the system response are: Prevention, Access to Justice System,
Network support services, information systems, education and training.
They should deepen coordination, training and financing for correct application
and effective measures already legislated prevention, many of which are unknown
target population and have a poor implementation by some of the actors
Main.

• Deepening of educational policies as key tools to generate
Culture and equitable development
The Education Act collected include programmatic proposals of the gender perspective and eliminate
all kinds of discriminatory stereotypes in the education of children and adolescents. For that
They have created different distinct programs: Education in human rights, combating violence and
Sexual Education. The three materials are based on a view from human rights and therefore,
should be unified in an approach from the equality of human beings regardless of their
sex, race, socioeconomic status, illness or other cultural vulnerabilities.
It should especially include building a nonviolent identity in males and
more affirmative in their self-esteem in girls and adolescents, to avoid repeating the schemes
conservative domination and hierarchy, both in interpersonal relationships, social
and opportunities in the social and economic life. To insist on the diverse backgrounds without
stereotypes for girls and teenagers so do not lay your complete happiness and
future autonomy.

The education system as a whole should guarantee women an education system
continues to rest on the essential care services favoring retention and
advancement in careers.
State cultural policies and to be promoted from the political force, must include
elements that stimulate an open and progressive cultural exchange, with a secular and respectful matrix
differences.
Generating free of sexism and other forms of discrimination educational content. The new ones
ICT-based educational tools and resources that are being created from the Ceibal Plan
they are an opportunity to integrate into the world of free citizens stereotypes generated by
inequities. This will be done after the creation of innovative content filtered by experts
Treatment of these gaps that accompany digital.

• Mainstreaming and interinstitutionality of gender policies in the
labor market and social protection and health.
It will deepen and interinstitutionality mainstreaming of gender policies
in order to prevent, facilitate and monitor different situations in the labor market and
different work areas in which our Uruguayan women work in compliance
legislation achieved and generated specific duties:
Sexual harassment labor and teaching, gender mainstreaming clauses in wage negotiations,
elimination of discriminatory called by sex and age, specific support to enable
participation in job training, selection in generating jobs or overtime games
special, compliments of ILO Conventions 183 concerning especially the extension
the maternity leave, parental leave deepen etc.
Deepen affirmative policies such as granting quality labels to Equitable
private and public companies, while providing various incentives such as awards on
tax or extra points for contracting with the state.
Track and periodic review, in order to ensure continuity of these practices
and compliance in companies which can effectuate compliance line
PIOD to maintain the strategic policy creation and strengthening of gender in all areas
state and dealings in which bodies do not yet exist. These measures and actions
require implementation by the State of specific training courses on the subject.
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

109

Deepen and strengthen the mechanisms for the full exercise of sexual and reproductive rights
pursuant to the implementation of the Law on Defense of Sexual and Reproductive Rights
in the development of the Integrated National Health System.


• Planning with a gender perspective

Include urbanism from a gender perspective on land use plans and general
strategic planning of cities (public spaces, recreation, household location
care, education, public transport, security in the city, bus stops) and that of
it depends on the quality of life of women have a substantive change.

2. Afro-Uruguayans
21

Progress and challenges

Honorary consultants, addresses, units and mainly formally consolidated
tools for mainstreaming in the state of public policies Rights
Human and African descendents and public principles to combat racism and asserted
sexism.
These roads were combined in recent Act affirmative action for Afro-descendants,
you showing again the will of the Frente Amplio in their humanistic principles, progressive
and antiracist. This way the Frente Amplio has boosted made possible by the presence of
organized civil society, promoting the mobilization of political, social issues and
economic community of African descent.
The institutions should have a guiding principle that can make sense of government policies and
particularly the integration programs, integration and equality for both African descent as
for women and other discriminated groups in society. Strengthen a State with a look
inclusive, integrative and build equality as an inalienable principle.
We understand that our society must walk a new multiculturalism, to strengthen
the values ​​of solidarity, integration and equality from a common construction but
diverse, allowing defend strategic objectives as well. So we must move
in recognition of different identities, such as the Afro-Uruguayan, protecting their values
Community solidarity as a way of integration and peace.
The institutions must become the guarantor of inclusion, integration and
equal society, facilitating the design and implementation of public policies
materialize the principles of equality and non-discrimination at all levels of governance,
that hold from one's look and actions of the Afro as state policy.
Promote the fight against racism and racial discrimination will result in a direct impact on
the elimination of extreme poverty and extreme poverty, which has become so difficult for policy
social development of our government.
The social, political and economic changes should contribute to a real integration of
all / as the / as excluded / as, with policies aimed at human development, where the impact on the
Afro-Uruguayan population as a strategic means for the elimination of poverty and the elimination
racism, improving access to health, education, housing, work, sport and culture.
2.2

Program objectives and strategic lines

Education. Education will enable the emancipation of excluded / ace. The incorporation in all
levels of formal education of the General History of Africa and the contents related to history
of the Afro-Uruguayan population and their contributions in building society, they will meet the target
to deconstruct stereotypes and stigmatization in education allowing emancipation
and integration from the differences.
Guarantee access and retention of people of African descent at all educational levels,
mainly encouraging (with public policies and special measures) to remain in the
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

110

technical and university levels. This will give the Uruguayan society not only a development of
know-how in the fields that align with the strategic priorities outlined for development
economic and social life, but to be built from a more comprehensive view to the next
20 years.
Recognition. Social recognition of our nation as a core value guiding principle
for the design, implementation and exercise of public policies that result in the strengthening
and deepening of our democratic system in terms of increased participation, justice
social and racial equity. Harmonization of national legislation will be promoted by ensuring
multiculturalism, equity in opportunities and collective rights of the Afro-Uruguayan and /
as.
Equal opportunities. Development and implementation of programs and projects for development
of the Afro-Uruguayan population, health, education, housing and environment with gender
and generations, to promote equal opportunities at all levels of society and
other initiatives affirmative or positive action.
Affirmative action. Implement affirmative action for people of African descent online
with the recently approved law.
Institutions. Create the appropriate Institutional Executive whose mission is the design
and the implementation of public policies and affirmative action to integrate the principles of equality
and non-discrimination at all levels and areas of public management (gender trasversalización
and age). Mainstreaming Ethnic Equity - racial as state policy. Promoting fighting
racism and racial discrimination in the structures of representation in the organs of the State,
public and especially in the field of justice services.

3. SEXUAL DIVERSITY
3.1

Progress and challenges

Since the triumph of the Frente Amplio in 2005, a clear inclination towards the reformulation of legislation
family in terms of recognizing and protecting diversity. The adoption of the Law Union
Concubinage, the Law on Amendments to the provisions relating to the Adoption later
the Law on voluntary interruption of pregnancy and, as corollary the recent approval of the Law
Equal Marriage, Uruguay placed at the head of the region in terms of consecration
the legal protection of the diversity of families. We add all the balance more than positive light,
the adoption of the Law on Gender Identity, which represented a first step towards the elimination
progressive barriers that exclude transgender people from formal employment circuits,
education, health, housing, etc.
All these developments are enormous achievements of the government of our political force to be shared
and defend in everyday life with our neighbors and neighbors, they represent substantial improvements
in everyday democracy. But we must also add a dimension to the conquered: all this is
He managed based on the joint work of political power and civil society. An alliance that, being a
the most expensive to the Uruguayan left, new vigor comes with these new issues. Alliance sees
resurface new members among the young people and that undoubtedly challenge our front Wide
find ways to integrate not only his subjects, but their new ways of doing politics. There
is played, without doubt, the possibility of accumulation necessary in the process of deepening
democracy.
That is why it is important to renew our commitment to the struggle for happiness and dignity
I knew from the beginning to endorse the political left. It is also necessary to rethink
classic notions of human rights up to now often associated exclusively
violations of human rights during the terrorism of State to move to incorporate
new generation of rights that require social movements.
Even with the progress made on respect for sexual diversity and equality
people, yet we must continue strengthening the functioning of the Honorary Commission against
Racism and all forms of discrimination, to develop policies and campaigns against
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

111

discrimination against LGBTI people, among other groups discriminated against and assume his defense in
all areas.
As for sex education, ANEP authorities decided, after conducting workshops
training for teachers and teachers during 2007, start teaching sex education since 2008
at all levels of public education. We maintain within our aspirations
stop complete its implementation, as well as the perspective of respect for sexual diversity display
reflected in the documents released by the Commission on Sexual Education.
Moreover, they are to emphasize the actions of policies promoted by the Ministry of Development
Social: training in sexual diversity policies and public officials throughout the MIDES
country, Sexual Diversity research (carried out in conjunction with the UdelaR
with funding from the national government), access to Social Uruguay card for everyone
after unrestricted, and the creation of a fee for job training and calls
INJU to protected employment.
It is in this sense that the FA should advance the development of specific public policies
aimed at promoting respect for sexual diversity and guarantee the right to self-orientation
sexual and gender identity. For this we must establish a strong state institutions which
promote and monitor, avoiding exclusion, particularly for trans women who like
all populations whose cultural discrimination has an economic counterpart, are affected by
serious situations of poverty and marginalization.
3.2

Program objectives and strategic lines

In the sense of walking to deepen the changes initiated with the arrival of the Frente Amplio
and ongoing dialogue with organized civil society, raised the following objectives
program with corresponding strategic guidelines for the period 2015-2020:
Advance an anti-discrimination policy for LGBTI people tangible and effective.

• Reform of the legal anti-discrimination legislation.

• Review and repeal of discriminatory legislation remaining in Uruguay.

• Reformulation of the law 17817 for easy application.

• Expanding the repertoire of sanctions for acts of discrimination

(Monetary fines, community service, other).

• Stop playing stereotypes and prejudices about the LGBTI population.

• Implement public campaigns against discrimination in the media
communication and public roads in that respect so far by the civil society itself and
current legislation.

• Development of public initiatives to eradicate homophobic content, lesbofóbicos,
transphobic and sexist of mass media.

• ongoing review of advertisements issued by state institutions guaranteeing
eradication of proposals, aesthetic and discursive, stigmatizing, focusing on the reaffirmation
gender stereotypes, or re-affirming the dominant models of family and sexuality.

• Review and development of programs and educational tools for all public education
in the sense of eliminating the prevalence of unique, family and gender identity forms.

• Combating discrimination and discriminatory violence in institutional spheres
integration.

• Prioritize combating homophobic bullying, and transphobic lesbophobic in centers
education through a program references and psychological and social support. This has to be
faced by the entire educational community and especially by teachers.

• Combating discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity centers
I work in a specific area generating the General Labour Inspectorate and by providing resources
technical and financial.

• Training and awareness in the whole (national public administration,
departmental and local) and inclusion in the curriculum of training for officials of the National Office
Civil Service (ONSC).

THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

112

Mainstream public policies with a look of sexual diversity.

• Social inclusion of trans people for a project of independent and free life.

• Consolidation of a free and efficient system of registration and name change sex as
exercise of the right to identity.

• Consolidation of Uruguay card as a gateway Social protection system
social transgender people.

• Network shelters, halfway houses and social pension for adolescents and young trans
evicted and expelled from the family, with trained professionals to promote outputs
education and employment.

• cuotificación grants financial support in secondary and tertiary studies
trans people all state programs.

• Quota protected social programs work of various kinds for trans people who do not
They have been able to complete high school.

• Affirmative action for trans men and women in public employment as well as for
training and employment of trans and through INEFOP and Public Employment Centres.

• awareness and information campaign on the right to work of the trans population.

• Ensure access to social security of older women living in trans
vulnerability.

• Review of public policy to move the heterosexist model person and
family.

• Adequacy of information systems to disaggregate social area averages
by vulnerable groups such as transgender people.

• Incorporation of indicators and analysis of sexual diversity in National Observatory
Gender Policy and Sexual and Reproductive Health.

• awareness and diversity training of technicians and officials
implement social policies.

• Sex education with a focus on diversity in public and private schools.

• Compliance with guidelines systematized in the chapter on Sexual Diversity of
"Guidelines on Sexual and Reproductive Health" to make it possible for all the centers, polyclinics and
hospitals promote a sexual and reproductive health free of homophobia, lesbophobia and transphobia.

• Policies healthcare for LGBTI people, especially transgender people
(Endocrinology, advice regarding silicone implants and reallocation processes
sex), and deepening processes already initiated training of professionals and
health, and health teams in general.

• democratize, decentralize and stigmatizing treatments for services
people living with HIV.

• Certification of long-stay residences and home care services for people
Older women as free of homo-lesbo-transphobia.

• Expansion of the model of "quality with equity" to incorporate the dimensions of
equality and non-discrimination by race / ethnicity, disability, sexual orientation and gender identity in
public and private companies.

• parental leave for both partners before the birth of a son / daughter with
equivalent duration for / as parents who did not carry the pregnancy as well as for
People who adopt children or adolescents.

• Tend to build a strong state institutions to promote and monitor
anti-discrimination policies.

• Policies and security forces respectful of sexual diversity

• Ensure the participation of organizations of diversity in the framing
policies and strategies and citizen security.

• Transposition National Observatory on Violence and Crime, indicators and
analysis of violence against LGBTI

• Strengthen the Commission for the Support of Education in Prison in Uruguay.

• Develop and implement a system of consultation and monitoring regulatory compliance
anti-discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity to domestic Armed Forces
and National Police.

THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

113

4. DISABILITY
4.1

Progress and challenges

In Uruguay, people with disabilities are one of the most exposed populations to
Social inequality. The National Census of 2011 states that there is a 16% of people with
limitation to walk, see, hear and understand. Of this 7% stated that their limitations are
Total. In this context, unemployment, illiteracy, poor health and poverty are
significantly higher than the general population. The approach to disability in Uruguay
It has been characterized by the absence of public policies. In the period 2005-2013 were approved the
18 651 laws, the International Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (Law
18,418) and the Optional Protocol to the Convention (Law 18,776) which should be the basis for
development of these policies.
4.2

Programmatic objective and strategic lines


• Ensure equality among all people in developing and institutionalizing
public policy towards disability

• Inclusion work. Incentive measures to create employment inclusion in the labor market
and comply fully with the provision that 4% of the vacancies of the State should be covered
for people with disabilities.

• Accessibility.

• Ensure universal access to public services through a National Plan
Accessibility with emphasis on transport and housing.

• Implement measures for the universal accessibility of the media. Between
others make television accessible to people with hearing impairment. The application will be addressed
the current draft media law in the chapter that refers to the rights of
People with disabilities.

• Recognition / the Sign Language interpreters Uruguayan professional. Create
interpreter charges Uruguayan Sign Language in the institutions they serve,
educational, health, etc.

• technical and technological aids. Develop systems design, development, delivery
and access to technical and technological support through a National Technical Assistance Center and
Technology, from the elaborate to date.

• Health, education, recreation, sports, tourism.

• Implement a National Rehabilitation Plan - Enabling and Health Access.

• Ensure the inclusion of disabled people in the education system, from the
perspective of inclusive education. It will be incorporated into the curriculum of teacher training information
and training on disability.

• Develop a model of physical education, recreation and inclusive sport.

• Implement Accessible Tourism Plan with emphasis on the coastal strip.

• Access to justice. Implement the National Plan for Access to Justice and Legal Protection
people with disabilities, made in this period.

• Institutions.

• To prioritize the institutional address both disability policies
targeted and transverse and create the National Council on Disability including people
with disabilities linked to civil associations working with this population.

• Unify criteria for identifying the real needs of people with disabilities
in Uruguay: who they are, how many, where they are and what their needs are health, education,
housing, employment and access to goods and services throughout the national territory.

• To mainstream disability from rights, banishing the image
negative, and the impossibility of common action as a way of caring for people with
disabilities from public policy.

• Adapt public policy depending on the law in its entirety reglamentándola 18,651.

• Advance the development of a Single System Certification disabilities to have
uniform criteria and standards across the country, in order to ensure equity in access to
disability policies to be implemented from the different sectors of the state.

• Promote the inclusion in the common core of teacher training in a subject that forms
for the education of persons with disabilities as well as the specialization of teachers and teachers
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

114

in the education of children and adolescents with disabilities as a means of strengthening the line
educational integration.

• Educate the public in general on respect for diversity involving disability
workshops through civic education and media spaces.

5. Population of Indian descent
Study the situation of the population of indigenous descent and design recognition policies
as it has been done with other groups in a situation of rights violations.

6. Migrant population
Given the growing economic and social development makes our country is seen as a destination for
people of different national origins in search of better opportunities in the exercise of their
rights, encourage the various social policies address the fight against discrimination
all areas relating to migrants and against xenophobia.


Chapter VI
Democratic transformation of the state and society
PRESENTATION
To continue to carry out the changes the country needs is necessary to have a State
not only accompany it processes play an important role in the construction of a
new reality. For it is central to have a modern and intelligent state where the organisms
pivotally work that clearly fulfill their roles in social and economic life
and guaranteeing the rights of citizens.
For decades the state was part and parcel of inequality and political marginalization and
Popular broad social sectors. From 2005 to date we move forward in building a country
It is representing a different series of substantial changes in terms of consolidation of a
Uruguay more democratic, more productive, more social justice, development and innovation, and
results are obvious. However, far from being in front of a finished process, much remains
done in terms of deepening and expanding reorientation process initiated in 2005, and
for it is central to the structure of the State is constantly adapting ensuring good
management.
With the emphasis on this set of transformations, the state in all its forms
(Executive, Legislative, Judicial, public enterprises, local governments,
Municipalities) fundamental actor of change becomes, exercising its articulator and regulatory role
driver and guarantor of fundamental rights of individuals.
Since the arrival of FA to the Government, progress in building a different country project
involves substantial changes in terms of consolidation of a democratic Uruguay,
in the development of freedoms, productive and innovative and more social justice.
The deepening of this draft country requires undoubtedly further advance the transformation
State and society. It is a democratic and comprehensive transformation to convert the
State in a structure to serve the public, on a lever of productive development and a
shield of the weak. In parallel to the transformation of the state apparatus, we must consider
transforming society and the relations of the individuals who compose it.
They have nothing to do with our reforms which conducted the traditional parties in the
last. For many years, every time there was talk of government reform in our country was to
reduce their action, and from governments and a real improvement of its management did not arise, no
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

115

increase and diversification of forms of citizen participation. Paradoxically, this vision
anti-statist and neoliberal driven by the traditional parties was based on bad management
that they brought forward for decades, dotted with inefficiencies, patronage and
bureaucracy. Now it is doing something quite different: to continue transforming to
decentralization, participation and manage better. Transform to strengthen and democratize.
The changes at the state level are certainly central but from our conception should
It is accompanied by a profound transformation of society. Nothing will pass through
complex processes of restructuring and modernization of procedures at the state level if not
advances obtained in the attitude of human beings. A society more informed, participatory and
was based on respect for human rights is central to the achievement of the objectives.
We should not expect that through a law or decree change everything in an instant. Over 100
years of malpractice, negligence and cronyism are not reversed in a few years or a decade.
Some organizational cultures (sometimes very negative) are difficult to change. We are in
a long process that we have started, which has its first achievements, and whose successful outcome will
the confluence of the action in various fields. There are already several ongoing structural reforms
which they constitute a substantial part of the overall transformation of the state in the desired direction.
We will make the effort to be seen as what they are: substance of
the democratic transformation of the state. Some are structural reforms: the creation of the Ministry of Social Development,
tax reform, health reform, the creation of the third level of government, transformation
Administration of State Health Services (ASSE) in a decentralized service,
Emergency Plans and Equity, and in particular the amendments to the system of allowances
family. Other transformations are central government, such as relocation
Some agencies, such as the Comprehensive Irregular Settlements Programme -PIAI- the past
OPP to the Ministry of Housing, or transfer of ANTEL linking the Ministry of Defence
the Ministry of Industry.
Also the new design or the process of strengthening devolution or decentralization
administrative agencies such as the National Customs Directorate (DNA), the Directorate General
Taxation (DGI), the Internal Audit Office (AIN), DINAMA, the Labour Inspectorate and the Institute
National Statistics (INE). In the same way the creation of new agencies falls
as the National Water and Sanitation (DINAGUA) and the National Housing Agency
(ANV), central purchasing units (UCAA UCAMAE for medicines and food), the
Procurement Agency and a National Public Investment System (SNIP), new institutes
regarding Human Rights and Women, the National Social Security in the Ministry of Labour,
Citizen Service Centers (CAC) procedures that have come to the inland towns
deep through a multi-agency window, the Department of Commercial Intelligence
the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the INEFOP, the INACOOP, and ARDS in the Institute for Children and the
Adolescent of Uruguay (INAU).
Finally, we must mention the strong emphasis given to inter-treating
matters that require, which involved institutional innovations as creating cabinets
theme, the Social Cabinet, Production, Security and the Office of Innovation and
new agencies, namely the National Agency for Research and Innovation (ANII), the Agency
Electronic Government and Information Society and Knowledge (AGESIC), the Uruguayan Agency
International Cooperation (AUCI), and the National Road Safety Unit (UNASEV).
In terms of economy, the state must continue and deepen its leadership, with a view
It helps to ensure the quality of life of the population and distribution of wealth. In this
sense the role of the state through public investment it is central, since this way you can
better plan the development of strategic areas, and control the compliance with the
legislation applies. The creation of a public procurement system oriented development
productive and social, coordinator of the different areas of the state is a fundamental tool in
public expenditure planning guide that allows industrial and commercial development and
social policies that must necessarily be linked to these two major areas of
integration are the world of work and the world of education and training. This system
public procurement must be developed and implemented in a participatory manner with all
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

116

organized stakeholders, not simply a methodological issue, but because participation
organized with transforming vocation identity is a sign on the left.
The state is the product and manifestation of the irreconcilability of class contradiction.
It must be controller generator and articulator. A State at the service of another power bloc, other
mode of production. It is therefore necessary to maintain and strengthen businesses
with strategic management in the hands of the state government.
The relationship between the state and civil society
In these years they have created spaces of institutional participation with the integration of
civil society, workers and employers; Councils were installed
Wage and Collective Bargaining, private and public, expanding and consolidating guarantees
for all actors.
Should be expanded and maintained alliances and policies of openness to the contributions of workers,
civil society organizations, consumers and business, to the extent that contribute to
enrichment of public policy proposals and control of their efficiency
It must be maintained and extended the consideration of the contributions that are made by the
workers and civil society organizations to contribute to the broadening of the agenda
Broad Front government and improve its own management analysis. They must be
strengthen relations for the development of sustainable policies for growth and investment with
entrepreneurs including aspects of corporate social responsibility, environmental care and
unrestricted compliance with labor standards.
Within the social network, they have earned their place those movements which, unlike
traditional social organizations, organized around violated rights as
environmental insults, claims of organized consumers, rights to identities
sex, the right to dignity of the body of women, sexual abuse against children
and adolescent health users, etc.
In this context, the State must endeavor not only meet the demands of social organizations
nucleated around the defense of fundamental rights of the population, but also stimulate
a decisive participation in the territory and ensure levels of participation in the development,
implementation and monitoring of policies, meeting the needs of the unorganized sectors and
who are struggling to have a voice in society.
As a key contribution to the democratic transformation of the state and society, promote
that the agenda to be pursued in the next period of government, the Frente Amplio raised
the enactment of laws necessary to postulate its historical integrate directories and
autonomous entities and decentralized services with the participation of representatives of the
workers and users as happens today in BPS and ASSE.
The state as a guarantor of rights
Our governments have deepened their commitment to improve the guarantees for the respect of
rights in all its diversity, watching the indivisibility of the same. They fill gaps
legislation in a nascent process of legalizing recognition of responsibilities
defending the dignity of people, creating programs, institutions and protocols involving
the entire state.
It remains to make progress in adapting our laws and administrative regulations to commitments
International that the country has subscribed. These legal frameworks should be designed from
an egalitarian and inclusive logic, replacing the paradigm of the user (or even worse, the
consumer) by the citizen, universal perspective, of all rights for all. The
rights reach all citizens alike, while the condition of user or consumer
It is determined by the purchasing power or the ability to access to services. A relationship
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

117

democracy must be an equal relationship to citizens, who not only the usufruct
services but help control and limit bureaucratic power, and participate actively
where necessary and possible. A democratic transformation of the State must point in that
address.
State institutions must act so as not to create barriers to the exercise of
rights. Under this framework are priorities for the coming period: a legislative level, update
regulations have yet to be adapted to a human rights perspective; executive level, advance
accessibility and quality of basic rights such as education, health, labor, justice, security
social, sport and recreation, communication, energy, security and housing; and power level
Judicial, create conditions to ensure the effective implementation of the new codes approved
and pending approval; all the while maintaining respect for the independence of the judiciary and
due process for judges in the exercise of its function.
On the other hand this should be complemented by a policy of training of officials
State in the rights perspective, in order to overcome cultural barriers, often
invisible, but preventing access to the fundamental rights mentioned. Bring visibility
and overcome these cultural forms of exclusion will add efficiency in building society
I go eliminating the factors that generate poverty and exclusion.
The necessary reforms in the judiciary involve a number of institutional and cultural changes,
they deserve a big public debate, without diminishing any of their independence, to move towards
greater transparency and efficiency.
Within the current constitutional framework reform of the Organic Law of the Judiciary it is required to
establish a clear and transparent system of appointments, promotion and mobility of judges,
providing all the guarantees of impartiality and independence.
It is necessary also the reform of the Public Prosecutor's Office and to ensure career
Fiscal Magistrates since its announcement and selection, training and specialization
matter thereof, the system of promotions and transfers and disciplinary system.
The enactment of a new Code of Criminal Procedure currently under discussion in Parliament, and
effective and efficient implementation is an essential instrument for reform. It will join the
complainant figure of the judicial process so that the complainant is part of the process, can
be informed and act in the cause.
It also should give more training for judges regarding Human Rights.
Regulation as a state activity
Policy formulation and implementation activities are essential to achieve the objectives of
access to services, quality and appropriate prices, particularly in public services with high
impact on the social and productive development. The regulation is an essential tool for
guarantee the rights of citizens, control the quality of services, and promote Rates
right, so he must provide the skills and resources needed to develop their
functions.
Separate the different roles in the operation of the services necessary to prevent companies
be judge and jury decisions. This is important for the realization of the rights
above, taking into account the difficulties of access to justice in this matter.
Revalue the separation of roles in a context in which public companies again have a
role in the implementation of policies is a key factor.

THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

118

TO.

CONTINUE IMPROVEMENT AND MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS

1. Progress and Challenges
During the governments of the Frente Amplio have improved many aspects of management in all
its dimensions (technology, equipment, human, etc), and is also enhanced coordination
Inter, one of the historical problems of public administration. Examples include
Theme Cabinets (Productive, Social, Security and Innovation) and other spaces
inter generated for the development, implementation and evaluation of different laws
and programs. However, it is necessary to overcome the limitations and institutional weaknesses
even they conspire against the state's capacity for active, equitable economic and social development,
sustained and inclusive. Moreover, it is essential to develop greater efforts to
solve coordination problems that still exist between different areas of the state.
As for human management, continuous improvement in real wages of civil servants and
transparency in revenue, compared with clientelistic practices of traditional parties
were two substantive progress. Also the implementation of the "Variable Remuneration System"
in public enterprises is a huge advance on the basis of that good officers
They should be rewarded for their work.
Gains in efficiency, better utilization of material resources and capital development
Human have been reflected in TOCAF reform that streamlined administrative contracts,
and the adoption of a new Statute for the Central Administration Officer. All of these
improvements have been added gradually, without fanfare but steadily and without pause
during these two governments Frente Amplio.
Frente The two governments have shown a marked increased sensitivity to
real social and economic problems, while experience of the tripartite Sector Councils
implemented by the Directorate of Industries of MIEM a new level of participation in the
policy design, complementary to collective bargaining for working conditions.
Coordinated planning and evaluation, two requirements for proper administration, they have been
still weak, which has not allowed the characteristic conservative overcome bureaucratic inertia
consolidated in the century and a half prior to 2005 management.
Professional training of state employees, it is another major challenge and
urgent, not only it favors the officials themselves and the management of the State but to all
population. In this sense we must continue to work on the concept of official as "server
public "and their training strategies for citizen participation in decision-making,
making this tool a daily resource in the link between the state and civil society,
both as neighbors organized in various forms, including public hearing.

2. program objectives and strategic lines

• Strengthen and improve the channels of negotiation with state workers in matters
linked to wages, adjustments, working conditions, training plans / education
objectives and goals of the variable remuneration system, taking particular account of the situation
historically sectors submerged.
Strategic lines:

• Implement a system of training and continuing education adapted to the realities
of different services, agreeing quantitative targets for each worker and fostering
openness to innovation and research as a central element for the improvement of the condition
education of the population.

• promote, within the framework of the law, horizontal and vertical mobility, starting with
public companies to harness the best possible way the availability of staff.

• Strengthen management and leadership roles including as the broader
setting goals for performance.

• Achieve a real training of officials from the three levels of government.
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

119


• Further progress in the modernization of public administration facilities
equipment, infrastructure, communications, application of new technologies, and institute the
State purchasing and procurement policies as tools for productive development and social
through the creation of a public procurement system that includes central government,
Public enterprises and departmental and municipal governments.
Strategic lines:

• Continue and accelerate the modernization of the state functioning, especially

in the priority areas more directly related to the population.

• Universalize streamlining bureaucracy, eliminating

rigidities, overlaps and delays that hurt users. Incorporate

definitely the electronic records and transactions and online services.

• Integrate the concepts of continuous improvement, comprehensive strategic planning,

operational planning and monitoring.

• Make full use of the new information and communications technology

for the benefit of the quality and improvement of services. Stimulate development

National software and place the Uruguay a world leader in the field.

• Develop an inventory of material resources and resource strengths

the various state agencies to provide a platform for collaboration
public-public.

• Achieving real coordination among all state institutions, according to the
objectives for social, economic, and administrative policies.
Strategic lines:

• Implement a Comprehensive Strategic Planning System and Planning

Annual Operational allowing the State to provide effective management tools.

• Establish a permanent system, internal and external evaluation,

to ensure the correction of deviations and the channeling of public services

for the benefit of the population.

• To promote intra- and inter-institutional coordination required within the state.

Simultaneously and as consideration for such coordination in advance

executive decentralization with adequate delegation of tasks and responsibilities.

• Continue and deepen the experience of thematic cabinets.

• Properly use the experience and knowledge accumulated over

the years by the bureaucratic state apparatus, valuing their contributions, stimulating

initiative, respect and prioritizing their functional career.

• Promote the creation of civic centers so as to efficiently collect services

customer service in various units of the central government, autonomous entities

and decentralized services.

• Define a communications policy for state agencies, including the

mass media, about the different services provided to the population.

B.

Decentralization and coordination between different levels of government.

1. Progress and Challenges
Decentralization understood as the empowerment of local actors has been a sign of
Frente Amplio identity and this is manifested through the strengthening of governments
departmental, creating the third level of government and working with local organizations
different parts of the country.
FA departmental governments have built in practice the following identity:
1. improving the management skills of departmental governments (lighting,
sweeping and roads, among others) with the incorporation of spatial planning and increased
investments; 2. modernization of the administration; 3. austerity and transparency;
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

120

4. participatory decentralization; 5. inclusive policies and democratizing the social fabric;
6. impetus to economic recovery; 7. 8. innovation and strategic planning. The challenge is
deepen and widen, while work on the identification of specific signs for
national and municipal levels of government.
FA governments have implemented as institutional operating principles: transparency,
participation and control. Is a continuous challenge these principles and reprocessing analysis
appropriate tools for each situation.
The FA has produced a historic shift in the executive branch quality relationship - Congress
Mayors and their access to sources of Ccooperación International. It is a challenge for the next
period, consolidate, deepen and extend it to other areas of government activity and
further improve interaction channels.
Patent of the national agreement rolled and lighting and rural roads are
significant achievements, as well as the achievement of genuine additional funds for
Municipalities. Within it, the reached agreement between the executive and the mayors stands
on the percentage of the national budget destined to the departmental governments
Article 214º of the Constitution and subsequent strict compliance in the redemption of the items
agreed. Similarly, it is a remarkable breakthrough, the agreement between the Executive
and mayors on the amount of the Development Fund of the Interior (FDI) which provides the Article 298º of
the Constitution and management commitments and strict adherence to the referral of
committed items.
We must now move to a new five-year agreement while analyzing current
distribution indicators departmental funds of domestic origin to improve their
accuracy and fairness. With respect to FDI a new five-year agreement required amounts and
management commitments, improving the evaluation criteria of the projects to be presented
therefore the departmental governments and the Ministries.
Define transfers of funds to capital cities that provide services to country
generally. This should be done in an effective law and it must establish precise indicators
including type and quality of services provided, number of inhabitants, NBI, incorporating
GDP, etc.
The challenge is to identify new lines of action to improve government performance
departmental and municipal, as part of greater transparency.
Is progress taking greater responsibility for the Sectoral Commission on Decentralization,
while specialized area of ​​interaction between the executive and departmental governments,
to define actions in the territories. It is necessary to consolidate the coordinated operation between
all members and improve operations in execution. From the instrumental point of view,
It is necessary to move towards a regulation of operation of the Commission.
The adoption of laws on decentralization and citizen participation is an important advance
the Frente national government. Must now examine, in the light of experience, possible
modifications to improve and deepen the process of decentralization and participation in
construction of public policies based on the territory. Decentralized policies aimed at
that from the local, departmental and national decision-making be mainstreamed and incorporated
her social and institutional actors permanently. We believe that this is due
develop a permanent training and ideological debate in the political structure with special
incorporation of the rank and file, national leadership and member of executive and legislative
all levels of government.
The installation of 89 municipalities in the country has been an important step in the process of
decentralization promotes our political force; but the institutions are still
requiring endow weak operating instruments to increase the visibility of the
local authorities and their management capacity and decision on the various types of resources. They
should consolidate and strengthen the Plenary of Municipalities as an area of ​​inter-municipal coordination.
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

121

Most institutional density developed in recent decades, especially strengthened
It governments from FA generated more complexity in government action, political and social
of departmental boards. The challenge is to strengthen and prioritize the legislative department.
The effective exercise of the role of minorities in departmental boards requires fluid channels
communication of the central bodies of the agreements, action planning and
discharges funds each Government Department.
The identity and the departmental policy proposals should be
application in the territories and allow unifying discourse and the roles of all representatives
FA around the national level.
Reaffirming the ideological framework document 6 broad front, on Decentralization.

2. program objectives and strategic lines


• Increased democratization at all levels of government.

Strategic lines:

• The deepening of democracy must include all levels of government. It is therefore
Online proposes to establish as central work developing mechanisms to enable and
encourage the knowledge, information and advocacy of the population in public affairs
They are involving both the national, departmental and municipal levels.

• The deepening of democracy requires the creation of new areas of participation
in the territory and strengthening successful experiences developed since the
different levels of government.

• those channels should be improved to enable municipal governments operate
solvent fluid and in tune with the demands of the residents way

• should be strengthened coordination with local areas when implementing
national policies or plans.

• National Strategic Planning agreed with departmental governments and
municipalities that prioritizes development and public investments.

• Go to a regionalization process creating new public management tools
They work in private law, allowing partnerships with public enterprises and ministries.


• Consolidate institutionality of municipalities.

Strategic lines:

• Promote the ongoing decentralization process and progress in the consolidation
institutional municipal governments by assigning greater local powers
and budget resources needed for execution.

• Develop areas of management training for decision-making on
use of public resources for political leadership in order to bring answers to the
demands of local actors.

• From the basic axiom that no resources on which no decision decentralization
possible intends to work on the analysis of national origin, designed to foster the best
operation of municipalities. This will be achieved by developing proposals for a regulation
consider specific heterogeneity and creating incentives for management more
effective and efficient for particular stimuli in the availability of additional resources.
In this context it will be important to strengthen the mechanisms to ensure the effective delivery of these to
locations and target populations of the same.

• effective transfer of resources to local governments along with the
delivered properly and not left to the political decision of each government department training.
To propose that the national budget the various ministries and agencies made the state
Opening budget for development activities related to the tasks of the municipal level.


• Further legal amendments concerning departmental and municipal governments.

Strategic lines:

• No. 9,515 (1935 Municipal Organic) Act requires updating, both in terms
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

122

elapsed time as tacit derogations generated by subsequent regulations
(Constitutional and legal) and the challenges of participatory decentralization strategy.

• Review the legal framework established by Law No. 18,567 and complementary, in the light of
Operating experience of municipalities from 2010 to date, with the aim of achieving
more precise definitions and responsibilities of municipal governments. In particular, it will
generate the necessary controls for items Incentive Fund for the operation of the
Municipalities.

• In some departments there are no regulations relating to the operation
the municipalities while among those who do have such conceptual differences
significant. In this context it is proposed to work on the analysis of these, in order to contribute to their
appropriate complementarity with national standards. It is necessary to move towards provisions
departmental governing their municipalities in a transparent, clear and precise manner.


• Regionalization

Strategic lines:

• It is necessary to deepen the use of regional mechanisms under the law
18,093 as instruments of regional development and replacement of contributions from the
national budget to municipalities.

• It is important to develop regionalization as a line of work that allows for
more efficient use of resources. To this it should be taken in two ways. First
establishing the regions as territorial framework for the implementation of plans and policies from
central-level agencies; and second generating incentives for different
departmental governments maximize their resources through cooperation and joint use
thereof.

C. MEDIA
1. Progress and Challenges
One of the central objectives of the program Frente Amplio is to democratize society,
democratize the governance and strengthen citizen participation. You can not democratize
democratize society without communications. Pluralism and diversity of media system
Communication is an indicator of media development for its high impact on the strength of the system
promoting democracy and an informed citizenry.
For years the main business groups of national private commercial television have
They are grown without regulation and formed a nationwide network of radio and television broadcasting
cable, which dominate the news agenda of the country, advertising revenues and audience.
On the radio, the situation is more diverse, but remain economic and family groups
concentrated in different departments and regions.
With these objectives and this situation, governments have made changes Frente Amplio
unprecedented in the field of freedom of expression, the right to information and regulation
media, and they have done so in a democratizing direction through the adoption of
various rules: Community Broadcasting Act (2007), Act of decriminalizing
Communication (2008) and Law on Access to Public Information (2009). This has been supplemented
in parallel with a substantial improvement in the technical quality of broadcasting and programming
state channel.
Communication policies adopted since the Executive included various mechanisms
and public participation processes and have been a turning point in the country to ensure
diversity and maximum freedom of expression. These other policies are: new
procedures for granting radio and TV frequencies, which are not delivered in the form
arbitrary but public and transparent process, with citizen oversight and public hearings;
legal recognition of the community sector with a hundred radios regularized; deal
equitable spectrum for commercial, public and community sector; no political use of advertising

THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

123

as it became official in previous administrations; slow but steady technological and professional update
the state radio and TV, but with a public official or pro-government stamp, and access to
funds and other resources to the promotion of national audiovisual output.
At the end of the period of this government they have deepened these policies with a new regulatory framework
for digital TV and the call for new operators (commercial, public and community) that opens
competition after more than 50 years, and the presentation of the Communication Services Act
Audiovisual, democratic, and rights-standard developed innovative participatory way
freedom of expression. All this has been done in the context of a broadly respectful government
freedom of speech and press, which places Uruguay in the first places in the rankings
transparency and freedom of expression in the region.
Progress has been made but much remains to be done to consolidate and deepen the democratization of
media system. This challenge is expressed, inter alia: continue to protect and
promote the exercise of freedom of expression; the full implementation of the new Law on Services
Audiovisual Communication; the adoption of legislation on government advertising; enlargement
the budget of the public media; encouraging self-regulation of the media
and respect for the rights of the most vulnerable social groups such as children; respect for
rights of media workers, and the adoption of active policies of the State to
promote and support community media.

2. program objectives and strategic lines
Following the spirit of the rules already approved and Communication Services Act
Audiovisual particular, it seeks to advance in the following programmatic objectives and lines
strategic:

• Protect and promote the full exercise of freedom of expression and information.
Which means:

• Maintain and further promote respect for the exercise of the freedoms of expression and
media information, journalists and others working in the media and the
freedom and editorial independence of the media have ensured governments Frente Amplio
since first day.

• Recognize and guarantee in practice the right of all people, not just of
media owners and journalists, freedom of expression and information. These rights must be
respected, not only by government but also by the media and public communication
private.

• Establish a balance between freedom of expression and respect for the rights of individuals,
especially the most vulnerable and historically discriminated groups; develop rules
clear to the media, guaranteeing their independence, whether commercial,
public or community; promote domestic production and create institutions capable of applying
law without interfering with freedom of expression.
Strategic lines:

• Strengthen legislation that protects and promotes the full exercise of the rights of children,
and adolescents to privacy and intimacy, image, dignity, non-discrimination and access;
establishing a protection zone and regulating audiovisual media, in line with
international standards, advertising aimed at children, advertising starring children, and
exhibition and dissemination of images of excessive violence or gruesome or justify or incitement
violence during the hours of protection, among other measures.

• To promote public policies to protect and promote the right to freedom of expression
and information for people with disabilities in the media (for example:
systems considerations to include subtitling, sign language and audio description in a
significant part of programming).

• Designing public policies to protect and promote respect for diversity based on
gender, sexual orientation, race and so on.

• Promote the first Public Defender in order to promote and educate
rights, joint between the audience and the public, investigate and expose system problems
media. Promote free adoption of ethical self-regulation mechanisms by means of
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

124

and journalists, without state interference.

• Pass a law regulating the allocation of advertising for there to be a
fairer to all media in the country, transparent and consistent criteria under distribution
freedom of expression and the promotion of pluralism and diversity.

• Consolidate and promote the right of access to public information by the
citizens, recognized from the first government of the Frente Amplio, adopting a model of government
open.

• Recognize and promote respect for the rights to freedom of expression and information
of all people on the Internet, through the adoption of the regulatory framework and institutional design
best suited for this purpose. In particular, creating a body of implementation and enforcement of the
new rules on audiovisual media services that is independent of government and
economic interests.


• Ensure diversity and pluralism in the media

A third FA government will be responsible for applying the resources and capacity
implementing a wide range of audiovisual communication policies, and to strengthen
implementation mechanisms and control of the standard.
Strategic lines:

• Strengthen mechanisms for granting authorizations and licenses for services
audiovisual communication on equal opportunities without discrimination through the realization
public tenders and public hearings, the allocation criteria not based on the
economic, political and partisan influence or the editorial line, participation and
citizen control in the process of granting, etc.

• Ensure equal access to the media, promoting and balancing the existence of
three sectors (public, private and commercial and social-Community) Communication confirming the
establishment of reserves for the community sector.

• Make the necessary effective controls and to limit and avoid undue concentration
in the ownership and control of the media, continuing the policy to increase competition in the sector
private, allowing and encouraging the entry of new players in the communication services
audiovisual while reversing existing monopolies and oligopolies both nationally
departmental.

• Make the necessary regulatory adjustments and develop an effective control of the use of
figureheads used to circumvent the limits of concentration and transparency of the true
ownership of the media.

• Open competition for TV subscribers and will be in the open TV. The country has inherited a
pay TV system assigned by cast reinforced the communication groups
existing. Progress is needed on a pay TV system that preserves the
national companies but to allow competition in all geographic areas and protect
consumer rights.

• Set restrictions on foreign ownership of emerging media
nationals, without being in opposition to decentralize the fight for ownership and control of media ownership
few national groups.

• Strengthen the regulatory and enforcement agencies to oversee nationwide due
implementation and enforcement of existing regulations, particularly on the consideration,
the rights of individuals, the regulations on the use of advertising space in the media
communication and conditions of licenses granted.


• To strengthen and diversify the public media.

Strategic lines:

• Further progress in legislation and implementation of public policies that consolidate the
fundamental role of public broadcasters in all media across the country
the creation / strengthening of a National System of Public Television and Radio and, simultaneously, generating
conditions of editorial independence from government and partisan or economic interests.

• Improve the national budget allocated to national public media so that they can
fulfill their role. Notwithstanding the recognition of the progress made in TNU, expand their
production of radio and audiovisual quality content and ensure coverage of their signals
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

125

to homes across the country, including using satellite means, as part of
the defense of sovereignty and national identities and meeting the objectives of inclusion
social.

• Diversify public signals and content channels from the entrance of the digital TV,
progress in the decentralization of content production departments of Interior.

• Develop tools and a public policy to promote and increase the
domestic production for audiovisual media, in line with regulations
on minimum screen.

• Incorporate the use of satellite TV signals open access to ensure access to
every household in the country of the public broadcaster.

• Promote the development of other public media.

• Create opportunities for participation advisory to accompany the media management
public, supporting and ensuring the fulfillment of its mandate and public service objectives.


• Promote and strengthen community media

Having recognized and regulated the community radio sector, the next step is to define
reserves in the whole spectrum and design public policies for autonomous development
and independent of sector.
Strategic lines:

• Generate competitive funds for production and programming, developing courses
joint training with the media and UDELAR, facilitating access to equipment
transmission and production, establishing differentiated procedures of other sectors and adapting
the technical and administrative requirements of the industry characteristics, among others.

• Promote the emergence of community initiatives and non-profit in television,
through actions such as the use of the reserve of spectrum and granting new authorizations,
the allocation of a percentage of the fee to be paid by licensees of digital TV.


• Support and promote national audiovisual production

Strategic lines:

• Create new specific funds and strengthen existing funds (ICAU, MEC, MIEM, etc.)
support to national audiovisual production quality and high added value, particularly
for television, but meant for broadcast on multiple technology platforms, as well as
interactive applications for the new digital and convergent environment. The granting of resources
contestable procedures be followed economic or other forms of discriminatory
access to public funds.

• Strengthen the capacities and resources of Content Development Center and Laboratory
Digital TV MIEM and create new poles of development of audiovisual production and applications
Interactive decentralized manner in the interior of the country.

• Establish regulatory and fiscal stimulus to achieve the expansion, dissemination and distribution
independent production in audiovisual media through measures such
as minimum emission requirements or national content distribution, awards and funds
contestable, special credit lines, locations and providing tax incentives, among others.
They should also promote fair conditions and relations between producers and TV operators.

• Establish regulatory and fiscal stimulus to achieve decentralization of production
Content excessively concentrated in Montevideo, and the strengthening of local media
and regional Interior, through measures such as awards, grant funds, demands
regulatory minimum emission or distribution, special credit lines, facilitating
locations and fiscal stimulus.


• Promote citizen participation in communication

Strategic lines:

• Maintain and institutionalize citizen participation in the process of granting
authorizations and in the process of implementation of digital TV, the enforcement
governing the sector and in the development, definition and implementation of public policies
communication.
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

126


• To facilitate and support the formation and / or strengthening of social organizations and
citizen movements that are aimed at protecting and promoting freedom of
expression and communication rights.

• Encourage the formation of observatories (NGOs) and media watchdog groups
citizens, the creation of the defenders of the reader, listener or viewer in the media
communication and pass legislation to create a national Ombudsman for the defense of
rights of persons before the audiovisual media services.

• Promote actions and programs of education for critical reception and creative use of
the media, which must have a specific place in the various levels
transversely education and incorporated in various subjects and curriculum areas. Also
actions in the field of non-formal education and the media themselves will be promoted.

• Develop information campaigns and accessible mechanisms for the population to
know, exercise and claim their rights as individuals and as consumers, both to the State
as to the media themselves.

• Support and promote the training of journalists through racing
tertiary professional communication for new plans and by formal and non-
Formal complementing the practical experience of those who did not have specific training
suitable professional programs

D.

HUMAN RIGHTS, PARTICIPATION AND CITIZEN ENGAGEMENT

1. Progress and Challenges
Our country has achieved a productive development since 2005 after decades of stagnation
while progress has been made in the realization of rights. Human Rights determined
the conditions that enable each person build their own lives and participate
in the collective construction of their society. These conditions must be guaranteed to all
people living in our country and that is the "what to do" Frente Amplio. The development of a country
should not be measured only in economic growth, it makes sense if it contributes to a better life
in a fairer society. The look of human rights aims to dignify the lives of
everybody.
In 2005 the challenge was to address the social emergency, reducing poverty and destitution. Nevertheless
since the government first began to forge an agenda on human rights
It began with the installation of the wage councils, laws that regulated domestic work
and rural areas, the creation of the Ministry of Social Development, the National Integrated System Installation
Health, etc. In this agenda must be added the adoption of numerous laws establishing
the protection of children and adolescents, sexual and reproductive rights, protection
the environment, equal opportunities and rights, protection of rights
disabled people, people of African descent, enabling the equal marriage, ordering
territorial, territorial decentralization, among others. To this should be added the actions being
conducting inter-how in the framework of the strategy for life and coexistence and
Together other policies such as the Plan, the Plan Grows with Uruguay, etc.
Memory, truth and justice, reparation and guarantees of non-repetition.
FA management when it comes to memory, truth and justice for the crimes of the dictatorship,
It began in his first term with the creation of the Secretariat of the Peace Commission Mmonitoring in
the Executive Branch, in order to organize your files. From there a report was produced
on the situation of the missing and the search for his remains was undertaken. Civil society
He entered the barracks, excavations were conducted and the remains were found Ubagesner Chavez Sosa
and Fernando Miranda. At the same time, the Executive denied under the Limitation Act
most complaints, enabling for the first time in the history of the country controls
military were responsible for these crimes to prison. Creating parallel pushed
the National Human Rights Institution (NHRIs) and the implementation of the Act was enacted
International Criminal Court criminalizing crimes against humanity.
In the second government of the FA the same line of research has continued to expand functions
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

127

of the Monitoring Committee to investigate crimes committed between 1968 and 1985; are
They found the remains of Ricardo Blanco Valiente and Julio Castro; work continued on the
organization of the genetic bank of the disappeared; and in compliance with the ruling of the
CIDDHH in the Gelman case interagency coordination with the MDN, the MINT, the MEC was created and
the MRREE. The Presidency administrative actions of previous governments were revoked
that were supported in the amnesty law criminals against humanity. Legislative
meanwhile, a law was passed restoring the punitive state, from which two of his
articles were declared unconstitutional by the Supreme Court, against rules
national and international applicability of crimes against humanity.
Recognizing the progress made, still missing more than an open wound
for our society. Of the 178 missing citizens only found the remains of
25. Since ancient times, our culture teaches that we bury our dead
have peace. And society admits neither means nor double standards: it is our moral duty to give
society peace and security it needs to develop with confidence. For this we
take responsibility to look in the strongest terms to find them. Sensitivity is a
educating value: as a message to future generations, the issue must be at the level of the great
challenges facing the third government of FA.
Being systematic torture and prolonged detention, perverse methods used against dictatorship
the nearly 7,000 political prisoners, despite the hundreds of complaints of torture and being
considered a crime against humanity, he has not yet been tried any responsible for this crime.
Citizen participation
In participation was progress in the following areas: departmental decentralization;
the representation of teachers and teachers in the Councils of primary, secondary, UTU and CODICEN;
the bill on audiovisual communication drawn from the National
Telecommunications business, academic and social actors; creating clusters from the
OPP in the first government; productive enterprises with state support; Fund companies
Industry M. self-managed; following the example of social representation BPS enabled in
the directory of the Administration of State Health Services (ASSE) and the National Board
Health (JUNASA); advice advisory fees in private health effectors and commissions
participation in public; the Honorary Departmental Health Committees (JUDESAS); the
Together participatory experiences of the Plan; Local tables Citizen Security;
MIDES Social Councils; Tripartite Commission on Equal Opportunity and Treatment in Employment
(InMujeres, DINAE, the Department of Gender of the PIT-CNT and business chambers).
Challenges of a third government of the Frente Amplio
Today the main challenge in the field of human rights is to democratize the legal system,
expanding the agenda with new rights and ensuring everyone and all the
and conquered rights, deepening universal access policies. Must be within the
challenges of the Frente Amplio build bridges of access to justice for all people, which means
free without internal inequalities in the justice system access for vulnerable groups.
The culture of impunity has permeated the whole society. A central challenge is to leave
definitely back and instead continue to build a culture of human rights.
In matters of truth, memory and justice are identified as challenges: moving the search
truth and justice; strengthen human and material resources institutions
responsible in order to provide more information to victims of the dictatorship, to
Judicial courts and follow in the line of international exchange of information. So too
It is a challenge to effectively comply with international standards and judgments relating to
Human Rights subscribed by the country.
The challenge with regard to participation, including human rights, is the evaluation of the participation channels
existing and tending to innovate and achieve greater participation effects impinge citizenship
and is actively involved in the design, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of policies
public.
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

128

Finally, with regard to the commitment, the challenge is to convene the new changes and transformations
promoting a cultural shift that moves the social bases in key left. For this we
implement government policies and plans that involve people in respect for the dignity
human and citizen engagement. It will promote the participation and commitment
the changes are worth it and communication channels, enhance participation and
responsiveness from the state.

2. program objectives and strategic lines

• Implementation of a National Human Rights Plan of Coexistence and acting from the
interinstitutionality and with the participation of social organizations on human rights.
Strategic lines:

• Strengthen the role of NHRIs in the identification of human rights violations
that still persist and institutional failures that lead to discrimination and segregation.
•
Addressing human rights to warrant the development of a National Education Plan
in human rights, in order to provide training to educators, institutions and individuals involved in the
application of this new rights agenda.

• Advance substantially in the reparation of victims of enforced disappearance
and all victims of crimes against humanity and its main axes memory, truth
and justice.
Strategic lines:

• Strengthen the Ministry of Human Rights.

• Strengthen NHRIs. Comply fully with the Paris Principles that inspire

its constitution.

• Ensure access and mainstreaming all the information related to violations
of human rights committed in the framework of state terrorism including all files of repression.

• Create specialized units investigating the causes of human rights violations
during state terrorism

• Provide protection and psychological support to witnesses and legal support.

• In the area of ​​truth must enforce the rights of all victims, both at
unresolved cases of enforced disappearance, and the detention and torture. The information
emerged from the testimony of the victims should be systematized and disseminated with his consent,
to help prevent the recurrence of the immense accumulation of violations of their rights by
military and civilian.

• Convert the centers of repression in museum spaces and deepen other practices
by heart.

• Adapting the legal framework and administrative and institutional practices to
international instruments related to human rights.

• Apply international treaties on human rights in our national law
by Articles 332 and 72 of the Constitution.

• The State will take care of the many outstanding research through
respective ministries, which will be active in the search for truth, providing all
archives of repression and all information related to human rights violations
committed in the context of state terrorism.
➢
Contribute to human dignity and the most personal and social development of Uruguay and
You Uruguayan implementing policies of social awareness and civic engagement in key
inclusion, fairness, respect for diversity and the environment.
Strategic lines:
•
Emphasize the development and implementation of those public policies that improve
the lives of Uruguayans and those that generate new capacities and
skills to face the challenges of the new production and technological Uruguay.
•
Advancing new cultural patterns. Not only does the income distribution rights
human, also the distribution of wealth. The latter should be construed as critical,
deconstructing the cultural patterns of discrimination.
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

129


• Expanding the rights agenda on the basis of cultural changes and
social transformations wrought from organized civil society and people.

• Breaking the dominant cultural paradigm of groups and individuals inspired by individualism,
economic interests, corporations, etc. in power and / or authority in our
society, public policies that transform the material, social, and patriarchal foundations
existing discriminatory strong aftertaste.

• Implementation of the National System to strengthen national and Integrated
Care.

• Invest in public spaces that encourage personal and collective development of all
areas of human, physical, intellectual and artistic being.

• be educated in human rights from all institutions including the media

• Build participatory public policies based on the discussion, analysis
experiences, considering the results of the consultations and drawing out elements
General and innovative products that can help develop alternative policies.
Strategic lines:

• Continue turning the key progressive condition and the development of tools
to promote participation in both mechanisms contribute to deepening
democracy.

• planteos citizens consider when implementing public policies,
with special emphasis on accountabilities and consideration of the results of the debates and
public consultations, giving answers to them.

• More and better training of public officials in participatory public policies.

• Instituting channels and spaces for the community to express, affects the decision-
decisions and participate in their implementation.

• promote free access without inequalities in the justice system for groups
vulnerable.
Strategic lines:

• Provide human resources in the judiciary for more training for addressing
issues such as domestic violence, gender and other forms of discrimination.

• Deepen agency policy between the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of
Social Development and MEC to address the complex social problems that come before
and the courts that deal with young offenders, child prostitution, women
victims of violence, domestic violence, etc., continuously trained officials
Public and interdisciplinary teams for this purpose.

• Reform of the judicial procedures to make them more quickly in order to
that judicial decisions can be effective and contribute to the decline in the conflict.

• Ensure the dignity of all inhabitants of the territory in a way forward
better living. The term refers to live together, sharing space and resources and interact. In
access to and knowledge of their rights framework that will guarantee every citizen.

E.

Citizen Security

1. Progress and Challenges
The Frente Amplio prioritized public safety governance, reaching and fulfilling a
According to all political parties that defined a roadmap for transformation in this
area. Significant changes have been processed in the police management system, as well as the
dignifying the National Police through a significant increase in salaries, equipment improvement
and technology. New legal instruments were promoted to adapt to new realities
and progress was made towards a political detainees. At the same time deepened
intervention from an integral logic to respond to the complexity of the phenomenon of
violence in society.

THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

130

The conceptual foundations that guide the approach to public security policy Front
Wide they have been consolidated in the Strategy for Life and Coexistence. Unlike vision
the right arises only police response, increased penalties and the lowering of the age
of accountability, this approach focuses on three key definitions: the exercise of authority; the
practice of reciprocity and development of cohabitation.
The exercise of authority implies that the government legitimized by the popular will meet its
committed within the rules of the rule of law and strict respect of institutions
democracy and the rights of individuals. On this basis, uses every one of the
legal instruments to implement the right to the protection of persons against violence
and other forms of abuse.
The practice of reciprocity implies that there are rights and obligations. The State must guarantee the
security while respecting human rights. Purely repressive policies have shown
be inefficient, they do not diminish the serious crimes, and generate other forms of violence.
We call on prevention as a strategic and philosophical north, but do not hesitate to apply all
moment dissuasive or repressive measures within the framework of the Constitution and the law, when it
necessary to guarantee the right to public safety.
The development of coexistence is the guarantee of a safer society. The problem is not only the
crime, but also the culture of intolerance, tension and daily violence that has gained ground
in Uruguayan society in recent decades. The central pillar is to promote and develop culture
citizen understood as a set of behaviors, values, attitudes and perceptions
shared by members of a society and determine the forms and quality of coexistence,
influence on respect for common heritage and facilitate or hinder the recognition of
rights and duties.
Among the set of programmatic challenges highlight two important areas:
Prevention networks. No one disputes that prevention is better than cure. In the field of security,
neither. Prevention is a complex concept, full of conceptual and practical consequences
for security management. Often it located in a diffuse border mediation
conflicts, social policies, deterrence and police checks properly. Prevention
violence and crime must have a specific approach on a multi-agency level, to consider
and integrate all components. This form of political and inter-agency operational coordination
it is imperative to further consolidate a new paradigm that leaves behind traditional action
police linked to social control of certain groups and fully assume a set of
conflict resolution practices and reducing violence.
Territory and participation. A citizen security policy implies the collective participation
institutional and social development in the territory. The "proximity", the "closeness", "community" springs, the
Informal conflict resolution, empowerment and recognition of rights of people and
individuals are the basis for building public safety. When the design, implementation and
evaluation of security policies are to be considered local stakeholders for the purpose of
optimize resources, improve service coverage and enhance citizen control.
Not a public security strategy based on a police response is neither desirable nor sustainable
single isolated whose central component is the permanent saturation zone under police control.
Such solutions tend to generate strong social stigmas and polarization processes, while
that the police force is trapped in the logic "repression or repression" generates another
very significant set of additional problems. They serve preventive fences or pressure
police if not accompanied by a comprehensive intervention where, among other things, is redesigning the
use of public space.
A leftist political project that addresses public insecurity as a problem should consider the
coexistence as a solution and have as its main objective to overcome fear. Overcome the collective fear
in public space will be the priority strategy to reclaim the city as a stage
transit exchange and encounters generator. So we define the following objectives:

THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

131

2. program objectives and strategic lines

• Development of a strategy of coexistence oriented to overcoming the fear and strengthen the
public space.
The government of the territory is an essential key in modern politics. For this reason, the territory
and it serves as a measure to limit the authority of the government. Therefore it is not possible to think
public safety but the space key and all components incorporated untie
from it. In that line of thinking reflection of the importance of public space it emerges as
a factor that contributes significantly to the sense of security and how this feeling
Security is a central support to encourage processes of social inclusion.
Strategic lines:

• Implementation of integrated urban interventions for local coexistence in
vulnerable areas that combine social, urban and security policies.
The next government will deepen initiatives focused and comprehensive prioritizing intervention
those territories with the highest levels of social, urban vulnerability and
show high rates of crime. These actions will aim to "build city and citizenship" to
through the deepening of social programs in vulnerable areas, plans Impact
infrastructure for a model of coexistence and proximity to ensure safety.
Social programs will focus as children and youth, strengthening actions
related to access to health and nutrition and the link with the education system. The new ones
equipment "must have sports facilities (tennis, swimming pool, playground)
spaces for cultural activities (theater rooms and audiovisual technology) and conditioning
for social and recreational activities that encourage intergenerational coexistence. In turn, is
will install utilities aimed at social integration synergy with programs carried
and initiatives implemented and national ministries and agencies, provincial government
municipal.

• Citizen Culture Programme to improve the living spaces in the area
public.
A policy of coexistence and security will monitor any conflicts arising in different
social spaces. For this reason specific actions in schools will be prioritized,
sports and artistic performances and transit cities.
A center level and in areas and situations that are considered solutions
relevant and efficient, new forms of participation will be promoted and solid devices
"Conflict mediation" with all stakeholders. In turn, the safe passage will be favored
on public roads to schools promoting actions to strengthen confidence.
Similarly, public transport and traffic are common scenarios associated problems
interpersonal conflict and also with offenses. The street is seen as a public space
as a place of danger and not as a transit and meeting space. In this regard they will be deployed
Actions to promote civic culture to strengthen the intensive use of public space as
an area of ​​social integration.
Finally, it appears as a defining issue of violence in recent years shows
sports and arts. Actions to promote civic culture will be promoted high impact
in these areas, they are reinforcing the message of coexistence and enjoyment as a central theme. They
will seek to reaffirm that the enjoyment spaces are safe because they are citizens with
make safe behavior, seeking to emphasize the coexistence and not on the deployment
police as a guarantor of security.
Finally, as part of promoting civic culture, local tables will be strengthened
Coexistence and Citizen Security and the Community Police Assistance Center Victims
Crime.
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

132

The previous set of actions will involve joint work of the ministries members
Cabinet and social security, in conjunction with departmental and local governments and
participation of civil society.

• Development of a coexistence strategy aimed at preventing, treating and eradicating
violence that is generated in the home or domestic space.
The levels of violence in interpersonal and family space, question the coexistence and security
a society. The situations of violence in the spaces designed for the care,
protection and affection generate damage affecting the right to life, liberty and integrity
physical, emotional and social development of the people who suffer. Also generate learning models
violent conflict resolution that will affect or reproduce throughout life.
Strategic lines:

• Prevention of the violent ways of relating in the domestic and eradication
discriminatory sociocultural patterns.
Progress in the eradication of gender-based violence requires transforming actions and
inter promote changes in the forms of relationship between men and women and
between adults and children and adolescents. This will have to carry out educational proposals,
cultural and communication to promote equal rights and opportunities for men
and women and contribute to the equitable distribution of family responsibilities.

• To strengthen the institutional capacity of the judicial and police authorities
prosecutors.
Allocate more human and financial resources to the investigation of the violence
domestic and gender ensuring adequate punishment and redress of the facts. also
technical and expert teams of the courts will be strengthened and will continue with the process
professionalism and expertise of the National Police.


• Strengthen and expand the network of support services

Strengthen existing services and expanding its coverage will be promoted for the period
care and rehabilitation of offenders on the understanding that progress is needed in answers
care that provide opportunities for rehabilitation.

• Building a Comprehensive Response System to a free Violence
Gender and Generations.
It should broaden the agenda integrating the different types of violence: domestic,
sexual, trafficking and smuggling, commercial and non-commercial sexual exploitation of children and adolescents,
sexual harassment, symbolic violence, violence against sexual and reproductive rights, violence
institutional, among others. It shall consist of all services, mechanisms and trained personnel
in the different institutions and will have the task of redesigning and coordination spaces
national, departmental and local joint.

• Deepening of the organizational reform of the National Police oriented management
based on knowledge and applied intelligence.
Consolidate the transition from reactive policing model, based on a distribution
homogeneous or uniform of human and material resources (both through the territory of
time), to a new management paradigm based on knowledge and applied intelligence.
This requires the introduction of significant organizational changes and deepening reforms
already underway (Montevideo restructuring Headquarters, Police Management System, etc.).
Strategic lines:

• Commissioning of a new Police Organization Act clearly established

THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

133

that the police are serving the rule of law, and that their mission is to ensure the free exercise of
rights and freedoms of citizens. This requires a professional and disciplined police
acting on behalf of the State of Law and Institutions

• Reallocation of resources between police jurisdictions. Continue planning
and distribution of material and human resources as the geo referencing crime.
We tend to concentrate the staff and material resources in the jurisdictions in which
statistical finds large concentrations of criminal events taking very seriously the
gradual process and assessing their impact.

• Expand the powers of the Ministry of the Interior as to the competence for controlling
and information related to the registration of firearms. This will allow more direct control and
effective dynamics and trends following the flows of firearms in Uruguayan society.

• Strengthening the Information System of Public Security through the development of a
Module statistics on patrol time, in vehicles or on foot; and also
the implementation of a system of criminal information.

• Strengthen audits for improving the management capacity, especially as
It involves monitoring and controlling the volume and quality of services delivered to Police
the population

• Development of a new educational curriculum for all levels of promotion and
police training
Implement a comprehensive reform of the training plans of the National Police through
a new educational curriculum, to be implemented at all levels of promotion and training
police.
Strategic lines:

• Coordination of theoretical and practical training. Models
policing should aim at solving the practical problems of police work based
good practices in Human Rights;

• Incorporation of new materials in police training. It should complement the curriculum
with subjects of social sciences and humanities specializing in the understanding of violence and
crime and included issues of public administration and organizational management in the
Officers training;

• Strengthening the link with universities. It should strengthen the relationship with
attending universities in the methodological system redesign police training
(And virtual) and develop offers postgraduate and specialization courses;

• Development of a curriculum on crime prevention and criminal investigation;

• Transmission of knowledge about strategies and tactics police scientific basis.
Transmission of knowledge and skills in order to develop the ability to be promoted:

• Identify priorities (for example, identifying "hot spots")

• Measuring the impact and results of interventions carried out to resolve
priorities identified.

• Monitor and control the use of human resources and materials available.

• Consolidation of a new model of prison management and addressing people
conflict with the law.
A modern approach to prison requires thinking it as a space for social inclusion of
people, where the mandate of protecting and guarding should be aligned to a vision of inclusion
and second chance, normalizing life in prison, lessening the negative effects
Closure and strengthening the "toolbox" of each individual for development
social responsibility. Beside that special emphasis should strengthen dimensions
coexistence, education, work and leisure use.



Strategic lines:
• The final orbit of the civilian prison management system handover.

During the next government will have installed an institutional level with specific expertise in
adult criminal enforcement to ensure the final transfer from the orbit to the civil police
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

134

the prison system. Based on this process you can speed the passage from the Ministry of
Interior towards a specific body under the civilian leadership.


• The strengthening of the prison infrastructure.

The prison infrastructure plays a central role in order to facilitate the implementation of programs
general and specific. Therefore, to be continued to the online infrastructure improvement
Prison work as a form of social inclusion of persons deprived of
freedom. For this design the prison safe spaces should be updated and facilitators
the application of models and appropriate programs.


• The consolidation of a new management model.

We understand that in improving the daily management of prisons should meet in
particular:

• Improving the working conditions of prison officials.

• Deepening post-prison intervention associated with the role of the National Board
Imprisoned and released, it must continue its modernization and improvement of
procedures.

• In order to promote social inclusion those policy instruments (laws,
decrees, etc.) to strengthen training programs, labor, employment and education, and
those specific to treat behavioral patterns and criminogenic factors. In this sense,
deepen public-private partnerships (PIT-CNT, UdelaR, CETP, etc.) the effects that different
society actors cooperate with the social inclusion of persons deprived of liberty.

• Deepen structure Prison Training Centre which guarantees
adequate initial training and ongoing training (technical, operational,
administrative).

• Continue to develop Prison Management System.

• Strengthen the leadership structures of the units with their respective axes

(Operational - Security - Administrative Management and Technology - Treatment).

• Strengthen public policy transverse in inpatient units.

• Standardization of information about the functioning of prisons

(Regulations) to all involved (prisoners, relatives, lawyers)

• Strengthening all instruments to enable the implementation of measures
alternatives to prison.
To realize this guideline the main actions are:

• Make the legislative changes to make the arrangement possible by
Judges of these measures.

• Sensitization and training to all system operators to implement this
type of penalties and measures

• providing institutional strengthening of resources to government institutions
system responsible for the execution of alternative measures

• Find mechanisms for cooperation with civil society for
implementation.

F. NATIONAL DEFENSE
Development Project led by the FA for his third government is the basis for a
look medium- and long-term national defense.
The Framework Law on National Defense Law 18,650 defined with extreme precision Defence.
Art. 1 National Defense includes all civilian and military activities aimed at
the sovereignty and independence of our country, to preserve territorial integrity and
strategic resources and the peace of the Republic, within the framework of the Constitution and laws,
helping to create the conditions for social, present and future welfare of the population.
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

135

Art. 2 The Defence is a right and a duty of all citizens in the
form and terms established in the Constitution of the Republic and the laws. It is a well
public, an essential, permanent, and comprehensive state delegated function. In its implementation
coordinated converge the energies and resources of the whole society.
The program of the Frente Amplio in 2005 prompted a national debate in order to develop a
National Defence Act. In debates and conferences attended, civil and military, academics
domestic and foreign, politicians of all parties and members of social organizations.
This law was passed unanimously by the legislature. It provides a roadmap
for the government and the State for national defense.

• The sovereign principles of our foreign policy and defense are: The
defense of sovereignty and independence, territorial integrity and its strategic resources for
social welfare. The fundamental line of action in this regard is a policy towards and the region.

• The deepening of the integration of Latin American countries and peoples through
MERCOSUR, UNASUR and CELAC; and on defense the South American Defense Council.
Therefore, the defense not only have to think in terms of country but consider goals
strategic common with other Latin American countries.

• In conjunction with the peoples of South America must travel the roads
help to develop a shared vision of National Defense, the Military Defense and everything
aimed at the cooperative defense, to defend the sovereignty of our peoples and the
common natural and strategic resources. Reaffirming the independence of interest
political and military hegemony of the great powers of imperialist and colonial court.
A artiguista conception of National Defense
Defence should be based on the design and the artiguistas values ​​that lead us to
develop a new doctrine for National Defense banish definitely the Doctrine
National Security. It is the responsibility of society as a whole, the defense of sovereignty
economic, social, cultural, political and military of the nation. You think of the prospect of being a victim of
aggression and never in the condition of perpetrators or allies of aggressors.
Our armed forces are professional and permanent element of the military factor and should have
therefore the ability and the necessary doctrine to integrate with the people for a real defense
military, under the frame and driving the democratically elected political power determine.
Although the possible scenarios of conflict are many, the main threats are based on
They extraregional our natural and strategic resources, whether from or shared with Uruguay
other countries in the region.
Transformation of National Defense and the Armed Forces
The Broad Front-defined as a "political force (...) national conception, progressive,
democratic, popular, anti-oligarchic and anti-imperialist "(Art. 1 of the Statute) - will focus on:
Implementing the Framework Law for the Defense according to the definition given in Articles 1 and 2
cited above.
In addition to the strategic defense (some shared with neighboring countries) resources should be
take into account aspects such as education, investment, communications, environment,
etc. All must also be considered from the point of view of sovereignty. Defense is
more civil than military.
While the art. 29 of the Defence Act states that "military training and military service are
voluntary "it is promoted that citizens must be included in the areas of defense and
and in its debates.

THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

136

The MDN through the Armed Forces keep custody military equipment and armaments by
Service Material and Weaponry, and provide instruction for use in citizenship
if necessary.
Better coordination between the military and the public will be encouraged through
modification of military instruction and education, promoting complementarity between the system
public education and the military education system.
Promote the incorporation in plans for military education, human rights training,
democratic principles and norms of international law.
Mainstreaming will promote the dynamics between the public education system and the system
military education for the purpose of free movement of teachers and students,
The revival of the Centers for Reserve Officers Training will be implemented in three
forces tending towards the joint.
It will run the General Mobilization Service (SEGEMO) and the Department of Defense
Civil as well as passive defense instruments, which are understood as the organization and
ability of people to meet contingencies of nature ranging from disaster
weather, floods, fires, other possible situations of any kind, promoting
that the public understands the importance of these instruments.
It was agreed to form armed forces with a rational integration in the framework of its new doctrine,
highly qualified and paid decently. The number and training of personnel,
materials, equipment and budget allocated arise from the demands made by the new
National Defense Policy and Military Defense Policy being necessary, sufficient and
chords to perform assigned missions.
Advance the national debate over organic laws of our Armed Forces and each
forces. Discuss its nature, form and structure. Define how the people will be integral
them, they are establishing forms of voluntary training, and mobilization reserves, among other items
essential to national defense. Continuing with the discussion of National Defense to form the
White Paper on defense and the development and adoption of an organic law of the Ministry of Defense
National.
The formation of the military will respond to the needs expressed by the new defense policy
National and military defense policy, which will be considered by the Legislature.
Defence must keep close correspondence with the guidelines of the policy
abroad. Issues related to peacekeeping missions and the participation of our
Armed forces on them, should take into account the known state policy of our country,
self-determination of other states and non-interference in their internal affairs. Agreements
military cooperation should be subordinated to state policies related agreements
regional, whether they UNASUR, the South American Defense Council, etc. ".

THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

137

Rejecting the installation of foreign military bases in our country, faithful to the most expensive traditions
of Uruguay on the matter, in any form.
Push through UNASUR, the renewed discussion of the Inter-American Defense System, and consolidation
of a South American Defense System from the existing South American Defense Council. In
the framework of this reflection and collective agreement to jointly promote South American countries
the denunciation of obsolete Inter-American Treaty of Reciprocal Assistance (Rio Treaty) by new agreements
regional defense.
Based on respect for sovereignty and cooperation between states with equal rights and
prerogatives in the international arena and in tune with the guidelines of the Executive Branch carried
forward by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Defense, reporting and replace the Convention
Military Assistance existing between Uruguay and the United States since 1953.
The presence of Uruguay in Antarctica will be strengthened in its capacity as a full member of the Treaty
Antarctic, it is increasing scientific research, providing the delegation with the necessary means
for that end.

THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

138

Chapter VII
INTERNATIONAL INTEGRATION OF URUGUAY
TO.

URUGUAY IN THE WORLD

In Chapter II, the analysis of the international situation, we refer to economic crisis
central capitalist countries. In this context the crisis threatens US global hegemony
consolidated during the twentieth century and particularly after the fall of real socialism and
the tragic events of September 11, 2001, with the attack on the Twin Towers in
New York, from which the United States developed a strong political and military offensive
after political and economic objectives under the foundation of preventive war and the struggle for
freedom and against terrorism.
This economic crisis, Europe to its extended time, and without being out in the immediate glimpse,
favors a scenario reconfiguration of the struggle for global hegemony.
US and the EU are negotiating a free trade agreement which, consolidated, will force other
countries and within Latin America, to redirect its trade policies, adjusting to
the new reality.
As consider later, China's role has grown in importance in the global context.
Russia will not be excluded from the spaces of political influence is perceived.

1. PRINCIPLES OF FOREIGN POLICY
The principles and guidelines of foreign policy of the Frente Amplio are a key aspect
and the Frente inalienable alternative project, democratic, participatory, progressive,
imperialist, national and popular. Foreign policy is the instrument available to the State for
represent, defend and protect national interests outside its borders and its insertion into the
world.
Foreign policy must follow the constitutional provisions that promote peace, and without and
condemn any policy of aggression that tends to settle international differences through
war and seek and promote social and economic integration of Latin American states.
As a party to the UN, Uruguay must abide by the principles underlying the Charter of the
United Nations. We reaffirm the international level, the role of the UN as the appropriate tool
for consideration and adoption of decisions relating to the maintenance of peace, security
international and respect of its guiding principles.
The reform of the United Nations Charter and the new structure of the Security Council that
Latin American countries should join, they are indispensable to democratize
decisions and overcome the breach of international law. Uruguay must defend
the full observance of international law as a guiding principle of relations between the
nations, regardless of economic, political and military power of the same.
We believe that the OAS is a forum for international relations must be reformulated
both its organizational and its objectives.
It reaffirms that the defense of the sovereignty of states, the principle of non-intervention,
determination of peoples, the peaceful settlement of disputes, defense of rights
humans, the fulfillment in good faith of treaties, are rules that our country has joined
its foreign policy and should be maintained.
The pillars of foreign policy are: independence; non-alignment, that is, autonomy from
political and military alliance under the hegemony of world powers; support all

THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

139

initiatives aimed at strengthening peace and the establishment of a world order
more just and equitable; defense of sovereignty; resolute anti-imperialist and anti-colonialist action,
commitment to peace and the peaceful settlement of disputes between States; rejection of all forms of
terrorist action, particularly state terrorism; consolidation of mechanisms to prevent
all foreign interference in the internal affairs of a country; rejection of the genocide; indivisibility
of all human rights, whether civil, political, social, economic and cultural, including
collective ownership rights; defense of the right to asylum and political refuge and defense
Environment together with the promotion of sustainable development; based regional military treaties
our definitions on national defense; policy support level disarmament
world; compliance with CEDAW and the Ibero-American Convention of Belém do Pará; promotion
the rights of migrants and strengthening regional and international networks
combat and assistance regarding trafficking.

2. URUGUAY IN THE REGION AND THE REGION IN THE WORLD
Uruguay's integration in the world will be driven from the MERCOSUR platform. It is therefore
foster a common bloc's external agenda, consolidating and strengthening the institutions
Regionals.
The proposed program Frente Amplio seeks to develop a foreign policy that has as
an international projection objective Uruguay prioritizing regional integration for insertion
in the world.
This region has the potential to become one of the most important system block
International. The construction of positions within our power regional institutions
sovereignty and allows us to have a more forceful action in multilateral spaces and the
global forums. Since membership in the processes of regional integration should deepen
development of South-South relations and in turn seek a balance in building a political
abroad to promote the consolidation of integration without losing sight of the relationship with the other
regions, developing links with other countries, growing multilateralism and respect for the
international law that has characterized the actions of Uruguay in the world.

3. Our relations with emerging countries:
THE IMPORTANCE OF THE SOUTH AND RISE OF OUR RELATIONS

DEVELOPED WITH THE NORTH
The current international scenario shows a rise of the emerging South. This does
important to deepen our trade and economic, political and cultural relations with these
countries. In emerging countries, the BRICS (Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa) are highlighted
and create a new international panorama, in a world where North is in crisis and
apply adjustment policies that compromise the welfare states in these countries.
It is estimated that in 2020 the total production of Brazil, China and India, which together exceed the
will Canada, France, Germany, Italy, United Kingdom and United States; and in 2050 will be 40% of the
global production. North needs the South, but the North begins to need further south.
As never before in our country's foreign policy must take into account a very important change
in their immediate environment: Uruguay is bordered by an emerging country that is a global power,
Brazil. At the same time this country can become the gateway to a trade, regional and space
global development of privileged political cooperation and dialogue with other emerging actors.
The growth of China and its new role economic, political, commercial, cultural, technological and military
It operates as an undeniable factor to understand the present and to build a relationship
new and just international. China participates in the main international bodies both
political and economic-on equal footing with other powers, in a moment of transformation.
So we see a China growing in Africa where it is the main economic partner of the continent; a
China Expands Foreign Direct Investment in Southeast Asia first and Latin
America as a dynamic of its economy.

THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

140

In this regard the relationship with China must take into account principles of fairness and
respect for political and economic sovereignty. They must understand their new role as a promoter
of the world economy, as a new factor of equilibrium between powers and as an alternative
to enable the mutual growth. In this sense the economic, commercial, cultural agreements,
tourist, political, military of Uruguay and the region with China must be calibrated understanding the
mutually advantageous and asymmetries between them.
For other areas of the emerging world must pay attention to Africa, including
Sahara. For it is essential:
Promote the strengthening of cultural, social, economic, trade and political ties
with the countries of sub-Saharan Africa, with special attention to strategic areas such as
education, science and technology; in particular deserve attention our relations with South Africa
and Angola as ways to stimulate a proactive policy in the region.
Enhancing the Zone of Peace and Cooperation in the South Atlantic (ZOPACAS) reaffirming the role
serves as a forum for further integration between its member states, reiterating
commitment to further strengthen dialogue and cooperation within the Zone and organizations
and integrated by the states represented, such as the African Union and the Union mechanisms
of South American Nations (UNASUR).
Give continuity to the Strategic Plan for Strengthening towards the countries of sub-Saharan Africa started
by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs through its Racial Ethnic Unity
The overall strategy for Africa must also address the north of the continent, which implies
coordinated with the strategy that focuses on the Arab World. To achieve a look that
identify nearby and familiarity, while allowing think strategically in
potential of South-South relations between our continent and the Arab World, which charges a
more relevant today in the context of a world stage in the process of reconfiguration.

4. THE INTERNATIONAL DIMENSION OF PEACE
The international system, according to the United Nations Charter, has developed mechanisms
to try to ensure world peace. This implies a framework of collective security, in which, beyond
changes that reality demands regarding the integration of the Security Council, is the only
politically and legally legitimate mechanism to take in order to safeguard peace.
Strengthen the collective security of the United Nations is one way ahead
interventions of other nature which end up generating chaos and huge cost (in lives
human, social disintegration and economic breakdown) in the affected countries
same. This point should be central to the actions of our country in the framework of the United Nations.
In this context, it must analyze and decide our country's participation in peacekeeping missions
United Nations, carried out case by case analysis of all missions both these
and future, and reviewing such participation to any changes that may occur
in the context of an ongoing mission. .The Coordination of our peacekeepers with others
South America in those missions that are addressed jointly, the commitment must be functional
multilateralism and international law, relevant objectives of our foreign policy.
In this area it will emphasize the gradual and complete withdrawal of the military component of MINUSTAH present
in Haiti. It was in step with the agreements made in the framework of UNASUR, an area in which
It should encourage a withdrawal timetable be able to fully effectuate in the next five years.
It should be borne in mind that the current Haitian government period will culminate with the assumption of
a new president in 2016, preparing the withdrawal always in coordination with the government of that
country and subject to their sovereign will. Parallel will develop focused aspects
in technical cooperation for the construction and strengthening of state capacities
enable sustainable development of Haiti. In this sense, Uruguay will make every effort
within its power to ensure that the commitments of the international community are met
cooperation for the development of Haiti.
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

141



5. URUGUAY AND INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION

International cooperation is an area of ​​importance for Uruguay. Since the optical frenteamplista
cooperation policy must strengthen the national development strategy. This dimension is
increasing importance in foreign policy between States, which adds deepening
new forms of horizontal South-South cooperation where the region appears as a
privileged setting.
The Uruguay has advanced strongly on institutional transformation in the areas of
international cooperation on the basis of program proposals by our strength
policy. Thus the creation by law of the Uruguayan International Cooperation Agency (AUCI)
transcendent pattern inflection point when, inter alia, the establishment
a real National System for International Cooperation, which articulates the different areas
where actions are taken in this area. It will continue with these efforts
institutional strengthening this successful experience to continue contributing to the development of the country.
Meanwhile the Foreign Ministry has redoubled efforts to equip DG
International cooperation, with the necessary skills to be able to assume the
new public policy challenges this entails.
For this system to advance its strategic consolidation is considered that all actions
cooperation are aligned to national development priorities defined at the level of plan
government, the Presidency of the Republic and the Council of Ministers and foreign policy established by
Foreign Ministry. In this sense the most suitable institutional arrangements that are created endeavor
to be able to pursue new challenges in this area.
Uruguay in the field of cooperation, recognizes the importance of multilateralism and therefore
United Nations as legitimate forum and universal and equal representation. Committed
regional integration, prioritization acquire special spaces for International Cooperation
They are developed in the various regional platforms such as the
UNASUR and CELAC, among others. In MERCOSUR it has advanced significantly in
its institutions with the creation of the Group of International Cooperation, for which our
Future efforts should be aimed at maintaining the operational and functional breakthrough in the process
regional integration. It is from these areas that our perspective of technical cooperation
between our countries, in the framework of South-South cooperation is an enabling environment for
better development.
Uruguay now has a dual role as a recipient and provider of cooperation and identified capabilities
for South-South cooperation: agricultural areas, social policies, infrastructure development,
governance, among others.
Considering the above points, we must say that conceive cooperation from a perspective
left is put in the center the idea of ​​sustainable development in all its dimensions:
social, economic, environmental, and human rights approach. To do this, look beyond the
conception of relations between recipient and donor, proposing a strategic alliance partners
development based on the values ​​of solidarity and mutual aid.



6. URUGUAY AND FOREIGN TRADE: THE CHALLENGES OF THE FUTURE

As part of the international context should review the new arrangements that are on the horizon
United States, with the Trans-Asian countries and the Transatlantic with the European Union.
Developed countries (and not only them), are seeking to revive its exports, which have
suffered sharp declines in 2008 and 2009, as happened in the United States. For the
European Union only in 2014 are expected to recover values ​​2008. Clearly these
trends must be closely monitored as they will have great influence in the near future. In
particular projected agreements between the United States and the European Union can have large
consequences, according to depth, in trade rules to be adopted within the WTO.

THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

142

In the case of Uruguay, it is clear where markets have been supported in which to keep
the dynamism of exports: while exports to the United States and the European Union
They doubled between 2002 and 2011, corresponding to MERCOSUR quadrupled, and
China and Russia, seven.



7. PROGRESS AND CHALLENGES

In recent years our country has experienced sustained economic growth and
sustainable with a favorable evolution of the main macro-economic variables such as
exports, investment and inflation. These meant a solid foundation for our government
implement economic and social policies achieving the result of the significantly lower
poverty and destitution.
Uruguay to be a small market, it must adopt policies inexorably production and insertion
that allow us access to regional and international markets.
Foreign trade occupies approximately 40% in shaping gross domestic product,
whereas imports and exports of goods and services. Brazil, China, Venezuela,
Argentina, Russia, USA and the European Union, have emerged as more markets
important in our foreign sales.
Our country is among the top 5 five global exporters of: beef
frozen boneless, combed wool, husked rice, full grain leathers dry, 6th in
soybeans, 7th in polished rice, animal fat and horse meat into malt 8th, 9th in fresh sheep meat
chilled and grain sorghum, 11th in milk powder, according to ITC TradeMap -UNCTAD.
The Foreign Trade Policy and International Integration will implement the Broad Front government,
continue channeling it into the National Development Strategy, and the corresponding
short-, medium- and long-term. Among others are mentioned: market diversification,
increasing value-added production chains and attracting productive investment.
From the point of view of production, the evolution was based on the sector's growth
"Agriculture" (soy, dairy, meat, cellulose, rice, wheat, barley, products with high added value
in primary chains) and the sector "Services" (financial, logistics and transport infrastructure,
tourism, software, audio-visual products, communications, energy), constituting both
sectors in the main drivers of export growth of the Uruguayan economy.
For a country like Uruguay expansion into foreign markets is a prerequisite.
In this context, regional integration is to correlate the creation of linkages in the
areas of production, logistics, marketing, investment, education and technology.
Thus, expanded markets, legal certainty and convergence of standards and
disciplines linked to advances in infrastructure, energy and connectivity, as well as
presence of global value networks, go on to become the current world requirements to grow
with equity.
Despite the efforts made so far from the public sector (the Productive Cabinet
Sector Councils, the Interministerial Commission for Foreign Trade Affairs (CIACEX)
the Institute Uruguay XXI), as well as from the private sector, we see that persists even one
worrying dispersion of human and economic resources.
The third progressive government should be inserted into development policy instrument
institutional suited to pursue a policy of Foreign Trade and International Integration,
the country brand, with the broader political support and a strong interrelationship between the sectors
productive, workers and academia.

THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

143

8. program objectives and strategic lines


• Negotiating trade agreements with MERCOSUR and other blocks
countries, diversifying export destinations, including the main markets for
goods and services exported by Uruguay, current and potential.

• Development of promotion centers and business intelligence in strategic markets
for our country. They must be coordinated by one institution to avoid
dispersion, but may act as business centers for all institutions Uruguay
and companies that need them.

• Locating information centers in foreign trade and business intelligence in the
inside the country having one of the factors for regionalization territorial location.

• Continue to develop multimodal transport mode, consolidating
port and road infrastructure. Implementation of Deepwater Port in Rocha, lined
development of the above modes. This new situation would position our country
excellent form from the logistical point of view and as a gateway to Mercosur
and Bi-Oceanic Corridor.

• To institutionalize the management of "country brand", seen as a melting pot of our culture, production,
our way of doing things, our values, our ethics and aesthetics, ultimately our
search for a place in the contemporary world. For example encourage sports,
innovation, carnival, tourism, gastronomy, arts.


• Negotiate MERCOSUR extension Temporary Admission Regime.

Strengthening internal capabilities:

• Strengthening institutions as inherent to the insertion, promotion and intelligence
commercial. Design a strategic plan for implementation.


• Optimize and strengthen the coordination of material and human resources.



• Deepen the implementation and development of the Business Intelligence Platform.


• Continue with the implementation of the Integrated Foreign Trade System (SICEX) and
Single Window for Foreign Trade (VUCE)

• Rebuild the marginal production network consists mainly of MSMEs,
and forms of social economy, implementing projects internalization in sequential steps
(Path for export).
Strengthening external capabilities:
Deepening regional and international productive integration, promoting the integration of our
productive sector to global value chains.
Targeted to support internationalization of joint venture projects, either from tables
and Sector Councils, production cooperatives and companies recovered by their workers,
consortiums and conglomerates. It shall include among others: financing,
international marketing strategy, promotion and business intelligence.
Plans to support the internationalization of companies led by women and youth by encouraging
export culture and the challenge of growing as a productive unit in today's globalized world.
Encourage prospective missions, commercial and inverse businesses, such as promoting
Uruguayan products in supermarkets.

THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

144

Consolidate existing markets and try to address those who have not been able yet.
Strengthen a work scheme based on the preparation of a map where classified Markets
target markets according to the following characteristics:
For knowledge, exploration, development, consolidation and monitoreamiento.
From these definitions, we can strategize intelligence, promotion and positioning
Image commercial short, medium and long term.
Depth profiles of business opportunities by country.
Incentives linked to foreign trade.
Refund of indirect taxes according to the degree of incorporation of value-added and labor
work.
Reviewing tax policy applied to export products with low added value and low
labor intensive.
Prioritize investments that increase the exportable supply and that tend to promote the development
Local inside the country.
Prioritize investments that demonstrate environmental sustainability.
Focus on global export services (tics, logistics, business and management, audiovisual).
Deepening elements to attract investments and reinvestments of companies already established
(Effective and targeted promotion, incentive system need not be
prosecutors but also to support job skills training among others).
Strengthen public and private investment in research, innovation and development, product
and production processes in line with exports, particularly those involving high
added value and highly qualified human resources. As an example should be prioritized
sectors such as biotechnology, nanotechnology, (human, animal and plant) Pharmacology, Chemistry
fine, Genetics (animal and plant), Electronics and Electrical Engineering, among others.
Finally, it is noteworthy that the international crisis has accelerated many changes especially
regarding financial regulation; a greater presence in Southern countries in managing the
multilateral agencies and institutional bodies seeking to strengthen democracy
in the management of economic and social problems facing humanity. Access to
information by the citizens and monitoring of such changes is the first step in the
decision-oriented guidelines aforementioned international policy decisions.

B.

THE INTEGRATED URUGUAY

The global world is moving towards the creation of a multipolar power
international, both geopolitical and geo-economic terms.
This reality impacts both on the development of the different regional areas as negotiating
and resolution of global issues.
The international economy has also created a new negotiating dynamic between large
trading blocs. In this context, countries like Uruguay, individually, have little
to compete and influence. The integration is imperative to achieve integration
International more efficient and generate greater bargaining power. In this regard, Latin America
natural and priority is to strengthen ties of cooperation and progress goal.
Regional integration is an indispensable tool for development and satisfaction
demands that generates a more equitable and inclusive society. As such, it is a component
fundamentals of our foreign policy.
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

145

MERCOSUR occupies a central place in the strategy of international insertion of Uruguay, but in the form
It excludes any other form of integration that have been developed in the region, in all
its dimensions. Open and complementary view of these processes has been a constant in the
FA government management. In a strategy of concentric circles, foreign policy should be followed
articulating from a firm commitment to the immediate environment: the relationship with Argentina,
Brazil and the Mercosur process, including the relationship of borders, to more extensive forms of
integration as the Union of South American Nations (UNASUR), the Latin American Association
Integration (ALADI) or the community of Latin American and Caribbean States (CELAC) at
regional and global level.
Our government has reaffirmed the political, economic and trade relations with other processes
integration in Latin America and the Caribbean, assuming that the only trade integration
It is a reductionist approach and confirming the MERCOSUR as the linchpin of our
international integration. In this direction they are driving convergence between processes
various existing integration mechanisms in the region. These processes should be expanded,
including landlocked countries to the Mediterranean.
In seeking the convergence of trade agreements in Latin America the role is important
ALADI. The network of existing agreements among members favored a set of schedules
staging that have already reached the duty-free, or will do so starting in 2019, and
covering almost all bilateral relations. The convergence of these schedules is a
how to speed up a common economic space in Latin America.
The commercial space of the Pacific Alliance also recognizes, which belongs as Uruguay
observer. The full membership of this mechanism is only possible to the extent that no
confront our goals of integration and negotiation in MERCOSUR.
Any approach to negotiating a view to concluding bilateral or multilateral treaties
Business should ensure the needs and objectives of national development. The terms
it is accepted in areas such as trade competition rules, government procurement,
intellectual property, services or technical barriers to trade, should not impair the development
sustainable country, their labor sources nor its power to implement public policies to achieve it.
Particularly, it should not affect the integration strategy that has been carried out in
especially our priority to MERCOSUR membership.
Trade negotiations of international integration should be approached from the external agenda
MERCOSUR. In this regard, it ensures that it is comprehensive and diversified in terms of countries
and export production, boosting Uruguay deepening Complementation Agreements
Economic (ACE) with the countries of Latin America and the Caribbean.
Without prejudice to the powers of the CIACEX and other agencies interministerial coordination,
consultation mechanisms will be enabled with economic operators and social organizations
involved.

1. THE UNITY OF LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN: integration scenarios
Latin America and the Caribbean is experiencing a positive change of time in contrast to the heightened crises
affecting the United States and European countries. The integration processes in LAC are a factor
cooperation and progress. They provide better conditions to increase the general welfare
of our societies and contribute to the region is increasingly recognized as an actor
important on the world stage.
eleven
The democratic dimension of integration
The Presidential Declaration on Democratic Commitment in the MERCOSUR, June 1996
1998 Ushuaia Protocol mechanisms were the first in the region where it is stated that
democracy is a value sine qua non for the development of integration. The Protocol
Additional UNASUR on Commitment to Democracy, November 2010, and the Protocol
Montevideo MERCOSUR (Ushuaia II) of 2011, contain specific measures to address
possible rupture of the democratic order in the states parties.
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

146

In addition, the integration has now become democratic integration, or in other
Thus, the ideal that without democracy there is no integration crystallized.
It should continue to support this process of democratic affirmation in the integration processes.
The measures and possible sanctions for breaches of constitutional orders are transformed into a
point of direct interest of their statements; become a community interest.

2. institutionalities INTEGRATION PROCESSES
CELAC
The creation of the Community of Latin American and Caribbean States (CELAC), is a breakthrough in
terms of regional integration, to establish a dialogue platform that raises the profile of the
political agreement among its members.
CELAC is the only forum for dialogue, coordination and development of joint projects
Latin America, including the Caribbean.
Among its achievements he stands to act as interlocutor with other regions, increasing
LAC ability to influence in the international arena.
In this regional space great opportunities focus on trade,
technological, business development and attracting investment exporter by companies in the region.
An element of risk for the CELAC is the duplication of agendas with other integration organizations.
Uruguay's performance should help to mitigate.

UNASUR
UNASUR is the most ambitious political consultation process of our continent. Is the
All that also ensures cooperation and coordination of public policies and seeks
creation of a South American citizenship.
This process has been known for its vigor and unprecedented actions in defense of the
democratic institutions in the region, as was his intervention in the institutional crisis
Bolivia and Ecuador and the unanimous response to the coup in Paraguay.
The presence of Guyana and Suriname is a historic event in the process of
regional approach to both countries.
The South American Defense Council is a significant step forward in the realization of a zone of peace and
cooperation in the Americas. Also particularly relevant the Health Council, the Council
Energy, the Council of Social Development and the Council of Culture, Education and Science and Technology,
as well as the recent Electoral Council, whose creation Uruguay played a leading role.
The South Bank is a strategic instrument in the context of South American integration,
to finance projects of sustainable and sovereign development between our countries; East
effort complements other multilateral development agencies that integrates Uruguay.
Uruguay should actively participate in UNASUR and be ready to contribute to their
institutional and design of a new model of regional and international relations consolidation.
This area is revealed as conducive to the creation of a new arbitration system to correct the
deficiencies courts as the International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID).
In the framework of the UNASUR should be a proactive policy of cooperation with the talks
and the peace efforts in Colombia that are being carried out between the government and the FARC and the
that in future they can encourage the government and the ELN, to realize the goal of a region
peace with social justice without armed conflict.

THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

147

ALBA
The Bolivarian Alliance for the Peoples of Our America is a mechanism based integration
solidarity and cooperation whose purpose is to produce structural transformations
comprehensive development and achieve greater sovereignty of its members.
Uruguay participates as a "permanent guest" in the ALBA. It should further strengthen links
and strengthen our integration mechanism SUCRE, trying to be in the best conditions
to discuss a possible future full membership to the group, to the extent not confront
our goals of integration and negotiation in MERCOSUR.

MERCOSUR
The role of MERCOSUR in the regional integration process has deepened and expanded. They
Special emphasis acquired political and social dimensions, essential areas of development
achieve real and deep integration.
We have come a strengthened MERCOSUR in its many different dimensions: economic,
commercial, political, cultural and social.
The constant expansion of MERCOSUR demonstrates its vitality and force. With the integration of
Venezuela, its surface and extends from the Caribbean to the Straits of Magellan. Bolivia,
Surinam and Guyana are already associated with Ecuador states and approaches are explored.
This new MERCOSUR certainly poses difficulties and challenges. In the first instance it is necessary
adapt its institutional structure to the new reality.
Among the institutional aspects is to improve the dispute settlement mechanism.
While the Permanent Review Tribunal (TPR) is an achievement, no progress has been made in the effectiveness
of awards. It would be proposed: 1) submission to the law alone; 2) a
appellate court to the correct interpretation of the rules and their implementation; 3) a system of
effective penalties for compliance with its decisions and / or judgments.
As regards its external agenda, they are known the difficulties we have encountered. Is
must continue to promote negotiations linking the MERCOSUR increasingly with
the global world. This deepening of Mercosur will allow our country to be the best
possibilities of market access that seeking development with equity required.
Uruguay has made progress in diversifying its exports and boosted regional platform
our trade, enabling industrial development through the MERCOSUR rules of origin,
allowing you to add value to exports and thus increase domestic work.
You need to link national exports to regional production chains. This, together with a
joint improvement of innovation, science and technology become a true MERCOSUR
development platform for Uruguay.
It remains progress on issues such as special and differential treatment for some countries
less developed, which takes into account existing asymmetries and include the strengthening of
funding mechanisms.
As for regional convergence, our government has taken firm steps in multiple areas, such as
be the infrastructure for digital standard, among others.
The contribution of the Fund for Structural Convergence of Mercosur (FOCEM) was specially
relevant to improving the country's energy and road and railway interconnection with countries
neighbors.
It is necessary to redirect some funding towards social priorities FOCEM and
productive.
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

148

The impetus for regional integration must be based not only on the work of the Foreign Ministry, but
also of all ministries.
It must underpin the development of some strategic actors to deepen
regional integration, such as strengthening the spaces representing the governments
sub-national institutions in the process, through the Consultative Forum of Cities and Regions
(FCCR) and the role of MERCOCIUDADES and municipalities. This allows us to regional integration
from the social, cultural, from the local, from the cross, from the daily life of people
a separate but complementary to regional scales agenda coordinated with
them through FCCR and MERCOSUR. The cities in the network, enrich and densified, the process
regional construction.
Mercosur is a key stage for Uruguay. Without integration there is no possibility of
integral development and economic independence. The deepening of Mercosur means continuity
the process of industrial development with the resulting positive effects on employment,
foreign trade and economic growth.
The process of regional integration gives the country not only an expanded market but also a
platform for productive complementarity.
The social dimension of MERCOSUR
The social dimension of Mercosur is a reality that is consolidated. The goals were achieved
proposals to this stage: the Strategic Plan for Social Action (PSEA), the Coordination Commission
Ministries of Social Affairs (CCMAS), the Mercosur Social Institute (ISM), Declaration
Principles Public Policy Institute of Human Rights (IPPDDHH) and the Framework, among others.
The PSEA is the central element that sets regional priorities in social matters from a
cross and articulated by the CCMAS as a field perspective provides greater coordination
and rationality to the social institutions of MERCOSUR. Both instruments should be strengthened.
The adoption of the Framework is a historic breakthrough for the construction of social policies
regional.
The full operation of the ISM and IPPDDHH shows the maturity of the process and gives the conditions
for research in social policies. Strengthen them is a key task.
The most important challenge will be the implementation of the PSEA through regional projects,
it will be necessary to clarify its funding sources from MERCOSUR, analyzing
including the expansion of the Fund for Structural Convergence of Mercosur (FOCEM).
Decent work remains a key for the integration model. It is necessary to define short
term citizenship status of MERCOSUR, allowing free movement of workers and
recognition of the equal rights and access to health and education, among other rights
basic.
Social participation
The contribution of social organizations and progressive governments decisions
They have advanced the institutionalization of participation: We are Mercosur Summit
Social and creating Social Participation Unit are clear examples. However, still
progress should be made in relation to the world of work, to improve the daily lives of the
workers.

The political dimension of MERCOSUR: the MERCOSUR Parliament (PARLASUR)
The implementation of the MERCOSUR Parliament was a crucial step in the process
political and democratic integration.
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

149

It is also a strong commitment to overcome the economic and commercial vision initially adopted
by the integration process. PARLASUR must become the promoter of regional policies
for free movement of people, goods and services, the gradual correction of asymmetries and
generator real common policies within the bloc, favoring its citizens.
It is necessary to move towards Mercosur parliamentary elections through the citizens' vote. He
FA should put the issue on the political agenda.

URUPABOL
The trinational project is of great importance URUPABOL to realize a space
trade and energy exchanges, enhanced by the geo-road position Uruguay as a natural gateway
Out of all the "hinterland" Plata.

3. ACTIVE BILATERALISM
During this period the government has strengthened the mechanism of Joint Commissions and
High-level meetings as a way to consolidate and systematize the bilateral political relations,
commercial, cultural and cooperation, especially with countries of our continent; whereby
It seeks to supplement the efforts being made in the different scenarios of integration.
Based on the positive results achieved, this effort should be deepened, both the agenda
national development and consolidation of the catalytic role of our country in search of
consensus.

4. The geopolitics of the River Plate Basin: a strategic issue for URUGUAY
The Treaty of the River Plate Basin, FONPLATA the Agreement, the agreement of the Paraguay-Parana waterway,
and the recent agreement on the Guarani Aquifer, constitute a true system Basin
Silver and are the concrete dimension of an irreversible regional geopolitical strategic importance.
The mineral resources, the value of their forests and fertile soils have Basin
del Plata region of South America with a high economic growth and a high concentration of
population, which exceeds 120 million people.
The system of Cuenca del Plata is an essential component of the process of regional integration and
necessary to further this strategy by deploying the greatest geopolitical intelligence. The continent
South America needs to be built as a unit for policy dialogue and coordination of actions
their states.

BORDER POLICY, THE NEED FOR A NEW PARADIGM FOR DEVELOPMENT
SUSTAINABLE INTEGRATION.
Our aquatic and land borders are the first line where our integration project
It becomes reality, and the stage where the political will to move forward is checked in the project
common.
A new vision that surpasses that of traditional generation based policies needed
From the idea of ​​defense, based on the concept of regional integration in socio-economic, energy, infrastructure and strategic coordination with neighboring countries on issues
security and defense.
The border area has a great potential for productive development and development
physical infrastructure, transport and energy, etc. from management schemes
binational, which is of strategic importance.
Coordination of state agencies must allow a single strategic management, with
powers and resources, involving all national institutional actors and
local resolution and execution. Progress must be made on an institutional design that allows viable
a state policy in the field.
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

150

The cultural dimension of integration
The peoples of the region have a common history traced by the economic and political processes,
social and cultural lived, which allowed recreate our character and our identity
The promotion of diversity of cultural expressions in the integration process, strengthening the
dialogue among peoples, leading to the development of more inclusive and more democratic societies.

C.

Uruguayans abroad

Migration as established and growing phenomenon.
The global movement of people is coming quickly to a total of five billion
continents, and there is widespread consensus that this process will not experience setbacks
in the next decade, according to recent reports released by the World Organization for
Migration (IOM).
This forces more decisively addressing this cross-border phenomenon, which stands out as ever
in public agendas of countries and governments require effective responses.
Uruguay is a country that has more citizens transiting the world, in proportion to their
population. However we are witnessing a historic time of migration, since it is reversing
the trend with the massive influx of Uruguayans who were living abroad. In the
last 10 years it is estimated that 34 000 compatriots and returned in 2012 only 10% of them,
recorded peaks that reached 350 return revenue to the country in a month.
In the mid-60s of last century, Uruguay ceased to be a country only reception
international migration, and thereafter observed periods of intense flow of people
and from the country, determined by political and economic reasons.
However, only since 2005 begin to be implemented targeted policies to address
migration, promoting an institutional framework especially in the service of
compatriots abroad and returning to those groups.
Since then progress has been made clear, from the efforts of our governments to give
response to the growing demand from both Uruguayans abroad, which require an approach
Uruguayan institutions for better access to services, and those who return and
They need state assistance to reintegrate into society.
There is no doubt that the progress made in the last two governments reflect the concern and
dedication of our political force to the diaspora.
In times of accountabilities to the population and the need to consider new challenges,
We start from the belief that the balance is very positive, although there is still a path for
achieve levels of excellence in management that traced the Frente Amplio in government.
The possibility of voting abroad is a central theme proposed by our political force, whose
implementation is on track to be resolved, this will demand a greater activation of work
politicians in general and in particular our Broad Front parties streamlining and strengthening
multiple political structures that we have come abroad. The sanction will be promoted
Bill for all Uruguayans abroad to exercise their rights as citizens.
We must not ignore the transcendent a set of actions that have allowed raising the quality
of life of our compatriots abroad and approved measures to facilitate the
return of thousands of Uruguayans.
We will try to solve as soon as possible the improvement and streamlining (of procedures) of identification
Uruguayans residing in other countries.

THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

151

From the above, migration will undoubtedly force in the agenda of our governments, so
they should strengthen state policies in this area.
We advocate strongly for the deepening of policies developed by the FA to follow
progress in this central chapter of Human Rights.

THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

152

THE ACHIEVEMENTS TO DATE
The second National Broad Front government made significant progress in policy
immigration, both in the care of compatriots living abroad and instrumentation
measures for better reintegration of returned. This reality is recognized widely,
especially Uruguayans have required assistance from the state.
Strategic planning Broad Front between 2010 and 2015, had as main objective to integrate
our country to all those compatriots who are living abroad, as well as
support and advice, trying to achieve better living conditions for those who wish
to get back.
The basis of all policies promoted by the government is that migration is a law
Human and as such must be to safeguard the States, especially in countries like ours,
whose fluctuating population reaches 15% of nationals.
The Foreign Ministry has been working with an inclusive and integrative philosophy.
Through the Directorate General for Consular Affairs and Liaison has been proposed and carried
Material changes out of Linking and Return, which has strengthened links and
integration of all these people to our country.
In all the work done by that Department stands out: the improved
Uruguayan Consulate performance, including performing for Mobile Consulates
better assistance to fellow; Consular update legislation which dates from
1906, this amendment aims to bring traditional services to the principles of
administrative simplification, technological modernization and full respect for the rights and dignity
compatriots, and the protection and promotion of their interests abroad; adherence
the Convention of the Apostille Convention, allowing reduce costs and time to obtain
public documents to be presented in our country and / or the host member country
the Convention; Subscription, printing and delivery of items in the Consulates; Trafficking Protocol and
Trafficking in which the steps established to proceed from our
Consulates; The Return Manual, a guide for compatriots returning to Uruguay was made;
new electromechanical system for processing passports, this service has meant a
substantial improvement in management and a better quality of travel documents; It is working to
the identity card can be processed at the Consulates in the same mode as they are
making passports; through Law No. 18,858 16,021 No. of Nationality Act was amended and
Decreasing the time required citizenship to children born outside Uruguay, Uruguayan parents,
to process the Certificate of imminence to get the Credential Civic; I also know
arises in a new modification, the transmission of citizenship to the grandchildren also transmitted
children born out of Uruguay; It was adopted considered valid and effective within the territory
National documents issued by foreign consulates accredited in the Republic,
provided that they contain the signature and seal of the Consulate for immigration formalities (Article No. 147
This Accountability).
On return, the need to process the entry of vehicles under the auspices of one removed
Customs Broker and reduced from four to two years the possibility of selling that well.
This part of the total exemption of return procedures.
The new policies related to returnees comprise compatriots situation
socio-economic vulnerability. Special attention is also devoted to juvenile cases
homeless and domestic violence, in a clear sign of sensitivity and adaptation to these
disturbing phenomena of our times.
The Directorate General for Consular Affairs and Liaison improved communication with the Diaspora
through different means among which may highlight a new Web site, the
social networking, video conferencing, etc. Communication with residents in the "Department
20 "it is one of the priorities of steering linkage as it allows collecting inputs
further improve our public policies aimed at diaspora and simultaneously achieves that and
compatriots feel part of our country.
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

153

In aspiration to foster the full exercise of citizenship rights of those who are
abroad, our government has insisted that the possibility of voting abroad continue
on the public agenda. We got to the end of the legislative period the subject was included and transit
a phase of definition at the level of the legislature.
In synthesis it has developed an interagency working unprecedented advances allowed
described on migration.

Migration policies TO BE CARRIED OUT
However, our progressive vision and their needs are our and our
new challenges require us compatriots.
Strategic planning 2015 - 2019 must necessarily include the following assumptions:
The Consulates of the Republic are offices where the processing of documents
Uruguayan display allows real decentralization of the Uruguayan State. Continue
conducting mobile consulates in order to continue to bring the state of our compatriots.
Adapt the services and programs offered by public institutions that Uruguayans
They are abroad or those who wish to return, while demanding the greatest commitment
designated the leaders in these fields.
Strengthening the National Migration Board. Through Article No. 148 of the last Accountability
the current period Article No. 24 of Law No. 18,250 modified. It will be composed of a
delegated by the President of the Republic, a delegate from the Ministry of Interior, a delegate by
the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, a delegate from the Ministry of Labour and Social Security and
delegated by the Ministry of Social Development. Provide financial resources for the support
Executive Secretariat whose role will be to plan, monitor and coordinate the implementation of
activities of technical and administrative support for the functioning of the National Board of
Migration.
In a later phase, he will tend to lay the groundwork for the creation of an institutional setting
(Institute for Migration or similar), with the purpose of unifying the state policies are targeted
in migration.
To instruct the Ministry of Labour and Social Security the task of advising on all that apply
Returning compatriots, in order to facilitate access to the labor market through
Migrants Coordination Unit and Returnees created by Law No. 18,834 / 10. This target must
be coordinated with the National Institute of Employment and Vocational Training (INEFOP) to offer
training compatriots.
Provide the necessary human and material resources to the Directorate General for Consular Affairs
and Linking to the effect that it could progress in improving migration policies.
Encourage returnees to invest their capital in the country in which they were from before
emigrate, approving incentives for low investment projects when they are filed in
populations of 15,000 or fewer.
The political force at the parliamentary level to win approval of a Law of Suffrage in
Abroad, tending to the regulation of Article 77 of the Constitution of the Republic.

Planning for the next period of government an integrating strategy, in which the dichotomy "the
outside and inside "disappears and you can really enhance the integration
our country, regardless of the place of residence of all our citizens.
The Work Plan for the Third Broad Front government must be strictly related to
one involvement of all agencies. Many decisions do not go through the creation
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

154

specific legislation, but by adapting what we already have or to adopt political decisions
part of the leaders in terms of administrative management. Most often it is possible
changes that improve the management and meet the needs of our compatriots by mere
political will, without implying economic expenditures.
Our policy has been not to create false expectations, but of respect and responsibility towards the
diaspora. Therefore he never released something that had not been finalized by agreement
or resolutions. This way of working made to recover lost credibility, why we
It ensures that this is the right way to move forward as a political force and as
government.
We must remember that the compatriots abroad have already approached us, now is
while we, through all public services, we continue approaching them.

D.

INSTITUTIONS FOR FOREIGN POLICY.

Under the new paradigm of foreign policy being carried FA governments are
necessary to deepen the reform process initiated in MRREE, that way consolidate
a cultural change in the organization in which each employee is claimed as a public servant,
representing the interests of our country.
It is necessary to deepen the intra and inter-ministerial coordination. Thus,
incorporated into the design of foreign policy to other state agencies.
Among the tasks to be addressed in a new period of government are:
Managing for results. Since 80% of the budget is invested in MRREE Service
Outside, it should be a renewed information system spending to allocate MRREE
budgeted staff in the missions, as well as the activities carried out by them.
Reshape mission management involves the implementation of management plans, development
Budget chords control results according to plans drawn up. This imposes
a comprehensive review of the regulatory body governing the allocation of costs and benefits of
representations.
Management of human resources. It is essential a restructuring of the Ministry, to incorporate
the assessment of construction activities and processes of the ministerial organization under the
objectives.
The adequacy of the Foreign Service must take as a basis the guidelines of the new
Statute of civil servants.
Restructures the Mission is needed from the constantly evaluate and systematize
strategic and / or cyclical reasons why Uruguay has them and thus define the
endowment and personal profile to allocate to them. In addition it must implement a
wage compensation mechanism for local staff recruited.
They must adapt the criteria and incentives staff turnover sent from the Foreign Ministry
outside as well as staff that remains in Uruguay. In line with the restructuring
raised also need to update the regulation of non-diplomatic staff qualifications.
Technological renewal from the implementation of a document management system is needed
mail covering all tracks (file, note, memo circular Resolution
Ministerial, etc.) and all the Missions.
Moreover, the Knowledge Bases information access and supply will be established
cross the entire Ministry. Thus a comprehensive monitoring system is created
activities and projects.
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

155

An important topic will be the stage for migration to the use of free software, and implementation of
systems and / or open source office suites, in line with the policy of technological sovereignty
and rationalization of resources.
It requires improved infrastructure management from inventory and evaluate
fitness facilities, needs to use them in properties
MRREE, both in Uruguay and abroad. Based on the above make a sales plan,
acquisition and / or repair them.

THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

156

THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

157

Frente Amplio (FA)
frenteamplioTV.com
THIRD NATIONAL PROGRAMME BASES Broad Front government 2014/2020

158
