Colorado Party

Uruguay Plan 2015 - 2020

2014

1

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020

2

Colorado Party

Content
URUGUAY PLAN 2015 - 2020 ............................................. ..................................... 5
Preliminary Considerations ................................................ ................... eleven
URUGUAY EDUCATED AND INTEGRATED .............................................. ..................... 14
EDUCATION ............................................................................................................................. fifteen
ANNEX BASIC EDUCATIONAL CYCLE UNIFIED ............................................. ................. 51
SOCIAL POLICIES AND SOCIAL SECURITY ............................................. ...................... 56
ANNEX PLACES OF SOCIAL INTEGRATION ............................................ ..................... 73
LIVING PLACE ................................................................................................................................. 75
BLESS YOU ...................................................................................................................................... 87
CULTURE ............................................................................................................................... 100
SPORT, PHYSICAL ACTIVITY AND RECREATION ............................................ ................. 109
LABOR RELATIONS AND LABOR .............................................. ..................... 115
URUGUAY PROSPEROUS AND UNITED .............................................. ................... 123
ECONOMICS AND FINANCE ...................................................................................................... 124
POWER ................................................................................................................................. 147
AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION, FOOD AND BIOTECHNOLOGY ......................... 163
INDUSTRY ............................................................................................................................. 177
TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE ............................................... ........................... 185
ROAD SAFETY ..................................................................................................................190
TRADE, GLOBAL AND LOGISTICS SERVICES ...................................... 193
MARITIME AND RIVER DEVELOPMENT .............................................. ................................. 197
TOURISM ................................................................................................................................201
REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT ................................................ ............................................ 210
FREE AND INSURANCE URUGUAY .............................................. ................................ 215
SECURITY CIUDADANA.................................................................................................... 216
JUSTICE AND REHABILITATION ............................................... ............................................ 2. 3. 4
Freedom, Transparency and Human Rights ............................................ . 240
URUGUAY ............................................... FUTURE ....................................... 255
SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY AND RESEARCH (CTI) .......................................... ................ 256
INNOVATION AND ENTREPRENEURSHIP ............................................... ............................. 283
ENVIRONMENT AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT ............................................. ....... 292
TRANSFORMATION OF STATE AND NEW INSTITUTIONAL .......................... 307
URUGUAY TO THE WORLD INTEGRATED .............................................. .................... 320
FOREIGN POLICY ........................................................................................................... 322
SOVEREIGNTY AND NATIONAL DEFENSE STRATEGY ............................................ .......... 344

3

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020

4

Colorado Party

URUGUAY PLAN 2015 - 2020
The Uruguay Plan 2015 - 2020 is the result
the dedicated work of men and women
who, imbued with the realities and
existing needs, joined forces
to think and build a better Uruguay.
The overall objective of the government plan
We presented for consideration to the public and to guide our actions from
1 March 2015, is to improve the quality of
lives of all Uruguayans, positioning the
Uruguay among those countries that have
better human development, epitomized in
simplified form in the Human Development Index (HDI) prepared by the
United Nations Development Programme (UNDP).
The HDI is a social indicator
that statistical averages
values ​​that acquire a set of social indicators and
It does not depend solely on the
Gross Domestic Product (GDP).
It is constructed from three
parameters (long and healthy life, knowledge and decent standard of living) with values ​​in turn reflect many specific individual elements, from years
of schooling to vaccination from
healthy environment to research
and innovation, from infrastructure to wages, and many others. The index is
a simplified instrument to make analysis and establish courses
action based on that development can not only be described

5

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
by economic growth, but must
considered all aspects related to the
healthy, comfortable, productive and happy life
they can achieve the country's inhabitants.
This premise, for us and the Colorados
Batllists is key and has always been present accompanying the actions of our
Party through history.

To develop our proposal to improve
human development in Uruguay, we work
from five strategic guidelines, the
identified as follows


Uruguay educated and integrated



Prosperous and united Uruguay



Uruguay free and safe



Uruguay future



Uruguay integrated the world

Within this framework, 25 teams were integrated
Working formed in total more
500 outstanding technicians and specialists,
as well as by citizens interested in the various topics, in
Depending on the priority issues of each
area, they set the objectives and actions necessary to lograrlos.1 From
early 2013, these teams were organized and studying the issues, which
main guidelines were outlined in

Since the beginning of our activities we talk about teams and technical teams not as they were
formed by people interested in the various national issues, which contributed from the perspective and location of each. It is also important to note, honoring many of them, the teams are also integrated
with people without militancy or activism in other political parties, which found a place to realize their
ideas and work for them.
1

6

Colorado Party
detail at several public meetings held in the Tower of Professionals
in October and November 2013. From there the work of gathering, writing and coordination of ideas from all sectors of the Party continued
Colorado, which eventually reflected in this document.
At the same time, they were carried out touring and
encuentros2 across the country, involving direct involvement
with thousands of Uruguayans in various
bodies through meetings, visits to educational establishments and
(public and private), development associations, among others. Health They were also, specifically,
regional meetings in community centers without party distinction, in order to facilitate the approach of the community.3. They attended references
of organized civil society, representatives of various public organizations and
and all private citizens who wanted to come to participate. They were instances of useful work that allowed meet expectations, challenges and needs as well
as well as achievements
and that must continue. All
suggestions were listening and collecting these
activities across the country were sent to teams
work to be developed and
incorporated into the overall framework of the strategic line
appropriate.
The Uruguay Plan 2015 - 2020 is the product of all the activities described above and the responsible and serious work of militants, technicians and citizens

2
3

Developed by the candidates for President of the Republic during the campaign for the primaries.
Brought forward during the primaries and called "Speaking the people understand"

7

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
They put their knowledge, expectations and hopes the service of a cause
common: to improve the quality of life for all Uruguayans, regardless of
flags even within a country's development model in line with the traditions of middle class, respectful of the institutions, people and
countries, cultured, educated, hardworking, open-minded and lacking in fanfare,
all characteristics that we believe represent the best in our history.

In short present this Plan not as the end result of that effort,
but as the beginning of a journey. Knowing that this Plan is not, it can not be a
finished product, closed and unchanging. This set of proposals and commitments, presented through objectives and actions, is conceived as an evolving project that they will be integrated, too, all those
proposals or initiatives arising in the future and contribute to the fulfillment of their objectives. Achieving an educated country with social integration,
prosperous who strives and works hard, and solidarity with
those whom fortune has not smiled. A country of people living
indeed freedom, work, assembly, expression, search
happiness and many others, in an environment that gives them assurance that they can
enjoy the achievements of that effort without fear, a country that use their wealth

8

Colorado Party
its rich natural and human capital to build and adapt
education, science and technology.
A country with people who apply their intelligence to solve
problems without waiting for
They solve them, that respect the
that environment comprising
not theirs alone, but also to the generations that follow. A country that respects and
respect others, who will not shut up against injustices or violations of
international law, to protect its sovereignty and understands that these intangibles
basic noted that the quota of nations, as their respect
institutionality, the value of democracy, the conviction of his respect for
individual and collective rights, their commitment to the peaceful resolution of conflicts, its commitment to negotiation, dialogue and non-intervention, without despising or
large or small, they are values ​​for which it pays to be Uruguayan.
For all this, we pledge to work for a better Uruguay for all

German Coutinho

Pedro Bordaberry

9

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020

10

Colorado Party

Preliminary considerations
The present document is articulated in five sections, corresponding respectively to the five strategic lines


Uruguay educated and integrated



Prosperous and united Uruguay



Uruguay free and safe



Uruguay future



Uruguay integrated the world

Since this is a lengthy document, we have tried to include some way to give a quick idea of ​​the contents of each section. For it has been used
a tool known as word cloud. These graphs, which may
have different general forms, they consist of words present
considered in the text, and the size of each word is proportional to the frequency with which it is in the text. To make these graphs we have used a program available free on the internet, called
Wordle4. The program removes those stopwords but
Very common (for example, for, with, without, etc) and the final graph gives
an idea of ​​what are the concepts that matter most in the specific document, as they have deserved more frequent than others mention.
For example, we are shown below the word cloud generated by
-demás submit this document all 105,000 words-to this program
computer. It is noted here that the key word that describes our program, one that's mentioned, one that appears most frequently in
the various objectives and actions, is the word development, which is consistent
with the spirit that inspired the writing of this work plan. Other words
Featured are objective, Country, National Policy, which describes our intention to put politics in the service of national development of the country through
objectives within a system. They can easily be other implications
from the frequency with which words are repeated.

4

See http://wordle.net

eleven

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020

It is important to note here that from the point of view of the concepts appear very prominently Education and Social. The reason is clearly that
within the Colorado Party and the imprint that gave batllismo in the running
time, our deepest concern is to improve the quality of
lives of people, the social component, and we understand that the main transformer instrument of present reality should be education. We do not deny of course-there are words to prove-to consider
rights, obligations, security, the environment, technology, housing,
health, work, research, management and many other concepts. But
our center is education as a transforming element and hope
That is clear in the context of this document.
Each section begins with a word cloud of the most important exclusively within that section concepts. Obviously, different concepts have different weight when considered in a more limited context, the only relevant text in the section considered. We hope this tool will facilitate comprehension of the text.

12

Colorado Party

EDUCATED AND INTEGRATED URUGUAY

Education
Social Policy and Social Security
living place
Bless you
Culture
Sports, Physical Education and Recreation
Industrial Relations and Labor

13

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020

EDUCATED AND INTEGRATED URUGUAY
Uruguay's social development is a challenge, improve the quality of life for all Uruguayans is our goal. For that work from the Index
Human Development Index (HDI) of NN.UU order to make Uruguay
is best positioned therein.
We work by a team from claiming the social policies that reduce inequalities and poverty eradication country, eradicating exclusion and achieving a more cohesive society, more just and
inclusive. A Uruguay to promote and enhance upward mobility,
through decent work and personal effort that encourages the implementation by
through the own merit.
Education, in this framework, conceived as a fundamental tool,
which accompanied by sectoral policies to generate the necessary opportunities through relevant, inclusive, comprehensive training, quality, and
forever.
We consider it necessary, finally, the consolidation of a social system
solidarity and participation that ensures:
 The right to a good quality of life as the central objective of
development process
 The right to live in peace in accordance with the specifications Pact
San Jose, Costa Rica
 The right to education by making effective equality of opportunity and results
 The right to health in its full dimension welfare state
physical, mental and social and not merely the absence of disease
 The right to work and decent and sufficient income, within the framework of social policies developed for the purpose.
 The right to adequate and affordable housing
 The right to access a universal social security system and efficient

14

Colorado Party
 The right to practice and development of physical education and sport,
as integrated personal growth and the benefit of society actions.
 The right to access and the development of national culture
in all its manifestations.

EDUCATION
We consider it necessary to create an educational strategy, medium and long
term, to ensure the inclusion of all, particularly those most in
They need, within a framework of quality and continuous improvement. From a course
essential, we must return to education the social value lost through a strategic partnership between school, families and community, having as empowerment and development of each student from
their own individuality.
It is necessary for the governance of education have an integrated and cross-project, with clear political leadership and technical support
imperative to implement the changes that the current situation demands.
It should work for education in Uruguay overcome the difficulties
existing and boost the country with a project undertaken by all through
a real and sustained Agreement is translated into a National Plan
Education.
Therefore we present this set of proposals and commitments, calling
all actors of educational work to transform education and
country5 it to.
Education faces difficulties can be identified as:


Poor quality of learning and retention problems
students. Only 28% of young people complete education
Higher average in a timely manner, while 38% achieves between 21

5 We leave written proof that you can not devise a national education policy that does not cover higher education, so our proposal aims at the realization of important changes that have not been
managed to consolidate in it.

fifteen

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
edad6 and 23 years. According to PISA more than half of the students remain
below the minimum level required to successfully integrate into society comprising (56% in Mathematics), while the system fails
retain thousands of young people. In 2013 62% of young people between 18 and 24 years
age do not attend any educativo7 center.


Irrelevance and relevance of education at different
levels, particularly in secondary education. The changes
since 1996: changes in management, teaching / office, teaching areas, project management center, among others, were abolished in 2006, to
back to the universalist matrix and state-centric. Leaving aside the different needs, abilities, motivations and opportunities for students, while the existing momentum not contemplated in society and
the value of diversity in environment and proposals.
The same thing happened
with Reform
School Education (TEMS 2003)
which it has been reflected in the failure of
thousands of students all years8. Exists
clearly

a

pro-

problem of fragmentation and content
preventing the proposals fit the needs and characteristics
students and various social and cultural contexts, promoting
the acquisition of skills necessary for life in society.


Problems related to internal equity and justice. The most important difficulties faced by the Uruguayan educational system attack
mostly those from the weaker sectors quintiles or culturally and economically; so the socioeconomic background of students
determines the success or failure of the same. To this must be added that the central

6 Source: Observatory FUNDAPRO Education
7 Source: Achievement and educational attainment of the population 2013 - MEC
8 levels of repetition at all educational levels have risen dramatically, particularly in the
primary and secondary education.

16

Colorado Party
centers with greater needs does not have the resources nor the best
best teachers.


Loss of social value and weak relationship with the community and families. As a result, virtually inevitable
the above problems,
creates this situation. The
Society always projected through education
as an element of improvement and social mobility. Today
Many centers also, and
not responsibility
but the same system
Note 1. Compiled from data from the Observatory of Education ANEP - and PISA 2012.

itself, have
away from the community

integrating, families and students so particularly
in various contexts, education is not considered a tool
to generate opportunities.


Fragmentation and division of the national education system, which is
It has sharpened from
the adoption of the Law
Education N ° 18,457,
in December 2008. The
same

it was

conceived

from a centralized system logic, devoid of effective and efficient tools both
overall level of
own schools, which are mainly entities must replicate directives from centrally and almost uniform.

17

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020


Weak governance, which lacks proper strategic planning, with overlapping bureaucratic structures at central and
decentralized. Each structure at the same time, have different organizations for addressing
same or similar themes,
strongly

centralized

reigning division
According to the subsystems
existing.

They

maintain

certain practices that hinder management which impacts heavily on management

Note 2. Source - MEC - Yearbook of Education - 2012 - Report
NUMBER company CFE report - 2012.

of schools.
Example, during the 2014 school year, is the choice of teaching hours
in secondary education. In short, in addition to management problems
notes serious deficiencies related to planning and reporting
accounts.


Deficiencies in training, professionalism and teaching career. Since 2008 the only teacher training plan is approved, it
45' which determined subjects, few hours of research, curriculum overlapping, notorious weaknesses in training in a second
language and ICT, among others. At the same time, there is a teaching career
rewards seniority mainly to the detriment of other aspects
necessarily be considered for professional development. Also
In the absence of a policy of continuous professionalization for teachers, ultimately there is no national educational policy there
little actions articulated and little impact. 9

Teacher training in Uruguay is common to speak of inbreeding since most of the trainers of trainers
come from the system itself, there is little to ease the entry of foreign professionals. Evaluation Plan
2008 by students and teachers of teacher education can be found in Circular No. 1/2012 of the Board of Education in Education.
9

18

Colorado Party

Diagnoses and speeches to action
Strategic Objective 1 - Develop comprehensive care for all children
zero to five years generating equality from the beginning of life
Design and implement policies to early childhood and early childhood education,
is an investment with very high impact on particular sectors
most vulnerable in society. The actions developed from 1988
CAIF creation and educational reform process of 1995 from
which they are incorporated in the vicinity of 40,000 pre-school children, have
allowed to have a breakthrough becoming a state policy. Notwithstanding, it is necessary to continue investing in early childhood and preschool education to cut the cycle of poverty and reverse inequality
creating social playing field from the beginning of life.
To fulfill this objective we will develop the following:
1. Create 150 Centres of Care for Children and Families (CAIF)
to incorporate children from 0-3 years of formal education, universalizing
education of three years.
2. To extend the three-year education in schools of the Council of Early and Primary Education, with the aim of increasing the current enrollment and achieve the goal of universalization.
3. Expand the coverage of full-time schools
Children 4 and 5 years of critical context.
4. Build and strengthen exchange spaces with families fostering actions leading to this end (see strategic objective No. 4).
5. Professionalizing the academic and support staff working in these
career levels through graduate and specialized agencies. (Show
Strategic Objective 6).
6. Strengthen and energize multidisciplinary support that accompany the process of teaching - particularly in these spaces
formal education.

19

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
Strategic Objective 2 - Provide a relevant quality basic education,
egalitarian and inclusive
For the generation of a new basic education should consider the past and present scenarios and think about the future. Integrated work is imposed, coordinated and articulated between the three (primary education subsystems,
secondary and technical) which will involve multiple transformations that drive
decisively.
To fulfill this objective we will develop the following:
1. Create a new educational curriculum unified comprehensive proposal of 4-14 years of age during 2015, which will be implemented in March 2016, abandoning the logic of a separate strongly differentiated and oriented cycles through education
subjects associated disciplines específicas.10 It will articulate
through fundamental learning areas (EAF) with a new system of assessment accompanying the student during the acquisition process of learning, promoting greater participation by them and
their families (See Annex on Unified Basic Cycle at the end of this document).
2. Develop a Custom Educational Success Program (EECP)
under the new curriculum proposal to be implemented for the
accompaniment / monitoring of students during their educational journey
básico.11
3. Establish a new evaluation regime in order to customize the most of the teaching and learning taking the
specific student characteristics and their contexts, giving the
schools of greater prominence.
4. Expand the teaching period through the implementation of more
days and hours of class, staggered at different educational levels, ensuring a minimum of 200 days effective clase.12
It will begin to apply from 2016 in consultation and partnership with the various actors
National educational work.
11 Idem is included in the aforementioned Executive Summary
12 Senators Pedro Bordaberry and Ope Pasquet presented in February 2011 a bill by which a minimum of 200 days of effective class is set to primary and secondary education which is considered Senate
the Republic.
http://vamosuruguay.com.uy/proyecto-de-ley-200-dias-de-clase/
10

20

Colorado Party
5. Establish policies for promotion and selection of the best
teachers to integrate management teams of the centers
education, restoring at all levels, contests to fill in
effectiveness charges and Branch Management. They will strengthen these
equipment and the current situation of the management Escalafón be studied in the context
a functional reality that must cambiar.13
6. Transform the teaching career of the teachers considering the evaluation, and training regularly as an element
main promotion and career advancement, in addition to the antigüedad.14
7. Create effective and charges filed in educational establishments
for teachers of secondary education, changing the current system
annual hours of choice generated much uncertainty, mistreatment and inequality teachers (See Strategic Objective No. 6).
8. Change the system and the design of the monitoring and evaluation of the teaching work and schools. The only education cycle will require coordination and shared visions, so that
will create regional areas of guidance and supervision involving all educational subsystems from a cross-oriented perspective
the support team in each school (See Strategic Objective No. 7) .15
9. Strengthen schools as part of school projects that will give the skills directly to the educational empowerment of communities by encouraging them, creating local networks,
regional and national (See Strategic Objective No. 7) .16
10. Provide greater powers and budgetary resources to the centers
educational care for their needs, as well as greater autonomy
for human resource management and decision making in general. The
solving the problems that affect them should be adopted in its
environment and not rely on centralized decisions. Schools become communities / learning environments for all

It will apply to all educational levels and subsystems
What it will be developed for all teachers in the public education of Uruguay
15 Applicable to all subsystems and educational levels of ANEP
16 Idem previous
13

14

21

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
community, generating centers of excellence with flexible curriculum,
adequate infrastructure, qualified teaching staff, among others aspectos.17
11. Develop technology for the teaching process based on the premise that technological changes are not a threat
unless ignore them or leave them aside. Virtual classrooms and other tools will be enhanced by providing appropriate training for teachers. (Show
Strategic Objective No. 8)
12. Encourage physical education and sport - the systematic practice and
regular physical activity, body and sport expression is a fundamental component of comprehensive education, and promote coexistence, cooperation, discipline and other values ​​in the education of children and young people (See Plan Uruguay from 2015 to 2020 - Chapter Sport, Physical Activity and Recreation and creating spaces Social Integration - Chapter
Social Policy).
13. Create community-managed schools full time in vulnerable contexts of the country. This new approach will complement existing public offering to date in areas of critical context
as part of the necessary articulation and promotion of the role of society
civil in its relationship to education, which will have spaces for physical activity and sport or they may be located in the
nearby places intended for such activities. In many of the
areas referred mainstream education is not enough so a
action of this nature will allow meeting the demands / needs and improve educational achievement and success of the fall population. The proposal as explicit in the bill presented to the Senate
Republic, builds on the successful experience that has led the country
forward from 1988 to the Centers for Early Childhood Care and
Family (CAIF) .18
14. To extend full-time education to 60,000 children in the
schools critical context. Incorporating children will be prioritized
schools in outlying areas (level 1) with the goal of doubling the
number of children attending critical context full time re17 previous Idem
18 Draft law submitted to the Senate: http://vamosuruguay.com/wpcontent/uploads/2013/07/PROYECTO-DE-LEY-ASIGNAR-RECURSOS-PUBLICOS-A-BENEFICIARIOS-MIDES.pdf

22

Colorado Party
taking the target set in the 2010 multiparty Agreements
cover 100% of children living in poverty in this way. To
date education attend extended day 52,500 children education
Initial and primaria19. (Initial 15,184 TC, TE 751, TC Elementary 33,000
and TE 3600) 20 so the goal is to double enrollment in this offer
education, which has proven to be successful and achieve good results,
respecting and developing the model ETC. In other areas and contexts,
days extended development will lead also to contemplate specific requirements presented therein.
15. Involve youth 20,000 basic secondary education
full-time, continuing the only experience that includes, at present, three schools of secondary education
with more than 500 alumnos21. They are considered schools of general and technical, urban and rural primary and secondary education, prioritizing areas
critical context and educational centers in them, trying
students who come to experience extended hours in primary education continue in a general project misma.22 be approved
understanding of this type of education to apply to schools that gradually begin to incorporate.
In particular, and without prejudice to the above statement to the media
Rural drive the following actions:
16. Extend rural schools with 7th, 8th and 9th grade, a practice that has
proven effective in dealing with adolescents in rural areas, as
new alternative to secondary education, promoting their extension beyond
this medium.
17. Develop rural secondary schools giving priority to young people in remote or inaccessible areas and at the same time taking completo.23

FIGURES 2013 enrollment report presented in CEIP, it is noteworthy that after 2014 started courses have opened new schools TC so there may be some variation.
TC 20: Full-time - TE: Extended Time.
21 secondary schools in San Luis (Canelones), Rivera 4 e Ismael Cortinas (Flores).
19

22

It has been publicly reported the existence of 76 public schools of secondary education context
critical.
Integrated 23 schools that exist in the orbit of the Secondary Education Council will also be considered.

2. 3

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
18. Implement new regime centers Basic Cycle in alternation (UTU) mode that lets you group in a school
where a sparse population makes a learning process, but
uprooting of rural areas, while the typical general training associated with the family and community experience. With this proposal and the previous two, it will diversify and develop educational offerings
for rural youth up to 15 years from a regional logic and not
by department or localidades.24
19. Increase tertiary courses taught in dairy,
dairy, wine, animal production and mechanization
agricultural, meat industry, forestry, among others. Within this framework agreements complementarity between UTEC (Technological University) and
UTU be a path that will travel widely, since the approach
of educational services to the environment in which students are propitious and facilitates
educational continuity.
20.

Create and implement a National Education Plan for the Middle

Rural, through which training courses will be extended to higher
15 years with complete primary, as part of the training carried out by the Council of Technical Education (UTU) and other
that are designed to address the realities of a medium that has recently undergone significant changes. The new rurality has generated
need to train thousands of Uruguayans who work in that
context and the need for training in different areas through courses and
formations short or medium term. The strong technological component
today there must be expressly addressed through new and relevant training.
21. Achieve continuing education of young people and filed
RURAL through classroom, online learning offers or / and
distance intended to and from said means within the framework of that plan,
with a strong component in the use of ICT. In this framework we will work on the
curricular reformulation of educational proposals recitals

24

Special attention will have schools of the Council of Technical Education Schools such as
Agricultural and other schools specifically for training in different areas of the sector.

24

Colorado Party
do strong impact transformations that are happening, and
actions under this government program.
Strategic Objective 3 - Implement an effective and attractive education
all youth creating new and better horizons
School Education is one of the major challenges and must have
aimed at preparing young people to develop their full potential, and
sí25 learn to live together, acquire a sense of identity, values ​​and from critical reflection acquire the necessary learning to function in different social and work settings without the condition its social origin. 26
We implement an education for young people enabling them to learn to
learn, learning to live and work together and learn to
emprender.27
To fulfill this objective we will develop the following:
1. Transform the curriculum of Secondary Education Superior
strong technological component and credit system
transferable between academic guidelines which apply to
From 2016, beginning a process improvement over the
historical and traditional separation between general education and education
technique. We incorporate technological component, particularly
From the early years and at all educational levels. System 28
transferable credits will generate mobility between guidance
and enhancing educational subsystems acquired knowledge.
2. Incorporate optional training spaces / learning eligible
for every school. The new formulation will be flexible and allow
existence of spaces that address the needs and characteristics of
the different contexts in those schools
Especially pursuing the objectives of UNESCO
In this context, we consider the case to mention the attention to diversity which involves the development of
inclusive schools and implementing actions to reduce factors that generate exclusion. In inclusive education, intervention of teachers support / itinerant, should aim
facilitate progress towards inclusive working practices in the performance of students and helping the classroom teacher
the improved expectations regarding the potential of pupils with special educational needs.
27 Uruguay Chapter of Future everything concerning education is developed for training young
entrepreneurs.
28 In order to form a reflective individual, critically develop skills to adapt
success in a changing world with the capacity to manage uncertainty.
25

26

25

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
strengthen the link between education and work, in the framework of a
curricular flexibility needed.
3. Create a new system of evaluation and grade passage
all Higher Secondary Education, on the basis that the
assessment in secondary education needs urgent revision. Must be
think of a permanent evaluation of annual / bi-annual accumulation,
including projects and work practices (internships) in various
degrees / levels / tram0s, taking into account the reality of the different
sectors object of the training.

29Esta

amendment should

involve a necessary interaction of education with society and not only
work from a teaching based on an assessment
based learning.
4. Extender center projects involving all
community, with involvement of students, parents and teachers. They
It developed as part of the reformulation of the new curriculum and
modifying the system of assessment and grade passage, putting
emphasis on active student participation in the election and
contextualization of knowledge, with the aim that they appropriate
training.
5. Transform inspections and create a new design
supervision / guidance of schools and teachers in
general. Traditional inspection must be reformulated from a
integrated concept of the system and the need to bring it closer to the
educational communities, strengthening evaluation and not a guiding
merely supervisory, accompanying the teacher and the institution
itself. We create integrated supervision areas with offices in
Across the entire country, from the logic of regionalization
proposed by us in the framework of multi-party agreements
2012 will be made mandatory and pre-provision functions,
public competitions and méritos.30

The existing business structure is taken into account in the various parts of the country for the optimization of the system of internships to be established.
30 This change in the matrix of the national supervisory system (including current existing campus in CETP) cover
all subsystems and all educational levels and in all cases provide through public calls and NO
by direct appointment mechanisms.
29

26

Colorado Party
6. Implement

new schools of Secondary Education

Superior nationwide progress on complementarity between
existing subsystems (Secondary and UTU) installing educational offerings
in places where the same are required, regardless of who
manage

the

establishments.

Particular

Attention

are

give

to the

Approach / installation of this level of education to areas and contexts
where there is taught.
7. Create a new educational offer of School Education
(Baccalaureate) in Science and Technology, which will be linked to a
scholarship scheme for students who choose it and achieve
complete their studies, promoting educational continuity in this area. 31
8. Develop and promote new forms of training
blended or distance putting technology at the service
the educational process to allow youth and adults to form and
complete educational cycles particularly nontraditional way
emphasis on inland and following examples are
developed to date in other educational systems.
9. Develop a national policy on Second Language,
understanding of all levels of education through training
face, blended and distance. In particular, they will extend the
foreign language centers throughout the country.32 for the purpose of
teach other languages ​​to young people aged 12 to 25 years. He also taught the
Teaching English as a way to support students and
required in secondary education in order to achieve certification
learning nationwide. In this respect and will seek to continue
agreements with embassies, with departmental governments and other
specialized entities to bring this training to more parts of the country.
It will also continue to distance learning of English,
using existing platforms and other resources, and the Program
Second Language and English for content.
10. Develop and implement new information systems, which
allow students and their families internalize different
future educational path choices, strengthening the bond between both
31
32

This proposal is linked to the taking place in Uruguay in the area of ​​Future Science and Technology.
Currently there are 23 centers of Foreign Languages ​​throughout the country who work in the orbit of CES

27

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
the parts. Today the dismantling and lack of integration of supply
educational impact on existing information, which necessarily
will attend, combining this with career guidance policies
clearly focalizadas.33
11. organize, expand and optimize the system becas34, creating a
National system that promotes a national policy in this regard,
decentralizing decision-making and the granting of benefits,
incorporating awards for academic excellence, attending situations
as students of the interior as well as the successful performance
certain areas, without prejudice to those that are in effect on the date.
Special attention will be given to the dissemination and democratization of access to these
beneficios.35
12. Encourage the creation and / or extension No Education Centers
Formal and youth groups accompanied by adults referents
education training social.36
13. Improve and develop a national system of accreditation of knowledge to
through policies to promote, disseminate and incentive under
agreements concluded with public and private entities throughout the
country.37
Strategic Objective 4 - Enhance and strengthen the educational and family-based community partnership center for quality education
Participation and integration of families in the education process
children and young people is vital, so it is necessary to prioritize the
accompanying them during the school career of them. They must implement new integration programs and related and developed with teachers or community concerning, among other instances actions. Some episodes have been released require, more than ever,
a deep, narrow work in this area, for which we will develop
the following:

33
3. 4

Application at all educational levels.

Applicable to all secondary education and higher education.
35 actions between the MEC, the future Ministry of Science and Technology and the Ministry of Social Development under the New Life Program is coordinated.
36 apply to all levels of education
37 apply to all levels of education

28

Colorado Party
1. Generate virtual spaces of communication / exchange with
families of students through the use of information technology and communication.
2. Use, in the aforementioned framework, or acquire tools available in order that students and their families
permanent access to news and information in general and interest as well as verify the educational development of children and youth.
3. Encourage and effective participation from the center itself
education, involving the community, promoting the dissemination of good
practices and exchange and integration between them independently
educational level corresponding each. The treatment of topics
involve communities from the schools themselves will be a
path will cross with UNASEV entities such as the National Drug Board, the MSP among others.
4. Perform print and / or digital build and strengthen exchange and direct link to the home, through which
will address important topics such as the prevention of health,
environment, gender equality, healthy eating, road safety, non-discrimination, human rights, values, between
others.
5. rank the Commissions support educational center built by parents of students constitute enclaves of outstanding participation and integration.
6. Use the service of public television for the generation of programs and activities with educational / cultural content involving families and their communities.
7. Develop institutional / national advertising campaigns
for the dissemination and promotion of national education, generating actions
aimed at strengthening education and national culture.

29

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
Strategic Objective 5 - Form innovative and creative professionals
framework and a tertiary university education that meets the needs of future Uruguay
The training of professionals should be aware that they face
a more uncertain working life, but also great opportunities
multiple challenges.
Must prioritize what is relevant, strengthen academic quality and relevance of education and promoting entrepreneurship. Must be
develop quality learning for the world of work, management
other languages ​​and communication technologies and information.
Prioritize the process of transformation and development UDELAR
UTEC and empowerment will be a key objective, since it is not possible
devise an educational change without including in Higher Education. Coordination with the regions and needs to generate training offers
or distance should be a priority fields through exchange with the different actors involved. At the same time, the creation will be proposed
a new public university in the north and the promotion and creation
new careers in science and technology to transform Uruguay into a
reference center worldwide. (See Uruguay Plan 2015-2020 - Uruguay
Future - Chapter Science and Technology)
In short, the purpose of a reform should be to rescue the university / tertiary system in general, to put again in the service of society
constantly changing. Not making it a mere provider of professional
for the immediate needs of the industry, but allowing the depth of thought and mature enough time to pose
generate questions and answers for the country in future. But at the same time, keeping it in a crippling paralysis that prevents you from being flexible enough and fast enough to meet the needs of business, industry and society expressed in years or decades rather than in decades. Finding that balance requires multiple steps and generation
of a state policy in the field.
To fulfill this objective we will develop the following:

30

Colorado Party
1. Create a National University System (SUN): Understand the
UDELAR, UTEC, other state universities created or to be created, and
Universities and private university institutes, as an area in which
generate cooperation and complementarity between all public managers
and private, implementing state policy in tertiary / university education for the country's development. The SUN will be regulated by a
regime to ensure the autonomy of organization, management, teaching and research within a common regulatory framework based on objective
clear and measurable quality, excellence, productivity, accountability
accounts, competition for resources, social relevance and service to the public.
2. Create the governing body SUN (Governing Council) which
as well as representatives of different universities will be integrated
representatives of the Ministries of Education and Culture and Science and
Tecnología38, civil society and the business world and industrial.39
3. Reform the Organic Law of the UDELAR: It is very important
modify the current system asymmetries promoting change
Organic Law endowing it with greater flexibility in its organizational structure and its functioning in general, within the framework of the autonomy
consecrated in favor of it.
4. Develop university evaluation and accreditation: under
the creation of the Agency for Quality and Education Development
establish the accreditation and certification of all centers and university courses on equal terms. The agency will be the entity that
develop the evaluation of the entire education system from preschool to post college yet, accreditation and certification
higher education.
5. Develop and approve a law to legislate in Tertiary Education
The matter. In particular contain provisions concerning:
5.1)

Recognition of diversity management institutions
from tertiary education which will integrate and complement.

New Secretary of State intends to create. View Uruguay Plan 2015 - 2020 - Uruguay Future - Science,
Technology and Research (CTI)
39 The relevant education law will be adapted.
38

31

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
5.2) Creation of the Sun, determining their composition, form
government, entry and exit system, among others. Integration of the university system to the effect that not only there
horizontal mobility between different races in the same university, but also mechanisms for students to change / supplement your training between educational establishments with the recognition of acquired learning. Equally
create mechanisms for equity in connection with the performance of
teachers to different educational institutions in the SUN.
5.3)

Creation of the Council of Directors and determination of their relationship
with the executive and legislative branches, as well as their rights,
obligations and operation. Shall have the task
General design valid strategies to establish the common
denominator of quality and productivity of SUN. Ensure participation in it not only the universities, but also from government, civil society and business and industry.

5.4) include the separation of policy-making bodies of the
management agencies, administrative decentralization, budget program, the evaluation and accountability
accountability for results, with strong territorial decentralization and supporting local and regional initiatives.
5.5)

Quality control at all universities by Institute will integrate the Agency for Development and Quality Education.

5.6) Simplification, rationalization and systematization of graduate and postgraduate courses in line with the system proposed by the
Bologna reform.
5.7)

Securing rights and duties of students, teachers and university officials considering the reality of the XXI century.

5.8) Strengthening of inter-university cooperation, both national
and internationally through the conclusion of agreements
cooperation.

32

Colorado Party
5.9) Incorporation of excellence and quality of university graduate as a value in society, through an appropriate system of limits and qualitative and quantitative scales.
5.10) Definition of a process to move from a tubular and rigid structures more flexible system, with its best blended learning, consolidating a national system of internal and external credits as a prerequisite for
SUN construction.
5.11) Promotion of education and continuing practice internships integrating them as a way to legitimize the
learning achieved and as a way of generating knowledge for themselves.
5.12) To promote and organize quality control of teaching,
generating a body of indicators to measure quality
educational processes, management of institutions and results in relation to the developed skills
graduates.
6. Establish new training offers through blended and distance learning processes performing careers,
Through the methodology of online education (networks) as well as other forms of promotion of learning that are hand changes
technological changes of recent years should be a priority. New and improved
graduate programs that bring education to the demands of society and the
realities in the country, including the interior and those
They play in rural areas.
7. Develop and strengthen UTEC as new public university
it is called to play a leading role in the expansion and outreach
of higher education within the country. The other regional institutes under the organic law in a framework of binding is created
with other entities existing on the date and closely linked to the
production needs of the areas of influence. It strengthens their bond
with UDELAR with the new University of North and especially the
Professional Technical Education Council (UTU) ANEP.

33

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
8. Creation of the Universidad del Norte, transforming the Regional
North UDELAR based in Salto, a new autonomous university, which will be responsible for the Regional University Centers (CURE)
that work in the different departments of northern Rio Negro40.
9. Develop training and teacher training level
university, for which future agreements with the University of Education to be created, with special focus on pedagogy and didactics will be made.
10. Provide the system of quality assessment processes making all institutions are subject to a certain set of standards
by independent professionals of the Universities, in order not
qualifying only to them, but to promote and recommend measures to
adopted by universities to enable them to improve. (See Strategic Objective No. 7).
11. Create programs in order to develop a recognized and prominent Capital
Human Science, Technology and Research, as well as various
Research and Development programs in the framework of a new institutional framework that will be created through the Ministry of Science and Technology. (Show
Future Uruguay - Chapter Science, Technology and Research).
Strategic objective 6 - Design a new graduate profile and an outline of ongoing professionalization of teachers
Education systems that have triumphed in the world have developed especially issues related to the selection, training and career education professionals. It is the key to success. The new teacher
You should be able to research, produce and transmit. Professionalizing the transmission of knowledge, ability to research, dedication to intellectual production is necessary, through a Curriculum
relevant, decentralized and flexible curriculum that fosters cooperative learning through professional practice. Research and
extension should play a leading role by incorporating the cultural dimension in teacher training processes along with the dimension
cognitive; with particular emphasis on technologies and second language. To
With 3.5 million inhabitants, Uruguay has six universities. Finland, with 5.5 million inhabitants,
It has 20 universities that grant doctorate degree and 28 universities of applied sciences (polytechnics or
Technological University). The polytechnics are between 400 and 13,000 students, the largest university in Finland
(Helsinki) has 38,000 students, and one of the most famous, the TKK (Helsinki University of Technology) has
15,000 students, only four schools and 246 teachers.
40

3. 4

Colorado Party
instead, it should create a system of mobility in the credits as in the
revalidation in different formations taught in person, blended or distance.
The effective professionalization of teachers not only through the grant
of university status to these, with the creation of the University of Education, but also by the ranking function through various modifications in professional programs and careers as it has been stated in the corresponding document to 50 Proposals for improve
Educación41. In this respect the importance of continuing to include
with the wage recovery process of teachers, coupled with best
assessment practices and performance measurement.
Briefly, we should consolidate a teaching national policy
from initial training to professional performance
attend ongoing assessment, prioritization and career
continuing education.
To do this we consider appropriate to develop the following:
1. Create the University of Education in order to provide training
attending college teaching character a historical debt with
teachers in the country. At the same the 32 public teacher training establishments that now exist across the country will be integrated,
Departmental becoming universities. 42
2. Modify the Plan and programs of study in Force
to train teachers. They should
address specific contexts where they will perform
Functions future teachers, contemplating the transmission of knowledge,
as well as the ability to research and provide the framework for intellectual production. A common subjects necessary to do basic training regardless of specialization, must
Paper presented publicly and delivered to the authorities of Education in March 2011, the same
It contains many of the initiatives presented by the Colorado Party in the framework of agreements Multipartidiarios
2010.
42 We have introduced bills that grant university status to teacher training (2005) and organic law creating an autonomous entity (2012) while actively working in multi-party technical teams who prepared the bills that are before Parliament.
41

35

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
included educational research; incorporation of the cultural dimension
together with the cognitive dimension; emphasis on information technology and communication; emphasis on second languages; generating a
mobility system in both lending and the revalidation. In the specific contents, should be established educational transverse sections,
that consider the aforementioned areas, and continue throughout the cycle
Initial training with sufficient hours to program content and optional subjects, which give greater flexibility and make it possible to
centers incorporate specific contexts formations. 43
3. Develop training programs for teachers
in a second language and technology: bonded to the previous topic deserves
Special mention the need to establish, within the curriculum
university two themes: training in technology and English. To his
Once the dictation professional courses in these areas for teachers in activity, taking first in the case of the second
language teachers who already have some degree of training, providing scholarships that achieve the professionalization of these and that in
the future teachers to be trainers in a perspective centers
education, primary and middle strong workload of a second
language.
4. professionalize the system of recruitment and selection of teachers for the new University of Education: For a
quality university education and academic excellence is essential
having a team of solvents trainers, who will be required: Degree / proper educational background, experience in education and academic-pedagógica.44 proposal
5. Create a new teacher evaluation system: The teacher who enters must have a support system that allows your guidance
and evaluation, which must also involve students as con-

There are reports of progress that have been developed to date, and which take into account as well as background
linked to initial training plans that have been implemented in the country and have proved their usefulness and validity.
It should also consider the situation of Social Workers and the new line started in Early Childhood
in 2013.
44 At the same time, it will conduct a study and transformation of existing academic departments, resizing promoting better use of the hours assigned to develop and increase from the same
specific research and extension.
43

36

Colorado Party
necessary condition for the continuous improvement of the new university entity.
6. Install a competition system and lifelong learning,
as mechanical and procedural logic in teacher education, it will be
a key tool in the process of moving towards a university level,
obtaining generating permanence and stability, subject to the necessary professionalism.
7. Specialize teachers in special teacher training, which
It is a priority if we want an inclusive education system, with teachers
trained to serve all students above
These differences arise. There is a clear deficit in the area to be treated.
8. Consolidate and develop a national training policy
postgraduate and continuing professionalization of teachers
(Teacher educators and teachers) - using the existing decentralized technical resources to offer educational centers
Inside, through the regionalization of the country and promoting the use of
information technology and communication, to which must be added one
strong service training policy, which must be taken into account
as an advantage in the evaluation of teaching. Especially they will focus on
This action called / national and international competitions Expert
they will be pursued.
9. Form and incorporate professional university graduates
to teaching in secondary education - Resume the experience developed in the Normal Institute of Technical Education to professionals
college graduates obtain training in educational psychology and educational science for a period established for that purpose, and then inserted into the middle school teachers to strengthen schools in certain areas.
10. Extend blended to offer teacher training and starting it for the training of teachers - currently in the vicinity of 1,800 people enrolled in this educational proposal,
must be extended, spread and be a tool for teachers
Untitled currently play in the system, get the titling

37

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
tion. This system will push and test will be decentralized to regions
assessment, subject to progress in that they are virtual and
rethink its current structure established in the image and likeness of racing presenciales.45
11. Provide scholarships for international studies - a process will be initiated
selection of professional leaders in their respective areas as well as
recently graduated students to train abroad through agreements to be signed for this purpose. The program will be designed within the framework of
actions under Chapter Future of Uruguay (Uruguay View Plan 2015-2020 - Uruguay Future - Chapter Science, Technology and Research) .46
12. Perform contest for international experts from the area
education is established in the country and develop training programs and training from the University of Education which will have a range nacional.47
13. Create a Agropedagógico Agrarian Center for training and retraining of teachers

48The

to integrate, as appropriate, and shall act

together with the specific areas of the current Decentralized Tips
ANEP within the framework of the new University of Education and in accordance
therewith.
Strategic objective 7 - professionalize the administration, management and use of public resources in the national education system
Increasing resources alone will not change education and does not imply the
improved results, evidenced by increased investment in education
history and achievements are being achieved in several areas.
The fragmented and bureaucratized structure must change. It is worked on
the basis of strategic planning and accountability, through the
budgeting for results with an eye on optimizing
use of resources that society invests in public education.
Last year this educational proposal was an outflow of 72 teachers, it is imparted to the races of Education
Visual, Biology, Physics, Chemistry, Mathematics, English, Music Education, Spanish Language and Astronomy.
46 Proposal already made by the Colorado Party in the framework of the 50 proposals to improve education March
2011
47 Action No. 13 and No. 14 Strategic Objective No. 6 will be implemented and financed in conjunction with the international competition of HR in Science, Research and Technology (See Plan Uruguay from 2015 to 2020 - we on Uruguay to
Future)
48 It should pay particular attention to the actions developed in the CAPDER CIEP
4. 5

38

Colorado Party
We must think of a new structure of the education system strengthening
size setting educational policy, enforcement actions
for the fulfillment of these and regulation. Efforts should be
Key to combine centralization necessary to preserve the unity of a
system has several levels and decentralization to consolidate
regionalization of structures and processes, bringing decision making
the place where needs must be addressed.
To do this we consider appropriate to develop the following:
1. Transform and reformulate the Education Law No. 18.437 of 12
December 2008 through the establishment of changes thereto
order to decrease the bureaucracy of education, favoring a
more flexible, decentralized and accompanying processes of structure
transformation. At the same time, it should be noted that several of the organizational issues set out in the Education Act have not been met
to date, such as the creation of new Decentralized councils or advisory committees, among others.
2. Create the Agency for Quality and Development of Education - The
Education must think holistically, from a systemic perspective
designed to show permanently reality and plan for their future
through strategic opportunities for reflection, planning and design
frameworks for action. It is also necessary to manage education think
your future, think about the challenges of the future.
21)

This agency is not a legal entity of public law state, governed by criteria of independence, objectivity, excellence and transparency to promote the development of quality education through
studies, analyzes, conventions and / or programs with public or private, national or foreign entities to run in the country, evaluation of all
education, accreditation and certification of educational institutions. It will accompany the task of government agencies supporting education
to them through instances of planning and strategic planning to enable forward future scenarios and anticipate the needs of a society in flux.

39

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
2.2) Assess the entire national education system - from early education
to post-university education shall demonstrate and certify education
and generate higher levels to build a future education agenda that allows the development of a National Plan of Education.
2.3) Integrate and constitute advisory boards in various areas of education, to inform about the issue put to its consideration within the established deadlines. It will hold public consultations on
national and linked to the quality of education, in order to involve the whole society in the framework of a permanent process of transformation and change issues.
2.4) to the agency, the current Institute of Educational Evaluation and will be integrated
the proposed Agency for accreditation and quality assurance
higher education does not exist, institutions and structures
will adapt as appropriate.
2.5) will be led by a representative of the MEC, who will preside, one of the
ANEP, one of the public universities, one private and one of the
enabled private entities that have no university dedicated to the function entrusted to them, to be appointed by the
Executive does not coincide renewal of their mandates with
conducting national elections. At the same time, representatives of the entities of employers and employees will be integrated.
2.6) The following organic trilogy is power: Ministry of Education
Culture that develops the general principles of education in the
framework of the national education policy, coordinating its actions with
autonomous entities in accordance with constitutional provisions. Articulates and directs the operation of the national education system
presiding whole areas of coordination or future, relating directly to the legislature and assuming
responsibility which by their nature it belongs. Autonomous entities within the framework of its powers, in a coordinated way by the MEC, develop, orchestrate and develop educational policies
corresponding to the levels of education by each of them,
ensuring compliance with the principles and general guidelines

40

Colorado Party
National Education within the framework of a national policy on the subject. National Agency for Quality and Development of Education, which spelled out above will be created through the project
law to be forwarded to the Legislature by July 2015.
2.7)

As stated, the Agency for Quality and Development
Education promote the signing of agreements with international bodies such as the OECD, UNESCO and other assistance for developing programs of quality assurance in education, as other countries are doing, particularly in the region.
At the same time, work on national and international networks will be enhanced,
with the participation of schools.

2.8) The current Institute of Educational Evaluation will join the Agency, the
Like other entity to be created for evaluation and accreditation
higher education in the country.49 Both institutes will be reformulated in
relevant in the context of this new entity is created.
3. Strengthen Technical Teacher Assemblies as a privileged space for discussion and technical contribution to the development of educational policies
They carried forward, ensuring the participation of all the teaching staff
in plural form. Effective and fruitful participation will be promoted, will be supported
management from the full implementation of the rules which determine their original roles are.
4. Change the governance of education (ANEP) keeping the
representatives of teachers with voice but no vote, approved the draft law submitted to the National Parliament for all the Colorado Party legislators Dec. 13, 2011, in order to return to
government officials conducting national education,
keeping the President of double voting CODICEN granted on the basis of the bill submitted by the Executive Branch in 2012.
5. Develop specific programs for the professionalization
Continuous management and teaching career:
5.1)

Establish a career that rewards effort and professional development,
to stimulate merit and personal work as well as the results
obtained. Not the same one who strives and achieves goals set

For the creation of this entity will take into account the background and projects that are before the National Parliament and have not been approved, reformulated as applicable.
49

41

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
he who does not. For this to have qualified human resources is the
central point of all education systems, pointing as
It reiterated the importance it can have a good teacher for achievement
even in adverse conditions successful learning. They will be implemented
actions to reinforce the importance of the role of teachers
creating "the teaching establishment" in all schools in the country for a certain period. The realization of instances of promotion (contests) for career advancement in the respective rosters teachers, considering not only the old but
also other factors as detailed above, which is
together with salary incentives that determine the possibility of
climb the own training base without taking up a management position (Teaching Indirect) for it.
5.2) Strengthen and professionalize the managerial leadership for the achievement
a school management excellence. It must consolidate its role and function,
professionalizing the selection and retention in the establishments, providing greater school autonomy and giving them more powers
with regard to general administration. Must be added to the process
selection of these professionals, agencies that evaluate basic skills (teamwork, leadership, communication, etc.) subject training in school management. Identified competitions for schools will be conducted jointly contesting members
the management team and knowing what postulate center. In the first instance, and on approval of the respective courses, contests are held for entitlement to effectiveness charges. Second, public contests management teams identified schools, in which they develop and defend a school project which apply together, then to reach the property for which they are submitted will be made.
5.3)

Technical and management support educational careers with pre established, with functions and certain profiles and public competitions for promotion staff, as was the case of secretaries
administration of schools who are called to strengthen their role in the directions have effective leadership pedals

42

Colorado Party
gogical to which they are called and do not distract their efforts and times
actions related to the proper administration said.
5.4) Starting from the premise that the training and professionalization must
be continuous, on this particular they have expressed the actions
will carry forward in the Strategic Objective No. 6, emphasizing that by using educational platforms and portals that do not use
submit only content, but are interactive spaces where
establish learning objectives and learning objectives through
a vision together and from a holistic perspective.
5.5)

Transforming the guidance and supervision of teachers and
management of schools - will be implemented effective
decentralization through joint regionalization of all levels of education no longer seems logical that the separation to the date of the inspections of the subsystems, so change your
functional matrix. At the same time, we will work to form and establish the logic
monitoring accompaniment and not mere regulation, as has
expressed above.

5.6) Reduce 50% of the positions of trust or direct appointment during 2015 and make public calls open
for the provision of management functions in the central administration of education. The status of all be studied
educational entities pursuing a policy of optimizing the
use of economic and human resources. They are carried called
public and open to select the teams that support the task
educational institutional management from the central entities
education (Ministry / Tips). The management of the largest and most important institutions of public administration requires better
professionals are in charge of its strategic areas, presenting plans / projects management and evaluating the results in the medium and long
term, which will determine the continuity of the functions for which
They have been hired. In this context, in turn, will enhance career
administrative, professional and technical cooperation with a view to the consolidation and development of stable and highly technical equipment that are the basis for the

43

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
State development policies continue beyond the period
of government.
6. Optimize the use of public resources and establishment of a
budget for results - In this regard it will strengthen the
dealings management educational administration as it should
prioritize the efficiency and effectiveness of the use of public resources allocated,
ensuring their speedy implementation, due and fair distribution and subsequent
accountability through verifying the results obtained have been established.
6.1)

Create / enhance an area of ​​strategic planning in institutions
education, internalizing this management tool throughout the
system. This is without prejudice to any action that is especially made through the Agency for Quality and Development of Education.

6.2) Create an inter-area coordination of infrastructure and study of resource allocation mechanisms entities
Regional for the direct implementation to the extent of the international tender in them. In particular, for the ANEP, it is to resume
leadership in this area by coordinating and planning all activities carried forward either by the same, the MTOP, the
Departmental Administration or the National Corporation
Developing. Strongly it increases the political agreements and
will decentralize the actions to optimize response and improve the maintenance and design of new projects and the use of
new and modern techniques in construcción50
6.3)

Strengthen and develop the Internal Audit across all entities
education, especially at central and regional level as part of the planned actions.

6.4) Generate new and more efficient information systems and
Accountability - performance, greater efficiency and effectiveness
investment in education are challenges for Uruguay so that the use of these tools is key. In addition to creating a culture of accountability must work for the professionalization
The architecture in the service of pedagogical so should initiate a process of rationalization on
educational buildings, using new techniques and optimizing existing spaces for schools serving the particularities of each level.
50

44

Colorado Party
staff in general and also for the generation of procedures and
instruments to consolidate and establish a management system
professional.
6.5) Redesign Ranking's not performing teachers and contests
in all grades / levels to transform the administrative, professional and technical course with a view to the consolidation and development of
stable and highly technical equipment which is basis for the development of
State policies continue beyond the period of government.
7. effectively decentralize the education system - Attention to
existing differences between regions and contexts necessary to provide
greater autonomy to educational communities. The organizational culture built on a shared vision and strategic direction is
the basis on which quality processes are implemented in education. Decentralization should not be conceived exclusively in the
transfer of decision-making capacity but as the development of a system of mutual relations and coordination to continuity, sustainability and quality of educational services.
The new decentralized management model requires special attention to
environments with greater difficulty establishing recovery activities in the framework of strengthening programs and educational support
management. In this regard, it will be key to equip teachers and administrative staff of training skills of negotiation and consultation,
conflict resolution in schools, as well as tools for
understanding of organizational social and political reality of the community
that educational activity takes place. 51
Strategic Goal 8 - Develop science, technology and research to
educational transformation service
The relevance of knowledge in today's technology makes it
one and the same time, fundamental tool for determining inequalities in
to continue with actions to their development and full utilization
It is the key to tomorrow's education.
In this regard, and as has been expressed Regional Areas Guidance and Supervision will be created
Educación51 located in offices established for this purpose throughout the country, covering the entire educational system from a
transversal perspective and in the context of curriculum reform and management will be developed, the structure used
existing to date in the field of ANEP without generating higher expenditures for administration. The same,
this project will play a leading role.
51

4. 5

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
It should promote the creation of portals, use of educational platforms,
systems that facilitate management in its various areas, among other things
to be implemented within the framework of specific programs. This is not enough, you need to involve communities and families to own
particularly students and teachers in general. Is this a pending matter and therefore consider it important to create new and better spaces,
optimizing the use of resources that are available to date.
Technologies should permeate the education system not only with the presence of
machines in classrooms and schools, but through the integration
ICT in everyday teaching practices revaluing the centrality
pedagogical proposal with a strong component of training of teachers and professors.
Care should be taken to improve the quality of its use. The real effects on
learning should be enhanced as appropriate such as problem solving, critical thinking, research and lifelong learning
led by the individuals themselves. To this must be involved at all teaching staff building capacity through collaborative and team work.
In general such lines as argued in the corresponding document
Uruguay Plan 2015 - 2020, we will work hard for the creation of a
CTI ecosystem where industrial policies, policies
research and development and education policies to join
national development.
Orient and establish plans and programs to reverse the
trend of "brain drain" (brain drain) and generate a "brain
gain "(brain), with the central objective
development of human resources in STI.
The various plans aim at generating a large human capital
nationwide, research and development programs and
a new organizational infrastructure for the development of science,
technology and research.

46

Colorado Party
Specific actions for achieving this objective are develop
Chapter of Science, Technology and Research which integrates Uruguay Plan 2015 - 2020 and develops later. The Ministry of Education
and Culture and the autonomous entities of the Education act in close coordination and complementarity with the new Ministry of Science and Technology
to be created.
Strategic objective 9 - Consolidating evaluation as a tool for change and continuous learning
You need to work hard by a culture of evaluation with technical basis, involving various actors, with agreed procedures and responsible management of information. The evaluation should be seen as a tool to ensure the quality of the education
provides and not as a mere autopsy that every so often is carried out.
Strengthening the National Institute of Educational Evaluation and creation
of an accreditation body of quality of university organizations it seems
be the way in this regard, without prejudice to development and strengthening of the
bodies and procedures that make up the Administrations own
They carry forward education system. All this in the context of an Agency
Development and Quality Education are proposing to create.
In short, we must work for a real education information system to identify inequities of resource distribution and characteristics
students according to socioeconomic level of the schools themselves, evolution of learning and skills acquired, among others. In
this framework should also promote self-assessment processes level
schools and the different actors involved, leading from
these areas evaluation as an instrument of change and learning
permanent.
It is considered necessary to achieve the following results / goals:

47

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
1. From the results of the 2015 PISA tests increase by
third of students are at Level 2 of the PISA tests in language, mathematics and ciencias.52
2. From the results of the 2015 PISA tests reduce the spread between the highest quintile of students performance and
quintile of lower performance in the aforementioned tests. 53
3. Reduce the failure in basic secondary education to 15% a year
2020. To this end a number of programs and plans to be implemented
Uruguay detailed in the Plan 2015 - 2020 54
4. Increase coverage between School Education
aged 17 to 18 in 2020, tending to universal
misma.55 is considered that the proposals set may have achieved an educational offer that addresses all young people who are between these ages.
5. Achieving a completion rate of at least 50% of
students between 18 and 20 years in Higher Education Media
2020.56 This goal was established in 2015, unfortunately the
date of graduation rate is just over 28% so it will be necessary
continue to develop actions to achieve the same in
five years with a view to superarla.57
6. Ensure that 100% of young people between 15 and 17 years culminate
studies of primary and secondary education by 2020.
7. Integrate the country to new screening tests for acquiring information regarding primary school students and
medium that allows the results to be obtained in the same
to project improvement actions while allowing learn about new technologies that are used to evaluate. In this regard, it is considered
Case enter the PIRLS tests - TIMSS IEA (InterRatificamos Study the commitment made in the Multiparty Agreement Education 2010
It confirms target set in 2010 Education Agreement
54 To date, the repetition rate lower secondary education is in a 32.29% (published in Monitor
Education related CES-2012) and Technical Education repetition totals 20.3% (Source Yearbook
MEC - If the decoupling rate (18.1%) adds the same amount to 38.6% of young people attending school
Average basic technique in 2012)
55 the agreement is ratified in the Multiparty Agreement of Education in 2010 and its 10 years the possibility of
get 100% coverage.
56 five years is postponed as provided in Education Multiparty Agreement that was scheduled for 2015 and
increases the set goal, since the discharge date in this age group is 28% -Source Observatory Education
ANEP.
57 According to the Observatory of Education ANEP between 21-23 manage to complete the EMS 38.3% and between 24-29 it
40.6% achieved in 2012.
52
53

48

Colorado Party
National Progress in Reading Comprehension; 58 Trends in International Mathematics and Science, respectively), which provide more than 60 countries, the information needed to improve
teaching and learning in the areas of reading, mathematics and science from performance data of students in 4th grade
2nd year Primary and Secondary Education. This evaluation provides countries with an opportunity to measure the progress of educational performance in these three areas together with empirical information about learning environments and new technologies used in
Rating.
8. Extend the evaluation policy online using the built through the Ceibal Project technology. To date it has been implemented in the orbit of the Council of Early Childhood Education and Elementary considered appropriate extension, as a tool for improving
compulsory learning, to secondary education. This will serve
one of the problems experienced secondary education such as the
evaluation centered in the classroom, both internally and by the teacher himself in
isolation and staff left to individual criteria without fixing
expected results / learning standards.
9. In connection with the aforementioned instances, develop actions to be
beyond the assessment of cognitive learning, integrating affective and attitudinal dimensions.
10. Incorporate Uruguay TALIS OECD as an instrument that relieves
the educational reality of the different countries participating in it as well
as the realization of a new teaching census does not develop in the
Uruguay since 2007, it remains a crucial tool
to know the realities and the perception and opinion
group of teachers within the policy design
National teacher.

In particular taking into account recent studies on the subject and the results obtained by Uruguayan students
In tests.
58

49

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
Strategic objective 10 - Develop integrated public policies, contextualized and coordinated between the various entities in the social area
Education policies, social policies, housing and health transversely attend to vulnerable populations today no social
They are within the education system or being not overcome the obstacles it imposes. Particular emphasis is also put on everything
concerning the return of students and unrelated families, developing
purpose programs, as spelled out in the corresponding chapter Social Policies.
The realization of these actions will be carried out through the creation of
interagency exchange spaces which are explicit with precision
Transformation of the State corresponding chapter. The Social Cabinet
to coordinate national macro and everything related to aspects of human well-being in their relationship with others. It will be integrated by the Ministry of Social Development, Housing and Familia59, the Ministry of Labour and Social Security, Ministry of Public Health, Ministry of Education and Culture and the Ministry of Interior.60
In this context, it will not fail to meet the groups that have other features as a way to promote educational success and human development
the population as a whole, as is clear from this document.

Social housing will join the Ministry of Social Development, considering important to develop a policy
national in social housing.
See Plan Uruguay 60 2015 2020 - we on the Future Uruguay.
59

50

Colorado Party

ANNEX
UNIFIED BASIC EDUCATIONAL CYCLE
Creating a unified educational cycle curricular, student-centered
with a unique design that ranges from 4 to 14 years old,
education exceeds low intensity (intermittent support) and schooling
low significance where students fail to retain and process skills acquired, will be the backbone of our proposed transformation. To her, everything related will join the professionalization of teachers and
teachers and radical change of an educational system designed for another
time and other estudiantes.61
An educational journey that involves the inclusion of children and adolescents of 4-14 years in a single cycle aims to overcome inequalities be established
social and cultural rights of the student population through educational unit,
didactic, and provided with a transverse perspective of flexibility to meet
the realities where implementa.62
The continuing education in child cycle (pre-school and primary) and
Teen cycle (lower secondary education), provide students with a common base of knowledge, learning and competences
for their integral development.
This common base is structured around the following skills:
 Proficiency in the native language (reading and writing).
 The learning of mathematics, scientific culture and technology.
 The efficient management of information and communication techniques.
 The practice of second language (English and / or Portuguese).
 The effective practice of humanistic culture in the context of full citizenship training through the acquisition of social and civic skills for achieving better community and social integration.
There is a successful precedent, the 7th, 8th and 9th grades in rural schools, which must necessarily be
considered and become a precedent for the proposed reformulation of education levels
Initial, primary and secondary level first. Experience should be considered as referring to
continuing education structure, with a nationwide expansion and modification of contents and
appropriate to the current contemporary curricular competencies.

62 You need to work on better coordination between the three education subsystems, which currently form
ANEP, implying an administrative and operational change.
61

51

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
 Autonomy, innovation, creativity and entrepreneurship as key to learning throughout life elements.
For students who have difficulties in the acquisition of the common foundation
an Individualized Educational Success Program (EECP) applies to
through a system of monitoring, mentoring and evaluation to determine
These situations that create, if not met, the lag and / or subsequent termination. Care will, in turn, with students with special educational needs, supported by the teacher / support teacher and / or teacher / peripatetic teacher. It will continue this necessary inclusion compensating children and / or adolescents who have special needs, differences in learning and motor difficulties, encouraging personal attention to facilitate their educational continuity.
Basic Education would have the following sections:


Education of 4 to 11 students whose transit by Sections 1 and 2
respectively.



Education 12 to 14 years which include the Span 3.

Section 1: priority will be learning the native language, discovery of the environment, artistic practices permanently (arts, music,
body language) as well as physical education and sport, the use of a second language (English and / or Portuguese according to the location of the educational institution) technology, as well as an introduction to the history, geography.
Teaching should take into account the plurality and diversity of skills
each student. It will promote the development, its multiple languages ​​and reflection
intellectual, sense of observation, taste for experimentation, sensitivity, development of motor skills and creative imagination.
Section 2: In addition to the above skills will be deepened sciences
Experimental and optimized use of information technologies
and communication. Should continue the personalized teaching, with special attention to students who have difficulties during the period

52

Colorado Party
that teachers and technical staff as determined by complementation courses contenidos.63
Section 3: Your main goal is that all students achieve their end the common basis of learning, gaining skills that are established for the level that is deepening the learning of sections 1 and 2, to meet curricular excessive fragmentation through the integration of subjects. As in the preceding sections will continue with the
personalized support, with adapting to the rhythms of learning
each integration and professional discovery programs.
In addition to the theoretical, practical and behavioral knowledge-exploratory electives, activities that they will be developed approach to
possible formations of the upper secondary level, as well as the discovery of professions (exploratory Tranche and / or student guidance
focus placed on each student).
Upon completion of this degree of Leg 3, the knowledge and skills that also certify the domain of established common ground will be evaluated. 64
The evaluación65 must be introduced in the efforts of schools
from the Project Center, with this definition of strategies and actions chosen to develop the objectives and content, taking into account
socio-economic and cultural characteristics of the context. For his part,
educational, technical and teaching staff draw up its own evaluation that will take special account established for graduate profiles
each Tramo.66
In follow-up actions and academic achievements of students, leads to arise Custom Educational Success Program, pillar
containment, support and development of students. Considering this
systematic, risk will promote students who do not have
This degree will take particular account of the experience of integrated areas that develops in Primary and experienced a very good performance and results. Traffic also educational program
CODICEN developed in 60 areas of the country.
64 Considering the importance of first establishing the skills required elaborate graduates
graduate profiles, taking materials from within the orbit of the Council of Technical Education, among
others.
65 We believe that the assessment is a key issue to be addressed in more detail to establish a different current regime.
66 Considering the general guidelines to be established for this purpose in the new evaluation regime and grade passage
they were designed.
63

53

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
achieved the minimum competencies established in the profiles, only at the end of
each educational level of basic education. Within this integrated concept, taking the pace of learning of each student, may be established
mechanisms to advance the sections (or years) education.
The results of the periodic evaluations will be considered essential and
communications to parents and / or guardians of the student, involving
themselves in the learning process of their children and strengthening the strategic partnership between the school and the family.
The need to define the contents and transversal skills,
will be presented on Fundamental Learning Spaces (EAF), as
cohesion tool, helping to avoid fragmentation and heterogeneity submitting the proposal that started from 2006, returning to the traditional asignaturista regime in our country.
The EAF provide a framework of knowledge that should be part of the education of all children and adolescents both its subjective and social significance, and its pedagogical and didactic unit from 4 years until discharge
at age 14.
The priority ranking of learning and involves prior knowledge
redefinition of teaching and learning time for this involvement
of teachers in building converging and sustained strategies based on collective agreements teacher will point to rethink and redefine the
daily use of time in each of the educational stages.
The purpose of the integration of priority programming (Basic Learning Spaces) in this new curricular proposal, will become the
common basis for education, strongly complemented by projects
center. The teaching approach should seek a balance between knowledge integration universal and those who recover knowledge
social (values) in flattering frames constructed socio-cultural diversity of educational inclusion addressing the relationship between discipline, rational thought and critical present in the various subject areas of teaching.

54

Colorado Party
It then aims, with this proposal, the priority accorded learning in teaching cohesion between all levels and stages and act
as enriching educational experiences, achieving an educational and pedagogical unit throughout the first putting on Basic Education
plane and a center for students and knowledge they get.

55

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020

SOCIAL POLICIES AND SOCIAL SECURITY
We advocate a more just and inclusive society through social policies
people-centered, in its vast diversity. While we assume that
all individuals are born with equal rights, also born in different social and economic environments that affect a greater or lesser extent
effective exercise thereof.
In this regard, we reaffirm the priority interest in the educational component
as essential to individual, family and collective growth so the development of social policies must be strongly coordinated with the national education system qualitative instrument, but always to form
Uruguayan part of an integrated society. That is why we reaffirm the need to link social programs for education, training and development of people, with special emphasis on those most in need.
On the basis of our proposal rests the historic conviction
social promotion through upward social mobility.
Therefore, the work will develop reform, proactive,
seeking to give the individual more freedom and autonomy based on the enhancement of their skills and attitudes.
The current government has prioritized further, direct intervention
assistentialist purposes, that is, on the basis of non-monetary transfers
conditioned. For us it is vital to link money transfer and socio-professional and / or educational partner, including clear mechanisms of compensation that reflect a commitment by the recipient, this activity being
the first to achieve a structural change in an increasingly social matrix
It presents worse and disparate levels of training, which are then translated into a
greater inequality.
The current situation can be summarized as:

56

Colorado Party
1. The social vulnerability of Uruguay is widespread and deep,
notwithstanding the existence of long-standing social programs, both universal and targeted. 67
2. The territorial incongruity between measuring income poverty and
NBI determined by very pronounced different impacts are detected
in various areas of the country.
3. Social policies implemented since 2006 to date have favored the goal of reducing absolute poverty, in other words, income poverty through programs of conditional and unconditional cash transfers. Equal emphasis has not received correction
Poverty on unsatisfied basic needs that
They make the interruption of the intergenerational transmission of poverty and
stabilization of home in the middle class. Transformation Plan
Emergency (PANES) in Equity Plan in 2008, did not include a sufficient shift in the definition of objectives and instruments. Had
change occurred that would surely objectives achieved a clear improvement in the satisfaction of basic needs.
It will be important to future pay attention to data on the various
dimensions of poverty, such as the development of indicators of health, education, employment and housing, to assess the sustainability of achievements
and work accordingly.
Conceptually, the instruments of social policies that guide the secondary redistribution of resources must systematically encourage promotion
individual and collective capacities to enable the person to enter the labor achieving its growth and development.
Our political party has historically been characterized by putting a strong
focus on social issues, developing multiple and successful inclusion policies and
attention to certain poor settings. For the next period of government will continue with prioritized social policies, increasing spending
social whole and optimizing the achievements and results obtained

However, income poverty observed since the crisis 2002-2003 34% of Uruguayans have at least
one unsatisfied basic need.
67

57

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
through the transformation of projects developed to date or creating
new programs to care for certain groups.
We transform a matrix offset, most
hand, economic inequalities (through the timely
economic or monetary food) assistance without proper supplementation generating individual capacities and
abatement of other social deficiencies, although they are not directly economic, hinder the full enjoyment of social rights.
Under it, not only matters that keep social spending executed every year incremental levels in relation to total public spending and gross domestic product, but what also matters, and it matters a lot, is that your
outlay achieve results that allow changing the social matrix inequality
by gradual incorporation of the needy population into society
Formal in their various fields.
Strategic Objective 1 - Strengthen the institutional role and reform the organizational structure and functioning of the Ministry of Social Development
Said Secretary of State requires a substantial change in its organization and
operation, so exercising properly the duties and competence that the law gives him, so that unnecessary duplication and avoid overlapping efforts. In addition, management will seek to professionalize
Institutional and selection of HR, especially valuing training
accredited and expertise in each area, through public calls.
To fulfill this objective we will develop the following:
1

Incorporate social housing MIDES, as it is considered that the
it is a policy of critical, so all
dealings related to social housing be integrated into this ministry (See Plan Uruguay from 2015 to 2020 - Chapter House).

2 Make an administrative and management audit of resources
all programs and agreements signed by the Ministry of Social Development to date, to streamline and focus the actions for the present and future.

58

Colorado Party
3 Improve the coordination and transversal and territorial orientation
the various programs that run directly or through agreements
with institutions of civil society.
4 Designing new multidimensional programs to strengthen the family unit integrally with critical needs through
indicators, in addition to income, take others as education, housing, autonomy, sanitation and access to drinking water, among others.
5 Improve and streamline the identification and location of persons and
households in poverty, destitution and vulnerability
using management tools designed for this purpose, improving service times and use of the information gathered. This will
focusing the benefits granted to them managing to reach the
people who actually need it, depending on the requirements preset in the plans or programs.
6 Using public resources efficiently and effectively, continuing the programs or integrating the existing
Silver proposals in this Plan.
7 Assess and develop, during the first half of 2015, protocols for the performance of the contracted NGOs, in order to be
demanding compliance activities in various programs,
optimizing the efforts that they perform as well as the use of
material and human considerations that are provided by the state.
8 transparent mechanisms to implement public awareness of social / private / community organizations
who they are hired by MIDES, their performance, their activities,
amounts to be paid and the staff they employ. Also the actions and activities carried out in the programs they are assigned, all
which it will be permanently evaluated together with them.
9 steps to promote voluntary activities at national level, coordinating them with government social programs in order to optimize and enhance the impact on the
sectors served.

59

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
Strategic Objective 2 - Generate social policies, considering the specific situation in the nuclei of individuals and families to meet, stimulate
work and personal development of welfarism.
Transform tools more palliative cut cash transfers as complementing with other labor and educational promotion. The transition from the world of attending the world of work should rely heavily targeted programs in commitments and people
families take in each case with the ultimate goal of achieving effective social inclusion.
Combating the drivers of this process it must be dealt with
systematic and results-based management, which will be necessary to establish greater commitments from the beneficiaries of the various programs
social. Focusing on the target population it should be guided under
criteria that capture inequality factors. In turn, the implementation of
programs should be consistent with the population it is intended to reach; otherwise, the risk of having programs that can be run either
intentioned but testimonials or low range to the extent that many do not
They cover even 50% of the population who should benefit.
To fulfill this objective we will develop the following:
1

Create the program "Count on Me" to achieve insertion and / or
reemployment of unemployed heads of household. It was primarily serve people with difficulties of access to employment and at-
poverty. The same consist in extending practical training schemes to improve the labor market entry, promoting
social inclusion of beneficiaries (healthcare, network integration
social, etc.). Specialists will be hired in offices, literacy
computer and other training to teach courses and issue certificates
suitability, in order to provide them with tools for insertion
labor. It will work in accordance with the ANEP / UTU / INEFOP, programs
national training from the territorial offices throughout the MIDES
country and other public or private entities.
Also, work practice of this group will be promoted in institutions
public or private, to which will be coordinated with measures to promote

60

Colorado Party
exemptions to companies that accept that system of training and
job. There will be overlap between the supply of training with
employment needs of the various areas where they impart
the formation. agreements with NGOs and business associations were signed during the entire national territory, implementing mechanisms to put into practice effective formations which participants acquired through programa68.
2 Creating the "New Life" program for labor and educational integration of young people who neither study nor have formal work,
with particular emphasis on single mothers. Currently, between 14 and 24
years there are more than 36,000 young people in this situation, a figure that is extended if
those between 14 and 29 years are considered. A priority reformulate and
enhance the care of this population, establishing agreements with medium-term time horizons for reinsertion into the educational system
and / or employment of the young.
Much of this population are teenage mothers who require a
custom work and due assistance of multidisciplinary teams
and to achieve more effective coordination and collaboration among agencies involved (MIDES / MEC / ANEP - MSP). Existing programs for this population are clearly inefficient from a cost / coverage equation, not getting to meet even 10% of this population. The object
will decentralize and focus on these youngsters arrival directly serving this population through proposals specifically aimed at it from a holistic perspective.
3 Creating the Comprehensive Care Program (PAI) for people
who they are homeless. The situation of people
live or develop much of their life on the street is considered worrying by the growing number seen daily, particularly in
Montevideo and the metropolitan area. It is a difficult population
approach is considered so should rephrase the actions that are carried out to date in accordance with the civil society organizations working in this area.

Through this program and others will continue with the promotion of collective projects of work permit
employment of people living in poverty or social vulnerability and NBI.
68

61

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
You must know, prevent, protect and promote real outputs of these situations hundreds of Uruguayans suffer. Through the first,
an updated survey in order to form a record be made of
the younger and older people, improving existing information to date and generating official database quality.
The actions related to prevention involve generating information
the "potential" people on the street, coordination with other
entities such as the National Association for Prisoners and Released Prisoners including health care, food, among others, in coordination with the relevant government entities. In relation
with the protection of people who are already in this situation, you should
Protocol develop a better performance, implement programs
psycho-social, install different care strategies, take care
and report situation regarding addictions generating more and better
with joint public and private sectors involved. Finally,
to promote the actual output of the people on the street they will be implemented in social housing, care centers, accompanying programs, specialized in training aid, on the basis that should eliminate dependence on around
policies and services to be provided in this regard.
Regarding minors in their care will advance new signing
agreements with non-governmental organizations, in coordination with INAU.
We will work so that not a single minor is on the street, so
that appropriate measures for the effective implementation of this objective will be developed.
This program, although it will have its main focus during the winter, stay active throughout the year in order to meet this
population achieving their social reintegration.
4. Create 50 spaces Social Integration (plais) to develop
decentralized universal policies. Society suffers from a social fracture that reaches dramatic differences in paradigms of life. The
causes are in the phasing out of the reach of services provided by the
State and consolidation of a public system of income redistribution

62

Colorado Party
basically unfair deepening social differentiation between them
others.
In this regard, we propose the application of a shock action on
Social Policy that addresses the multi causal variables simultaneously supporting the social fracture, through a strong decentralization
territorial fundamental state services through the spaces
Social Integration (hereinafter plais) in the period. They will be located: in the
Department of Montevideo (serving large concentrations of
irregular and not specifically to a given area) settlements; in
Canelones, in the Department of Maldonado and the other
in departments where this problem has been verified. Each
Plais will have: a) A multi-generational square; b)
school full time; c) A middle school education
full time; d) A police station or subpolice; e) A family court, with their respective defense counsel; f) A clinic with equipment and specialized medical staff to provide primary care
victims of addiction (alcohol and party drugs) and g) An office of the Ministry of Social Development for the personal attention of the people.
Strategic Objective 3 - Develop specific programs to care
groups of people who have two or more UBN
(NBI)
Currently, we have a point estimate of poverty in people
Located at 11.5% (2013) but at disaggregate by different criteria (mainly territorial and age), an alarming disparity found urgently needed transition from the world of health to the world of work as a key to exit poverty. In terms of the outlook is NBI
most critical to the extent that there are studies that indicate that there has been no
significant improvement in reducing deficiencies of vulnerable if
2006 compared with 2012.
To fulfill this objective we will develop the following:
1

Universal care of children up to three years through the extension of public enrollment in the Board of Elementary and Early Childhood Education and the creation of Centres and 150 CAIF

63

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
continue care of 4 and 5 years. Attention to early childhood and early childhood education is fundamental and affects the future training and social integration of the same. These actions will be developed to increase the attention of the most vulnerable sectors, in addition, the goal of universal education for three years at national level
that every child to attend a school from that time,
both of which tools are granted to people who are
over the same time provided with access instances available for training or employment. (See Plan Uruguay from 2015 to 2020 -
Education chapter).
2 Creating the program "Ethics and Family Engagement" (CETFA) to
enforce the conditionality of money transfers
the fulfillment of commitments in the framework of agreements between the State and the beneficiary families of the Uruguay Social Card (TUS) and the Family Allowances (AFAM_PE).
Cash transfers made shall be accompanied by the signing of an effective agreement with the beneficiary families, through which they make commitments to be met. Actions will be developed
aimed at strengthening education and labor support partner. Across
the first will attend and accompany them in all matters relating to the educational and health needs of the beneficiary families, both as child elderly people. The Employment Support will involve capacity building for early labor market, being worked on
coordination with the program "Count Me In". education, health and work commitments were agreed. For this method to be effective,
It is necessary to supplement the instances with due accompaniment
families through technical teams in both the public system and
civil organizations.
3 Creating the Movement for the Eradication of Unhealthy Housing
Urbana (MEVIUR) for the relocation and regularization of informal settlements of people. As the main instrument to achieve the goal will be created in urban areas, replicating the successful experience developed by MEVIR in rural areas, the Movement for the Eradication of Unhealthy Urban Housing "(MEVIUR) q The law assigned him

64

Colorado Party
as a non-governmental public body responsible in urban areas - following the example and using the experience gained by
MEVIR - to address the most complex situations in the field of relocation and / or
regularization of informal settlements. The work under this
new non-state public person will be scheduled for interdisciplinary work, where field teams, formed by social workers, architects, educators and jurists, organized families, or their relocation to suitable land regularization, publicly owned. Where, through
mutual aid and self-help each family and with management and related technical assistance, involved in the construction project of their homes. These homes, which will own the end
a period of repayment, with subsidies to capital and share necessary
according to the socio-economic situation of each family. (See Plan Uruguay 2015
- 2020 - Chapter House).
Strategic Objective 4 - Address the population, having surpassed the line
poverty, presents situations of social vulnerability, strengthening the middle class.
This sector with social vulnerability, represents about 460,000 people
(25% of households). According to published analyzes these people have a level
education and work like the poor, but with a better degree of
comfort and housing which creates advantages for them. However it is
They are exposed to fall back into poverty if given, for example, adverse economic conditions. The attention focused on them is a priority
with the main objective to increase their potential and provide them with greater
tools to meet new challenges.
To fulfill this objective we will develop the following:
1

Create at least 15 new youth centers in partnership with
INAU. These centers carry out a task of importance as it makes
over 10 years promoting the social and educational reintegration of young body
12 and 17 of the most deprived areas of the country, serving a population
40 to 60 teenagers juvenil.69 center

The extent of these centers will accompany the process of extension of full-time schools, establishing these as a supplement to the schools that have single day in vulnerable contexts across the country.
69

65

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
2 Extend full-time primary education to 60,000 children in critical contexts and at least 20,000 education
Basic average, implying care for these children and youth in the form
allowing priority to attend schools where they impart
this type of education which has proven its efficiency in the framework of a
comprehensive care for these populations, also allowing people who are in charge of them count on time for training or
employment. (See Plan Uruguay from 2015 to 2020 - Chapter Education)
3 create 20 new children's clubs in agreement with INAU, achieving
an effective relationship between parents and schools.














70
66

Colorado Party
prey through exemptions and tax burdens of the cost of services provided by national authorities, by public enterprises and parastatals; as well as departamental.71 level (View Uruguay Plan
2015 - 2020 -Uruguay Prospero and Solidarity - Chapter Economy).
7 Creating the "Abriendo Caminos" program for which they are granted
social aid scholarships and assistance to students to study areas
prioritized by the education authority (See Plan Uruguay from 2015 to 2020 - Education). In this framework all scholarships and benefits granted by the various entities will also be considered
education in order to unify those benefits, enhancing System
National Scholarship to articulate all the benefits that exist or are created
to future. Merit and excellence of outstanding students in their respective formations are also rewarded.
Strategic Objective 5 - Addressing specific problems affecting children.
1

Create the Ombudsman for Children and Adolescents. It will work in orbit
Legislative act ex officio and Power to meet the claims raised by non-compliance related to childhood and adolescence, may go directly to the public or private authorities
corresponding with such recommendations as it deems appropriate.

2 Promote amendments to the Code of Childhood and Adolescence
to expedite the procedures established in the field
adoption, so that the children are incorporated as soon as possible to family life, shortening to a minimum (and, if possible, directly
avoiding) the institutionalization of children in homes or centers
INAU attention. The improvements that have been applied to modify
the powers of the Code for Children and Adolescents have been positive
as to enshrine the right of the child to live and grow up in a family and,
also, among other issues those that improved the whole procedure
passing by the applicants to adopt and equipment specialists
Adoption Institute. However, we understand that remain requirements and procedures do not allow many children in con-

71

A study of the benefits and actions developed to date preform is made

67

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
conditions to be adopted to achieve to receive the benefit of the right to live in a family from the moment of his birth. In
I sense that they are legislative and administrative changes needed to
guarantee this right now so many children can not reach it because of bureaucratic procedures. The law also entitles private organizations, are enabled, for the purpose of intervening in the selection process of adopting, under the technical control and stewardship of INAU.
Strategic objective 6 - Caring for older adults who are in a position
dependence or social vulnerability
The section of people over 60 than 22% of the population; while people 65 and older represent more than 14% of the population. Our country is an aging society: the percentage of people between O
to 14 years it increased from 28% in 1963 to 21.8 in 2011, and an estimated population
over 64 years will exceed that of 0-14 years by 2040. The relative and partial better, in quantitative terms, reflecting in income, social security coverage, health care and poverty levels in
some aspects decay further, to the extent of this increase in population,
especially people over 80 years. To the extent that this population is included preferably in the framework of a system of care,
with children under three years old and people with disabilities, which has been proposed by the Government, we understand that it must be legally defined
and quantified within a state policy to be determined according
of all political parties represented in parliament.
To fulfill this objective we will develop the following:
1

Implement a departmental record people at
dependent care requiring the public system
not paying him to meet in the first instance to the target population as indicators of vulnerability (ICC and / or percentiles).

2 create at least 200 centers CAAM (spotlight
THE ELDERLY) especially dedicated to serving adults 65 and older on account of socio-economic vulnerability and / or
You are able to loneliness. The private system is insufficient geriatrías

68

Colorado Party
enough to pay attention to this type of citizens, particularly those
with greater needs. The centers create work
as entities managed by the Community itself which, once the
requirements established, receive public resources to meet the
needs associated with the elderly in recreation,
support, care, health care, among others.
3 Improve and strengthen primary health care of the elderly, with appropriate decentralization of health services
Community territorial level. (See Plan Uruguay 2015-2020 - Health -
General Framework Health Plan or among other measures established for this population there).
4 Implement controls efficiently and effectively residences
private partnerships for profit, applying the existing legislation on the matter
(Regulatory Decree 320/999 of 1 October 1999), currently
MIDES charge. At the same time, increase where possible benefits to utilities that develop these activities in order to extend the
thereof. These actions will be implemented in coordination with the MSP and
the BPS.
Strategic objective 7 - Attend and effectuate the rights of people with
disabilities.
7.6% of the population living in towns of 5,000 or more inhabitants has a disability (210,000) 72, with no adequate information on those in a position of dependency and more than 50%
these people are older than 65 years. According to official studies it is estimated that this
Finally sector could be above 4% (approximately 113,000 people). Notwithstanding expressed in this chapter in the section on
Health other actions to be carried forward to serve this population is listed.
To fulfill this objective we will develop the following:
1

Regulating Act No. 18651 of 12/3/2010, called comprehensive protection of persons with disabilities, as they

72

Source ENOD.

69

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
develop effective actions to implement in practice the full recognition of their rights and provided comprehensive protection system
in the statute. Establish effective training and rehabilitation programs, with a view to achieving their incorporation into the labor market. (INEFOP,
MIDES, BPS).
2

Incorporate priority to people with severe disabilities in situations of dependency among the population they protect and serve
due directly and through the support of people who do care.

3 Promote a social wage laws aimed at people responsible for
disability, those whose psycho-social context must allocate all
hour care of it, can not therefore play no permanent rented work.
4 And it is considered appropriate to create regional multidisciplinary care centers to serve people with disabilities (See Plan Uruguay
2015 - 2020 - Chapter Health).
Strategic objective 8 - Integrate historically discriminated groups, allowing greater inclusion through appropriately targeted policies.
To fulfill this objective we will develop the following:
1

Implement strategies to sensitize public opinion to point
existing discrimination in all fields of society, whether by reason
religion, skin color, sexual orientation, gender, age or any other
form.

2 Support cooperative ventures or sole for women heads of household and women who find difficulties in their insertion
labor market, as part of the actions carried out to date.
3 Establish national programs to address the problem of housing
for women victims of domestic violence (See Uruguay Plan 2015 -
2020 - Chapter House).
4 Develop the Program for Promotion of Equal Opportunities
Women in access to employment and vocational training in accordance
with INEFOP.

70

Colorado Party
5 Develop a program for equal exercise of responsible parenthood. In this sense, the actions will be defined to ensure the full implementation of the rights and obligations of men to exercise
paternity on an equal footing with women.
Strategic objective 9 - Addressing the social security system as a state policy that allows long-term sustainability and development
In Uruguay one of the highest rates of population aging, where more than 600,000 people receive retirement benefits or presented
pension (contributory and non-contributory), and in coming years the process
It will also deepen with what is called aging
aging. As reported by the Population Fund United Nations
(UNFPA), by 2019 there will be a marked proportion of older
60 than children under 14 years. It is worth continuing
the regulatory process and adjusting the social security system, inaugurated
by the Colorado Party as a State policy, with the approval of the
Law No. 16,713 of September 3, 1995. After more than eighteen years
its validity is required for new corrective legal measures regulating
setting conditions of the operative events for social security,
tending to seek the consensus of the political parties represented
Parliament to gradually bring down the incremental contribution Revenue
General must contribute to the Social Security Bank budget and,
where appropriate, to other organs are part of the social security system.
Notwithstanding this framework the long term, some specific measures for the short and medium term are proposed:
1

Drive improvements and changes in the tax Security Assistance
Social (IASS), determined by Law 18,314, of 4/7/2008, levied on
passivities served by public and private institutions (See Plan Uruguay
2015 - 2020 - Chapter Economy)

71

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
2 To combat that leaves unprotected informal workers in the
social security benefits. 73
3 Proceed to notify the Labour History in the manner provided by law 16.
713 of 09/03/1995, giving businesses and workers as legal security.
4 Review the current system of medical certification of workers covered by Social Security, in order to make transparent the same.

73Si

While there has been a significant drop (27%) to November 2012, there are very Departments indices
superiors like Cerro Largo, Artigas, Thirty-Three, Salto and the periphery of Montevideo.

72

Colorado Party

ANNEX
PLACES OF SOCIAL INTEGRATION
Background: The promotion of public spaces for social integration
recognizes important historical experiences such as sports places driven by Jose Batlle y Ordonez in the second decade of the last century, from the creation of the National Commission of Physical Education in 1911, Neighborhood Centers in the 50s, promoted by Mayor of Tacuarembó
Raul engineer Saturnino Goyenola and the latest in the neighborhoods of La Comercial and Casavalle unit Montevideo experiences.
Diagnosis: The company suffers from a social fracture that reaches differences
dramatic in the paradigms of life followed in different segments
social. The presence of the current social pit is the negation of a social democrat and republican society array Batllista. So, firstly, it is effective
a culture based on traditional principles of solidarity and integration,
which are grounded in the family of European type and the presence of optimizing
education. Moreover, a minority-driven culture is suffered by the
paradox of consumerism in environments of social, economic and political marginalization. The latter is observed in single-parent and large families often without resources to gain access themselves to offers of services and goods of the period considered essential for the imagination of users.
Also these are abandoned by the formal education system, creating an atmosphere of widespread frustration and aversion to the majority culture.
The tension between these two worlds -Voltage latinoamericana- classically decreased much in Uruguay and has integrated comebacks in Uruguay socially disintegrated.
Causes: phasing out of the reach of services provided by the State and
consolidation of a public system of income redistribution basically
unfair deepening social differentiation between them. This phenomenon is recognized as academically density loss state.
It refers to the presence of asymmetric state services in different
socioeconomic quintiles.

73

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
Proposal: Application of a Shock Social Policy that addresses the multi-causal variables simultaneously supporting the social fracture, through
the new generation of universal policies and coordinated with traditional
a strong territorial decentralization of basic government services. In this regard, the creation of spaces proposed Social Integration
(Hereinafter plais) developed in 2.4) Strategic Objective 2
Chapter Social Policy.

74

Colorado Party

LIVING PLACE
Effective promotion of social housing in our country, involves from start to assume that the public sphere has the duty of overseeing all
legal and policy instruments are there in the rule of law, by
strict observance of the fundamental right of every inhabitant of the
Republic expressly enshrined in our Constitution (art. 45), to enjoy
decent housing. Making this fundamental right a reality
effective that goes beyond the merely programmatic, continuing and reaffirming the tradition of Colorado Party to be "bastion of freedom" and
"Shield of the weak".
By "social housing", that set of housing solutions,
characterized by official protection in their acquisition, through subsidies
both the supply and demand for housing, while focused on the most disadvantaged socio-economic sectors, which are in a situation
social vulnerability and socio-economic sectors revenue
low, low, medium and media society. Which without special and differential public support, they have serious difficulty, if not impossibility of
to solve their housing needs, from simple competition to
market. Moreover, in our view, the phenomenon of "social housing"
It is not limited exclusively to the housing solution, but tries to give the
environment of housing, equipment, utilities and infrastructure quality, which foster the overall improvement of the material and immaterial conditions of life of its inhabitants, in a framework of freedom and sustainability over time.
The momentum of social housing, as has been a tradition in our actions, should be part of a much broader policy and social, cultural and economic development, which has the integral development center
the individual within the family. Housing policy, then, must
also intertwined with the various policies to promote work and
the worker and his family. All workers regardless of their occupation or profession, should be, just as his family under the special protection of
this policy. In this direction, it will be valued fundamentally, the

75

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
effort and work of families and individuals, applied directly
arrive in the draft homeownership. Emphasizing only
strengthening families as the basic core of social protection in a
comprehensive framework of support and education, health and credit stimuli, stop and reverse the vicious cycle of intergenerational transmission
poverty.
Access to decent housing is not, nor should it be a gift or a palliative, is a
constitutionally recognized right, but at the same time it must always be the direct result of the efforts of those who attended his legitimate
right, access to it, as they can apply their energy and work in the company. This effort should contemplate both the virtue of saving,
value of work and personal and family commitment to the project through
tested instruments result in our environment, such as mutual support and
self-help (as in the case of cooperatives or self,
etc.), without constrain rigid legal, associative or organizational forms or
pre-determined, but without ruling out a priori any of them.
We do not share the policies aimed at direct handouts, our
efforts should be enhanced to understand and work dignifying status
human. However we do not take into account those exceptional situations, where for the most diverse social reasons, age of
gender, etc., the State must intervene directly assisting those who can not at this stage, not even apply your personal efforts in the company achieving its housing. No one within justifiably
these conditions may be excluded from the assistance of the State in which
their basic housing needs are concerned.
As we conceive it, housing policy should include first
Instead, for the most diverse media, facilitating access to homeownership, titled and with all utilities included, allowing the improvement of living conditions, the overall social development of the individual
and families, as well as the creation of citizenship.
But with the same momentum and determined, they must offer other solutions, in line with the needs of housing, contemplate by

76

Colorado Party
eg aid for lease, constitution or strengthening of
rent guarantee funds, subsidies for the purchase of materials, technical assistance and the promotion and development of student housing,
liabilities housing sectors, seasonal workers and other groups
that their particular vulnerability (single parents, victims of domestic violence, persons with disabilities, etc.) or your personal
condition, need decent housing solutions that do not necessarily go through the acquisition of home ownership.
We are convinced that this policy integrating social and
housing, In the medium term, creating neighborhoods
more heterogeneous from the social point of view and in parallel more
homogeneous from the point of view of the quality of life of its inhabitants. This effective involvement of the state-at the national and municipal level
- Permit reverse the phenomenon of fragmentation of city neighborhoods
rich and poor neighborhoods. Our policy is in line to recreate a city
integrated social, economic, cultural and housing, a city
"All," which exceeds the current paradigm of imminent social divide between the
city ​​of "ones" and the city of "others".
Strategic Objective 1 - Redesigning the institutional model for social housing
To comply with the same develop the following:
1. Transform the MIDES in the Ministry of Housing, Development
Social and Family. The issue of social housing can not be focused
by the state as a separate and isolated policy of other policies
social promotion of the family, culture, education and health. By
We therefore propose that the responsibility for social housing,
pass the orbit of the current Ministry of Social Development, creating the
Ministry of Housing, Social Development and Family. Within this
Ministry, a Directorate General or a decentralized authority (Address
National Social Housing "DI.NA.VI.S."), will be responsible for the
regulatory powers, direction and coordination in housing
social, of all State and for Organizations - State competent

77

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
in this matter, existing (ANV, MEVIR, PIAI, the current DINAVI
MVOTMA address BPS social benefits, etc.), or to be created
reformulate or in the future. Thus the dispersion is overcome and
overlap that currently exists in many areas. And while it will be given to
housing policy the necessary interaction with other disciplines and
promoting social services, which would enhance the act synergistically
comprehensive social development.
2. Create the National Land Registry

Public Property.

It is of fundamental importance to carry out a thorough
reformulation and redefinition through the instrument of the law, the
public land portfolio. Therefore we create a new National Register
of public land, which will record and report on
land suitable for its location and territorial categorization for
implementation of new housing and other related uses
Priority social interest, such as schools, clinics,
recreational, civic and cultural and other public spaces

74

These lands

public property will be effectively managed and administered by the
Rector of the new social housing policy nationally Agency (the
already

said "DI.NA.VI.S." within whose orbit that will work

Registration), facilitating the location and transfer of ownership
such land, to appropriate entities. We propose the
preparation of a Bill to enter the

modifications

legal necessary, designed to facilitate and expedite the transfer of
land ownership incorporated into the national register mentioned,
provided that their translation is declared of national public interest
by DINAVIS. Also putting the emphasis necessary for it in the
mechanism of interagency agreements; whether the Government
Central to the departmental governments, the central government
the various autonomous entities or decentralized services, owners
of suitable public lands, etc. At the same time, they support and encourage the
civil society initiatives organized through movements like

Special coordination will be carried out through this record with all entities to enable the extension of full-time enrollment of 60,000 students in primary education critical context and incorporate by
at least 20,000 in secondary education.
74

78

Colorado Party
Cooperative long tradition in this area and has allowed obtaining
housing by thousands of families.
Strategic Objective 2 - Develop a national policy on Housing Sector Media, Media and Low Low
To fulfill this objective we will develop the following:
1. Develop, enhance and deepen the system I established the
No. 18,795 on Access to Affordable Housing Act.
We believe that many of the remedies provided by this Act are
suitable instruments for developing housing means, lower-middle and low socioeconomic sectors of the population, but we must
necessarily go further, so as to effectively allow the
these sectors can have access to housing, for which today
there are many difficulties. This will be possible through the firm
implementation and deepening of active policies to encourage and support the
housing demand. Through the direct intervention of the Public Sector,
subsidizing and facilitating the various possible means, access to
offer "affordable housing"

those areas of revenue

means lower middle and low, which today can not afford the high
cost thereof. We will study mechanisms to enforce
Direct families, subsidies for homeownership
built under that law, as well as for payment of the
charges for the respective mortgages. Always to
from a complete, detailed and personalized study of the situation
socioeconomic each beneficiary family.
2. Create incentives for private property owners
abandoned or under utilized, vacant land sites in the urban area of
cities and towns across the country, with the sole purpose of that
new properties enter the market of social housing
lease or venta.75 This will allow the stimulation,
technical control and direction of the entity commissioning
"Social livability" of these properties,

creating new housing

Within certain territorial and range of values ​​zones previously defined from political
public. As long as recycle, refurbish or build new homes in these properties, with the sole purpose of incorporating the social housing market, on lease or sale.
75

79

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
dignified and decorous, proper habitability conditions. Are you
They incorporate housing market

within a framework of clear rules and

Permanent for free sale or lease. This will result in a
notorious rebate

costs for the state,

through savings in

investments in infrastructure and extension of public services,
taking advantage of already installed services.
3. Promote the adoption of public policy instruments that
apply specific allowances and benefits, by location and by
the

promotion

from

projects

building

socially

integrators. This will reconcile the settlement of families
middle income, with lower income families, as part of a
same territorial context.
4. Prioritize
general.

subsidy to housing demand with character

This will allow the most vulnerable families

attend to

market to choose their homes. Competition, subject to technical criteria
transparent, that is, known to everyone; impartial, as they are
strictly subject to a system of objective scoring applicants;
focused, so to treat unequals unequally; and neutral
as to enable freedom in the panorama of selection options
Plaintiffs: new homes, used and improvement or expansion of
existing. Within the range of possible instruments will prioritize
credit insurance in order to reduce the previous saving and cost
financing credit institutions; guarantee rents;
direct, subsidies etc.
Young families are under the special protection of this policy
housing, facilitating the conditions and requirements for access to their
first home through various mechanisms such as
conclusion of agreements with public or private entities to facilitate
access to housing.
5. Energize the secondary market for social housing. The
families undergo constant changes that require adaptations
in relation to the type of housing they need to meet their
needs. We recognize this reality and accordingly will promote

80

Colorado Party
the consolidation of a secondary market for social housing, as
any other housing.
Strategic Objective 3 - Create the Movement for the Eradication of Housing
Unhealthy Urbana (MEVIUR) for the relocation and regularization of informal settlements of people
The complexity and gravity of the current situation, not allowed to offer magical solutions, nor unique to each case. However it is possible in the period, converting the current reality of the phenomenon of sprawl,
in a reality characterized by a marked improvement in the social housing situation of those who now live in appalling conditions. So
it is possible to avoid that in the future Uruguayan families in situation
social vulnerability, see the illegal establishment, a certain possibility
access to housing. In this framework we will work on the following lines of action:
1. Resettlement, for obvious reasons superiors and public health and safety,
those settlements located in flood zones or
other situations that prevent their habilitabilidad.
2. Regularization

from

settlements

already

existing;

alone

exceptionally and in the full respect of the legality and
the right to property, since the result of such regularization
involving

a

new

reality

housing

dignified,

inclusive,

self-sustaining and durable. We do not agree to consolidate "people
poor to poor, "with inadequate services, away from
work and study centers, where the vicious circle of poverty,
segregation and despair not possible the social integration
housing, basic principle of our housing policy.
3. Creation of a special system of purchases of supplies and
materials and other necessary contracts, in order to shorten
time of execution of works and significantly reduce costs
operating thereof.
4. Active involvement, preventive, the State
defense of property rights and weft of cities.
This will increase the perceived risk of immediate eviction before

81

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
any "occupation". Not enough to solve the settlements
today, we must eradicate the citizen thought as a solution to the
housing shortage.
As the main instrument to carry out the aforementioned action axis
he created in urban areas, replicating the successful experience developed by
MEVIR in rural areas, the Movement for the Eradication of Housing
Urban unhealthy "(MEVIUR). That in the form of a public body fails
State, be responsible in urban areas - following the example and using the
MEVIR accumulated in its proven work over 45 years of experience
history - to address and solve the most complex situations;
relocation and / or regularization of informal settlements. Action to be deployed in all the cities (of over 5,000 inhabitants, so not
collide with the powers of the current MEVIR), with main emphasis in the area
Metropolitan Montevideo. The work under this new Agency
It will be scheduled for interdisciplinary work, where field teams,
made up of social workers, architects, educators and jurists, organize
families, for their relocation or suitable land regularization of property
public. Through mutual aid and self-help each family,
with management and related technical assistance, it is engagement thereof is achieved from the construction project of their homes. Housing
these, which they will own at the end of a period of repayment, with capital subsidies and fee required by the socio-economic situation
each family. This comprehensive interdisciplinary work must necessarily be developed in three successive phases or stages: i) the pre-work, organizing the families, highlighting their needs and aspirations and promoting their personal and direct involvement in the project partner - housing; ii) the work, directing and enabling the best possible way, the implementation effort
beneficiaries in the project, and iii) the post-work, where the culmination
the construction period, must necessarily give way to a period of intense
social work, which generates cultural appropriation of the housing phenomenon. In
a framework of clear and firm rules known and accepted by all participants, and without hesitation applied strictly for the benefit of all.

82

Colorado Party
For us not enough to deliver keys, but we must build homes.
Strategic Objective 4 - Promote a housing program for officials
Police monitoring the situation experienced to date
In coordination with public safety plans, we consider a priority, which in the period personnel sub alternate activity Police Institute, expect decent housing for his family. This will enable this group of officials living in decent and safe conditions, outside the scope
land where every day is to combat crime. To do this we will create a
National Housing System of Police, in coordination with the Ministry of
Interior, including: i) the construction of houses on land owned
Ministry of Interior; ii) the integration of the families of police officers in the active housing projects promoted by the system
public housing, reserving a percentage for each new construction or
general plan for the use and enjoyment of police officers in activity and
your families; and iii) promotion of personal savings - for development
police career - so that after completion of the same, officials
Police in retirement, they can access from these savings, a
homeownership, in the framework of general housing schemes, available
for all citizens.
Strategic Objective 5 - Develop new and better housing programs
for Pensioners
The specificity of social provision, clearly linked to social security, convenient believe that it remains within the competence of
Social Security Bank, subject to the necessary coordination with the new lead agency in social housing nationally. We will give a
decided to boost budget liabilities eligible for this
provision of social security receive it.
In line with the integrative direction we want to impart to our
housing policy contemplate that these housing solutions, do not pass by the mere construction of exclusive residential complex for passive but in projects promoted by the public system of vi-

83

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
hous-, which by its building conditions permit, will always reserve
percentage of homes in the most accessible places BPS liabilities.
Strategic objective 6 - Support and promote the work done by the MEVIR
to improve housing in rural areas
We will give a strong impetus to its program of Housing and Production Units
Scattered (promoted by law 16,690 of December 22, 1994 and expanded
by art. 393 of Law 18,362 of October 6, 2008), so as to promote
permanence and afincamiento of small family farmers and
smallholders living in rural areas, meeting their housing needs and improving the quality of life.
Will also be given a new impetus to the work being developed by the Agency, in addressing the low social sectors in rural areas and small towns throughout the interior, through the construction of cores
Installation housing with all amenities in close and necessary
coordination with other public policies in education, health, cultural and
civic, deployed in the territory.
In strong support of the policies developed by the Institute, the, designed to relax the requirements of the new Law on Territorial Organization, in order to facilitate access to land body necessary for the implementation of legal reforms will be promoted its tasks,
providing specific legal instruments that make viable its rapid and effective
intervention in rural areas.
Strategic Objective 7 - To promote housing programs to address situation
Single Parent Household and Housing / Homes for Multipurpose
Domestic Violence Victims
To establish such programs should coordinate with the Ministry of Social Development and other entities involved in the housing issue as well
as with the Ministry of Interior and all actors of civil society
They are dealing with situations of this nature.
The joint efforts will develop strategies to attain more
effective care of people covered by these programs, with the objective

84

Colorado Party
tive to provide a permanent or temporary support to find quick response circumstances affecting them.
Strategic objective 8 - To introduce and develop new technologies
building
As a central focus of all our housing policy, incorporating new construction and new housing typologies technologies will be promoted through the creation of a technical observatory function as Advisory Commission, within the new Rector Agency's social housing nationally (DI.NA.VI.S.). In this sense, the case is considered involvement, together with the public sector, academia and professional sectors, namely: Association of industry professionals, construction workers, builders, Technicians
Prevencionistas, among others. With special care to the quality aspects
and durability of the buildings, as well as occupational safety in the construction process.
Strategic objective 9 - Adapt existing regulations on housing
1.

"Land Management Law and Sustainable Development", Law
No. 18,308, generally meant a breakthrough and has the virtue of
establish a system of territorial planning with uniform rules,
although they are not always the most appropriate to the national reality. But,
Despite these general similarities, we keep noticing that many
its solutions provide too rigid in certain respects
linked to the development of a policy of social housing and realizable
effective. Therefore, within your system, carry forward certain
relaxations and adjustments, to eliminate distortions that Act
introduced in our legal system.

eleven.

Right of First Refusal. In this line we propose the repeal of
"Preemptive right" provided for by article 66 thereof, on the grounds that
It is an excessive limitation of property rights, which in fact,
almost all of the departmental governments, have not used. To the
time to intervene in the housing market, we favor
stimuli given to the owners, through various means, such as

85

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
tax exemptions and other benefits than the prohibitions and
smooth and flat freedom of contratar76 limitations.
1.1.1) adverse possession. We propose the repeal of the mechanism
Special adverse possession provided for by Article 65, by
understand that far from solving the problem of settlements
irregular, consolidates further promoting infringement of
property rights, the excessively reduce the terms and conditions
required by the general scheme. And conspiring against the security
legal, both owners, as potential beneficiaries
This legal institution, it creates difficult situations litigation
resolution.
1.2.

Contribution system for minor repairs
homes. We consider it necessary

study reform

to

Special social security contributions linked to the works of
renovation, expansion and improvement of certain housing
features and value, so as to remove bureaucratic obstacles and
Prosecutors, who conspire against the need for families to improve their
quality of life. At the same time, we believe that the current situation is
inappropriate and above all one of the main obstacles to
maintenance and improvement of the quality of the housing stock
existing. Also, an adjustment help in formalizing the
independent work of skilled workers and small businesses
construction, with the new rules, would markedly
increased their jobs within a framework of security and
formality.

Art. 66 of Law 18,308. (Right of First Refusal): "The departmental government will have preference for
acquisition of properties subject to onerous alienation between individuals in the areas specifically arranged
land use instruments except for the provisions of Law No. 11.029, of January 12, 1948 ".
76

86

Colorado Party

BLESS YOU
The Uruguay has passed a challenging health care reform, the objectives
principal of equity and access have not been fully achieved. For the Colorado Party is essential to have public policies that would achieve the
higher quality of life for the exclusive benefit of the people, so
that health plays a fundamental role. For this you need to develop policies
integrated with activities specifically designed to address the situation of
the general public, within the framework of universal coverage, easy user accessibility and sustainable health services in financial economics.
It is necessary to organize a real health system where the first
is the people. They should promote decentralization policies at both
national and provincial, with strong enhancement and management development
in the context of a real cross-sectoral coordination of all (public, private and social) sectors. To this should be formulated with the participation of all
involved, a Master or General Health Plan containing all
essential elements for optimizing national health services for generating:
An equitable system that reduces inequities city
and countryside, the capital and the interior, social status or group
it belongs.
A system that corresponds to the "social determinants of
Health "and to address the" epidemiological profile "of the population, assessing the epidemiological shift of populations and society as a whole, so that these determinants are reflected in guiding public policy,
interagency and integrated to promote adaptation to it in the
model and quality of care,
A system founded on "healthy behaviors" and "healthy environment"
promoting healthy habits and behaviors or the environment is protected,
considering that constitute 40% to 20% of the determinants of
health status of the population, so that being healthy is not a target

87

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
per se, but a source of wealth of everyday life of citizens. This
It implies a strong strengthening of primary care, where health promotion and prevention are fundamental aspects.
A shaped by providers of efficient system, supporting lending institutions, generating tools to be efficient, acting in a coordinated and regionalizada.77 is essential reengineering the health system, redimensionándolo, so as to ensure the constituent pillars of the model focusing attention
prevention and optimizing all levels of care and complexity that are embedded in it.
Given this reality systems network primary care, access
appropriate institutions and the general support regionalization High
specialization or complexity, notably improve accessibility to all
ensuring equity levels and the optimization of human capital
and technology intended for health in our country has.
With these guiding lines generate more opportunities and better living and
all people, whatever their social or economic status and location
geographical, may have quick access to health services.
Strategic Objective 1 - Strengthen the capacity of public health MYSTERY exercise stewardship of the health sector
Currently in our country the separation of the functions of financing and delivery of services, greater autonomy of public providers and decentralization have to reprogram strategically. He
epidemiological profile, characterized by non-communicable diseases related to high life expectancy, access to treatment of communicable diseases and the demographic curve, require a reformulation of
delivery strategies, supported by epidemiological surveillance divisions among others, for the proper planning. The steering system is functional

An important aspect to consider is that chronic NCDs are responsible for 70%
of deaths in our country, making it necessary to consider the risk factors to prevent and achieve
better life quality. At the same time, consider some figures to encourage immediate action, such as
such as the number of women killed by breast cancer (600 per year) cancer, cervical cancer (180) 1800
new cases per year and 350 respectively, 20% and rising teenage pregnancies, 500 fatalities
traffic per year, with more than 25,000 injured in recent years.
77

88

Colorado Party
MSP tion key and it comprises driving operations, regulation,
adequacy of the funding model adequacy of the provision of services to the population ensuring an accessible, universal health care,
efficient, effective, and timely. These aspects should not be conditioned
the ability to pay the beneficiary or excessively modified by the
in the country of residence. One strategy is deemed necessary
to focus on all those skills MSP health and the
resources currently allocated to non-state public entities and should be
in orbit around it, which would simplify the organizational structure.
To fulfill this objective we will develop the following:
1.

Concentrate on the MSP functions and resources that are inherent and that when they are performed by other agencies

eleven.

Adopt law transferring the MSP roles and functions (except those which do not apply to MSP) now reside in people with non-state public health functions (Cardiovascular, Board of Psycho,
Cancer, disabilities, etc.).

1.2.

Revise and amend the organizational structure of the MSP
adjusting to the new design sector reasignándole which deserves as essential functions and can be delegated.

2.

Establish "health goals or objectives" specific and quantitative to be achieved at the end of each decade.

21.

Epidemiologically analyze the health problems of the country, determining for each of them, the current situation in terms of incidence and prevalence-define the actions to be implemented to achieve the
results to be established.

2.2.

Determine the strategy to be implemented to achieve each of the goals
fixed health.

2. 3.

Develop specific programs for the diseases most prevalent or more social impact.

2.4.

Establish a continuous monitoring system that allows for monitoring progress

89

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
2.5.

Create an Agency Quality Control of providers and
performance, focusing on the quality of customer service in order to create a National Accreditation System Provider Entities of Health Services.

Strategic Objective 2 - Improve overall health situation throughout the country with an emphasis on social and epidemiological priorities
There will be a baseline that will be given by the burden of disease according to the type of pathology, social implications and staff, prioritizing actions for prevention, treatment and rehabilitation for the same set. He
general economic growth that contributes to the reduction of poverty,
education, schooling, diet, access to health care, care
institutionalized pre natal and childbirth, promotion of healthy habits,
programs of access to potable water and sanitation and promotion
and control of infectious diseases, fold down by themselves a percentage
significant morbidity.
To fulfill this objective we will develop the following:
1.
eleven.

Improving maternal and child health and childhood.
Develop and improve national programs for the regular monitoring of
pregnancy and the timely and quality delivery and postpartum care.

1.2.

Promote good control practices newborn and child through a universal application of the Customs program and other programs developed for the purposes of, without neglecting the physical growth
child, ensure child development due.

1.3.

Educate in good parenting practices, mainly in the sectors
vulnerable where such practices should be developed mainly by strengthening the program Uruguay Grows with placing on the provider
who is responsible for this vulnerable population, ie ASSE.

1.4.

Fold rates of infant mortality and childhood, being strict in
measurement and evolution of this indicator has been a concern
constant and must continue to evolve.

2.

90

Improving the health of women, childhood and adolescence.

Colorado Party
21.

Strengthen sexual and reproductive health oncology (cervix and breast) and gender, in view of the alarming figures
the country recorded in these areas.

2.2.

Universal (both sexes) vaccine for the prevention of Virus
Human Papillomavirus, absurdly sub technology used to
moment.

2. 3.

Strengthen programs for adolescents, seeking a comprehensive approach and consideration of its main specific problems
(Sexual health, accidents, addictions, etc.) addiction rehabilitation centers will be established throughout the country, at least
one in each provincial capital, since this is a national problem
that must be addressed in a comprehensive manner and to the solution of the system
health plays a fundamental role. internment centers will be created and
outpatient treatment centers, working in coordination with civil society organizations working in this area and have developed an outstanding performance.

3.

Decrease the incidence and prevalence of communicable and non-communicable diseases.

3.1.

Development of prevention, early detection and treatment
timeliness of each of these diseases throughout the country and form
coordinated, especially the most prevalent, by region or level
national.

3.2.

Implement and expand oral health benefits of progressive and comprehensive.

Four.

Prevent all kinds of accidents and reduce the occurrence of sequelae.

4.1.

Epidemiological study traffic accidents based on
its three components: Human behaviors of drivers and pedestrians; risk-minimizing road infrastructure and technical conditions
vehicles.

4.2.

Encourage healthy habits from early childhood education, driver education interventions until impact communication strategies for the prevention of risk behavior, reducing the corresponding factors. For it will coordinate with education authorities

91

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
tive and those with expertise in the respective matters, for
development of a comprehensive national program of all levels
education.
4.3.

Monitor the effective implementation of safety standards at the national level,
for what the MSP collaborate with the dissemination of these throughout the
country, as part of strategies they develop to effect between public entities involved and active participation of organizations
civil society.

5.

Create a Quick Response System Emergency Road and reference centers for the rehabilitation of people.
The reality experienced by the country in this area is necessary to generate
an efficient system for dealing with emergencies caused by road accidents,
it will be necessary to establish centers and generate a reference system
quick response that the country lacks acquiring necessary equipment and
last generation. At the same time, in the country there is no center provider
provides adequate and professional care of people who have
linked to accidents in traffic and other accidents, with a multidisciplinary and comprehensive approach of the individual, his family and his entourage injuries. This creates inequities because people who can afford it go to another country in search of these solutions. Taking advantage of existing infrastructure, strengthening as necessary, the installation of a center north of Rio and other Black intends to
south, with sufficient capacity to meet the victims of this situation,
frecuentes.78 increasingly Multidisciplinary teams of professionals, physical and occupational rehabilitation, psychological support and
social worker, are some of the approaches that have these centers.
The beneficiaries are not only patients but also their families, not
just in therapeutic aspect, but also in the human, emotional and social.79

78 At the same time, these centers will be the basis for the prompt response to road accidents
79 It is known the high frequency of road accidents in our country, especially on domestic routes and in Montevideo, with an annual result of around 500 dead and over 25,000 injured in recent years. This reality
accident prevention measures needed, driver education, strengthening of institutions working with that goal, as well as insurance coverage of immediate assistance wherever the accident happens, and attention
medical necessary to minimize preventable sequelae. The consequences of traffic accidents determined
a high rate of disability and loss of quality of life as a result of their injuries. This impacts severely on the ability of developing the injured person in adapting to their new social environment, inclusion
working with constraints suffered, and the emotional situation of the individual and his family own. If we think this
actually live especially young people, the problem takes an even more serious dimension.

92

Colorado Party
6.

Create and install two IMAES in the north with the aim of
democratize access to highly specialized medicine, which will result in better care of the population in a context of greater equality. To date, the differences with the inhabitants of this area
the country must be addressed as a priority, bringing technology
and top-level professional services.

7.

Improve the quality of life of people with disabilities as well as those caused by disease or as a consequence of
accidents.

7.1.

Educating the family unit for detecting abnormalities development
Engine and intellectual in children.

7.2.

Development of monitoring programs to children at high risk of developing diseases.

7.3.

Timely and early diagnosis of disability.

7.4.

Promote accessibility to rehabilitation, according to the centers
references, according to disability, with special focus on creating opportunities for people over 18, there is notoriously lack in the country and must be addressed. It will be promoted in coordination
with MIDES, entities of civil society organizations that have
centers and new generation will be promoted.

7.5.

Social and reintegration (Occupational Health) through programs
that meet the existing reality.

8.
8.1.

Promote healthy aging and digno80
Create Care Centres for the Elderly (CAAM), with system similar to CAIF care for seniors management. (Show
Uruguay Plan 2015 - 2020 - Chapter Social Policy).

8.2.

Establish a program of investment and stimulus for households
Seniors existing or installed as part of the actions
They carry forward currently in the state orbit.

8.3.

Create outpatient programs that include food,
hygiene and nursing home for seniors who live in their own homes or with their families.

80

It is complemented by the actions envisaged in Uruguay Plan 2015-2020 - Chapter Social Policy and Housing.

93

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
8.4.

Institutional spaces to promote implementation of preventive measures of cognitive impairment of memory.

8.5.

Strengthen nursing care services and monitor compliance with existing standards, including quality of care, and
and control of facilities and physical plant.

8.6.

Create a record of accidents of the elderly, to identify
more frequent, and their risk factors, in order to implement programs
specific prevention and treatment. In this context, to educate
prevent the most frequent accidents in this age group.

9.

Accompany the strategy of the World Health Organization
(WHO) and the International Labour Organisation (ILO) with the
creating healthy workplaces (ELS). ELS include conditions for workers, so as to achieve a shared vision of health and welfare of workers and society. The
strategies are integrated not only in the area of ​​occupational medicine
Traditional or prevention of specific risks for each task, but a
holistic view of the community working in each company in reference to the determinants of health, so that it reaches not only
good performance, but motivation and personal quality of life. In uruguay,
in 2012 51.626 accidents were recorded, which determined permanent disabilities and 53 534 deaths, with the consequent loss
of working days lost and 1,585,527 days immediately institutionalized care. This highlights a problem of the labor force,
public health and society by social and family implications that
determine the events. It develops a national policy led
by the MSP, MTSS, BSE and BPS to labor strategies to institutionalize global health care organizations of employees,
identifying needs and priorities that they have not only
linked to specific job.

10. Develop a national policy on Mental Health
10.1. Promoting better quality of life for the mentally ill, education
their families and containment of the family.
10.2. Ensure institutionalized patients decreased in the Colonies
and improve the quality of care and life for them.

94

Colorado Party
10.3. Educate families of patients with chronic psychiatric disorders and
severe for a quality living for the family.
10.4. Develop a care system in crisis and psychiatric patients
no containment structures for these situations.
10.5. Advancing alternatives to extend assistance to psychiatric patients after 30 days of hospitalization.
Strategic Objective 3 - Improve the system of service delivery
health care across the country, developing complementarity between
public and private
The main challenge for organizations of health care is to improve your
performance, ie bridge the gap between what should be given and what can
give, pointing to the best possible quality. There is little point reform that does not
they reach the stage where the daily encounter between providers and users are given. There are several dimensions to assess the performance of a
organization of health services, but the most important are the results that can generate their structure and processes: quality and efficiency
technique. In this regard, we propose that both factors or purposes by the
appropriate technology access throughout the national territory, constitute the line
strategic guidance. As a complementary strategy must diversify
centers geographically to strengthen capacity at that level,
design a scheme of incentives and training, promoting a culture
Organizational focused on continuous improvement and the establishment of a
effective mechanism for the state and national social, community participation.
Within the NHS will have to integrate those great
Public effectors that are today outside the same, while must be presented with
firmly regionalization criteria, complementarity and integration of services. In turn, funding criteria can not be based on costs
Historic but the capes linkable should emerge at current costs
Package service obligations.
For the perception of quality and efficiency it is no longer abstract is essential to measure and publicize the performance of each organization to continuously improve epidemiological information systems association
accounting, based Electronic Medical Records and other technologies

95

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
information, which are now absolutely necessary to improve the quality,
medical knowledge, cost control, and interconsultations portals
bless you.
To fulfill this objective we will develop the following:
1.

Strengthen institutions so Health Providers
that can provide accessible, timely and quality services

eleven.

Train technical divisions and management teams all
institutions providing health services, with particular emphasis on that they are occupied by health professionals
specific training in the management area.

1.2.

Modify financing lenders, adjusting the definition of
FONASA capitation, the scope of action of the JUNASA and the progressive inclusion of other structures.

1.3.

Streamline (human / technological / material), implement and develop a policy Regionalized Reference Centers and optimizing their use and distribution nationwide.

1.4.

Strengthen the ASSE and other public and private health providers, ensuring that all people have quality health care,
fundamental principle of this program.

fifteen.

Professionalization of the Board of ASSE, ensuring quality, efficiency and
efficiency in its tasks of planning, organizing, directing and controlling the
compliance with its obligations of care delivery units.

1.6.

Adapt management contracts extending funding criteria for providers, reassessing the definition of the value of capita
and weights prestacionales compliance goals.

1.7.

Support and enforcement of existing legislation and the parameters of efficient management and quality of services.

1.8.

Enforce the regulations on the management professionalization of providers (especially at address).

1.9.

Promote the training of human resources permanently at all
levels, with special emphasis on technical areas where the needs are obvious and affect all health services. Note the

96

Colorado Party
status of nurses in order to address the lack of existing human resources to date. For it will boost the
realization of a national training program in these areas
coordination with the education authorities, to promote the extension
training throughout the country and the spread of this training form
generic. It is necessary to meet the training offered in technical programs and
other health professions, promoting the existence of this offer
education within the country.
1.10. To advance work on universal accessibility.
1.11. Reorder accessibility to specialists in specialties
little critical mass of professionals and generate reference centers in those
disciplines. It is necessary that the country is regionalised and these highly specialized centers, with the aim of bringing the professional service to people achieving improved efficiency thereof and the rational use of resources invested in health are generated.
1.12. Create an agency HTA technical independence of the MSP and FNR, in order to have an impartial technical opinion to introduce new equipment or drugs in both
providers and formulary inclusion of FNR.
1.13. Reassess the benefits financed by the FNR considering
today some are not highly complex, and that has not withdrawn almost
any and included many. This would promote sustainability
FNR and adjust to its main purpose.
1.14. Less bureaucratic administrative processes of FNR, considering opportunities once approved and the patient died or
He aggravated. Currently between the beginning of care and medication
it may take six months.

1.15. Restructuring the University Hospital, adapting to the functions of
training of human resources, technological and academic quality,
tailored to the needs of the country.
2.

Develop a General Plan (Master Plan) of health infrastructure. Its aim will be to ensure access to health for all Uruguayans according to care needs in a timely manner and with
the highest quality and efficiency, identifying the general strengths and re-

97

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
the different regional bodies involved for the purpose of allocating
corresponding responsibilities to each implementation. For the definition and proposed actions to be developed in this
framework, identifying the needs of the population in terms of promotion, prevention, cure and rehabilitation, the Executive convened and generate integrated interagency task teams for the relevant government agencies, NGOs and groups of public providers
and private to obtain a report and proposal no later than
six months with the initial trigger for the development of Master or Master Plan.
That plan must:
21.

Designing a Health Network Providers with different levels of care and complexity, while some specializing in different parts of the country. Density
Health professionals in different parts of the country is uneven, and
in some cases insufficient and therefore an adjustment is necessary
of this to optimize the care of the needs of each
population. The provider network consists developers
activities of health care in all public and private levels, and medicalized mobile network covering all transfer
parts of the country at a time to ensure the timely assistance of all.
To specific needs of the country, and the existence of few specialists in some areas, should generate reference centers in specialties to attend all the inhabitants of the region, regardless of the institution to which he is a partner. An example of this can be ophthalmology, orthopedics, pediatric neurology, oncology gynecology and obstetrics
high risk.

2.2.

Prestacionales included in the management contract goals indicators of quality of care, promoting management
the culture of quality and continuous improvement of institutions
sector. It is imperative to assess, control and manage
due quality and evenly to all providers. For this
you need to train workers not only institutions but
also those who are being trained in the areas of health, medical, technological

98

Colorado Party
gists medical and health personnel. In parallel, you can stimulate forming organisms in quality management in training
situ, with funding support and prizes capita to meet established quality standards.
2. 3.

Establishing financing according to the current regulations, with principles of complementarity to centers
reference. This plan, which includes all the postulates presented in
the overall program will be funded through FONASA and collaboration with multilateral agencies or foreign representations
who regularly they collaborate on projects in health of developing countries. Given that there are elements of complementarity and concentration of resources is expected
that better management not significantly increase the cost of each
provider takes per patient. For patients who are
seen by reference centers, drug rehabilitation, rehabilitation
and recovery of accident victims, would be paid to the reference center capita real and not fictitious like other reference centers, and will have a differentiated value because the risk of use of this
case is much higher. The lending institution may pay part of
corresponding to that associated capita and complement could do
a fund created for that, or for example the FNR, or other organizations.
In short, the Master Plan seeks equity in access to health and
timely and quality care with a financially sustainable system. The elements included in the current scenario are: high complementation strategic objectives and actions, use of
strengths, regionalization of care complexity or low prevalence. Include all parts of the country in the network of nursing care (currently is not any built), recovering addicts centers, rehabilitation centers, physical and emotional recovery of the injured. Employment programs for people with physical or intellectual disability, according to their possibilities insertion and strengthening the quality of care through training of resources
in it, and encouraging investment in quality strategies.

99

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020

CULTURE
Our culture is, as we have argued in other instances a
structured patterns of behavior and the tangible and intangible results of these behaviors are expressed in whole philosophical, artistic, sports, crafts, language, folklore, scientific, technological, religious, communications and entertainment creations.
Culture is not genetically inherited, learned and passed, with new
incorporations, from one generation to another. It is therefore a
shared creation of socialized man.
Cultural issues are crucial in a democracy, to be an essential basis for social coexistence. It is society as a whole and not only the state, who encourages cultural productions drawing from them as you can
improve the quality of life in the country.
The citizen learns to understand the events in which it is immersed, engaged, choose specific political orientation, takes a position on the problems experienced in terms of culture, understood in a broad sense.
The inability to fully enjoy cultural events is one of the most serious consequences of social exclusion,
cultural development is an essential component of social policy
so actively we work for the spread of culture
in all the country.
Notwithstanding, we believe that the State is called to play a leading role in the dissemination and preservation of national culture, as well as everything related to guarantee freedom of cultural creation preserving
playing field for all citizens to enjoy the
same, requiring that legal, organizational, economic and social conditions in general be modernized.
The Colorado Party has always been committed to the development of the
national culture, so, in this instance, we will act accordingly

100

Colorado Party
We leverage existing infrastructure essential to realize a
strong supporting culture. Undoubtedly, the education network 81, to promote
by public and private actors knowledge and acceptance of
our plural cultural diversity centered around our core values, is of vital importance. It reaches the most remote corners of the country with classrooms, students, teachers, and families all around
schools; From slums to the remotest corners
farthest, reaffirming education as the great tool of progress
national and consequently of national culture.
The Ministry of Education and Culture and the departmental governments should
design and implement the process of democratization and cultural reaffirmation,
which also it will be invited to join the mass media, including
other actors of cultural activity in the country. Particularly in the context of a policy
coordinated national from the Secretary of State.
In turn, they should explore all opportunities in the country's cultural heritage can be a tourist attraction, so as to enhance synergies between tourism and culture with consequent benefits for both
áreas.82
Finally, respect for pluralism in cultural matters make a special
mention the premise that culture is both staff and product development
collective, which requires the state to refrain various cultural events and focus its efforts on protecting the areas of freedom and plurality, that those should necessarily develop. This option is
democratic and involves two consequences: first the state must promote the widest possible access to culture and secondly, to enhance the creative, personal and group opportunities by providing the necessary means for that purpose.
Strategic Objective 1: To strengthen national institutions of Culture
To fulfill the objective, the following actions will be developed:

81

82

It is included not only schools but also the MEC diversified centers throughout the country

See Prospero and Uruguay Solidario - Chapter Tourism and Real Estate Development

101

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
1.

Creating the National Council for Culture, in an honorary capacity, which
It shall consist of the National Directorate of Culture and all MEC
Departmental Directors of Culture. It has the same functions
advice and committed to propose the adoption of rules
national character that encourages the development of culture through the
general adaptation and promotion of legislation to cover the new realities in the field, in particular the adoption of standards for
protection, promotion and management of cultural expressions and cultural heritage in Uruguay.

2.

Create a National System for the Promotion and Protection of Cultural Rights of Uruguay which articulate the different areas, political and institutional, sectoral and intersectoral, as well as bodies for participation in general. Through permanent mechanisms for participation proposals will be made, and formalize agreements
It will actively participate in the design process, implementation and monitoring
policies, programs and regional cultural activities, at local level, and
national. The Ministry of Education and Culture is a fundamental part
This new institutional framework, providing the necessary human and material resources for its establishment and effective funcionamiento.83

Strategic Objective 2: Develop and promote national culture inside and outside
from the country
To fulfill the objective, the following actions will be developed:
1. To approve a law for the protection, promotion and management
cultural expressions and cultural heritage in Uruguay
- Under the provisions of the Convention on the Protection and
promoting cultural rights and involving UNESCO
cultural community in the country, a process that will take place during the
2015 in order to send the bill in early 2016.
2. Implement effectively the National Museums Act and to empower the Council
advisor consists of the same after approval.

The same will articulate its actions with the National System of Museums and the Council created by law 19,037
passed unanimously in the National Parliament
83

102

Colorado Party
3. Creating skilled digital inventory of national cultural heritage
under the provisions adopted by the law of Culture, with the primary aim of bringing these assets to children and
Young.
4. Promote public access through the technological means available to inventories of archives, museums and stores your
artistic heritage, promoting accessibility and transparency of its management.
5. Encourage the creation of patronage by public companies and
private, to subsidize the preservation and expansion of the national artistic heritage by sponsoring exhibitions, concerts, restoration, artwork, also encouraging emerging artists and cultural producers
all disciplines known in exchange for tax exemptions.
6. Protect the existing cultural heritage through laws aimed at
totally or partially preserve cultural assets (buildings, monuments, gardens and public squares, public or private buildings, public spaces, traditional festivals, etc.) and expand the influence of the current National Heritage Commission to prevent the devastation of the structure
our original and historic towns and villages.
7. Rewarding and publicly acknowledge the contributory actions
communities through their joint effort to recover monuments
or buildings, to preserve the facades of houses from the district, between
other. Create cultural preservation awards administered by
the National Council of Culture.
8. Strengthen and use mechanisms and actions that contribute
with national identity through culture (the Heritage Day, Creole Week, regional holidays, neighborhood parades, etc.) ensuring conditions for all citizens and their participation in
related activities constitute a popular celebration and be part of the process
education.
9. Strengthen cultural infrastructure through the following undertakings:
9.1.

Leveraging currently disused building structures near the Rambla Baltasar Brum Port and the tourist flow

103

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
receiving said area of ​​interest to the private sector in the creation of a
pole of cultural attraction with conference centers, cultural media libraries, etc. One possible way to realize this pole of cultural attraction
would be installed to ensure that the Uruguay international cultural foundations, which aim at accomplishing through the National System for the Promotion and Protection of Cultural Rights of Uruguay.
9.2.

Turn the Old City of Montevideo in a true open-air museum
free, thus creating the "Museum of the Old City" with a cultural itinerary
of streets, houses, squares, museums, ateliers, cultural centers, restaurants,
bars, pedestrian, etc. Work on the restoration and conservation of buildings and public spaces making "ride" in the capital. Request assistance from UNESCO to declare it a World Heritage
Humanity and encourage funding restorations edilicias
from companies or private persons.

9.3.

Create the National Institutes of Paleontology and Archaeology order
investigate, display and translate publications goods that exist in the country nature, including also the maritime space. For funding suggested negotiating rights
operation and display with specialized institutions.

9.4.

Enhance outdoor museum as exists in San Gregorio de
Polanco in the department of Tacuarembó, to disseminate different artistic expressions and generate tourist development in conjunction with the national culture. Encourage the creation of urban, urban interventions murals, among other expressions.

10. Subsidize literary production through the sponsorship issue
national book writers, encouraging digital book publishing.
11. To promote the film industry and advertising, providing tax and locational advantages, which will be discussed in the framework of the law
application in the field. Advertise our country internationally
offering it and positioning globally.
12. Support and promote the popular manifestations of our
country (calls, carnival, native, traditional sports, etc.) spreading and reinforcing the context of the same; especially for chil-

104

Colorado Party
dren and young people who are close to them, conceived the importance of social integration in these demonstrations.
13. Designate cultural ambassadors to each of the municipalities and departments so that they are responsible for disseminating in their respective
communities the importance of cultural activities, empowering
these in the appointment and management of them.
14. Create and encourage cultural competitions with national and departmental statements of interest in the context of implementing legislation.
15. Develop and encourage cultural policies in neighborhoods and
within the country within the framework of close cooperation with the
different government levels in particular with the third level of government. You need to spread, bringing the cinema, theater, music, carnival, among others, generating plural-conducive and participative spaces
encourages the participation of people. Actively work under the national system to create and expressions.
16. Create cultural fairs in green spaces: jugglers, acrobats, mimes and acrobats others, promoting the participation of society
generally.
17. Promote direct action in defense of the artistic, architectural, urban heritage, as grounds of national interest and / or department, giving greater powers and resources to the National Commission for Historical Heritage.
18. Organize and strengthen cultural presence abroad achieving
that attendance at various events by national authorities
is an opportunity to strengthen ties, strengthen work for
with Uruguayans who are outside the country to promote our culture
and attend international cultural events taking the "brand" Uruguay
thereto.
19. Decentralize and bring different cultural expressions with
use of information technology and communication with the
presence of shows in different cities of the country, without prejudice
of measures to ensure that people inside come to the cultural centers of the metropolitan area.

105

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
20. Promote and facilitate public participation in the production and
dissemination of culture from a local, regional and national perspective,
part of the above statement.
21. professional management and human resources working in the
national culture recognizing the efforts made to date.
22. Relate tourism and culture following international examples
where through existing historical knowledge of countries and regions internal and external activities are stimulated (See Uruguay Prospero
and Solidarity - Chapter House).
Strategic Objective 3: Implement and develop a National Plan of Cultural Training
Social inclusion, generating spaces where they can live different
subcultures of the social fabric has been developed at various times in our
history. The multitude of places, libraries, parks and other spaces
open there in the country, it shows that this concern has been, in a sense, a state policy. It is necessary to continue it and link it more closely with the formation (cultural, technical, intellectual, artistic, etc.). By
we want to create a specific plan for this purpose, three key actions aimed at different targets. These actions also will
It closely linked to education and youth to attend her, encouraging strengthen the link between education and culture, as expressed in
above objectives.
1. Create Parks Library, the way it has developed in Medellin (Colombia). They define them as "... urban complexes formed by buildings of modern architecture, with large surrounding public spaces, green, pedestrian and decorative use." It will work
to initiate a process through which the libraries, usually old and poorly lit, passing to open environments and Internet access are removed enclosed buildings.
2. Reward the habit of reading and writing among the population.
The decrease in the reading habit not only determines the shrinking
personal horizons, but also affect the ability to write,
handle simultaneous ideas, to perceive contradictions and logical reasoning

106

Colorado Party
mind. It is necessary to establish a line of action that positively encourages the effort to correct reading and writing. They will be implemented nationwide championship spelling and hyphenation, local, provincial and finally national competitions, with awards and,
if possible, carried out in coordination with the radio and television media, and electronic. Methodologies that reward reading and reporting to encourage cultural consumption will be designed.
3. Generate textbooks for the dissemination of culture in general and in particular the National. A special chapter deserves the problem of textbooks. For this purpose it is to advance this
generating thematic initiatives fingering textbooks, trying
move forward on those used in schools.

84La

se-

second stage, much deeper, it consists of the Ministries of
Education and Culture and Science, Technology and Innovation 85 and entities
autonomous implement a program of "free access" under license
Creative Commons, where all the basic materials are available,
not only for students but for all citizens. This would involve the relevant procurement by the educational authority
which will be subject to the corresponding previous studies and the existence of
Availability for this purpose, taking examples developed above
by ANEP and currently being implemented, while respecting the
national and enforcement rules in the matter.
Strategic Objective 4: To implement a National Plan of scientific and technological literacy
If we move from a commodity-producing society, with little
added value, where knowledge - mostly - not perceived as
worthy of respect and social status, or as a facilitator of improvement
economic, to one focused on the best use of science and society
technology to achieve a harmonious and advanced human development, we must
take action on the social perception of the role of science and technology

Other solutions and new models such as Germany will study established that photocopiers pay a
canon which then is used to pay royalties and other related issues.
A created from 85 March 2015
84

107

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
the lives of individuals. To this end, we consider it necessary to pursue
the following:
1. Implement educational development plans, with a oriented problem solving in which didactic concepts is invoked
Appropriate natural sciences and mathematics, but also extracurricular, such as the current science fair program that allows integrating knowledge to society plans. These actions will be developed in
under the Ministry of Education and Culture, Science and Technology,
According to the autonomous educational institutions.
2. To innovate and develop new actions not yet run it as such television programs such as Science TV, the Science Channel, or CientificosTV in Argentina, Uruguay to bring the scientific world
general public (through television programs of scientific resolution of everyday problems, but also through the promotion of
scientific blogosphere, massive online courses on science or technology,
presence on Youtube, etc.) at the earliest possible age (it has been shown that children can understand scientific concepts quite elaborate since at least 3 years).
3. Incorporate technical writing, preparing people for education
Tertiary writing in a structured, articles, curriculum, projects,
public presentations, publishing techniques, arbitration, patent application
financing, etc. Not only who can read but who can write. If not
you write, it is known to not think. 86

One objective to be incorporated into the national university system is that programs have tertiary studies
as mandatory teaching technical writing, and free discussion of public issues, the style of British universities, where there are clubs of debates, with fixed days each week, and preset agenda topics.
86

108

Colorado Party

SPORT, PHYSICAL ACTIVITY AND RECREATION
The regular practice of physical activity, from the simplest to the
more demanding and competitive, produces very beneficial effects on mental and physical health of the practice, creating a difficult social cohesion to match.
The promotion of recreational activities, physical education and sport, prevent
drug addiction, crime and contribute to reduce spending on health, education and security.
That is why all Uruguayans, for better human development, should
have broad access to regular physical education, recreational activities and
the practice of sports training, competition and a high level.
From the Colorado Party we have always worked in this direction, with the
precursors of promoting physical activity organized, creating the Commission
National Physical Education in 1911 and from there, building hundreds of
Touring Sport, gyms, swimming pools, stadiums. Incentive policies
creating sports clubs and sports federations to push it
They had as protagonist through the years.
However, today the company has no balanced access to the activity
physical. A survey by the Ministry of Health (MOH) and the Ministry of
Tourism and Sports (MTyD) May 2013 revealed that while 56.7% say
ever made physical activity or sport, 60.3% of the population
He says not engage in any physical activity or playing sports.
This is seen more injustice in disadvantaged sectors of society, as in
critical context areas there is little or no chance of access
to sports centers.
More than 5 years Law No. 18,213 which established the obligation was approved
Physical education in all public schools in the country, there is a high number of them without specialized teachers in this area, therefore, no classes are held. It should continue to work for many of our children,
especially those who go to remote rural schools or the
urban centers have effectively with teachers of Physical Education

109

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
They grant them new and better tools for personal growth
framework of a comprehensive education.
Today insecurity abounds in sporting events, alienating family
sport is threatened by acts of extreme violence.
At the same time, it has fallen in the fight against doping, the result of very little investment and disinformation of athletes and the recent enactment of Law No.
19.172.- legalizing the production and sale of marijuana - that goes against
the values ​​of sport, fair play and WADA policy.
Voluntary activity developed sports clubs and social organizations throughout the whole country does not receive the necessary support, so
you should act accordingly work together with the respective communities.
Public institutions do not articulate enough. For example, public education has hundreds of sports facilities in the best of cases are
used exclusively by the institutions and not by the community, provincial governments and the Ministry of Sports itself. An action in this
It imposes itself.
It is necessary to implement effective coordination mechanisms and articulation
between the public and private sectors, involved in all sports.

General objectives
To find solutions within the framework of the statement and work to achieve it
Most Uruguayans are integrated into sports, elaborate a
In the short, medium and long term, to promote it, articulating and coordinating it with all stakeholders. Strategic Plan This plan will
lines of action based on inclusion, health, sports base, infrastructure and co-management with Municipalities, Municipalities and proper that community.
Within that plan, we have set the following objectives:

110

Colorado Party
1. Achieve in 10 years that 80% of Uruguayans, including children, adolescents, adults, men and women, older adults, seniors and people with disabilities, practice sport or
regular physical activity, emulating policies in other countries
seeking this goal.
2. Improve and expand training of specialist teachers in each
one of the areas: physical education, recreation and sports.
3. Improve and expand infrastructure for teacher training and
practice of Physical Education, Recreation and Sports.
4. Promote policies recreation sport spaces that are generated, for those who practice or community sport or
competitive.
5. Develop a real policy of support for the High Performance, using the diagnosis of the situation, but essentially apply
Cash concrete actions supporting the sports institutions.
6. Implement policies that expand access to the regular practice of sport
people with disabilities.

7. In the fight against doping, repeal the production and sale of marijuana; joint actions to return to the course of combat
firm anti-doping rule violations, through information
athletes and increasing investment to this end.
8. Build a strategic alliance between the national sports authority,
the departmental governments, municipalities and organized civil society, using the local power and co-management.
For the fulfillment of those objectives will develop the following
Actions:
1. Creation of the National Institute of Sports (ined), as non-state legal person of public law, with government participation,
federations, the Olympic movement and professional, aiming
establish and develop a national policy on sport
comprehensive physical education. The creation of this new entity will involve
the whole topic of sports today is in the orbit of the Ministry
Tourism and Sports, go to ined which will feature competition
national in the matter.
It will have a board composed of five representatives: 1 ideal government (which will chair), 1 of the Olympic movement, federations 1 1
by physical education teachers and one renowned figure
in sport and make it a national benchmark.
The purpose of this structure is effective participation of
world of sport and physical education, specifying policies for
development and progress of the sport nationwide.
2. Creating Spaces 50 Social integration (plais) in areas
critical context for sport and other activities,
public services closer to the comunidades87.

These seats will also feature other public services in education, justice, health and
Social everything that takes place in the Chapter on Social Policy.
87

111

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020

3.

Four.

5.

6.

112

Along with sports and in coordination with the ministries and / or branches
respective community will have in these places, mediation centers /
family courts, clinics and education in a framework of complementarity between public policy.
These new spaces aim to develop an inclusive policy for the community. Coexist teaching, practice
sports and recreational activities in these areas are
they generate through the coordinated use of existing public spaces work (educational centers, sports seats, among others) and civil society (social and sports clubs, NGOs, etc.) through a system of co-management that will promote the effect.
To consolidate these new spaces, as well as existing, participation and involvement of civil society through the aforementioned organizations will be enhanced, neighbors individually, municipalities, and other public bodies, including equipment allocation collaborate on multidisciplinary
co-management framework that will encourage (Professor of physical education,
doctor, social worker, nutritionist, psychologist, etc.).
Creating High Performance Center (CAR), one in the Park
Batlle (next to the running track and the Velodrome), three decentralized priority to the most developed sports in each region, using the existing infrastructure and promoting the work
coordinated between the various stakeholders in the sports theme in general. This is a necessity that the country experiences and
definitely we attend during our government.
Creating Special Sports decentralized departments in the orbit of CARS, which also applies an inclusive policy that serves people with disabilities.
It is of fundamental importance to develop and promote practices
sports, so these departments will deal with a team
multidisciplinary, to address these sports in giving competitive activity, and identifying and obtaining needed in areas
health, logistics and transport, gyms, special materials,
Recognizing the efforts in this direction develops from various
entities.
Development of a National Plan Scholarship at national level and implementation of the Program "6-36" for High Performance, rewarding sporting excellence and detecting talents to accompany
in its sports growth year after year. These plans seek to generate greater justice and more opportunities for young people in general as far as
the practice of different sports are concerned. Scholarships willingness to collaborate with the High Performance Training in its
If the other program will be developed for an accompaniment more
personalized from age 6 to 36, seeking to optimize the physical development and optimize the respective skills by each stage
through direct support of children and youth.
Development of a National Plan of education and sports and recreational activities, with special attention to areas
critical context, linking activities with public, private and community schools. Multiple activities in
Salto is an example, where they were made -

Colorado Party
among others - over 8 pools in disadvantaged neighborhoods which has allowed the democratization of the activities in the different areas considered. In this framework, we will support civil society organizations
promoting education and sports by children and
youth, organized at the same time national competitions with support
public and private, conceiving them from an inclusive perspective. These organizations must coordinate their activities with centers
enhancing educational experiences of some and others, as well as
physical space and infrastructure which has nationwide.
7. Repeal of the Act nº19.172 legalizing the production and sale of marijuana, which contradicts the preaching of healthy life and integral development of individuals. This legal norm is against the values ​​of sport, the message that young people should receive and Fair
Play. Indeed, Uruguay has a rich political history and the fight against doping, WADA is part (WADA) tending by resolution of the regional agency in Montevideo.
This national commitment to the Agency since 1999 has led to
our country to sign the WADA Anti-Doping Code governing standards.
This legislation punishes any athlete that takes your body a "prohibited substance". Well, marijuana and cocaine, are prohibited by this body can not live with the sport substances. Uruguay should quickly get out of this contradictory situation and liable to exclusion from international events.
8. Approval of Sports Disciplinary Code established
mandatory rules. The eradication of violence
in the sporting arenas, it is the fulfillment of a set of rules, with the aim of defending the general interest and prestige of the sport, which are basically: commitment of the federations;
sanctions educational, preventive and corrective character; right to
admission and permanence; removed from points in the tournament itself; conservation history of serious facts up to 5 years; penalties
applicable to individuals (players, coaches, managers, referees, etc.); expulsion, suspension, prohibition of attendance at games / events; penalties applicable to institutions: disaffiliation loss
category, loss of points, loss of game (immediately and in the
same season), disaffiliation penalty up to 15 years for institutions
that the acts of violence; demotion is for immediate implementation, the enactment of the fault, and the institution descends automatically; Each institution must have a responsible and a security protocol; creation of the "sports tax" (it may suspend
meeting if you notice abnormal or violent acts); inclusion of new technologies as possible ways to make grievances and the corresponding sanction; responsibility of the organizer; security objective obligation for the physical integrity of the lessee; among others.
9. Under the agreement signed with the Federative Republic of Brazil
implementation, in coordination with the Ministry of Interior, and development of the Project "Painting Freedom". Through
Likewise, the detainees may make children's sports equipment (balls, sports equipment, clothing, etc.) making the availability of equipment necessary for the practice of sport and the ability to switch days of conviction for days of freedom.

113

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
10. Exemption from Income Tax for Individuals
(I.R.P.F.) to all children under 25 years. As a general measure,
specifically to athletes the benefits on the flat and cooperates with clubs in their contracts.
11. Extension of Sports Promotion Act to other disciplines,
as well as football and basketball, in support of the Federations and the Committee
Uruguayan Olympic. Today other companies interested federations lack of support for multiple regulatory requirements.
12. Stimulation of private investment through tax exemptions for the adaptation and development of existing sports infrastructure at national level (Investment Law).
13. Greater coordination with the education system, coordinating the
national education policy with national policy on sport. Improve the care of children and youth who play sports integrating the activities and actions that are developed from the
education itself and from public and private entities
in the art. We give special impetus to educational continuity
athletes, adequacy and integration of programs and proposals and
professionalization and expansion of teacher training in the area. TO
time, will be addressed from the ANEP, the situation of young students
who play sports implementing new mechanisms to facilitate
the development of formal studies, with strong support in technologies
Information and communication.
In turn, we will create a training center graduates
Physical Education in the north, in the context of the creation of
the University of North and from activities in the Regional University Centers (CURE) UDELAR.
The joint will also involve working together with the education authorities for Physical Education, especially that
taught in public and private schools, including strengthening healthy eating, personal hygiene, physical training
body from a comprehensive educational perspective.
14. We will work in coordination with countries and specialized international organizations to develop new programs and specific actions and exchange of athletes. Will sign cooperation agreements for developing sports and, in general, for that sport fulfills its important role in orbit
health and social development of the country, maintaining a constant update on the changes and developments occurring in the field.
15. We will extend the "summer program" where thousands of children practice swimming for sixty days, promoting the practice of this sport
throughout the year so that the use of indoor pools will be encouraged
the adequacy of existing or those with which counts the date
public spaces and covered by the warrant their potential audience
attend.
16. Creating the Hall of Fame where all Uruguayan featured have a space for remembrance, recognition and example for
current and future generations. A people that remembers and appreciates his best story is projected into the future.

114

Colorado Party

LABOR RELATIONS AND LABOR
Sufficient and stable jobs, fair wages and decent working conditions and
Suitable are essential pillars for building a just and prosperous society. Work is the livelihood of the worker and his family. Of the
It depends on their standard of living. It is also one of the main factors of personal fulfillment and integration into society adult individual. Of the same
so emphatically we reject any position that seeks to subordinate the worker's wages and working conditions, competitiveness of
the company, we understand that it is unacceptable that the workers' demands are articulated through industrial action that does not take into account the
conditions under which the company can develop in an efficient and competitive. This is the central dilemma that must be resolved through
active and fruitful dialogue for workers and employers. If we can
transform this dichotomy agreement, we enter into the future with better
tools to face severe challenges imposed the future.
Our country is in the vital crossroads of development and society
Uruguay has matured enough to accept that without investment, without
capital without competitive enterprises there are no jobs and no growth, and without collective bargaining, without areas of dialogue where the interests of harmonization
players in the world of work, there is no certainty of achieving earnings
just and better working conditions. That workers should get
fair wages and decent working conditions and that businesses should be
competitive and profit can not be discussed then. Nor it should be the importance of raising capital for the production of
providing goods and services generating a suitable investment climate,
strengthening legal certainty, compliance with the agreements, the promotion of mechanisms to encourage ongoing training for
better skilled workforce and culture of productivity. In parallel,
reality imposes the need to consider certain macroeconomic aspects in the outcome of collective bargaining such as the level of
employment, price stability, fiscal pressure. Considering inflation
one of the scourges that cause more harm to workers and retirees and
pensioners.

115

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
1) Work: Law - Duty. Various constitutional rules stipulate that the right to work is one of the fundamental rights of
individual. In this way - among others - Article 7 of our standard
basic set "The people of the Republic have the right to
be protected in the enjoyment of life, honor, freedom, labor and property. No one can be deprived of these rights except in conformity with laws that were established for reasons of general interest "and Article 53
It provides in its first paragraph that "Work is under special protection of the law."
In parallel, work is also regarded as a duty for
society that the Constitution imposes on the people of the
Republic in the second paragraph of Article 53 which states: "All
inhabitant of the Republic, without prejudice to its freedom, has a duty to
apply his intellectual or physical energies in ways that result in
benefit of the community, which seek to provide preference to
citizens, the ability to earn a living by developing an economic activity. "
Republicans on these principles, we conceived the work as a right and a duty, as an instrument of social inclusion and training
adult staff as is education in childhood and adolescence. Social policies should therefore be implemented on the basis
the performance of these duties, both adult to work for the benefit of the community, and society represented in the State,
provide such work. Special attention should be taken to the
youth employment, women and adults, all of which is detailed in the
corresponding chapters.
2) Freedom of association and freedom of association. We conceive freedom of association and freedom of association as fundamental rights. his
Respect is inherent in the rule of law and is incompatible with states
authoritarian or totalitarian regardless of the sign to which they belong. Is
only it flourishes under the guarantees provided by the
democratic republican system of government. Freedom of association edition

116

Colorado Party
FICA based on workers 'and employers'
to be autonomous, independent, representative and capable
to have rights and liable to be required in fulfilling the commitments freely assumed.
3) Collective bargaining as a tool for understanding. From these premises and true to its best traditions, our Colorado Party calls for the development of collective bargaining
both in the private and in the public understood as the field
Natural meeting of workers and employers to ensure
combating unemployment, creating new jobs, fair wages and decent working conditions made compatible with the essential profits and competitiveness of the company.
The industrial relations system is historically the product of
democratic and pluralistic societies. In our country, the decisive action
political and institutional our Party throughout the twentieth century determined the development of dialogue and collective bargaining as a peaceful way to resolve tensions between capital and labor, guaranteeing
first law effectively by collective bargaining is one of
the many accomplishments of colored administrations along its
rich history. Conceived as an instrument that develops only
democracy, collective bargaining plays in their evolution, the double
function to resolve specific conflicts in the world of work and
while ensuring social peace. This dual purpose is reflected
essentially in the social protection of workers in the balance
relationships, ways to resolve conflicts and integration and representation of all social groups as a means of
social inclusion. Naturally, we claim and keep the negotiation format through wage councils and defense as a fundamental principle of tripartism.
The technological revolution, and the characteristics of the globalized world are changing dramatically and inexorably forms
production. The old anti-capitalist and class struggle does not conception
response to the interests of workers. The XXI century is the century of

117

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
permanent technological change that pushes us into the world of productivity and competitiveness and modifies the forms of organizing
work which must necessarily be structured with a working class
more skilled and specialized, with employers willing to provide training and a State to promote and encourage this action. The old
separation of manual labor and intellectual labor execution against
design and design tends to overcome every day. The question no longer has
to think about it, considering the technological advances as a
threat to the traditional workforce and the level of employment, but as a
instrument to promote improved working conditions to collective bargaining incorporating common control strategies
quality and obtaining greater productivity.
Promoting collaboration rational actors of employment, workers and employers, is understood by us as part
a new culture of dialogue that overcomes the sterile policies
confrontation. This cultural change will allow us to strengthen the country
face the path to development to meet the expectations of
workers and employers. At the same time, it will support a strong
government action at the international level to encourage seriously
free trade, compliance with international agreements
which is part of our country, the rejection of all forms of protectionism and unfair competition complaint of those economies
They base their competitiveness on the abusive reduction of labor costs ("social dumping).
In the framework of the principles outlined above, we assume the commitment to respect the law and international instruments
O.I.T. ratified by our country number 87 (on freedom of association and
Protection of the Right to Organise) Number 98 (promotion of collective bargaining), Number 151 and 154 (protection of association and procedures for determining employment in public administration and
promotion of collective bargaining).

118

Colorado Party
4) Collective Bargaining in the Public Sector. Legislated standards
respect of collective bargaining both private and public,
have been a breakthrough in labor relations,
Notwithstanding the foregoing, it is found throughout the term of Law No.
18,508 in the public sector despite having this valuable tool
it has not had an effective implementation.
Multiple factors affect this tool no need to capture is fully developed in the public sector such as
in the budget or accounts Surrender rules all that is
administrative salary or career field. In the absence of planning by the Government in due time, the bills are sent without negotiation taking legislative time as an excuse under the Constitution of the Republic.
Another factor affecting labor relations in public, is the
role of the Ministry of Labour and Social Security, a body to be part
the Executive fails to maintain the role necessary and appropriate to
This sector workers.
For these reasons and in order to strengthen the instrument of collective bargaining is that the creation of wage councils to propose
the Public Sector.
In the case of the Central Government, it shall be composed of
maximum chieftains involved in budget matters, namely the Minister of Economy and Finance, the Director of the National Office of Civil Service, the Director of the Planning and Budget Office and COFE.
In the case of public companies it shall be composed of
Minister of Economy and Finance, the Chairman of the Board and
PIT CNT.
5) The right to strike and essential services. We consider
the strike is a legitimate means for unions to promote and protect the rights of workers. This is recognized by our

119

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
Constitution stating that it is a trade union right and on that basis its exercise and effectiveness shall be regulated.
Beyond the lack of legal regulations, the right to strike
treated as voluntary termination of labor as a means
union, has been freely exercised by workers from the restoration of democratic rule having accepted certain
limitations when the strike was declared in public services whose interruption would endanger the life, safety or health of the whole
or part of the population (we refer to so-called "essential services").
Since our democratic conception to understand that occupation
Like the picket can not be considered as a modality of the right to strike, provided that their implementation collides with other
constitutional rights such as freedom of work and supervised by the art trade. 36, the right to property
regulates art. 32, freedom of movement, Article 7 among others, and because
the adjective "peaceful" is a contradiction in the extent that a
occupation of the workplace is "peaceful" only in appearance because cease to be given that those workers who do not adhere to the measure seeking to exercise their right to work within the company or its
enter the same owners. Corresponding same reasoning apply
the picket to the extent that it can only be described as "peaceful" as workers who do not adhere to the extent not intend to enter the workplace or the development of the activity of the company is prevented. However we understand that the occupation and the picket may be admitted exceptionally limited time when rights collide with it can not be exercised (Case
the Lock out) or the employer's property right is exercised
abusively in order to prevent the exercise of the right of
strike by workers (For procurement of so-called
"Strikebreakers"). That is why a legislation and a special procedure to reconcile the competing interests will be promoted
game.

120

Colorado Party
6) The capital company and industry limited liability. (SCIRL). The association will encourage capital and low labor
legal forms covering the following bases.
to. The equity partners or liable for the social obligations as members of the Limited Liability Companies
(Up to the limit of their contribution). He or partners who contribute their industry respond to the concurrence of the lost earnings until they acquire the quality of financial backers in which
If answered in the manner prescribed above for
these partners. The rules of the Limited Liability Companies shall apply.
b. The administration and representation may be exercised SCIRL
by any of the partners without distinguishing the type of partner they
concerned.
c. They should establish mechanisms for access lines
Special credit for these companies.
d. The SRL will become SCIRL (Liability Company
Limited) when the partners who contributed their industry pass
be equity partners under the contributions made.

121

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020

URUGUAY PROSPEROUS AND UNITED

Economy and Finance
energy
Farming, Food and Biotechnology
Industry
Transport Infrastructure
Foreign Trade, Global Services and Logistics
Maritime and River Development
Tourism
Real estate development

122

Colorado Party

URUGUAY PROSPEROUS AND UNITED
Achieve a prosperous and united Uruguay involves boosting economic growth in a context of sustainable development by maximizing the employment and income of Uruguayans; ensuring a dignified and secure retirement and thus
improve the welfare of families, promoting a permanent social mobility.
A small country like Uruguay is the one that gets most benefits from joining the world (notwithstanding the benefits that this strategy ends up creating for all types of country). It is for this reason that since the creation of Mercosur,
Uruguay has struggled to open a model of integration. It is the only way
access to markets that make viable the production and work, so that integration and international insertion of the country must be a constant of any government.
Sustained and sustainable development should pillars to
economic, political and legal stability; national defense work and
investors in the country; the urgent improvement of state management, education, infrastructure and other aspects related to the competitiveness of
Uruguayans. Should promote knowledge and innovation and improvements
sustainable for the entire population (children, youth, workers, technicians, academics, pensioners and entrepreneurs), applying specific policies to address the situation of the most vulnerable groups. Multiply the
collective entrepreneurship, creativity, individual initiative and the
promotion policy framework for small businesses and generally support regional development projects within the framework of effective decentralization nationally.
A Prosperous and Uruguay Solidario requires achieving sustained growth
a climate of harmonious relations between government, employers and employees;
supported in promoting capabilities in the award for effort, maximize opportunities and social inclusion, where the national labor protection is a top priority.

123

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020

ECONOMICS AND FINANCE
The economic reforms implemented in the traditional communist regime governing
in China, they have finished changing the economic history of the world. In addition
placing the country as a world power, the new scenario has given unprecedented growth of commodity-exporting countries.

124

Colorado Party
Consequently, in Uruguay the value of exports of goods passes
3,145 in 2004 to 10,002 in 2013 and determined a remarkable growth
production, employment and wages.
In addition, the prolonged economic and financial crisis in developed countries,
accompanied by

a long period of interest rates to minimum levels

historical, it causes a strong inflow of capital to emerging economies,
seeking better investment opportunities.
CERES research shows clearly how the boom is repeated
relatively independent of the quality of the policies pursued by countries.

Uruguay promotes greater growth, recovery levels
lost in the financial crisis of 2002 and with respect to several countries,
greater degree of openness of its economy. Affects the lower growth
Mexico, the crisis in the United States.
Production
Slowdown: Between 2003 and 2011 production (GDP) grew at a rate
annual average of 6%. In 2012 and 2013 growth fell to 3.7% (with -0.4%
Incidence of electricity, gas and water) and 4.4% respectively (with + 0.8% of
incidence of electricity, gas and water). For 2014, the government initially announced a growth of 4%, which corrected to 3% in February / 2014, in line with

125

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
analyst expectations survey published by the BCU. After this
announcement, data from the first quarter of 2014, showing met one
growth of 2.4% over the same period last year with several
sectors falling: -5.4% Primary activities; Manufacturing -2.3%
electricity, gas and water construction -0.7% and -2.1%.
Imbalances in the evolution of the activity: Sectoral growth
2005/2011 was extremely uneven. Transport, storage and communication explained 30% of the growth in value added sectors (growing by an annual average of 16.3%); while other sectors
grew much less: 3.4% primary activities, manufacturing
And other services 4.3% 3.3% (annual average). In recent times, the lack of
competitiveness (which retracts the inbound tourism and promotes Uruguayan purchases abroad) and the general slowing itself has determined a
strong slowdown in the sectors of commerce, repairs, restaurants
and hotels. This sector, which grew at an annual average of 8.0% annually
2005/2011 period, growing 2.8% in 2013. Meanwhile, manufacturing fell by 0.4% and construction 1.4%. Analyzing the figures from
2013 balance of payments, a phenomenon not seen since the early 1989 occurs (services show an unfavorable balance, because basically
a sharp deterioration in the balance of the tourism balance (-49% equivalent to 590
millions of dollars). The current account (balance of goods and trading account
services and capital income) closed 2013 with a deficit of 3,120 million (-5.6% of GDP) (U $ S 410 more than in 2012 million). Yet
We subtracted from this figure foreign direct investment (FDI) concluded that the
financing needs happen to have negative balance (U $ S 323.9 million dollars). In March 2014 the deficit of current transactions
Uruguayan economy with the rest of the world comes to 3,550 million
(Equivalent to 6.4% of GDP figure). The services account continued to deteriorate and
accumulates an annual deficit of $ 234 million.
Employment and wages
As a result of extraordinary external scenario and the natural rebuilding from the output of the 2002 financial crisis, employment grows

126

Colorado Party
an average annual rate of 2.56% between 2004 and 2011 (the year in which average
the highest value of the series 60.7%). In 2012 the employment rate falls to 59.6% and
2013 to 59.3%. In the first quarter of 2014 shows a recovery
2.36% over the same period last year (1.4 points improvement). For its
Part wages grew on average 4.3% annually between 2004 and 2013.
2013, the increase in real wages down to 3.31%.
Public finances
Between 2004 and 2012, as emerges from the rendering of accounts submitted to
Parliament, total expenditure (excluding financial disbursements) increased
measured in constant money 97% (8.8% annually). Analyzed by subsection ANEP
It grew by 99% in real UDELAR 102%, the Ministry of Interior and Health 97%
Public / ASSE 133%. Meanwhile MTOP budget grows only
33% (well below levels needed to maintain the road infrastructure).
The gap between spending increases without financial outlays and increasing revenues financed a transitional fiscal space (low interest rates and dollar depreciated) and fiscal adjustment in full swing, as shown in the chart
follow:

Despite the increase in the tax burden on the revenue side, the deficit
Public sector overall fiscal ended up closing the year 2013 at 2.3% (after

127

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
a close of 2.8% in 2012); but if we discount the incorrect calculation of the result of BSE and the extraordinary results of ANCAP (amortization
debt with PDVSA) and UTE (for extraordinary climate), we would be a
deficit above 3%.

URUGUAY
EVOLUTION OF CONSOLIDATED PUBLIC DEFICIT
(As% of GDP)
0.5%
0.0%
2004 -0.5%

2005

2006

-1.0%
-fifteen%
-20%
-1.8%

-0.4%

-0.5%

2007

0.0%

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012 2013 (*)

-1.1% -0.9%
-1.6%

-2.5%

-1.7%

-2. 3%
-2.8%

-3.0%

In the economic and financial report of the Accountability 2013, the Government acknowledges that the 2014 budget deficit will amount to 3.3% of GDP, a figure more
4 times higher than that agreed in the National Budget for 2014 (0.8% of GDP).
Inflation
The government itself recognizes that it is the main problem to solve. Inflation has several detrimental effects on the welfare of the population. Is the most
regressive taxes already levied on fixed income sectors (employees, pensioners and other social security providers).
It also generates a framework of instability that conspires against savings and

128

Colorado Party
investment. In the current scenario also impairs the competitive opportunities of the country.
Uruguay finished third in Latin America between the countries with inflation.
And according to The Economist Intelligenci Unit, it is in June 2014
Ranked 18th in the world ranking of countries with inflation in the world.
LATIN AMERICA - 2013 inflation Ranking
COLOMBIA

1.94%

ECUADOR

2.70%

PERU

2.86%

CHILE

3.00%

PARAGUAY
BRAZIL
BOLIVIA
URUGUAY

3.70%
5.84%
6.48%
8.50%
10.50%

ARGENTINA (official)

56.20%

VENEZUELA
0.00%

10.00%

20.00%

30.00%

40.00%

50.00%

60.00%

Since 2005, inflation in Uruguay has been above
5% with a tendency to grow (except impasse

2009

generated by the worsening of the international crisis).
Over 4 years ago that inflation is above the target goal of
BCU, a fact that has taken the credibility of the monetary authority.
It decomposing rising prices in recent years, seen in
First the prices of non-tradable goods (without competition
external) they have consistently remained above other prices
of goods and services. This dismisses the argument, often
managed by the Government, that the upsurge in inflation is due to
external factors (eg international developments in the price of
foods).

129

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
It is further noted as except in post-electoral perídosos prices
administered have sought to contain inflation.

This price behavior, was confirmed in the policy report
Monetary 2012 BCU.

Beyond indexes, talk about specific prices. Between 2004 and 2010,
They noted the following increases (measured annual averages): food and
beverages 8.7%; 28.4% pumpkin, vegetables, legumes and tubers 13.1%, bread and
biscuits and 11.8%

rents 12.5%. Meanwhile, in the triennium

20011/2013, they stand out as an example the following increases (average
every year) combined transport boat / bus 22.5%, 20.4% tomato bread
Packaging 15%, 14.2% and rents again.
It is therefore clear that there is much more to extraordinary factors
explain the increase in consumer prices in Uruguay. All these
figures, which were exceeded on average wage increases.

130

Colorado Party
The highly misaligned price behavior
rents and food and beverage determine inflation
higher for lower income households.
Analyzing the evolution of the amount of money (M1 expanded variable
currently used as a reference by the BCU), we note that the amount
Money has grown well above the values ​​measured in GDP
currents. This clearly shows that monetary policy has not applied
been restrictive and INTRES when rates were increased, the only thing
He was could depress the dollar.
After the interpellation to be held at the Ministry of Economy in April
2012, processed changes in monetary policy and eased somewhat
growth of monetary aggregates. Despite the drop in demand
money ended up preventing a fall in inflation.

The year 2013 closed with a numeral of 8.52%, repeating heterodox measures as the management point for the December rate UTE. In
the first 6 months of 2014, inflation accumulated 5.38%, with a cumulative 12 months to June closed 9.08% (product of heterodox measures that bring down directly the index by 0.7 points). Meanwhile core inflation is about 10%, setting a record in almost 10 years.

131

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
This inflationary numeral compromises stability, competitiveness and
purchasing power of wages, pensions and other social security benefits.
Quality and efficiency of public spending
Despite the strong increase in public spending discresional (without counting expenses
financial) (97% between 2004 and 2012) the results are becoming
worse in various areas.
Public spending is redistributive instrument par excellence. To improve
quality of public spending, it is imperative to transform the management: Deploy
ambitious and realistic strategic plans, reduce positions of trust and
bureaucratic spending, selecting the best according to the job profile,
work on the training and motivation of officials and rank the
use of a performance-related pay, subject to the
corresponding wage increases in each report.
The management is bad because on many issues there is still no clear direction. They
increases spending over output growth and income, not
prioritizing spending. At the same time, despite the increase referred Results
They are worsening by the day in key areas such as security, education, health,
infrastructure, among others. The high rates and poor public services
public end up affecting the country's competitiveness. Effective management and
efficient, is a goal that we can not give up and we
committed to pursue.
Competitiveness
Considering the evolution between the index of consumer prices and rates
change in Uruguay and its trading partners, a first indicator is obtained
the ability to compete in the region and the world index of exchange
producing the actual B.C.U.
This index summarizes the growing difficulties of exporting sectors not
have benefited from external price boom and the industry that supplies the

132

Colorado Party
local market and must compete with increasingly lower output prices
Imported.

The index of unit gross surplus of the export industry
(With base year 2005), also prepared by the Central Bank of Uruguay,
It shows a rapid decline in margins in 2012 (13%) and some
recomposition from June 2013. In this indicator, growth
Prices of exported products attenuates an evolution that anyway
It is generally negative.

Below we show two other indicators that have been expressed as
losing weight exports (goods and services) and industry in the national economy.

133

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020

URUGUAY
Exp goods and services / GDP Total
(%)
32.0%
31.0%
30.0%
29.0%
28.0%
27.0%
26.0%
25.0%
24.0%
2004

2005

2006

2007

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

A more comprehensive competitiveness indicator is compiled by the World Economic Forum, given a set of more than 100 variables that determine the productivity of a country. The variables in turn are organized in 12
pillars, each representing an area considered an important aspect and decisive for competitiveness, namely: 1. Institutions, 2. Infrastructure,
3. Macroeconomic stability, Health and primary education 4., 5. Education
upper and training 6. Goods Market Efficiency, 7. Efficiency
labor market 8. Financial market sophistication 9. Technological readiness, Market size 10. 11. 12. Innovation and business sophistication.

134

Colorado Party
The results by pillar, by subscript and global, and 20122013 for 2013-2014 are:

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
eleven
12

Institutions
Infrastructure
Macroeconomic stability
Health and primary education
Higher education and training
Goods market efficiency
Labor market efficiency
Financial market sophistication
Technological readiness
Market size
Business sophistication
Innovation

2013-2014
Position
Score
36
4.62
55
4.31
85
4.49
58
5.88
52
4.53
60
4.33
139
3.44
90
3.77
48
4.33
88
3.28
91
3.75
82
3.11

2012-2013
Position
Score
36
4.63
49
4.40
63
4.72
50
5.90
50
4.67
52
4.38
136
3.49
90
3.81
47
4.44
86
3.21
88
3.73
69
3.18

Variation
Position
Score
0
-0.01
6
-0.09
22
-0.23
8
-0.02
2
-0.14
8
-0.05
3
-0.05
0
-0.04
1
-0.11
2
0.07
3
0.02
13
-0.07

Factors Subindex produccon
Subscript Efficiency
Subscript Innovation

53
78
84

4.82
3.95
3.43

43
73
78

4.91
4.00
3.46

10
5
6

-0.09
-0.05
-0.03

Global Competitiveness Index

85

4.05

74

4.13

eleven

-0.08

With respect to Uruguay, the report concludes: "Uruguay falls 11 positions,
85 down to the ranking position as a result of the combination
a number of factors including the deteriorating macroeconomic situation (position 85) and a high rate of inflation that is affecting access
country financing, restrictive working conditions (position 139) and a
weakness in the quality of education (position 120) and its ability to
innovate (position 88). These latter factors are gaining importance in
Uruguay as the country moves towards more advanced stages of development, where the need for a skilled workforce and a capacity
superior to innovate become more crucial to increase productivity in the national economy. Despite these weaknesses, Uruguay continues to consolidate its strong and transparent institutional structure (position 36)
and fairly high degree of digital connectivity (position 46), thanks to a
continued effort to narrow the digital divide with economies more
Advanced ".
Scenarios and perspectives
Latin America completed until 2012 a decade of strong growth (4%)
as a result of the favored scenario. Growth in China
It boosted demand for commodities, leading prices to historical records

135

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
cos as has been expressed. On this basis they improved terms of trade and production. According to ECLAC, 50% of the export growth
explained by higher prices and exports of raw materials,
in 2000 represented 40% of the total went to 60% in 2011. However, the contribution of Latin America and the Caribbean in global production
it still remained at 8-9% (similar to the early 1990s level). Other
factor that ended up favoring the region was expansionary monetary policy
in a crisis scenario developed economies (financial crisis
It started in USA and then moved to Europe). The extended period of rates
near-zero interest and a lack of business opportunities in the economies
developed extraordinarily boosted investment, hand
capital inflows were no better alternatives in the north. According to
Barclays PLC, institutions and individual investors around the world have
injected since 2004 more than US $ 440,000 million traded on the commodities market funds.
The abundance of foreign exchange in many cases combined with fiscal policies pro
cyclical been determined in many countries by replacing domestic goods
imported, lagging behind the manufacturing industry.
Since 2013, when U.S.A. began to recover, although the process still
has not finished consolidated, markets have begun to anticipate
effects it will have a less easy monetary policy (with higher rates
interest). In this lower growth expectations are added in China, doubts
on the health of its financial sector and the beginning of recovery in the area
euro (+ 1%).

With this new scenario, Latin America and the Caribbean ended the year 2013 with the
lower growth rate in four years (2.6%). Brazil closes a new year
clear signs of exhaustion of its growth model, lack of reforms.
2014 was then expected: commodity prices weakened dollar strengthened and lower capital inflows to AL and C. With this scenario, the F.M.I. returns
to lower growth forecasts for Latin America and the Caribbean (from 3% to
2.5% for 2014).

136

Colorado Party
The latter estimate (April 2014) and corrected downward forecast the following growth: 2014: 1.8% Brazil, Argentina and Uruguay 0.5% 2.8%;
2015: Brazil 2.7%, Argentina 1.0% and 3.0% Uruguay. Estimates again
corrected downwards in updating the central projections July
2014, lowering the projection for global growth in 2014 to 0.3 points
3.4%, maintaining the projected 2015 global growth (4%) and lowering once again the growth projections for Latin America and the Caribbean 2.0% and 1.3% in Brazil.
The new scenario involves a battery of challenges, many prominent in recent ECLAC report:


Strengthen fiscal sustainability;



Improve monetary management to channel inflation and allow improved real exchange rate;



Achieve greater diversification of production;



Develop innovation applied to the production chain, to incorporate knowledge and add more value to production;



Improve other aspects related to competitiveness (infrastructure, educational improvement, business sophistication, incorporating technology, market efficiency, improve the supply chain, developing the financial market, etc.)



Achieve better international integration conquering new markets.

Countries that do not take the change of scenery will fail to sustain economic growth and achieve development that is required to effectively improve the quality of life of the population.
Strategic Objective 1 - To achieve better commercial insertion of Uruguay in the
mundo88
To fulfill this objective we will develop the following:
1. Improve the integration into the world with the sole north the better development of national interests.
88

See Plan 2015 Uruguay - Uruguay integrated the world - - 2020 Chapter Foreign Affairs.

137

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
2. Develop and strengthen trade links with the greatest potential, given the
reality and geopolitical trends.
3. Negotiate flexibilities needed to close bilateral agreements with alternative markets, giving priority to high purchasing power and / or growth.
(See Uruguay Plan 2015-2020 - Uruguay integrated the world - Chapter
External relationships).
Strategic Objective 2 - Improving the business climate to benefit the country
To fulfill this objective we will develop the following:
1. To promote harmonious relations between employers and workers through
existing tools to date, while maintaining fairness and
promoting conciliation in labor disputes.
2. Remove sectoral or general obstacles affecting the business climate
and the development of different sectors.
3. Reverse the legal concept that is above politics, decidedly more professional management in general, retaking the necessary
institutions that they must have.
4. Develop entrepreneurship and innovation (Uruguay View of the Future -
Chapter Entrepreneurship).
Strategic Objective 3 - Improving macroeconomic stability
To fulfill this objective we will develop the following:
1. Fold inflation to improve purchasing power and rebuild competitiveness, which will necessarily due care deficits,
for the rebuilding of basic macroeconomic balances and the
promotion in some specific markets higher levels of competencia.89
2. Reducing inflation to levels that do not exceed 5%, regaining the credibility of inflation targeting, through a sustained process which will start from 1 March 2015.

The goals you set must be met to not jeopardize the credibility of the monetary authority. I do not know
You can pretend to align inflation to 5% with expansions of the amount of money over the past two governments have positioned generally above 20% and the hub of 15% from the interpellation to be held Minister Lorenzo.
89

138

Colorado Party
3. Carefully manage the additional resources generated by the future growth of the economy, which will install a rule of
structural fiscal balance, preserving social spending, wages, retirement benefits, pensions and other benefits. With this rule we will be better able to conduct countercyclical policies (moderate shocks
external).
4. Guide the Central Bank to run a monetary policy consistent with inflation targets
5. Improve Public Private Participation Act, removing provisions
restricting their application and use as an effective tool,
such State authority to unilaterally break the contract.
Strategic Objective 4 - Improving management of the state and the quality of public spending, orienting and organizing the same to avoid excesses ascertained
Promoting efficient use of public resources, not only improves the quality and cost of services. It also allows to generate savings
strengthen social programs as needed for different sectors of our society. The next government will have special focus on this topic at
we will develop the following:
1. Audit and control the management of parastatals and private companies with participation of public entities.
2. Provide greater powers to the Court of Accounts of the Republic for the
effective control of the companies calls colaterales.90
3. Avoid experiences such as occurred in the National Casinos, Pluna, ALUR, funds, ANTEL, ANCAP, ASSE, AFE, among others,
where the country has lost many resources that could have been used effectively to meet the needs of different sectors of the population.
4. To prioritize, professionalize and give maximum autonomy to regulatory agencies, promoting regulatory frameworks that promote competition and
efficiency in mercados.91
5. Simplify and eliminate paperwork, unnecessary controls and records, adding
pointless costs to companies and individuals.

90Ver
91

Uruguay free and safe - Chapter Transparency
Idem

139

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
6. Build and strengthen aspects related to good governance, in order to systematize a strategic planning process, further ensuring that
management is aligned therewith.
7. Adjust the selection mechanisms for the provision of charges, leaving
aside the judgment of the quota policy and practice in promoting the
charges are complete with the best candidates, depending on the required profile.
8. Improve the professionalism and promote lifelong training
human resources, seeking to share them and to line up with organizational strategy.
9. Install a performance management system from 2016 (which
establish in the Five-Year Budget Act). This system will be based on political and technical leadership and concrete and ambitious plan to establish specific results. Here and in this framework, we will make decisions about what to spend and invest public resources, prioritizing the most urgent and society as a whole needs. And in the following years a deep monitoring and tracking the degree of compliance will be done
the objectives set.
10. Improve the quality and cost of services, avoiding investments outside the
made basic, wasteful spending and subsidies to unviable businesses.
11. Maintaining wage levels and their corresponding adjustments, adding
incentives for the effective implementation of results. In this framework, develop an administrative career that takes into account the results obtained and merit.
12. Improve the quality of public spending, ensuring salary levels, retirement, pensions, social spending and other social security benefits
(And all updates and upgrades) n
13. Reducing non-wage operating spending in the order of 5%
under the provisions just mentioned commitment.
14. Reassemble the result of public companies with good management (is
You can improve the outcome in the vicinity of 1% of total GDP)
15. Implement a debt management plan to reduce the cost of interests
BCU (another point improving the overall result of GDP).

140

Colorado Party
16. Restrict the entry of new civil servants to strictly necessary for the fulfillment of the government plan. Equivalent to 25% of the vacancies will not be filled.
17. Eliminate 50% of the positions of trust that the last two governments
They have created what has involved a significant increase in spending.
18. Keep a portion of the fiscal space generated from the growth of the economy.
19. Lower interest cost (as% of GDP) as a result of folding the
future fiscal deficit.
20. To promote the participation of private capital in public investment,
areas that may be deemed viable and priority improve
for national development.
21. Promote increased competition (especially in fuel, air transport, river, sea and rail).
22. Channeling part of the returns obtained from better management to
reduction of tariffs for public companies.
Strategic Goal 5 - Achieve a more predictable, friendly tax system
and competitive
To fulfill this objective we will develop the following:
1. Reduce the tax burden from economic growth, a
good management and effective cost containment. Phase out
Income tax from economic growth. 92
2. Taking a firm commitment not to increase the tax burden on the population.
3. Gradually tax cuts will apply: repeal of income tax to the
extras, repeal of income tax to urban vacation hours bound for home
room, progressive increase in non-taxable minimum and deductions
personal income tax and the IASS, exemption from income tax levied on income from work
under 25 years.
4. Increase the non-taxable minimum personal income tax and the commitment IASS
to reach at least the level of 10 BPC (equivalent to $ 28,190 in 2014).

We optimize the use of public resources to improve security, health, education and infrastructure; what
contribute to the aforementioned growth generating a virtuous circle
92

141

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
5. Exempt from employer contribution to micro sole proprietorships with up to 4
employees and whose owner has up to 25 years of age, during the first
2 years of activity.
6. Simplify tax procedures and assessments, looking especially
simplification of taxes affecting SMEs.
7. Set automatic deductions in annual tax return for
MSMEs to access to investment tax exemptions.
Strategic Goal 6 - Improve the competitiveness of Uruguay
Improving competitiveness involves a multidisciplinary challenge involving institutions, infrastructure, macroeconomic stability, health, education, legal and human security, goods market efficiency, business sophistication and financial market, technological readiness, among others
aspects.
It is not possible to achieve significant improvements in welfare without progress in each
one of the areas just mentioned. Undertake the challenge of competitiveness, it does not mean neglecting the policies of solidarity and social inclusion; to the
otherwise achieving better competitiveness involves simultaneously achieve
more and better human development.
In short, our commitment is to make Uruguay more competitive to enhance human development of its people country, so our goal will be
move from place 85 to 45 (year 2019) in the ranking of competitiveness World
Economic Forum; and since 88 to 40 (year 2019) in the ranking of "Doing Business" of the World Bank.
Strategic objective 7 - Increase employment and improve job quality
of all Uruguayans
To fulfill this objective we will develop the following:
1. Protect the rights of workers in all activities and in particular
addressing issues related to occupational safety and health,
accompanying the strategy of the World Health Organization (WHO)

142

Colorado Party
International Labour Organization (ILO) with the creation of environments
Healthy Work (View Uruguay polite and Integrated - Chapter Health)
2. Flirt further wage increases to productivity improvements,
without affecting wage adjustments as appropriate and established for each
branch of activity within the framework of applicable regulations.
3. Promote the training of entrepreneurs and workers with a new approach
training programs (more accessible and linked to the
Work real world), for which areas should professionalize
competition and activities that the INEFOP, among other actions
(See Uruguay Educated and Integrated - Chapter Industrial Relations and Labor).
4. Develop and assist micro, small and medium enterprises and the Uruguayan emprededurismo (See Futures Uruguay - Chapter Entrepreneurship).
5. Attend the training of young linking education generally
training needs and adapt to permanent changes, considering the different existing contexts to date (See Uruguay Educated
and Integrated - Chapter Education / Uruguay Future - Chapter Entrepreneurship).
6. Develop and promote a more comprehensive legislation telework,
particular forms of work of new generations (See Uruguay of
Future - Chapter Science, Technology and Research).
7. Protect and promote the employment of individuals with disabilities, increasing
number of places in the public sector and exemptions in the
private sector (See Educated and Integrated Uruguay - Social Policy Chapter).
Strategic objective 8 - Achieve and ensure a dignified retirement and insurance all
Uruguayan
To fulfill this objective we will develop the following:
1. Create Aguinaldo for retirees and pensioners, consistent from the
first year in office, in a joint starting $ 8,400 pesos annually.
It will include retirees and pensioners BPS Service
Retirement and Pensions of the Armed Forces and / or the Service Retirement and pensions

143

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
Police with total monthly income of up to $ 10,000 (computing
salaries, pension payments, capital income and other income liabilities).
2. Maintain and enhance the mixed Uruguayan social security system, recognized throughout the world as a system that maximizes the social-economic balance.
3. Prioritize strengthening benefits to sectors with lower purchasing power without compromising the balance of the system.
4. Defer until the end of the working life of the pension system choice
applicable.
5. Strengthen support for people with disabilities, who have pledged their support.
6. Develop actions to address and accompany the senior
age through the creation of new public institutions, community and
support for existing (See Educated and Integrated Uruguay - Social Policy Chapter).
Strategic objective 9 - Creating equal opportunities for all Uruguayans by supporting Micro, Small and Medium Empresas93
Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) have a crucial role in generating employment in the Uruguayan economy in general and in trade and services in particular. In the National Survey of MSMEs (industry and services) in 2008, it is concluded that:



98% of companies declared not use bank credit
Only 5% of exports (8% considering indirect exports)



Women entrepreneurs are just over 31%.



There is low association.



75.4% of companies are in Montevideo.



The 66% with dependent employment, 28% property owner or partner is covered and
6% with relatives.

93



Only 11% of entrepreneurs are between 18 and 29 years.



35% believe security costs as relevant or very relevant.

Within the strategic objective to simplify regulations and procedures, they deserve a special chapter at MSMEs
specific actions in this regard will be developed (as BM-Doing Business 2005, the cost of the procedures in the
LDCs triple that of developed).

144

Colorado Party


Only 35% of employers and 17% of workers (including partners
and family members) participated in training activities.

Support micro, small and medium enterprises is a cornerstone in the promotion of equal opportunities. The productivity gap between large companies and SMEs is worldwide, but according to ECLAC studies the gap is even greater in Latin America and the Caribbean, so
We develop the following:
1. Promoting new businesses establishing tax exemptions
micro (up to 4 employees) whose owners (business owners
sole) up to 25 years old.
2. Encourage the production expense deductions technical advice,
sales and marketing for MSMEs and other actions to facilitate
access to markets and technology development.
3. Improve access of MSMEs to improved management models and conditional support for the adoption of the same (See Futures Uruguay - Chapter
Entrepreneurship).
4. To promote policies that generate instances of training and education
enhancing employment in general and in particular sectors
employability difficulties. As such, the actions will take place on
INEFOP that by 2012 it trained more than 17,000 people increasing
the attention of people who are part of MSMEs.
5. Design simplified mechanisms for access to promotional schemes
investment for micro and small enterprises, avoiding the current concentration
benefits in medium and large enterprises.
6. To facilitate access to credit by creating new guarantee funds in general, spreading them to boost their effectiveness.
7. Identify chains that provide opportunities for the development of MSMEs.
8. Increase the number of awards for excellence and innovation in the
framework of actions to promote entrepreneurial culture. Enlarge
non-refundable contributions and long-term lines for these projects (see
Future Uruguay chapter - Chapter Entrepreneurship).

145

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
9. Increase and create new systems of internships for students of secondary and higher education in tertiary education as part of the curriculum changes that take place in the High School Education
(See Uruguay Educated and Integrated - Chapter Education and Social Policy).

146

Colorado Party

POWER
Energy is an essential resource for economic and social development
of nations, which is among the main agenda items.
However, beyond its strategic importance, energy is a resource
between scarce resources used to meet unlimited needs, ideas
Basic economic analysis.
Consequently, it is not possible to raise energy policy without giving the
same comprehensive approach that includes economic, environmental aspects or
social. The goal of energy policy should be: to meet demand,
through environmentally acceptable solutions according to the most rigorous
international standards, at minimum cost to consumers. Therefore, the most efficient way to meet the demand should come from studies
technical - economic necessarily complemented by social, environmental, cultural, etc .; covering the following topics:


Prospective analysis of markets of primary energy sources.



Opening and expansion of internal energy markets, in order to improve
availability of energy sources and the conditions of marketing
goods and services produced in the sector.



Design-and investment policies are public or private or a combination
of both- for the development of energy projects, which in turn implies the
analysis, among others, the following:


how to achieve an appropriate investment climate to ensure availability
capital,



the study of relevant risk scenarios for profitability
projects,



the development of territorial and environmental policies to a framework of predictability to energy projects.

The main in our energy consumption are the industrial (35%),
transport (28%), residential (21%) and trade and services (10%), the
which account for over 90% of all energy consumed in the country.

147

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
The objective of the Plan 2015-2020 is to improve the quality of life of Uruguayans,
for which the Colorado Party has set a goal to improve the rate of
human development measured according to United Nations criteria. Mindful of this, to prepare this proposal analyzed the situation, policies and
institutions of the energy sector of the countries occupying the first 10
in the ranking of the Human Development Index (HDI), seeking to extract
especially lessons that are applicable to national circumstances.
From this analysis shows that the relative position of a country in the HDI ranking
does not depend on the natural richness of its territory, but adequate availability and use of energy resources to enhance their
strengths, through political and technical leadership focused on the long term.
In making the electricity market, for example, a common feature of these 10
countries is the development of the areas of generation and distribution, with a strong
regulatory component by the state to force an adequate quality of services and competition control. In Uruguay, in this matter, it has been
much progress with the Regulatory Framework Law, but much remains to be done.
Another aspect is relieved that the issue of energy transcends the political debate,
It is having reached state policies in the matter as the only way of
achieve objectives involving several generations. Fortunately
2010 Uruguayan political system achieved through the work of the Commission
Energy Multiparty a wide consensus on the matter is necessary
maintain and develop all that counted from the beginning, with a strong
support of the Colorado Party.
Analyzing the energy situation from the agreements reached by the
Multiparty Energy Commission 2010, it can be concluded that there was progress in pursuit of efficiency and diversification of the matrix
energy.
However there have been issues that have not been addressed (eg adequacy of the institutional and regulatory framework in the matter); some inconsistencies
(As advance lone construction of a regasification plant -

148

Colorado Party
ignoring the price and the buying mode when another GNL-
side have been awarded contracts for the sale of electric power source
wind over 1000 MW) and management problems, resulting in the
delay in the realization of several investment projects (such as wind farms and desulfurization plant).
These management failures are due to the lack of a coordinated policy
between various institutions (UTE, ANCAP, MVOTMA, MEF, MTOP, Municipalities, etc.), which have caused a delay in the execution times
all projects, diminishing the supply of energy available and more expensive
the cost of supply to consumers. In particular, the way
which has been developed the business determines that the regasification plant
profitability same look very seriously compromised, since the chances that this is beneficial to the country it depends on the installation
Aratirí mining and gas exports to Argentina, a country that is located in
third place worldwide in terms of shale gas or fracking, so
plaintiff is hardly regasified natural gas in Uruguay in the long
term.
Strategic Goals
We understand that energy policy should ensure timely and availability of abundant energy sources and efficiency prices, for
we understand necessary:


Strengthen energy sovereignty, understood as the ability to maneuver in making decisions on the matter



Maintaining stable and transparent rules of the game, which enable sustainable and competitive development of the economy, for the welfare of all its inhabitants



Achieve an efficient use of resources



Achieve a comprehensive regional energy integration, accompanied by appropriate integration into international energy markets



Respect a proper conservation and environmental sustainability.

149

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
To fulfill these policy requires short-, medium- and
long term, making it necessary to search for and build consensus to
to continue them beyond the political party that is in
the government.
Moreover, a major problem is the virtual impossibility of finding
a viable physical location for large and / or new ventures, including
including energy, by which we mean a need for a Regional Plan for Industrial Development and Infrastructure. By law
involving the MEF, MIEM, MVOTMA, MTOP and regional governments, as appropriate, to identify a set of be established
Industrial priority sites for which, by the law, remain held in advance most of the proceedings before authorizations
environmental and municipal. These properties could be delivered for works
infrastructure, through appropriate mechanisms whose definition deserves
specific discussion (tender, grant, etc.)
In terms of supply of raw materials for energy production
electricity and fuels must seek ways to optimize the use of national installed capacity, targeting both the supply
domestic and export, for what is required to obtain contracts
supply of these raw materials to suit the needs of
our energy system and allows us to have a price that contributes to
objective of lowering costs of energy companies which in turn should be reflected in rates.
To fulfill the aforementioned strategic objectives will develop the following:
In making the electricity sector, decisions about energy policy defined by the different administrations, especially those resulting
Energy of the Multiparty Agreement 2010, added to modifications
regional energy markets, have produced and continue to produce
substantial changes.

150

Colorado Party
Basically you could say that UTE stop being a monopoly enterprise
vertically integrated, to become a company with significant
participation in the generation subsector, but opening the game participants
private, or private associations with UTE, that by holding
power purchase contracts or through transactions in the spot market,
inject energy to the national grid (SIN).
By 2015, if realized expansions projected, it is possible that more than 50% of demand is covered with private generation installed in the country. Moreover, we
 the planned expansion of the interconnection with Brazil (which opens the possibility
Uruguay -always also to the necessary investments are made in Brazilian territory to connect to the system 500 MW to be a runner
energy between Argentina and Brazil, allowing the strengthening of power
to negotiate with both countries, both for import and export of energy);
 the reintroduction of natural gas in the energy matrix;
 the expansion of the central transmission system (through the construction of
500 kV ring in the north to facilitate the incorporation of new
and will allow dispersed generation with planned investments in the
distribution area, improve the quality of customer service) and
 the strong penetration of generation from non-conventional renewable sources, they recommended that UTE internalize this situation and take
measures to adapt the structure and resources of the company to
new context, in order to achieve the objective of cushioning the rising cost Supply Demand (CAD) and transfer
rates the result of the savings achieved.
In that sense, we must bear in mind that the CAD component
greater weight on the costs of UTE, has been affected by other changes
They have occurred in recent years: a) increased demand; b) change in
consumer habits; c) substantial increase in the cost of oil and d) modifying the form of contracts for energy imports from Argentina.

151

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
Consequently it is considering that network services and marketing
power it will have a greater relative weight to UTE and generation
go to play in the system, a role more geared to meet the part
Curve high demand, and provide the services auxiliary system (backup, voltage regulation, primary and secondary frequency regulation, etc.)
it seems advisable to act on two lines of action, and other internal UTE
joint venture involving industry and other bodies:
1. UTE adapt management in order to achieve the economic sustainability
- Financial Company.
2. promote adjustments in the regulatory framework and functioning of
Wholesale Electric Power (ECM) market according to industry developments, since the legal framework should encompass changes, which has not always
happened.
In this sense, it seems advisable that UTE redefine some aspects of their
business model, having to consider include:


The gap in cost centers of each of the business units.



The adequacy of the budgets and resources of the operating areas and
support to the new requirements.



Negotiate with the Executive and Management of the Electricity Market
(ADME) compliance with certain rules on the operation of
Wholesale Electricity Market allowance for UTE for services
indeed given and that currently are masked in all
of business costs.



The closure of the 500 kV ring by a line joining Melo, Tacuarembo
and Salto Grande and advance arrangements to get energy exchange with Argentina and Brazil, seeking to maximize the complementarity
may exist in southern Brazil, in order to place any surplus
energy especially hours valley where there is a good utilization factor wind coincident with sufficiency or excess water in the
national system.

152

Colorado Party


Analyze the appropriateness of pumping stations as a renewable resource
and native to regulate and optimize the use of the wind resource and irrigation.



Promote the installation of photovoltaic plants in the middle and networks
low voltage, as a renewable and indigenous resource to diversify the primary sources.



Optimize the supply of LNG and set a joint strategy with ANCAP to - met the needs of the internal market, negotiation
contracts for surplus disposal, either to generate electricity or gas to Argentina and Brazil. Develop appropriate legal and financial instruments for agile and efficient company management, and execution term of the works.



Special emphasis in the area of ​​transmission, allowing specifying works
encompass the transport capacity of the system with the proliferation of projects
wind, photovoltaic and planned, in order to be able to maximize renewable biomass resources.



Finalize the second connection of the central Punta del Tigre, because otherwise, over 800 MW of firm power (532 MW combined cycle 300 MW construction plus the current center of Punta del Tigre) will be connected to
system by a single 500 kV link.



In making the area of ​​distribution, invest in renewal and replacement of equipment and development of intelligent networks (smart grid) to optimize the use of energy resources and stabilization of the demand curve.



Reformulate the tariff schedule, sending economic signals to consumers
effects they moderate their consumption in line with available resources
Country unmanageable energy. In this regard, appropriate means to reduce
the cost of energy to industrial zone in the Gaza valley and consider steps to eliminate or soften the increase of the cost of
kWh for residential consumers.



Initiate effective actions to put surplus power generation in Argentina and Brazil, as a way to optimize the use of the regasification.



Formalize purchase agreements - sale of energy and other services between the
Joint Technical Commission of Salto Grande and UTE, for purposes of transparency in the management of the first, recognizing their operating costs, maintenance and renewal of equipment.

153

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020


Restoring functional career in this and other public companies to professionalize their management.

With regard to oil, we think that will continue to occupy an important place in the national energy matrix, mainly because they supply almost all energy consumption in the transport sector, so
They will be a key aspect of the possibilities of development.
To enable the country to meet the challenges it faces, we understand
which inevitably require:


A design of realistic policies decided yet covering both the exploitation of potential deposits in our country, and the export of its production, such as capacity building and import of oil derivatives
If you can not get to discover economically exploitable deposits that cover the entire national demand.



An investment plan is likely to require public and private capital
acting jointly and coordinated. Naturally, in order to have the
Private capital must be generated and maintained a climate of investment,
which implies legal certainty, appropriate atmosphere in industrial relations, tax predictability, macroeconomic stability, etc., etc.



A thorough reform of the Transport sector, the main plaintiff of petroleum, which should contain:



Rationalization of urban public passenger transport.



Policy efficiency in new vehicles, proposing, for example, incentives
tax on the import or manufacture of vehicles which best
km per liter yields, limiting maximum engine size, weight
vehicles, etc. It's good to be aware of the technological advances that are taking place in the world in terms of energy efficiency of vehicles
particular, as in the case of automobiles called "hybrid".



A deep reform of freight transportation, contemplating transport optimization of some loads through the development of transport
by rail. It comes pending the implementation of the proposal,
raised at the time by the last administration and taken up by red

154

Colorado Party
the current government, in the sense of allowing free access to the train tracks
private operators.


A modern plan for suburban transport, which should provide, inter
other things, a study of technical and economic feasibility of building
an underground urban and / or suburban to metropolitan Montevideo, the
light of recent technological developments.



An emergency action plan in case of sudden shortage or abrupt rise in oil prices.



Conduct an audit of ALUR and fold the currently existing subsidy, which compromises the economic equation of ANCAP. Transfer of this and other savings from reductions in rates of fuel.



Open market biofuels.

With respect to the Energy Regulatory Framework, it appears unavoidable
facing a reorganization and reformulation of the institutional framework of the sector
energy public. On the basis of respecting the rights acquired by the
Market players the following bases for such rewording is proposed:
 A clear organic distribution, subject to the constitutionally enshrined controls, avoid overlapping of functions of each
the state agencies involved, clearly distinguishing the powers referred to:
 the formulation, programming, planning, implementation, monitoring policies, which will be assigned to the Executive.
 the regulation and control of the development of the activity in everything that has to
do with the technical operation of services and the production of goods,
this is regarding: the technical, safety and quality of products, services and facilities and the conditions and requirements thereof
measures that must be met for the execution of such activities, assigned to a regulatory body or unit.
 the development of industrial and commercial activities specific charge
the autonomous entities of commercial and industrial domain and State
State commercial companies or mixed ownership.

155

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
 The allocation of powers relating to independent bodies
together, in order to ensure the highest degree of decentralization for each of them, for which it is proposed:
 Adapt and arrange in a single text the competencies of the various organs of the executive branch, which will be exclusively on the development, programming, planning, implementation and monitoring of policies, without
prejudice to its power to regulate the laws (Article 168 paragraph 4 of
Constitution of the Republic) and other constitutional powers.
 Provide the maximum allowed URSEA of decentralization in our constitutional system, transforming it into an entity Autónomo.94
 Ensuring effective control of collateral management companies of public enterprises, strengthening the Court of Audit of the Republic.
 Adapt and order the powers of public energy companies
taking into account new realities of energy markets, based on the expertise of the same, avoiding duplication.
 Institutionalize mechanisms for coordination among public companies
the sector, creating a system of interconnected strategic planning.


Adapt and modernize external controller systems, so that,
without affecting those constitutionally enshrined, and being compatible with regular management development, allow monitoring
full, effective and efficient thereof, giving such transparency
also facilitate the use of funding mechanisms through international stock markets.



Promote partnerships with private capital for development investment of large size.



Professionalize and rank ADME management, promoting it independently fulfill his role as administrator of the electricity market.

In regard to sectoral aspects, in order to develop and promote energy sector through public sector investments but mostly the private sector, it is necessary to strengthen legal certainty:

94

156

View Uruguay Free and Secure - Chapter Transparency

Colorado Party


Develop standards to complement the regulatory framework for prospecting, exploration, exploitation of deposits of class I.
it is essential to maintain, on the basis of the same is necessary after an extensive dialogue among all players in the production and civil society, without affecting in any way such rules affecting acquired rights.



Set designed to encourage private investment in the sector special tax regimes.



Rewriting the rules of the Wholesale Electricity Market by providing the system of tools for designing a
market that suits the current situation and development compatibilice
investment, freedom of contract and security of supply.



Adopt a general regulatory framework for the activities of import, export, marketing, storage, and transport and
distribution and fixed piped natural gas networks:



Respect the rights acquired by the stakeholders who have been acting to date.



To ensure broader competition between operators and
between the various energy.



Encourage making investments to ensure long supply
term natural gas.



Protect infrastructure investments by the State itself or through
public companies do in order to develop the market
natural gas in Uruguay.



Ensure "open access" to the storage capabilities,
transport and distribution,



Ensuring the development of best practices in the operation of the
facilities and systems reliability storage, transport and distribution



Prices tend toward natural gas supply are fair and,
Balanced

157

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020


Promote efficiency in the various activities of the gas industry
natural, tending to a rational use of the product and proper environmental protection.



Encourage the development of national capacities



Strengthen the development of industrial and commercial activities
large, medium and small.



Adopt a comprehensive regulatory framework for storage, transport and retail sale of liquid and gaseous fuels derived from petroleum based on:



Respect the rights acquired by industry players coming
acting to date.



Ensure access throughout the national territory and the same price
such fuels.



Foster competition between different market players.



Ensure the safe operation of facilities and equipment, and
environmental Protection.



Encourage the participation of small and medium enterprises, avoiding
training of entrepreneurs concentrations that may affect the health and
market competition.



Generate genuine employment.



Strengthen the competitive position of domestic companies.

The government of Hydrocarbons
The current Hydrocarbons Law and its implementing regulations made ANCAP
Role of hydrocarbons agency for both land-based activities
strong as in the territorial sea. Thus ANCAP awarded to companies
foreign and on behalf of the executive, several exploration areas
exclusivity for a specified period.
The exploration and exploitation of oil are characterized by certain dimensions impossible to properly care
in the current institutional framework:

158

Colorado Party
1) They are consuming activities that substantial financial resources, well
above the collection of Uruguayan State
2) require a very high and very specific vocational training
3) They involve high risks derived from a complex system
assessments and knowledge.
4) They manage performance horizons that transcend various periods of government.
To address in a serious and sustainable exploration activities and eventual exploitation of oil, it is necessary to ensure state policies
to ensure a stable, adequate, clear and sufficient framework for
allow its development with the broadest support and political consensus, defining a priori clear roles and responsibilities
each of the actors involved.
Moreover, whether or not the country had oil in economically viable, should first avoid or at least minimize what the literature called "Dutch disease" and,
another, have a framework to prevent the squandering of money from a nonrenewable resource. Both are closely linked and occur when improper handling of exceptional and sudden wealth does.
To address the situation briefly described, it requires measures
in two equally important and critical Dimension:
Institutional Appearance
Exploration activities and currently characterized by a significant outsourcing operations into a set of leading companies, regulated contracts with Uruguayan State through ANCAP.
The current direct participation of the Uruguayan state is reduced to at most not
More than fifty people mostly concentrated in ANCAP and
National Energy Authority with the participation of other agencies such as the
National Directorate of Environment, National Resources
Water, the Navy and the University of the Republic, among the agencies that currently have the leading role. Other actors involved

159

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
increasing emphasis are the National Ports Administration agencies
maritime, operators of services to ships and offshore platforms and environmental organizations.
The regulations (the underground resources are limited to basic and essential concepts
They are in the public domain of the state and once extracted become the domain
deprived of it), but not enough to eventually face the
activity in a framework that promotes the development of it to
while ensuring a fair return to society.
In the long term, healthy oil operations differentiate the actions of monitoring, controlling and regulating them. In the world it is common to find countries with a state oil company acting on an equal footing with other oil companies, all under
the control of a government institution that acts as an agency of hydrocarbons.
To reach this end, it is necessary to develop technical capabilities in sufficient quality and quantity. Moreover, managing a complex business demands create well-defined areas of responsibility and accountabilities
accurate or timely. Create a climate of trust between the actors going from
hand with transparency of decisions for which it is essential
understand the mechanics of the oil business and take decisions by consensus thinking about what's best for the country with a 30-year horizon.
It is therefore essential:
1) Create a National Hydrocarbons Commission (CNH) in the
orbit of the Executive to establish guidelines
specific activity, especially as regards the separation of activities and operating oil regulation or operationally majority today focus on ANCAP.
2) forming the NHC preferably with personalities who have or have had to do with the oil industry or their business capacity, can quickly understand the key oil business.

160

Colorado Party
3) Give legal powers to CNH for the purpose of concentrating all
political powers concentrated in the DNE today to promote and suggest to the Executive all necessary actions.
4) instruct the CNH to keep confidential and informed
periodically to the Industry Committee of the Senate.
5) instruct the CNH study deems necessary adjustments
treatment for parliamentary amendments to Decree-Law
Hydrocarbons, to see the new circumstances that currently characterize the chances of oil production in the country.
6) To instruct the CNH studying amendments to the Organic Law
ANCAP to allow the autonomy of the activities of "upstream", even to the division of ANCAP to form a new state-controlled company and joint venture, under the regime of public offering
international markets.
Economics
The contracts between the Uruguayan government through ANCAP with international companies operating in the territorial sea, establishing rights
and obligations of the parties under the process of bidding rounds
oil exploration blocks. In these contracts, bidders pledged to provide ANCAP participation in the operation in case of
declaration of a commercially exploitable deposit; if that ANCAP
decide to participate, the Ente must compensate the operator for the share part
relevance of the expenses incurred so far in exploring the
oil prospects on the declared site. The sum of current or future rights has a market value that will vary according to expectations and specific portfolio data blocks involved. Over the years, this set of rights may completely lose their value
If all exploration operations cease or conversely, can
grow in proportion to the volume of reserves that cometh to declare and
they value totaling in the market at all times.
21. Financial Management: The development of the activity of exploration and eventual exploitation involves making decisions rigorous financial

161

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
cial financing and / or investment should support a
clear institutional framework and professional support of the highest
level.
2.2. Fate of oil revenues: It is advisable to establish by law
the fate of any income that eventually receives the product state oil activities in the country. It is worth remembering that in recent years,
only selling information for subsurface geologic interpretation
marine has generated income of a few tens of millions of dollars
ANCAP, the Ente "diluted" in their cash flows. If it occurs
a commercially exploitable discovery, you need to establish how the funds generated for the country will apply. That is why the law should establish
percentages of income distribution that enhances the future development:
-

the creation of a fund to finance oil activities including all kinds of training for students,
technical and national professional,

-

the creation of a fund for merit scholarships abroad for tertiary students,

-

allocate part to repay debt and effects, saving
interest, ease the tax burden on productive activities

-

Intergenerational creating a reserve fund, which may
accumulate as required by the text of the law and may only be used in
times and for specific destinations.

162

Colorado Party

AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION, FOOD
BIOTECHNOLOGY
Agriculture and agro-industrial chains have been and will be fundamental to economic and social development of Uruguay.
Between the 60s and early last decade, an external frame highly
protected and prolonged periods of depressed prices pautaron low sectoral growth. Low profitability, high debt and little attraction to the
determined investment in general, except for some short periods, a dwindling
development of agricultural activity.
More than a decade, the sector has been going through a prolonged period
growth, based on the increased value of agricultural products.
To this is added the strong demand from emerging markets, mainly in Asian countries, which have structural characteristics for
massive increase in consumer demand for quality food.
The international scene was adequately capitalized by Uruguay; are
It highlights the long history of respect for contracts and laws, even in periods
crisis. However, Argentina followed a totally unworkable economic model,
based on state intervention in the market, the implementation of drawdowns, subsidies and distortions of all kinds. This led to many investments
in other conditions they had been installed in Argentina they decided to develop their businesses in Uruguay. These new capital, accompanied by
a business model that provided managerial capacity and a high level of technology transfer, have revolutionized production, especially in the agricultural sector.
A result of this other investments liquidity and low interest rates verified in the international financial market are added. It also highlights the
generating favorable effect of state policy for the forestry sector, initiated
by the Colorado Party, with confirmation of the industrial phase of the project
Botnia.
Just go inside the country, to establish how diversified the productive matrix, increasing production and adoption of technology.

163

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
The growth of the primary sector (without fishing and mining), measured values
constant, averaging 3.2% annually between 2005 and 2013 (with a 9.5% average annual growth in the agricultural sector).
Due to the characteristics of the sector, we understand that to continue the process of investment and growth, a policy framework is required
greater certainty. This creates the need for the greatest possible stability of sectoral policies that will have a major
societal consensus.
In this sense, the development of the national economy should be established from strategies designed on the basis of government policies long term
that they are predictable and provide certainty for investment. Thus, they will
given the conditions for domestic agricultural production is stimulated,
consolidating the development of an agro-export model that offers a growing market, safe and sustainable production.
Decisions on pubic policies should preserve rules
market, respect private property and reaffirm the basic principles
governing the rule of law.
Has increased in the last ten years, the tax burden in agriculture (of
6% to over 10%, considering the income tax to rural leases).
It is not feasible to capture the necessary investments to sustain high rates
growth when, repeatedly, the government proposes continuous modifications to sectoral taxation, conveying uncertainty to economic agents.
Another factor that has a negative impact on the competitiveness of domestic production, has been the monetary and exchange rate management, which has been determined
a transfer of resources to other segments of the economy. Consequently, dollar inflation has raised the cost of production, to the point that
certain sectors such as rice, which have extraordinary levels of productivity and quality in the world, have a negative economic balance
compromises their future.

164

Colorado Party
In the context of a generalized process of decline in the quality of services
public (education, health, security, infrastructure, etc.) there is a strong
inequity in the services you receive within the country. So with the
job opportunities. In this context, we understand that the state can and
You must do more in this area, such as extending the offer
technical and university education, generate development poles as they were in their
Botnia time, the border Free Shops and policies to promote the tourism industry across the country. Overcoming this historical inequality between city and countryside is a must to alleviate debt.
Moreover, the increase in production in the sector is causing an increase in the costs of transporting production in
As the roads, who do not have proper maintenance deteriorate. The divestment has been our route network, aggravates
lack of competitiveness of domestic production.
In turn, the changes that brought the heavy investments that caught the industry,
They have also caused changes in business patterns in the
management companies in their production and management approach, which have
identified a trend towards concentration of the means of production. From
this process, there is the increasing difficulty of small and medium producers who are increased threats of sustainability, not access
benefits of greater production scale, technology and services
modern agriculture.
The farming activity (covering among others horticulture, viticulture, fruit, citrus, beekeeping, poultry, and rabbits suuinicultura) deserves
a special mention for its different social structure to other sectors
agricultural.
The final sectoral program applied, which was created by our party, was the
Restructuring and Development Programme Farm (PREDEG, 1996-2005)
from the early stages, concerning the production restructuring, which allowed to start the modernization of production structures and technical capabilities they were met. He missed the final stage of developing organizational consolidation to successfully meet the challenge of export. Suspension

165

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
PREDEG, combined with the long period of exchange rate appreciation that followed in macroeconomic terms, reversed much of the progress made, returning to
sector in a similar situation to the starting point, but with a worsening or
acceleration of the processes of concentration and expulsion of farmers, mainly young people.
Also, there has been a noticeable decline in the sector organizational tools such as JUNAGRA and INAVI, where representations
unions have lost participation and institutions have replaced the
Traditional technical assistance credit assistance order.
The second important milestone was PREDEG after the law establishing the Fund for Reconstruction and Development Farm, who also came from a Colorado government (05.30.2002), and allowed these governments pay
completely borrowing sector and subsidize insurance have
fresh resources for business plans.

Finally, While it has improved and diversified the productive matrix
agricultural sector, this being highly beneficial, we understand that natural resources are subjected to more intensive use, requiring care
preservation. To meet this objective, we need application and
improvement of good production practices, based on the awareness of sustainability and environmental stewardship to be assumed as the supreme value in society.

166

Colorado Party
Sectoral policies that will address and then seek to sustain
a process of agricultural development that generates prosperity, spilling its benefits to the whole economy and the Uruguayan society.
General objectives:
 Achieving greater equity, improving opportunities for the citizens of the country.
 Improve international integration, to conquer markets for increasing and improving employment levels of workers in the sector.
 To consolidate a production model with volume, quality and diversification
productive, but that particular care with the natural resource, respecting
sustainability criteria and avoiding the misuse imposed by short-term view.
 Establish a framework of certainty and macroeconomic stability, stimulating investment, respecting private property, rules
governing the rule of law and free markets.
 Moving towards a more efficient state, thereby restoring services
education, health, security, health, roads, highways, ports and others
State services and infrastructure at a fair cost.
 Encourage partnership initiatives for small and medium producers, seeking to mitigate the adverse effects on the economies of those companies due to their small scale. Strengthening these producers will avoid land abandonment, depopulation of the countryside,
preserving traditions, customs, traditions and our own identity
national.
 Provide the producer and his collaborators technology adoption, the
related training, access to knowledge, new production tools that will be generated from a system research and extension that will receive priority and adequate resources from both the public and the private sphere.
 To mitigate the harmful effects caused to production the advent
increasingly frequent and extreme weather events supposedly attributable to a process of large-scale climate change.

167

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
 Encourage and strengthen agricultural institutions with greater involvement of the private sector in its management and operation.
Strategic Objective 1 - Ensure stable and favorable environment for production and
the job
To fulfill this goal will promote the following:
1. Develop a fiscal, monetary and exchange policy to ensure the stability and competitiveness of employment and national agricultural production.
2. Replicate the agro-forestry model and derivatives looking
promoting products that generate chains insertion possibilities
external markets, prioritizing installation in areas with lower levels of development.
3. Develop, considering the special characteristics of our country, one
capital market options granted to rural producers to access
to venture capital and to operate in futures markets.
4. Encourage funding mechanisms for agricultural projects
backed by innovative production projects; technically and economically feasible.
5. To promote credit lines for simple and timely meet the small and medium rural producers form, much needed in recent times
comprehensive assistance for development projects in the middle.
Strategic Objective 2 - Strengthen national health policies
To fulfill this objective we will develop the following:
1. Invest in the structure and processes that make monitoring health status of animal and plant production, thus contributing to its improvement,
environment, food safety and market access
international.
2. Strengthening disease surveillance, preventing the entry of exotic diseases, controlling or eradicating existing diseases
low health campaign.
3. Coordinate with the private players, free university professions
exercise interference in these issues.
168

Colorado Party
4. Improve the functioning of the National Livestock Identification System, based in Uruguay bovine traceability and differentiation factor
Uruguay abroad.
Strategic Objective 3 - Develop international insertion of Uruguay
International trade requires a high specialization and constant dedication
for continuous improvement of business conditions for access of national products to world markets.
Difficulties in accessing certain agricultural markets under envision
the evolution of international negotiations involving countries or blocs with whom we trade.
On the one hand, they are advanced the agreements to establish a Treaty
US Free Trade Agreement - European Union, which eventually would lead to difficulties of access to high-quality beef that enters via
481 fee.
Similarly, given the complexities and the internal asymmetries to Mercosur, it becomes difficult to move forward on a trade agreement with the European Union, whose negotiations began more than a decade and are almost paralyzed today as
global trade grows and progresses.
On the other hand, it is looming loss of profits of the country to be excluded from the Generalized System of Preferences granted by developed countries.
Following the strategic plan set by the World Integrated Uruguay, we understand that:
 International negotiations should guide the opening and improved market access for all (multilateral, hemispheric, regional, bi-regional, bilateral) levels with particular attention to the possibility of realization of free trade agreements (FTAs).
 It should professionalize international negotiations (coordinating
between different ministries and private actors) with adelan-

169

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
you negotiations with the aim of improving the international insertion
our offer exportable.95
Strategic Objective 4 - Improving and developing services and infrastructure for the countryside
To fulfill this objective we will develop the following:
1. To implement the measures described in other chapters of the program
improve the quality and efficiency of public services (education, health,
security, infrastructure, etc.), thus affecting the quality of life
people and the competitiveness of workers and empresarios.96
2. Reduce prices of basic inputs such as electricity and gas oil,
high impact on production costs, transport and living costs
of citizens in general.
3. Dedicate resources released from a more efficient management and
deregulated public enterprises and redefining policy
subsidies and taxes levied on utility rates. (See Chapter Economy and Finance)
4. Strengthen items to retrieve the status of roads and paths (see Chapter
Transport Infrastructure).
5. Make feasible projects to the output of our export production, serving the needs and quality of life of the locals.
6. To promote rural electrification plan so you can bring the service to all parts of the country, combined with the private effort
public as appropriate.
7. Improve telephone communications and Internet access in isolated localities quality today are not covered.
Strategic Objective 5 - Develop programs Research and development
biotecnología97
Within the framework developed to achieve Uruguay Future, will be defined
policies that promote effective coordination between the various institutes
research, creating a synergy between them, so to answer
For markets as priorities, the creation of specialized commercial attaches proposed in
issues of agricultural trade and both animal and plant health
96 In view special chapter Infrastructure
97 See Future Uruguay - Chapter Science, Technology and Research (CTI)
95

170

Colorado Party
the requirements of the productive sector. In this sense, we understand that
must develop the following:
1. Increase and prioritize research, in order to generate tools
the result is a clear impact on the productive air with strong impact on the economy.
2. Address the research effort is channeled to benefit
General production, bringing down costs, improve efficiency,
productivity and not to specific commercial interests.
3. Strengthen the processes of technological change through their stages of research, validation and adoption of technology, considered key to
maintaining the competitiveness of the sector.
4. Establish agreements with the most advanced institutions or companies
developing biotechnology research tools in order to generate
production adapted to the needs of the country, according to the priorities established in due course.
5. Reaching international complementation agreements and technological exchange with public or private entities abroad.
Strategic Objective 6 - Develop training programs to employers and
workers
Actions to the attention of youth employment and develop work experience first. In particular through a strong impetus to the experiences
from formal education itself (internships) as well as through programs
Training through INEFOP, boosting its effectiveness and impact level
national. (See Uruguay educated and integrated - Chapter Education).
Strategic objective 7 - Boosting Phosphated fertilization in Uruguay
Proven is that Uruguay soils are deficient in phosphorus deficiency that
inhibits the proper development of pastures and crops. The absence of re-fertilization of pastures, in the form recommended technically, makes a
becomes investment expenditure. This causes serious injury to producers who
It is reflected in the national economy. The same applies to agriculture,
forestry or horticulture, where the application of fertilizers is by debate

171

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
jo as technically recommended due to a business decision to reduce costs.
Therefore, the creation of the National Fund Phosphorus consider necessary
which will aim to increase investment in livestock achieving a progressive development and improvement of the field as well as the introduction of artificial pastures to allow an increase in production quality.
We understand that the contribution of public funds to have a return FONAFO
important to society as it will generate greater volume and quality of production, plus an increase in revenue. It will impact especially
on the profitability of small producers, who can improve their field
at a higher rate, while accessing technical assistance
Implicit in the project.
Thus, it gives greater competitiveness livestock that
It has given a good proportion of their area of ​​operation to other activities
stimulated more profitable and productive. With this and other instruments
make our proposal will seek to reverse the decline in physical production,
increasing slaughter age and the seasonal behavior of the offer, which
They have characterized the livestock production in recent times and marking
regression in relation to the efforts of a decade ago. His administration will consist of the public and private sectors together. In this regard we propose:
 Create a National Fund that point phosphorus in the first 5 years
of existence, phosphate fertilizing with 200,000 hectares annually
pastures.
Strategic objective 8 - Encourage the creation of water reservoirs
Given the climate variability, unpredictability and increased risk for
production processes, largely as a result of climate change,
They will surely producing increasingly extreme drought episodes.
To that end, adaptation strategies are required, for which it is considered
must develop a program to create water reserves (fundamental

172

Colorado Party
tally runoff from rain), so to have this resource
for human use of animals or irrigation.
This program will, among other uses, to incorporate annually a large number of farmers with irrigation potential. Prioritize research in the field as well as the training of technicians in irrigation,
given the existing technical and training deficiencies. It is expressed
should:
 Encourage through greater fiscal stimulus program to build water reservoirs and / or irrigation (target: 20,000 hectares per year).
Strategic objective 9 - Preserving the environment and improve the natural field
The natural area in Uruguay has been the foundation of our livestock production
for centuries and continues to represent the largest area of ​​operation between
the different agricultural sectors. It is our largest reserve of biodiversity and
a true national heritage. Since in recent years it has yielded
an important area to other productions, we understand must be deepened
study, use, improvement and preservation, on the basis that continue
It is the foundation of our production. In this framework we propose:
1. Develop and implement proposals and commitments in the Environment Chapter (Uruguay Future).
2. Improve the current Plan of Use and Management of Soils as an important tool for resource conservation in agricultural regions and
establishment of rotations in accordance with good agricultural practices.

3. Build institutional technical economic logistical resources, and the
operation of a directorate or institute dedicated to the preservation,
Research and range management.
Strategic objective 10 - Establish measures to mitigate climate change
To fulfill this objective we will develop the following:

173

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
1. Constitute a national agricultural emergency fund budget and sector resources to address the effects of health crises or extreme weather.
2. Prepare a proposal for agricultural insurance, taking into account the characteristics of each production. We believe that public funds should be used to cut costs, with the understanding that it is better to have
prevention tools that handle emergencies with resources
always arrive late and partial way. Currently, the agricultural insurance is used in very low proportion by producers because of its
high cost, low diffusion and technical difficulties in their correct application. Do not
However, there are positive experiences with sectoral sure they can
set an example for their wider application.
Strategic Objective 11 - Develop policies for small and medium producers
The different areas of the Uruguayan agricultural sector are made up
producing a significant diversity in terms of the scale of production. All of the items have a very different outlook very
varied producers coexist with other commercial-scale production of family characteristics.
Priority and specific policies in place to mitigate the negative effects of the reduced production scale represents small and medium producers, following the cross-search guideline equality
opportunities. This line will look:
1. Stimulate associative experiences through Rural Associations, Societies and Cooperative Development.
2. Promote technical assistance programs, technology transfer, training, marketing, access to financing and agribusiness development, to professionalise current and future endeavors.
3. Address the particularities of these sectors, strengthening economies
family.

174

Colorado Party
4. Promote programs of access to land by young natives of
rural areas, in order to keep people in their environment and mitigate
depopulation of the countryside.
5. Create programs of the National Institute of Colonization for the activity
farmer, specifically addressing the reality of this particular
sector.
6. Consolidate an agro-industrial farmer model that ensures the sovereignty
food of our country and to project with greater presence in the export setting offering a competitive, secure and sustainable domestic production, creating the National Institute of Farm.
7. Promote the integration of production chains industries.
8. Create the Institute for Farm and generate new sectoral development plans, from the previous successful examples as PRENADER and PREDEG, covering all areas of the sector for the domestic market and export.
9. Focus on Export Consortia support as a way to group
producers and industrialists to access more professionally and effectively to international markets.
10. Integrate rural women to training programs, partnerships and funding, dignifying and projecting their role in the new rurality.
11. Develop specific education programs to meet the specific needs of rural youth, with particular emphasis on adolescence and
their integration into secondary education, technical education nesting
through valid alternatives for training in trades / professions
dignify the development of the individual and provide the most
high levels of human and professional qualities (See Uruguay Educated and Integrated - Chapter Education developing specific proposals for
rural).
Strategic objective 12 - Promoting rural development on a sustainable basis
Rural development policies should from a territorial conception
determined by the use of own political territory of each natural resources, productive, cultural, and social processes. The state has a substantial role as articulator of actions developed by public and private actors.

175

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
Local governments are directly involved in a decentralized strategy. TO
It plans from the various municipal or local development, is an
framework guiding public and private actions and investments, reflecting the
feelings, expectations and desires of the community. In this manner
may identify specific projects for the implementation of actions or
implementation of investment projects.
1. Coordinate actions and instruments identified for implementation
policies that target the attention of the rural population, trying to eradicate rural poverty, both residents of towns and villages as very small farmers and peasants with activities
subsistence farming. The dignity of man in rural areas should be the ultimate goal.
2. Prioritize the readjustment of production of small and medium scale producers, from self manageable rearing fields, or the
resettlement in economically viable units. To this end the Institute
National Colonization was established as an ideal and strategic player
under the full force of the law of colonization.
Strategic Objective 13 - Review the tax system and investment for
Agricultural
To fulfill this objective we will develop the following:
1. Tend to sectoral taxes are based on real income,
reducing the impact of estate taxes blind or the earth does not take into account the economic results of the undertakings
to changes in markets, climate and health status.
2. Strengthen mechanisms to stimulate investment in specific areas
as irrigation, research and breeding.
3. We will remove all types of drawdown exports.
4. Maintain freedom of export of live cattle, improving current
operation.

176

Colorado Party

INDUSTRY
Hand in hand with globalization have produced a significant body of
changes in the global industry structure, namely:
 Relocation less intensive industrial use
of unskilled work (textiles, toys, etc.) in countries with lower
relative development.
 Significant increase in industrial production in China and its share of world exports, including exports
advanced manufacturing.
 pronounced reduction of direct labor used in manufacturing processes by means of automation.
These global changes that are specific to other industrial activity in emerging countries and Latin America in the last decade, which have been expressed in the Chapter of Finance added.
The new international and regional economic scenario, become imperative to make some changes so that our country becomes more attractive
weight of its own merits.
According to a study by the Economic Research Department of the Chamber of Industries of Uruguay (November 2012) there has been no progress in
industrial productivity in the period 1991-2011, beyond those generated
by the substitution of labor by capital. Productivity must see
the efficiency with which labor and capital to produce and apply the
factor behind growth in production over the remainder
explained by greater use of labor and / or capital. According to the report
"The results arising from different estimates of productivity
Total factor productivity can be concluded that the industry (excluding production zones) did not constitute a positive contribution
in productivity in the last 20 years "
46% of industrial exports are associated with processing
agricultural raw materials, which added to the exports of material
Raw unprocessed reach the 76% of exports. The remaining large
177

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
items export industrial representing 15% of total exports and have in common depend heavily on access to the markets of Argentina and Brazil with products that were made from raw materials of extra-Mercosur origin tariff exemptions or
They are subject to trade regimes compensated (to import from Uruguay to export to Uruguay).
Pillars foundation for industrial development
Industrial policy visions have matured over the past
level decades much of the Uruguayan society. Today there are few who do not
acknowledge the failure of the import substitution model, based on the
paralyzing protection. We agree with the relevance of several points and the
integrated approach to the work of the Chamber of Industries of Uruguay "Uruguay Industrial - Vision and proposals CIU" (September 2009) as detailed and carry forward:
 Recognition of the role of entrepreneurs and promote entrepreneurship.
 Labour relations based on trust and cooperation.
 Conditions for access to third markets, negotiating flexibilities
MERCOSUR.
 abundant and cheap energy.
 fuels, transport, communications infrastructure and competitive.
 Product markets and competency-based inputs.
 A less burdensome tax system.
 A quality public spending implemented within a framework of efficiency.
 An education system that aims to quality at all levels.
 A more integrated technical education, vocational and university with
the business world.
 Consolidation of support for innovation and technological development.
 National Plan for Improving Productivity with special development
specific programs for MSMEs and support for a culture
exporter.

178

Colorado Party
 Promoting and improving access to credit for MSMEs.
 Improving the system of investment promotion.
 Creation of simplified systems for investment promotion
MSMEs.
 Introduction of the environmental factor as a basis for attaining development
sustainable.
1. Innovation / Entrepreneurship / Competition
An industrial policy must have as an essential component innovation policy. And an innovation policy to be effective, needs the support of a competition policy. Competition policy must
based in turn on a policy of entrepreneurship. An entrepreneurship policy needs innovation policy, thus closing the circle.
Faced with this reality, it is important to promote cultural change and markets
more competitive, to develop innovation in existing businesses and
to create better conditions for the creation or arrival of new innovative enterprises.
Contact with developed markets and the arrival of foreign investors
It has proven to be a catalyst to accelerate the achievement of such objectives
(Eg arrival of Argentine farmers, operators of the port of Montevideo, Botnia and other undertakings developed in a free zone).
All this leads to political entrepreneurship. There are two types of policy entrepreneurship. Cutting social policies that seek to alleviate
unemployment by way of enabling the unemployed believe micro, or
development policy, pointing to the high-impact projects,
They are those in relatively short periods of time generate
significant amount of employment and added value. We will promote both
types of policies, in order to support those who want to get ahead with his
effort and work. (See Future Uruguay - Chapter Entrepreneurship)
2. Anticipate / stimulate / regulate
The State shall identify potential sectors whose development can
accelerate through proactive policies, to the extent that such policies do not

179

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
install involving unfair competition to other sectors. Once identified these sectors, review the regulatory framework in order to improve and develop a system of incentives that is consistent with the objectives pursued. The main rationale for these interventions is that the
peacefully accept the result of "natural" rhythms is the irreversible loss of opportunities. 98
3. Sophistication / research / training
The greater the simplicity of a product, the easier it is to produce and
more producers will, with the effect of more bidders and less
price. Making more complex products that target needs
sophisticated customers is a prerequisite for healthy progress in adding value to our industrial production requirement.
But the development of sophisticated products requires knowledge generation and privileged access to them and trained to translate this knowledge into value for staff, why conducting local research and development of continuing education programs is needed. This research not only provides companies with the necessary information
to design new products and production processes, but
It is also the basis for training programs for innovative human resources.
You need to identify for each national industry which is the next phase in terms of sophistication of their products and, for cases to be
take the technological leap feasible, support for generating research bases and training necessary.
The training innovation requires not only goes through the technological aspects, but also for management. Innovation high demands on management capacity. The innovation has enormous potential for
companies, but is simultaneously a highly demanding and risky process
expensive, why it is fundamentally a proper assessment of the
costs and benefits associated with each project and developing a strategy
innovation that is consistent with the overall strategy of the company.
98

180

Examples of these policies were promotion schemes and computer Forestry

Colorado Party
4. physical / intellectual / human capital
The way technological progress hits in each sector determines their
capacity for innovation and future growth. In "mature" sectors
that there are significant changes, technological innovations go mainly by suppliers of capital goods, trying
"Capture" in the performance of teams the knowledge, skills and
skills possessed by workers. Investments in these sectors point
primarily equipment that reduces the amount of employees and a decrease in the required rating, with a consequent reduction in pay. While the market does not grow the final effect is a
decline in employment and remuneration. The big winners in this process are manufacturers of capital goods, usually living abroad the country.
The other side points to the generation of human capabilities allowing internal innovation in products and processes by means of research
and development and identification, assimilation and transformation of abundant
existing knowledge in the business environment. For this, the company not only
have to invest in physical capital, but also the intellectual capital and human capital of the company.
A line of action is to create conditions for the incorporation
sophisticated physical capital, the need is being defined from the
policies that we have previously seen, in particular innovation policies
and anticipation.
Productivity increases (and international competitiveness) related to
these projects generate skilled jobs, promoting
research and development and the added value associated with this
project type driving end all domestic production, generating
new jobs in the entire national production chain.
Access to trade agreements with developed countries and therefore more sophisticated markets, generate new incentives for innovation and diversification of the productive matrix with higher value added.

181

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
5. Work / Business / Government Formation
The world requires us to continuously improve to compete successfully. He
State should promote the ongoing formation of public, private and business workers, at all levels, in order that each one of them,
no matter the place they occupy, have a tool for continuous improvement.
In this regard, integrating the world of work and business with the education will be an important action to take on (See Uruguay Educated
and integrated - Chapter Education).
6. MSMEs: technology and business transfer / scale / management training
According to Table 1 for small and medium enterprises (those between 5 and 99
employees) are 20 733, representing 16.89% of economic units and
They generate 309,797 jobs, accounting for 42.51% of total employment.

Stretch of staff
busy

Table 1 - Number of companies and jobs in Uruguay - 201199
Amount of
units
1-4
5-19
20-99
100 +

%

YTD%

101 339 82.55% 82.55%
16,843 13.72% 96.27%
3,890
3.17% 99.44%
686
0.56% 100.00%
122 758 100.00%

Amount of
jobs

%

YTD%

22.71% 165 531 22.71%
158 669 21.77% 44.49%
151 128 20.74% 65.23%
253 411 100.00% 34.77%
728739

In Table 2 we restricted the analysis to companies that cover the
character manufacturing enterprises.
Table 2 - Number of jobs in manufacturing and Uruguay -2,011,100
Tranche
personal
busy
1 (1-4)
2 (5-9)
3 (10-19)

Quantity
units
10,815
1,994
1,172

%
72.0%
13.3%
7.8%

Quantity
% YTD job
72.0%
85.2%
93.0%

16,664
13,360
15,886

%
12.2%
9.8%
11.6%

YTD%
12.2%
22.0%
33.7%

Source: Compiled from "Uruguay in Numbers 2012", the National Institute of Statistics,
http://www.ine.gub.uy/biblioteca/uruguayencifras2012/capítulos/Empresas%20y%20Sectores%20de%20Actividad.pd
f, accessed March 15, 2013.
100 Source: Compiled from the Permanent Register of Economic Activities, INE, 2011.
99

182

Colorado Party
4 (20-49)
5 (50-99)
6 (100-199)
7 (200-499)
8 (500+)
Total
Tranche
personal
busy

644
4.3%
97.3%
197
1.3%
98.6%
108
0.7%
99.3%
77
0.5%
99.8%
24
0.2% 100.0%
15 031 100.0% 100.0%
Quantity
units

(1-4)
(5-19)
(20-99)
(100+)
Total

%

10,815
3,166
841
209
15,031

72.0%
21.1%
5.6%
1.4%
100%

19,438
14.2%
47.9%
13,734
10.1%
58.0%
14,776
10.8%
68.8%
22,589
16.6%
85.4%
19,975
14.6% 100.0%
136 423 100.0% 100.0%

YTD%

Quantity
jobs

72.0%
93.0%
98.6%
100.0%
100%

16,664
29,246
33,172
57,341
136423

%

YTD%

12.2%
12.2%
21.4%
33.7%
24.3%
58.0%
42.0% 100.0%
100% 100.0%

MSMEs are thus the bulk of economic activity in the country, not being the
industrial sector an exception to this rule. We found that most
are mature industries in which innovation and improvement
especially important challenges facing competitiveness. A activities
described for the industry overall additional activities aimed at contemplating their specific weaknesses will be added. The strategy will aim
three dimensions: technology transfer, scale generation and entrepreneurship.

Transfer
technological and
commercial

Training
Business

Scale

The small size of the domestic market often makes it very difficult for
enterprises to upgrade technologically and to keep up with

183

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
the latest trends in the sector worldwide. A key component
the strategy is to identify the gaps for each sector and ensure close them.
Empower industrial MSMEs required in many cases expand their
markets. This requires mechanisms to promote cooperation between
sector companies how to enhance their bargaining power in the purchase of inputs and the generation of a joint bid to allow market access mundial.101

101

They apply to micro, small and medium industrial enterprises, all the guidelines and actions
detailed in section dedicated to MSMEs chapter of Economy and Finance.

184

Colorado Party

TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE
The country needs rapid transport, safe, cheap and sustainable, which allows good service to the population for movement and production and
domestic trade and the world is your market. Transport and infrastructure require investments, rehabilitation and maintenance that have not been
It has been conducted since 1999 due to the crisis experienced by the country's first since 2005 for not being on the priorities of the government of the day.
The road network was a regional example before 1999, suffered a
deterioration due to lack of care, which we estimate at USD
1,300,000,000 determines that there is a consensus today on the poor state of
the road network. (Source: Infrastructure Uruguay 2030). This is the same
while forestry and agricultural loads have been multiplied by 3, so
deterioration which lack the largest transit investment is added.
Finally, the pulp mills and the port of Nueva Palmira have changed
itineraries traffic flow without having acted accordingly improving access routes to those destinations.
The lack of maintenance paid particular society and citizens
they consumed more fuel, more time, more trips to the workshop due to bad
Road conditions in the country with the most expensive fuel in the world
and taxes that would be more than sufficient to cover the roads and streets
country in excellent condition.
The country's ports continued growth of export cargo and
regional logistics services stimulated by international demand.
Montevideo improved its capacity by expanding the container terminal that has allowed it to grow while the Port of Nueva Palmira grew
private investment by Botnia-UPM and expansion of private terminals.
Navigation channels Rio de la Plata have been constant discussion with
Argentina, in a process that international relations were yielding
Argentina face pressure in both channels as in Garcia Martin

185

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
access channels to the port of Montevideo today to let outside risk
the circuits of international traffic.
The railway in 7 years FA government not stepped forward, despite the commitment
FA with this mode, and the cargoes are still of the same order
It is transporting the coming decades in 1,300,000 tons,
ie less than 5% of the cargo handled in the country, at a time when
general cargo multiplied 3 which shows the low confidence
rail mode by the producers.
Private firms have been of road freight transport which
They made huge investments to move production. However, the
government has threatened concept that breaks the pay; concept
inviabilizaría applied to production and transport. Transport
Railway should be promoted for specific cases, bulk loading point
point.
Domestic passenger did not experience major changes, except
subsidy the State became give companies, modifying the bases
economic of a service that so far no state contributions required.
The international passenger suffered enormously crisis PLUNA
and its consequences, replacing PLUNA by other airlines and for the "ferry", while an increase in fares. The crisis generated in
this company is demonstrative of a lack of management skills, which brought
Consequently a strong connection loss of the country, the region and the world.
Despite all the drawbacks of the various modes of transport, the country
He managed to keep their logistics activity in the path of growth effect
business sectors and because the government did not dare to realize the
Ads change significantly regimes free port and free zone (pillars of logistics development).
The overall objectives of transport policy that we propose can be
summarized as follows:
186

Colorado Party
 In general, recompose investment and road maintenance on
infrastructure lag recover from years of underinvestment and lack of
proper maintenance.
 As for rail, maximize their contribution to national growth,
particularly in the massive loads, roads in origin and destination (as
cheaper form of transport, reduce accidents, and improve
environmental pollution);
 In the field area, keep rearranging and improving connectivity
country.
 on ports realize the works that are proposed in the master plan to develop the port and access to Nueva Palmira and forecast
Future port developments by making the corresponding studies to anticipate events. While reverse
the sign of international decisions affecting maritime transport and promote its development.
Strategic Objective 1 - Define investment priorities
To fulfill this objective we will develop the following:


Submit a proposal for rehabilitation and maintenance
the total network is justified by currently available methodologies, priority actions, so as to ensure that
the investment return is assured and that the works are postponing lower priority than those considered in the first
years.



Concrete investments in the dock of the Port of Montevideo C and
fishing port of Montevideo.



Promote the installation of container terminals to alleviate the port of Montevideo.



Review, adjust and promote private initiatives port investments that are delayed in the ANP or the Executive.



Define the necessary work to ensure a more harmonious relationship
Harbour City, both in Montevideo and Nueva Palmira, Conchillas, Fray Bentos and Paysandu

187

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020


Conduct serious studies to ensure the economic, technical,
social and environmental development of an ocean port, defining first if the same
port will be protected waters, bulk port or port
development in stages, as previous elements to define its
location on an informed basis.



Rebuild and profitable concession railway sections (considering
savings in construction and maintenance of routes), in a regime
possible with several operators.



Dredge access channels to Montevideo and Nueva Palmira to improve
competitiveness.

Strategic Objective 2 - Make feasible the financing needed for development
of the proposed actions


Duplicate resources (national and provincial) road investment, without creating new taxes or fees, to advance recovery
the existing lag in investment and network maintenance
road, creating a trust fund to administer sufficient resources for that
target (from the IMESI fuels).



Modify the concession contract with the CND MTOP-CVU respecting the criteria that will deal with roads that are currently
toll debt services of the works that have been carried out
these corridors.



Promote the creation of logistic trucks and rail terminals,
to ensure the viability of the new system.

Strategic Objective 3 - Create conditions to optimize actions on
transport infrastructure
We do not consider PPP arrangements are appropriate for this type of road investment because now what is required of resources is 10 times higher than what is collected by tolls. Therefore PPP agreements on roads
They are possible only if the repayment of private sector investment is made
via the State, which raises funds for the fuel tax.
As such, you should:

188

Colorado Party


Enhance the role of the Uruguay Road Corporation, defining its role
trustee or dealer, and ensuring that procedures
hiring respect the criteria of administrative contracting.



Promoting technological modernization, renewal and complement
technical schools, improving the quality of works and services and
increasing professional responsibility and the contractor and the incorporation of ICT technologies in transport (electronic seals, GPS,
control, etc.).



Develop partnerships with local universities, with the University
Technology and the UTU and abroad oriented Universities
strengthen the technical capacity of professionals, managers and operators.



If realized the availability of natural gas to encourage its use
automotive fuel as friendly to the environment in fleets
captive (taxis case).



Promote institutional change in the case of rail, in which
roads within the competence of the State and the transaction is deregulated, to
like the European Union and a system of promotion marketing
Railway namely that each ton rail transport
receives a contribution equivalent to the consumption of State road
if there would be transported by truck, which in turn supply is
integrate into a fund for railway investment.

189

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020

ROAD SAFETY
The alert statistics figures of accidents, deaths and injuries in traffic
They talk about a serious road safety problem. It would be wrong to assume that is
just a matter of safety belts, air bags, brakes and helmets. It is well
protective measures referred a matter of training, awareness and
of Education. Therefore we consider essential to develop a coordinated national policy since the UNASEV. It is necessary for educational institutions,
health, MTOP, Ministry of Interior and the departmental governments act in a coordinated manner within the framework of that policy.
In 25 years, traffic problems have grown exponentially in our country, on par with the expansion of the fleet.
A road safety policy must address the urgent need to correct in
the most effective current conditions, and simultaneously plan and
implement solutions that advance answers to future problems.
In this regard, we will develop the following:
1) Establishment of a National Road Safety Policy from the
UNASEV in the design and implementation involve educational institutions, health, MTOP, the Interior Ministry and the Congress of Mayors. In this framework, institutions will also participate in civil society working in the field, in addition to those that have direct implications as insured companies and unions of employers and employees in the transport sector.
2) Development of a control system to ensure the effective implementation
national rules coordinating actions between all entities
with jurisdiction in the matter.
3) Strengthening road safety training in coordination with
Education authorities at all levels with specific interventions in schools to communication strategies
impact on the prevention of risk behaviors. In this process
training is necessary not only to provide training in the centers
education, but they must also develop strategies that involve families and through them, to the communities that comprise it.

190

Colorado Party
4) Develop and strengthen the resources and powers of the UNASEV as
national entity in the field.
5) Development and implementation of a National Quick Response System
Emergency Road and reference centers nationally (See Chapter Health).
6) Promoting easy access to the rehabilitation of people who have suffered accidents in the framework of the aforementioned reference centers.
This is an important problem in the country to be considered. The tall
number of accidents involving subsequent consequences that must be
addressed to achieve their best and prompt technical and vocational rehabilitation specialist. The establishment of spaces / centers with strong experience in this area is a need to be resolved.
7) Unification of the rules and requirements for the granting of notebooks
driving around the country, in coordination with departmental governments. The standardization of requirements, in particular
for granting permits to "professionals" should be especially regulated and the centralization of information.
8) Attention areas that are important to address the issue:
8.1)

National, departmental and local pavements - You need the
adequacy and proper maintenance of the same in order that
vehicles which are in transit through predictable paths, and
not where they can and erratically. In this regard, it has been proposed in the chapter of a National Transport Infrastructure Plan to meet the necessary maintenance of roads across the country, which also must be coordinated with regional governments as appropriate.

8.2)

Parking - This subject deserves to be treated with special emphasis on cities with the largest number of people and vehicles.
Should create new spaces for this purpose, so that more direct government intervention and promoting necessary
the private.

8.3)

Signaling and control - By signaling should be understood not only
direction indicators and street names, signs saying "Stop" or

191

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
"Yield" (vertical signaling), but the effective and permanent marking of the paths on the pavement where you must travel
not to occupy "the entire width of the street" (road markings); to
This computerized control system cameras are added to
allow not only identifying infringements but display the various
situations crossings and strategic way. The capture systems
Images and simulation programs are an indispensable tool for planning of modern urban mobility. In
Ultimately, proper signage is one of the ways to "expand" the transit routes, which are by definition and reality "inelastic" and should accommodate a huge fleet in expansión.102
8.4)

Streamlining the Motor Pool - Rationalisation of the park
Automotive is long-term task, which will require a great
political / social continuity that agreement, because while measures should be taken as soon as possible, its effects are occurring in Iran
progressively over the years.

9) Under the design of a national policy, deserves special mention
developing training plans of people who daily vehicles circulating in the local and national level professionally and as
livelihood. Also human resources for supervision, guidance and supervision in the field throughout the country must be
trained moving from a vision to a vision fundraising guidance and training, without prejudice to the consolidation of a system
sanctions according to the entity of the violations committed.

The signaling system of France, and the experience of the public transport system in Shanghai, should be
considered as background on these issues, without prejudice to consider other solutions found worldwide.
102

192

Colorado Party

FOREIGN TRADE AND GLOBAL SERVICES
LOGISTICS
Services related to foreign trade, global services and logistics,
directly employed in the vicinity of 30,000. In addition, the close contact of this activity with the world, makes it to be a channel
intensive incorporation of innovation and technology in Uruguayan society.
From the survey developed by the company and by DIGIT
INALOG in March 2013 on a total of 300 companies were Logistics Hub
They obtained the following figures:

Uruguay over the past two decades has positioned itself as a leader in Latin America as a platform for Foreign Trade Service
Global and logistics as well as distribution centers in goods

193

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
international transit. The logistics development grew out of Zone Law
Free and Ports Act.
General objectives
 Being the benchmark for Latin America in foreign trade, global services and logistics.
 generate skilled jobs and conditions of cross employability.
 Attract FDI (Foreign Direct Investment) to continue to grow
our exports of goods
 Incorporating cutting-edge technologies as a way to compete properly on the world market.
 create conditions for Uruguay is positioned as a platform for attracting immigration and Uruguayans abroad from the
opportunities of internationalization of trade, services
and global logistics.
Strategic Objective 1 - Develop framework and institutional changes
sector
To fulfill this objective we will develop the following:
1. Reinstatement and re-launch of the Free Trade Areas reporting to the Minister of Economy, whose budget is supported by the fees paid by operators or developers of free zones and
It generates the same Directorate (formerly existing) with sufficient and qualified personnel for the expeditious approval of users processed, risk analysis and facilitating control, development of indicators and promotion of the scheme.
2. Development and Administration of the Free Zone of Nueva Palmira, following the successful model of the Container Terminal of the Port of Montevideo and Carrasco International Airport.
3. Generation inside the Free Zone of control posts
sanitary and phyto customs to clear the approaches to the Port of
Montevideo (using sealed-mail) and creating new employment opportunities in these centers within the country. It takes as mo-

194

Colorado Party
ZEAL model (Expansion Zone and Logistics Support) of the Port of Valparaiso in Chile.
4. Give greater certainty to investors, through stability contracts
legal, with payment of a premium (modeled on Colombia).
5. Provide Uruguay XXI, a specialized unit and reinforced areas
foreign trade, global services and logistics.
6. Generate specialized units at the diplomatic level to promote Uruguay as World Class Platform foreign trade, services
and global logistics, taking as reference the Proexport of Colombia scheme.
7. Install a multi-party working group to define a roadmap
and consensual plan of action with regard to a policy of Logistics,
Transport and Ports.
Strategic Objective 2 - Promote and consolidate operational changes in the sector
To fulfill this objective we will develop the following:
1. Relieve strategic logistics nodes present in Uruguay and define key in 2015, with the consensus of all political parties and INALOG a
Action Plan 2015 - 2020, which foresees the modernization of Steps
Border, Multimodal Corridors, ports, airports, Extra Areas
Port (LAZ Zones and tips Sayago) and Customs, to
that Uruguay have an Logistics Perfomance Index (PLI) of 3.5 to
2020. With this strong logísiticos Lowering the costs is achieved.
2. Promote and support the VUCE (one-stop trade) that was established in 2013
3. Continue the process of customs facilitation and technological incorporation
DNA in
4. Carry forward from INALOG activities aimed at decentralization of logistics operations and generate centralized in Montevideo
INALOG virtual offices inside the country.

195

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
Strategic Objective 3 - Promote and develop performance indicators in the sector
Developing from Uruguay XXI, a strong strategy for Uruguay to improve its position in international rankings of eligible locations for
the development of Global Services, ourselves the goals:
 Logistics Performance Index (World Bank) 2020 3.5
 be in the top 30 of Tholons Ranking
 be in the top 10 ranking Gartner.

196

Colorado Party

MARITIME DEVELOPMENT AND RIVER
In this area, the main problems to be solved in the immediate need to
all about:
 Argentina does not allow Uruguay to develop the necessary port infrastructure. Prevents new terminal at Nueva Palmira,
Hinders the Martin Garcia channel dredging.
 Argentina promotes measures that seriously affect the legal status of Puerto
Free, particularly the Mercosur Customs Code (CAM) without a
greater resistance from the Uruguayan government.
 Argentina and Brazil aim to prevent international cargo shipping lines acopien Montevideo, imposing local charges
Flag mobilize with Mercosur, with the Multilateral Agreement
Mercosur loads.
 Argentina chooses a new route of the access channel to Buenos Aires,
away to Montevideo and Nueva Palmira in about 180 km from the itinerary
ships arriving in Argentina.
 Argentina prohibits the burden of the country passes through our ports,
claiming that Uruguay did not sign that agreement yet, the size of barge trains is reduced, increasing costs when
the load comes to Uruguayan ports.
 The need to address and solve issues related to infrastructure, which should be expanded to support the growth of the activity. Besides investments (public and private) here requires
better planning and coordination and investment to improve
the interaction between ports and cities (eg New Palmira).
In this context, it seems opportune time to consider and study carefully the
announcements regarding the construction of a Deep Water Port. This undertaking requires serious study that supports the viability of the project,
as a location that does not seem the most appropriate arises. Define in advance the viability of such projects is very important to define
investments that are necessary for the rest of the logistics system. A title
example, if the PAP a viable project, I would be more efficient in-

197

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
regasification cut (which is to be installed in Puntas de Sayago) in that
port. The Intergovernmental Committee of the Paraguay-Parana
(CIH), which for years did not formally in session, has little regulations
attractions that are not consistent with the generous spirit of the Agreement of the Lenas.
And also in Uruguay, naval repairs have grown steadily,
since colonial times, along with the size of the ships that sail the
River Plate and the Uruguay River. There is no sea or river traffic and shipyards
workshops dedicated to ship repair where needed. Ports acquire greater strategic value if the ships using feature
repair services against possible accidents and malfunctions. Ships
Uruguay operating in or near our coasts, they must find a relationship
Attractive cost-effective for routine maintenance Uruguay.
As ships today frequent the River Plate are of larger size, is
They need larger shipyards. The industry also has several advantages
for the country as it is intensive in skilled labor: more than five direct jobs per million dollars invested; allows entry
currency 95% of ship repairs in Uruguay are export of services and the possibility of having the means to address the larger ships that pass through the region autonomy gives our country presence and development opportunities.
General objectives
 professionalize the integration of functional boxes and Chancellery
CARU and CARP, in order to defend themselves effectively and adequately the interests nacionales.103
 Check the port reform of the early 1990s expressing
calling for the provision of efficient and competitive port services for the entire region, preserving and possibly enhancing the benefits achieved.
 Rever concepts rate structure applied to the ANP
encouraging more use of Uruguayan ports.

103

198

Uruguay made the world see - Chapter RREE

Colorado Party
 create a second national register of vessels in order to facilitate and
promote the formation of a Uruguayan flag merchant marine.
The aim is to have a competitive tool for facilitating and
the national flag of vessels to be used in the regional maritime cargo transport, and particularly portering
in transit that are mobilized in the region. This record would target
Cargo transportation vessels whose exclusive destination navigation
or extra national foreign trade.
Strategic Objective 1 - Promote and realize the country's port development
To fulfill this objective we will develop the following:
1. Build the Nueva Palmira port infrastructure (access, docks,
terminals and berths for barges required for the provision of
services to the region).
2. To analyze the feasibility of a Deepwater Port (PAP) based
that can ensure operational loads regional volumes
to make it viable. The studies were carried out by specialized companies of international prestige. If feasible, the construction will be concessioned for a specified period, in a scheme to ensure the widest possible competition. At the end of the concession period, infrastructure will remain in state ownership. Investments will be without sovereign guarantee.
Strategic Objective 2 - Improve navigation and River Transport
To fulfill this objective we will develop the following:
1. Regain URUPABOL agreement joining forces with Paraguay and Bolivia, to promote the waterway and decrease the dependence to date with Argentina.
2. Help Paraguay and Bolivia, who also have Argentine political
negative, to address the need for a suitable maritime access
for international trade.
3. review and update the regulations for the transport of goods by
Paraguay-Parana waterway, considering inter alia:

199

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
4. Strengthen CIH sole executive authority.
5. Remove all existing obstacles today in all member countries of the Treaty (eg pilots clearances, Dimensions
Convoys maximum,
6. Create awareness to promote and develop the body of regulations
with the principle that the owner is self-regulating and authorities audited, the
it means starting over once and for all to have modern equipment, crew training, operational maintenance. permanent technical inspections and safety audits
7. regulations should be improved Berths linked as it is a
theme that the private sector operators claiming to be addressed responsibly.
8. Develop Project on the Uruguay river Rio Studies were conducted
about the viability of the same (considering potential market,
environmental and other requirements of the Treaty of Rio Uruguay). It should return to a negotiating stance that reinforces our sovereignty (not to use the mechanisms of information and consultation provided).
Strategic Objective 3 - Develop and promote ship repairs
To fulfill this objective we will develop the following:
1. Promote in the port area the development of ship repairs,
to be a necessary condition for the development of port activity, increasing the space dedicated to the goal of doubling the
Current turnover of 25 million dollars, seeking to meet demand
services to vessels greater length to 230 meters.
2. Preserve State facilities (especially the Navy) dedicated to the repair and shipbuilding, to be used
by civil and military fleet State.
3. Promote "public - private partnerships" transparent, setting a suitable fee for the use of existing public infrastructure.

200

Colorado Party

TOURISM
Tourism worldwide has become in recent years one of the
fastest growing activities in the economic and social development
Nations.
According to the 2013 report of the World Travel & Tourism Council's contribution
Direct tourism to global GDP was US $ S 2.1 trillion, holding 101 million direct jobs. Considering direct, indirect and induced impacts the estimate increased to U $ S 6.6 trillion the impact of travel and tourism
in world GDP, determinants of 260 million jobs, U $ S 760 billion of investments and U $ S 1.2 trillion exports. In sum responsible
9.3% of world GDP, 1 in 11 jobs, 5% of investment and 5%
exports.
Therefore they are increasingly relevant importance that give countries
activities linked directly or indirectly to tourism seeks
to incorporate them into their economies due to their ability to consume goods and
services produced in their own markets, generating foreign exchange and jobs.
The 2013 report of the WT & TC Uruguay calculated for a direct impact of travel and tourism GDP of 3.4 points and 9.9 points also considering the direct and induced impact (since 79 in the world ranking). The same report
estimated at 3.3% of the impact of tourism jobs in direct employment and
9.3% direct and induced impact.
The Tourism Satellite (CST), has submitted to the Ministry memory
Tourism, 2012 estimated participation of tourism in the economy at 7.5%.
In that year, the inflow of tourists was 2.845.989.C
Tourism is a priority productive activity due to its high economic impact, impact on many economic sectors and diverse members
social fabric.
In the four years 2009/2012 related spending accounted inbound tourism
15.5% of total exports of goods and services and 58.5% of total
Exports of services.

201

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
Issues to consider in developing a tourist proposal
Tourism development, for its mainstreaming involves a number of aspects that impact the environment and affects man and his social fabric, the economy and culture, which were taken into account in the proposed Guidelines proposed as be:
Appearance Environment: The development of tourism impacts on the environment and
social. When that exceeds possible development, environmental degradation and resource depletion occurs, which results in loss
value of tourism resource. It is essential measure to prevent such impacts
possible impairments, ensuring sustainable development.
Sustainable Development: This aspect implies that it must satisfy
present without compromising the ability of future generations
to meet theirs. This involves long-term planning, address the
use of natural resources and environmental protection,
allowing to improve the quality of life of individuals.
Tourism plant: It must be adequate to the degree, hierarchy and value of each of
tenders for which is indispensable in the process of development of tourist attractions physical planning. It is essential to achieve coordination of public actions with private preset function and ensuring the sustainability goals agreed.
Social: Tourism is a human activity that is characterized by the movement of people to different destinations, producing relationships with the members of those places. Must be
account the positive and negative aspects that cause these shifts,
optimizing the first, creating jobs, and therefore resources, reducing
poverty, training human resources required, improving
physical plant, etc.
Economic aspect: There are economic results as a result of incoming tourism, considering him as a non-traditional exports by the
generating genuine currency without displacing goods, unlike
known as a traditional export. But there are also the Turis202

Colorado Party
Internal mo thanks to the redistribution of wealth thanks to the monetary circulation originates.
Cultural aspect: You must evaluate aspects of culture that may be relevant in terms of tourism. What aspects are usually rescue the
identity, customs, history, etc. But you should pay special attention to preserve what is the historical and cultural heritage, which must be preserved and given suitably as a tourist attraction. Is
essential to preserve the customs and values ​​that make us unique and different compared to the place they belong visitors as this
adds value to our tourism
Political aspects: The State should lead the way in tourism development,
creating conditions that allow their full economic and social development. Him
It corresponds guidance, encouragement, promotion, regulation, research and control of tourism and its related activities and services. But it will be the rightful Private provision, exploitation and development
activities and services classified as tourism.
Appearance quality: They are constant changes in the preferences of tourists, with increasing demands aimed at the quality of goods and
services, and growing competition that occurs with the emergence of
new destinations or transformation of existing destinations. In response to this
reality is essential to improve the quality of products and services
They offer as a competitive factor and differentiating sign with other offers
whether national or international. Tourism development as regards
Quality must take into account service delivery, destination,
product offered, the direct and indirect human resources involved
in tourism, from the public sector, private sector or
host communities tourism.
Appearance innovation: Reaching quality standards that demand requires and be competitive makes promoting the innovative capacity and the creation of means to that translates into concrete proposals indispensable.

203

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
Evolution of inflows and outflows of foreign exchange from tourism
In recent quarters external and internal factors have damaged the tourism balance. Analyzing the figures of the Balance of Payments 2013, published by the
BCU, a drop in revenue generated by tourism is observed
7.5% (156 million) and an increase in outbound tourism of 33%
(Adding a deterioration of $ 434 million). As a result,
one year the balance of the Uruguay tourism balance of 49% (590 million dollars) deteriorates. A 68% fall in spending comes inbound tourism
Argentine tourism.
During the first quarter of 2014, tourism balance continues to deteriorate. Inbound tourism spending (measured in dollars) fell 12% while the emissive grows 12%; impacting heavily on the balance of the services account.

General objectives
 To promote the professionalization of the sector.
 give employment opportunities to people with employment difficulties.
 special attention through specific social programs in tourist areas to people who do not manage to enter the workplace.
 Develop social tourism especially for seniors and youth,
using the idle infrastructure in the offseason.
 Promoting innovation and training at all levels giving priority
to business and workers facing difficulties.

204

Colorado Party
 Enter the historical / cultural heritage of Uruguay as a tourism product.
 Improve product Uruguay tourist country to expand its participation in
the world tourism market.
 Lost connectivity the country as a prerequisite for developing tourism.
 To break with the seasonality of tourism.
 Customize tourism through segmentation but always respecting the criteria of environmental sustainability, avoiding abuse
imposed by short-term view.
 Establish a framework of certainty, macroeconomic stability, stimulating investment, respecting private property, rules governing the
rule of law and free markets.
 To improve institutional increasing professionalism and involving
all actors.
 Improving security to recover the product Uruguay Country Insurance (See
Uruguay Free and Secure - Chapter of Public Safety).
 Moving towards a more efficient state, thereby restoring education services, health, safety, health, roads, highways, ports and other services and
State infrastructure at a fair cost.
 To improve coordination among the various public and private actors
They make the "tourist logistics".
 Capture 3,500,000 tourists by the year 2019.
Strategic Objective 1 - Develop a sustainable tourism growth harmonic generating new investments
Sustainable tourism development must meet the needs of
tourists and host regions. It protects and improves the opportunities of the future, being focused on the management of all resources in ways that meet social and economic needs aesthetic. In this
framework should respect the cultural integrity, essential ecological processes, biological diversity and support systems of life so that we will develop actions in this regard.

205

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
Strategic Objective 2 - Generate tourism equitable social development
The implementation of aid programs, social development and training
tourist areas where internal migration country to tourist destinations, which
never merged, cause irreparable damage to the family and Uruguayan society
so you should act accordingly.
Strategic Objective 3 - Change sector institutions in order
to provide it with more and better tools for development
1. Create the Ministry of Tourism and Real Estate Development; restructuring
the current organization and passing the sports theme to the National Institute
Sports to be created (See Uruguay Educated and Integrated - Chapter
Sports, Recreation and Physical Activity).
2. Create a Private Advisory Council to advise the Ministry of Tourism and
Property development in all strategic issues.
3. Integrate departmental governments in development processes
tourism, information, training, etc. in their respective departments, acting jointly and coordinated.
4. Strengthen existing Departmental Tourism and promote creation of new ones where its action is deemed necessary.
5. Encourage the departmental integration in tourist areas, while
integrate municipalities in tourism development processes, information, training, etc. in its area of ​​influence.
6. Create a permanent technical body in time to lead the collection, management and dissemination of information relevant to tourism
decisions are public and private sectors, aimed at developing
Sustainable Uruguay.
7. Consolidate the generation and dissemination of information to strengthen the tourism sector under the concepts of truthfulness, timeliness and future challenges.
Strategic Objective 4 - Develop sector-level marketing
1. Create an Institute of Tourism Promotion of mixed nature where
involving the public sector and the private sector. This is responsible for planning, marketing and promotion of tourism of Uruguay,

206

Colorado Party
promoting new forms of partnerships between the public and private sectors.
2. Develop a Strategic Plan for Tourism in the long term to be projected into the future, next 15 years, and its construction should intervene
The best professionals. It must contain, inter alia:
or opening up new markets issuers (eg. Peru and Colombia) whose
economies have recently registered economic growth
Emphasize or with air link Markets
or policies that tend to encourage the inclusion of tourism
Uruguay on world tour operators working the region (for
ex. Buenos Aires, Calafate, Iguazu Falls and Brazilian)
3. Set items in line with the revenue generated by tourism and rationally allocate per product. In this regard:
Tourism promotion or linked with trade when there are affinities
Distribution of investment or according to market research.
4. Integrate diplomatic missions in spreading the destination Uruguay, incorporating specialized agents to disseminate and promote tourism.
At the same time, do more studies to optimize specific strategies to attract tourists considering the particularities of each
country.
Strategic Objective 5 - Defending national human resources and professional services
1. Give priority projects seeking incentives for investment in tourism and
offer a certain percentage of Uruguayans in training fees
professional.
2. Coordinate with permanently tourism schools established in the
country to improve quality of education and professionalism.
3. Generate the orbit of the Ministry of Tourism, a program of appropriate training to the real needs required by the sector in which the private sector is involved.

207

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
Strategic Objective 6 - revalue and generating awareness in
nationally tourist matter
Create, together and in coordination with the authorities of Education,
tourism awareness program for school and secondary level, the importance of tourism by disseminating knowledge of the territory and its potential of associating itself to the interests of the country.
Strategic objective 7 - Diversify the national tourism
1. Encourage the creation of Theme Parks internationally, it
a real stimulus to the presence of visitors to Uruguay along all year. Analyze international examples revaluation of a destination with this type of investment and its possible adaptation to our reality.
2. To support the realization of Convention and Exhibition Centers properties located in Punta del Este (in process), Colonia and Montevideo.
3. Encourage the construction of terminals Cruise in Montevideo (eg.
Port and / or Punta Carretas), Colonia and Punta del Este, also exploring
the possibility in Piriápolis and La Paloma
4. Retrieve the architectural heritage of the capital in conjunction with a
incentive program to international organizations established in our country, enhancing our cultural heritage and contributing to
demand for various human resources.
Strategic Objective 8 - Develop and foster innovation in the sector
1. Make calls to competitive funds to promote actions that encourage innovation in the tourism sector.
2. Create an annual National Prize, for the best project, as well as other awards that value the efforts of the participants.
3. To promote, within the framework of social tourism, especially for programs
seniors and youth, using the idle infrastructure in certain instances the year.
4. Modify the current system of administration of the marinas
so that in the future the same remain in the purview of the Ministry of Tourism and the National Naval Prefecture.

208

Colorado Party
Strategic objective 9 - closer links between tourism and the National Culture
1. Spread the historical / cultural heritage as a tourist attraction in general
through actions that integrate a national plan to be drawn up for this purpose.
2. Implement with the Ministry of Education and Culture, the departmental governments and municipalities, creating cultural tours on foot or
with the use of tourist buses, which are offered by operators
the visitors
3. revalue the commemoration of national holidays, national folklore
(Dance, dance, singing, etc.) and local events that are more rooted
with the country's traditions.
4. Supporting existing attractions (eg. Museum of San Gregorio de Polanco, among others) .104
Strategic Objective 10 - To develop tourism in the country logistics
1. Coordinate all services directly and indirectly linked to tourism
to facilitate their development and sustainability over time
2. Generate new mechanisms of action to improve procedures
existing and improve existing bureaucratic procedures to date.
3. Participate in all matters related to Visas and Migration
4. Participate in the definition of the Air Policy, in conjunction with the competent authority in the matter.
5. To promote and develop tourism Signage
6. To facilitate and expedite procedures at Border Crossings, especially the steps
border with Argentina in parts of Season dates, for
which should act in coordination with the competent authority.

104

See Educated and Integrated Uruguay - Chapter Culture

209

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020

REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT
Real estate activity has had a remarkable evolution in our country.
However, despite being a very important source of funds
(By raising taxes, and their multiplier effect (through direct and indirect generation of labor), it has been underestimated their role in the
economic and social fabric of the context.
Since the last economic crisis in 2002, and especially in the second half
last decade, a significant percentage of that FDI accounted investments in real estate in the broadest sense of its meaning, the property market coming to establish itself as one of the main engines
of the national economy.
However, this process has been decelerating gradually, often by changing international and regional situation; but also
by constant changes in the rules of the game, and the complication of the procedure for filing investments in our country, without intervention periods
adaptation.
As for the purely local market, housing activity has had a
significant growth, but nevertheless no stranger to the above. Which has been emerging in the first years after the crisis, explosive on the end of the decade and the beginning of the current, and with clear signs of stagnation
in actuality.
Fundamental problems of the sector
 Lack of strategic planning. To achieve quality housing and sustainable development, it is necessary "to implement
actions to strengthen management capabilities planned
environmentally sustainable territory ", as dictated by Article 82 of
the Law on Land Management and Sustainable Development.
 Lack of information. One of the main problems affecting the
Real estate is the absence of more complete statistical information,
timely and systematic. The lack of this information prevents monitoring

210

Colorado Party
suitable method of evolution of the property market and construction and their relationships with tourist flows.
 Encouragement and awareness. The State can help stimulate
the sector with shares of low or no cost.
 Lack of an appropriate framework. Trust is a valuable intangible
of our country, which should be maintained and respected. It takes years to
sometimes decades to build trust, and only a series of measures
poorly designed to ruin.
 We must be more careful when changing rules underpinning the activity and
give more time to adapt to changes deemed inevitable.
 According to independent studies, two-thirds of the activity
Real go through the informal sector in our country. This not only
It affects the operators formally established, through unfair competition, but involves important economic losses
the state through tax evasion, as well as loss
crystallinity and effectiveness of controls on laundering
active.
General objectives
 Create the best conditions for a real estate development that maximizes the quality of life respecting environmental sustainability.
 Establish a framework of certainty, macroeconomic stability, stimulating investment, respecting private property, rules
governing the rule of law and free markets.
 improve institutional frameworks and the professionalization of the sector and involving all stakeholders.
Strategic Objective 1 - Increase the activity of the Ministry of Tourism with
specialized in real estate development area
Create an environment of strategic planning focused on promoting and think
the real estate market without prejudice to the proper competence of the Ministry
Housing and Environment and the Municipalities. It will act under the
Article 82 of the Law on Land Management and Sustainable Development. They

211

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
promote the participation of representatives of all sectors involved
(Investors, construction companies, realtors, financial system,
etc.), together with the state, creating opportunities for exchange of ideas,
discussion and implementation.
Strategic Objective 2 - Create an observatory of the real estate business
The priority is to have detailed and specific information on the market
real estate, in order to assess qualitatively and quantitatively the magnitude
phenomena that occur in that market. After the system defined
required information, the INE commit processing. In this manner,
may correct the dispersion and bias existing data, collect valuable information on the sector and help improve the appreciation you have
on the matter, and contribute to project and measure the impact of the policies implemented.
Strategic Objective 3 - Generate new stimuli and increased awareness in the
sector
1. To systematize and expedite the approval processes of new technologies and
building systems of how to develop a business model more
efficient, modern; technologically and more energy efficient.
2. Invest in promotion and advertising to attract foreign investments
for the housing market.
3. Create incentives for Uruguayans abroad. Enable and promote
mechanisms that are recognized its revenue abroad to process a real credit to our country.
4. Raise awareness in Uruguayan society of the benefits that are generated when
outside an investor decides to invest in the country. In this type of investment
life cycle does not end with the holiday, hence its strategic importance.
5. regenerate depressed urban areas, with specific promotion policies
that encourage investment, as a way to rebuild the urban entramando. 105

For example, in Montevideo, areas such as La Aguada, Old Town, or Goes, etc. Accompanied by a policy of
adequate public safety.
105

212

Colorado Party
Strategic Objective 4 - Improving the formalization and professionalization
Industry
1. Pass a law governing the activity of real estate operators,
measures to encourage the formalization and professionalization of the sector.
2. Retrieve a better business climate, improving issues related to timing and process to fulfill.

213

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020

FREE URUGUAY AND SECURE

Citizen security
Justice and Rehabilitation
Freedom, Transparency and Human Rights

214

Colorado Party

FREE URUGUAY AND SECURE
Free Uruguay and insurance must have public safety as guarantor of
freedom, which is the backbone of a more just society and
integrated. The right to live in peace, without violence and without authoritarianism is a
fundamental right to be safeguarded security assets being
national enabling the effective exercise of freedom in the broadest sense. Freedom conceive also linked to the full exercise of citizenship
within a framework of respect for human rights and transparency in its
broadly. Progress is needed on all matters relating to transparency and honesty exposed to public scrutiny the actions carried out by the
rulers in exercising the functions entrusted to them by the
citizenship and accountability which is the basic obligation
having all governments to inform and explain their actions to the sovereign.

215

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020

CITIZEN SECURITY
Uruguay suffered a worsening of their security problems, checked
both in terms of statistics, such as perception of fear and victimization
general population. The year 2012 was historical record of murders and robberies in our country. In the period 2005-2013 the rate of homicides per
100,000 spent in the country of 5.7 to almost 9 (see Figure 1); since
2005, have not stopped robberies is increasing constantly and consistently,
with a rate higher than the growth recorded during the administrations
of the traditional parties and reaching a record high of more than 17,000
(See Fig. 2). Meanwhile, complaints of domestic violence continued to grow significantly, registering 25,911 in 2013.
In terms of perception, all public opinion surveys agree that
Insecurity is the first problem of the Uruguayans and their main concern
(See the surveys of various companies in Figures 3 and 4). Also they recorded that the population believes that crime has increased in the country; likely
or very likely to be a victim of crime in the coming months; feel their
neighborhood is unsafe or very unsafe; and even they believe likely or very likely to be
assaulted in the street. The theme "security" is installed on the public agenda, with increasing importance and that as a result of reality itself
criminal.
Crime and violence costs Uruguay 1.165 billion dollars a year,
3% of its GDP, according to the international report points out, "Citizen Security
Human Face: Diagnosis and proposals for Latin America "Program
United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the Inter-American Development Bank
(IDB).

In 2012, in Uruguay they were allocated $ 836 million in security
public, according to the Uruguay Observatory of Public Policy Office
Planning and Budget (OPP), despite the significant increase
funding is not accompanied by the display of positive results
improving public safety. See Figure 2, the budget increase with concomitant increase in crime and citizen dissatisfaction with the security situation.

216

Colorado Party

Figure 1. Number of homicides per 100,000 inhabitants (rate) in the years 2000-2012. The rate in 2013 was similar
to 2012.

Figure 2. Number of robberies from 1990 to 2012 (the increase in 2013 was consistent with the graph). Indicated
also the budget of the Ministry of Interior and the perception of insecurity for the years indicated (in
According to surveys conducted by the company number).

217

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020

Figure 3. Series Equipos Mori survey on what people think is the main problem of the country. TO
From 2009, insecurity becomes the most important problem for the Uruguayans.

Figure 4. Series polling figure for the percentage of people who feel that insecurity is the problem
largest in the country. From 201, more than half of Uruguayans believe that it is.

218

Colorado Party
The deterioration of public security in Uruguay is accompanied
by the lack of response and positive results through an effective combat of crime. The evaluation of the public about the government's public safety is downright negative (see
Figure 5).

Figure 5. Judgment of the public about the government's actions in security
public (FACTUM, Nov. 2013)

It corresponds also address the issue of public security from the
human development perspective, as the public safety impacts
directly on the quality of life and development of people in society. In this context, crime and violence are obstacles
serious for full human development.
That is why public safety must identify responses that can be taken to cope with crime and violence in order to boost
effective human development.
Security is a basic prerequisite for people to meet
their basic needs and to develop their potential as human beings
so their treatment will address comprehensively and in coordination with
other state agencies. Undoubtedly, the protection of life and physical and material integrity people are fundamental requirements for
They can expand their capabilities and effectively exercise their freedoms. By
219

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
Moreover, the perception of security has a real effect on the way
people develop and interact with their environment.
Human security is defined as the condition of freedom from fear and
threats that can affect people and limit their opportunities
human development. We believe in an approach to citizen security centered on people, namely the protection of a core of rights, including the right to life, respect for the physical integrity and material
the person and their right to a decent life. This view is centered
on the welfare of people and it believes that the provision of public security is an essential requirement for human development.
Indeed, without public safety, protecting a core of rights,
people can not develop their full capacities, or contribute
with their potential to improve their families, their communities and institutions, so that public safety must ensure the freedom of individuals ..
Crime and violence have a direct impact on the capabilities and freedoms
citizens (affecting and limiting their rights and guarantees); about him
social fabric, creating uncertainty, fear, powerlessness, impunity and
state institutions, which suffered a loss of confidence by not
provide answers and results.
Public safety is ultimately a public good and,
as such, its main provision is a state responsibility. Is
meaning a good to which all people should have access regardless of social class, political preference, race, ethnicity, gender or
sexual identity. And the state is the primary responsibility and is responsible for providing it.
There can not be any denial of the State to comply
its essential function of providing and ensuring safety. The justice
also it has the responsibility to send strong and clear signals to those who do not
respect the rules, affect public order, encourage or participate in faults,

220

Colorado Party
vandalism or crimes and disrupt peaceful coexistence, so that the action
joint state institutions is of fundamental importance.
Crime exists. It is not just a feeling, as it came to be insured. He
growing phenomenon found no tangible limits, while the government,
He acted with laxity, incompetence and ineffectiveness to address the problem. The crime
turn burst so that social mores changed and affected the
quality of life, which is accentuated with the passage of time.
Public safety must be treated as a "State Policy"
(Aimed at the coordination of the 3 powers). Public safety is
shared by the three branches of government responsibility, each in the exercise of its powers:
The legislature developing standards to ensure the safety of all
the citizens. Enacting laws that are severe with recidivists and
not hinder preventive and repressive policing, or end
favoring unwittingly impunity of criminals.
The Executive strengthening its crime preventive action and increasing the effectiveness of their enforcement efforts. It is therefore essential to have
suitable and firm and clear political hierarchy. Have an adequate number of
cops, carefully selected, trained and paid better. The truly
war against crime and against drugs. The current government is not to blame for the existence of crime, but may be liable for failure to
fight. At the same time, they must develop a strong rehabilitation policy
of offenders.
The judiciary, meanwhile, has a key role in security matters which should be supported decisively to the consolidation of political
national concerned.
Ultimately from the Colorado Party we will work to:


Living in a society without fear, with more and better security which will involve
improve the quality of life and real possibility of human development.

221

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020


Having a state that guarantees safety, as the basis for the effective exercise of other freedoms der, displaying to the public safety
as the first freedom, because she candle and guarantees the exercise
full of other



Guarantee the right to live in peace, without fear and without violence, which is a fundamental right that must be preserved.



Consolidate a State to guard the physical integrity, life and property
people, preventing and suppressing crime.



Improve the situation of public security, which is imperative if we really want to build a modern and advanced country, because society
will not change, or improve, if you are in a state of helplessness, among
uncertainty and fear.



Transform the security forces, to give more professional answers
and effective. With pictures more motivated and committed vocational
their functions and, increasingly well-disciplined professionals; more efficient and better organized.



Public Safety generate supported by 4 columns, which improve and address jointly:
or more effective policing, clarify and prevent more crimes.
More and better laws or to defend the DD.HH of honest citizens and give tools to the police to combat crime.
A strengthened and more effective and independent Justice.
o More and better prisons to meet inmates throughout their sentence and generate effective rehabilitation thereof
for insertion in society.



Give clear and firm signal from crime and those that
comment.



Having a policy on citizen security and good governance which replace the explanation for the result. Instead of looking for justifications and
explanation of management, positive results should be displayed.



Protect the poorest, who are hardest hit, because they can not afford a private security insurance for theft, alarms, fences and
so many other things necessary for personal protection in today's society.

222

Colorado Party


Deepen education policies and redemption of securities resulting
be something important so you should act accordingly and in coordination with the education authorities.



Ensure law and order, as the state of affairs in which the values ​​of peace and public safety are developed in the normal
ordinary life, the protection and the free exercise of individual rights and the care of their interests.



Restore the principle of authority and verticality of command, hierarchy, professionalism and dignity of policing.



Develop strong policies of rehabilitation and social reintegration of persons deprived of liberty are imposed so that development is necessary
a National Rehabilitation Plan.
Strategic Objective 1 - Modernization and police effectively combat crime

To fulfill this objective we will develop the following:
 Increase police presence and patrols in the streets to improve
substantially public safety and prevent crime. From the
systems intensification of patrols in all its forms, incorporating aircraft and drones (scheduled as No. 20 among "50
Measures to Improve Public Safety ").
 More patrols and more kilometers of planned route, especially
the areas of highest risk of crime (scheduled as No. 20 among the
"50 Steps to Improve Public Safety") and making incursions
effective and deterrent police presence in neighborhoods and the most troubled areas.
 Bringing "Sectional Police Stations or Police" people, which will be
the reference center for police, prevention and enforcement.
To do this they will increase human and material resources, redesigning
the territorial deployment of the police, and implementing a system of neighborhood patrols by grids (provided as No. 21 among the "50 Steps to Improve Public Safety").
 Transforming to reach 911 before improving substantially
communications and the operation thereof to ensure effective

223

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
activity and speed of response, setting standards (according to international standards) time call handling; office
units to the scene and police arrived at the crime scene within minutes (provided as No. 34 and 35 among the "50 Steps to Improve Public Safety").
 Double investment in crime prevention technology (as a
eg use of: drones; facial recognition software; systems
mobile scanners; statistical prediction software PredPol-Predict crime / Crime-Predictive Policing Software-; and equipment
tip) and installing more surveillance cameras, prioritizing
most problematic and / or dangerous areas; at strategic points and in all departmental capitals.
 Strengthen the citizen / police interaction through the "policing" or "Police district" relaunching and strengthening policing these arrangements (intended as No. 19 among the "50 Measures
to Improve Public Safety ").
 Combating drugs and drug trafficking to significantly bring down the mouths of sale and delivery of the same (provided as No. 38 among
"50 Steps to Improve Public Safety").
 curb rising crime and download. The aim is to contain the increase in crime rates and the goal of reducing in the period,
to reach the lowest levels ever recorded at the beginning of
the decade, two thousand. All this activity through a strongly
proactive policing and a strategy to monitor and combat criminal activities.
 Establish computer database systems, map of crimes and
criminal statistical information. That is a proposal of a geo
referencing of crimes, establishing areas and statistics
by police (scheduled as No. 5 by the "50 Steps to Improve Public Safety").
 professionalize and optimize the task of human resources and employment
Technology against crime (scheduled as No. 33 and 34 among the "50
Measures to Improve Public Safety ").

224

Colorado Party
 To improve police effectiveness in reducing the possibility that crimes
They go unpunished. The biggest deterrent is the fear of crime
offender to be detained. Based security strategies: Deterring
the offender (for the high risk of being caught); root out impunity of crime (due to the improvement in police effectiveness rate
to clarify the crime); rehabilitating the offender (to minimize
recidivism); and incapacitate the offender (for detention).
 Generate mobility on the basis of specific plans and policing strategies that allow criminals to contain them before they act.
 Increase the rate of clarification of crimes, optimizing police effectiveness; with good management, strategy and defined policies in this area.
 Improve management to effectively utilize additional funding allocated to the Ministry of Interior, after obtaining positive results are expressed in declining rates of insecurity.
 Reset the principle of authority and order for coexistence
society. Intolerance against crime, failures and behaviors that
conducive to attacking the disorders of coexistence, the misconduct, the
disturbances to public order; the "crime debut" (start of the race
criminal), applying the law and other regulations and in particular with the implementation of Law No. 19.120 Fault.
 Establish a new police model (effectively, with more and better police;
proactive and community; more and better training; better operating performance; most qualified revenue and continue to improve police salaries).
 Create the Rural Police departments inside the country so
required, to address the problem and combating front
cattle rustling; and situations such as the clandestine slaughter; the unlawful entry into someone else's farm, overhunting (scheduled as No. 22 among the
"50 Steps to Improve Public Safety" bill and Rural Security, presented by the congressmen and congresswomen Jose Amy).

225

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
 Reduce the "dark figure of crime" (estimated at 40%) promoting
the complaint, simplifying procedures, bringing services,
improving confidence, the results and the police response.
 Expanding the monitoring and control through electronic anklets and GPS tracker, inmates departing on temporary release.
 Provide an additional tool to the police authority, towards the prevention and suppression of crime, restoring the provisions of Decree No. 690.
 To promote housing policies for police personnel. (Intended as No. 36 among the "50 Steps to Improve Public Safety").
(See Chapter "Housing" Educated in Uruguay and integrated).
 Working from a clear and firm leadership, a comprehensive project
security, national in scope and technical support.
Strategic Objective 2 - Social prevention of crime at places
To fulfill this objective we will develop the following:
 Apply the urban and environmental design (CPTED) and design
based on conduct (BBD in English), for the prevention of crime: improving access control; improving lighting and monitoring and
cleaning public spaces (scheduled as No. 18 among "50
Measures to Improve Public Safety ").
 Reset Neighborhood Safety Committees and the proximity policing promoting Schools of Public Safety and development,
in this context, a public safety program that besides
measures to combat crime, collect items of interest from different communities (scheduled as the # 2 among the "50 Measures
Improve Public Safety ").
 Establish and develop education, training and job placement and sports to deter children from drugs and crime,
in coordination with the MEC, with ANEP, MIDES and the future Institute
National Sport.
 Attend legal and psychologically to victims of crime, in coordination with the Ministry of Social Development and the MSP.

226

Colorado Party
Strategic Objective 3 - Reduction of Gender Violence and care
victims
Only in 2013, about 30 women died from domestic violence and
seven others ran risk of dying due to the blows suffered their
couples. While in 2012 the total number of victims was 32, of which 28
They were women and four were children.
The Network Against Domestic Violence, states that in Spain one death per million population fails to occur, while in Uruguay the murders and
assassination attempts reach 10 million. The judiciary takes about 70 electronic ankle placed in domestic violence cases only
in Montevideo. But the figures do not improve despite this and the campaigns
made to raise awareness and call for greater effort Organizations
government to lower these rates.
To fulfill this objective we will develop the following:
 Establish "Transit Homes and Shelter" to accommodate victims of domestic violence, with the support of multidisciplinary professionals,
coordination with the Ministry of Social Development and departmental governments.
 Implement "Job training programs for women victims
domestic violence "in coordination with the MEC, ANEP and MIDES.
 Develop "special school care programs for children and youth-victims or witnesses of domestic violence" in coordination with the
MEC., ANEP and MIDES.
 Develop a pro-active attitude by police identification and
constant monitoring of cases of domestic violence.
 Strengthen civil society, supporting the NGO network of defense
women, from the existing experiences to date.
 Continue and enhance efforts of prevention, awareness and training, dissemination of statistics and media campaigns. (In coordination with the Ministry of Social Development).
 Encourage and facilitate access to justice, seeking to turn avoid re
victimization in the process.
 Strengthen technical and human resources to the police stations for women.

227

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
 Create a "Fund transitional support and housing solutions for Victims of Domestic Violence.
 Develop a Plan of housing solutions for victims of violence
Domestic providing housing for victims who can not
acquiring and failing to comply with certain requirements
other plans, in one of the following methods: modal loan;
onerous usufruct or lease with option to purchase (bill
presented by Deputy Martha Montaner in the National Parliament
and see "Housing" of Uruguay Plan 2015-2020).
 Establish specific rules and applicable penalty, to withdraw
without authorization or intentionally break, media tracking and electronic monitoring (bracelets or anklets) arranged judicially applied to accused persons by domestic or family violence (draft law
presented by Deputy Graciela Matiaude to the National Parliament).
 determine more precisely some of the precautionary measures
take legal action on domestic violence (bill
presented by Alma Mallo) deputy.
Strategic Objective 4 - care of children and in particular those
who commit crimes
To fulfill this objective we will develop the following:
 rescue children and adolescents living on the streets, developing
programs in coordination with INAU and MIDES to address the situation of vulnerability to which they are exposed. (Intended as No.
44 among the "50 Steps to Improve Public Safety" and actions set out in the chapter on Social Policy Plan Uruguay
2015-2020).
 Implement actions concerning children who have become separated
the education system by setting specific and effective plans for
reinstatement in coordination with the ANEP and MEC (See Chapter
Education -Plan Uruguay 2015 -2020) and enhance the values ​​.Difundir
of peaceful coexistence, such as tolerance, civilized coexistence,
peaceful resolution of differences and respect for the rights of

228

Colorado Party
others as an essential basis for life in society and the progress of this,
in coordination with the ANEP and MEC. (See Chapter Education
Uruguay Plan 2015 - 2020)
Extend  Juvenile Police Stations departments of the Interior
presented higher rates of problems related to the same
To optimize the care thereof.
 Establish a system of boarding and special rehabilitation for young offenders outside the INAU, with the creation of a decentralized service of Corrections and Rehabilitation Instituto Teens (Draft constitutional reform plebiscitarse with the national elections of October 26, 2014) .
 Lowering the age of criminal responsibility to 16 years for adolescents who commit serious crimes. Maintenance of the background
criminal. (Draft constitutional reform plebiscitarse with national elections October 26, 2014).
 Explode the Code for Children and Adolescents, the special regime
criminal responsibility for adolescents and make changes such as the establishment of the possibility that the judge may
evaluate and eventually add aggravated when setting the penalty; granting more powers to the judge to order measures of detention; provide for mandatory forfeiture of items purchased with the
money from a crime; set minimum and maximum limits
imprisonment as crimes; and penalize more effectively
attempted theft, for that is not a standard surface (intended as
No. 8 and 10 among the "50 Steps to Improve Public Safety").
 Create the orbit of the National Observatory on Violence and Crime of the Interior Ministry, a "National Register", which will centralize,
will process and analyze statistical information on violence and criminality of juvenile offenders nationwide in coordination
with the judiciary (bill introduced by Congressman Anibal
Gloodtdofsky in the National Parliament).
Strategic Objective 5 - Modernization of the Prison System
To fulfill this objective we will develop the following:

229

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
 Initiate a process of work based on the three "R". Rehabilitation (generation of habits and values, labor and trades training, education), Reflection (? Why did) and Reintegration (eg conventions, business sponsors, etc.).
 Develop plans for education, training and job placement with
the goal of achieving 100% of prisoners, regardless of condition
procedural, in coordination with the MEC and the ANEP as well as other public and / or private entities of civil society.
 Transform prisons to meet an effective re socializing function (intended as No. 47 among the "50 Steps to Improve
Public security").
 Sort prisoners (as a crime, the severity of the penalties and grade
dangerousness) and implement a differential treatment within the system, pointing to his best and fastest rehabilitation (planned as
No. 47 among the "50 Steps to Improve Public Safety").
 Attending, treat and rehabilitate addicts prisoners, in coordination with the
MSP and MIDES.
 Consider the creation of night guards judges with jurisdiction
criminal matters (in coordination and agreement with the judiciary).
 Increase support, controller and monitoring of inmates released,
enhancing the resources and functions of the National Board of Imprisoned and Released.
 Building new prisons, to eliminate overcrowding; improve prison conditions and to achieve greater and better
rehabilitation (planned as No. 48 among the "50 Steps to Improve Public Safety").
 Maintain the perimeter security of prisons to
by staff of the armed forces (in coordination with the MDN).
Strategic objective 6 - Developing and legislative update
To fulfill this objective we will develop the following:
 penalize an offense carrying or possession of firearms by
-project criminal record who registered bill presented by the

230

Colorado Party
deputy Germán Cardoso (intended as the No. 7 among the "50 Measures
to Improve Public Safety ").
 To protect victims, complainants, witnesses and experts in criminal proceedings, in coordination with the Judiciary and Prosecutors (scheduled as
No. 14 among the "50 Steps to Improve Public Safety").
 Improving the safety of the police, adjusting the rules regarding their
self-defense and grieving aggravated assaults on them,
and possession of weapons by inmates (scheduled as No.
24, 25, 26 and 32 among the "50 Steps to Improve Public Safety").
 To update and clarify the concept and the conditions of self-defense,
provided for in art. 26 of the Criminal Code. Clarifying the concept (taking into account the emotional state and psychological pressures
those who appeal to self-defense, in the face of offenders) and introducing rules to allow objectify the assessment of the reasonableness of the defense against the attack; and expanding self-defense extending the legal protection of the victim against the aggressor the whole
day and not just at night, in addition to also extend the notion
dependency of the defendant, in the case of home including balconies, terraces, roofs and garages; rural establishments (warehouses, facilities, farms, dairies, tool magazines, grains and
other spaces provided they have a reasonable continuity with
the house, as to constitute dependence on it); and also the place of
labor, trade, industry or similarly. In short, consider more the victim the criminal offender (antecedent: bill introduced
by Congressman Joseph Amy to the National Parliament).
 approve a law regulating the safe custody at the headquarters of representations and / or diplomatic missions and international organizations,
as well as the mission of custody and security in all land borders
of our national territory by military personnel (draft
law presented by Deputy Hannibal Gloodtdofsky before the Legislature).
 Creation of new figures and procedures as the "informant (collaborator)" or "repented" and "undercover agent (infiltration)" that,

231

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
with due guarantees, enable more effective fight against crime (scheduled as the No. 15 and 16 among the "50 Steps to Improve Security
Public ").
 To exclude repeat offenders of serious crimes, from receiving
temporary releases; Regime and interim release, and early release (Bill introduced by Senator Pedro Bordaberry in the National Parliament).
 Increase the penalty for dangerous repeat offenders, with the
Multiple rule called criminal offense, for serious offenses
like those of "murder, serious injuries, very serious injuries, robbery, robbery with deprivation of liberty (takeover), extortion, kidnapping, and rape" - (Bill introduced by Senator Pedro Bordaberry to the Senate).
 Propose new Police Organization Act, updated and modern, that
Nest and further professionalize the police institute and its members.
Strategic objective 7 - Combat and frontal confrontation of organized crime
To fulfill this objective we will develop the following:
 Increasing border controls, through application of technology -radares, drones, databases, video surveillance, face recognition software; mobile systems x-ray scanners for detecting
drugs, weapons, explosives and other substances and a more fluid exchange of information and international cooperation.
 train security forces nationwide to improve and optimize the coordination and unification of exchange available information and key to the performance of an efficient task.
 Fight directly against money laundering, capital, assets or
operations with illegal proceeds. Through, inter alia,
an integrated criminal information system; a statistical system; a communication strategy; the strategic analysis of the
Intelligence Unit and Financial Analysis; creating units
Special research; and increased international cooperation. And strengthening the regulatory and institutional frameworks

232

Colorado Party
prevention, detection, investigation, prosecution and control
laundering of assets derived from illicit drug trafficking, the diversion
to illicit channels of controlled chemical substances, and other offenses
serious transnational in nature, all in accordance with the Recommendations of the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) and
with the technical collaboration of specialized international organizations
in the subject and with the participation of public bodies that have
competence in the matter.
 Combating illegal trafficking in arms and ammunition and in the hands of criminals. With measures: a) - harmonization of legislation (according to the OAS and UN Conventions); b) - preventive and operational (with a strong repression and internal control of illegal arms and ammunition and a strong border and customs) c controller) - increase
international cooperation and technical assistance (exchange
information; operator training; technical and mutual legal assistance).
 Fight directly against drug trafficking and drug retail outlets. By allocating more resources; application of technology; and increased international cooperation and research and exchange of intelligence information. And in coordination with the National Drug Board which shall establish national policies on
this matter. (Also provided as No. 39 among the "50 Measures
Improve Public Safety ").

233

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020

JUSTICE AND REHABILITATION
to)

Justice

Nothing more effective than the separation of powers have created men as
constitutional instrument to ensure and guarantee the freedom and
rights and the establishment of a true democracy.
The justice system plays a key role in ensuring the substantive rights of individuals. This forces us to reflect on: the best compliance
the principle of separation of powers; the non-politicization of justice, and
better and further development of an institutional strengthening justice, including
other important aspects to consider.
There is a strong link between legal security, public safety,
individual rights; the formation and growth of people and development of nations.
Open and pluralistic societies around democratic rule of law requires legal certainty. Such legal certainty is the result of two operations
complementary in nature; the first policy character, consisting of
definition of the legal framework established by the democratically elected representatives of the citizens. And secondly, a legal time, which
It is to ensure the impartial application of the legal framework previously
settled down.
The role of the judiciary is to apply the law created by
democratically legitimized bodies. That must be an "apolitical" neutral and impartial power and at the same time is a
essential guarantor power, to defend the people and rights.
It is unquestionable that the security and freedom achieve your best protection
under the protection of the independence and impartiality of the courts as
its administrators of justice officials.

2. 3. 4

Colorado Party
Contribute to further raise the technical level of the national judiciary and
urgent need to modernize some structures of the judicial system
is a priority for us. The effectiveness in the exercise of judicial independence depends largely ensure that judges
high professional standards and impeccable personal righteousness.
We understand that we need to strengthen the judiciary in both power
State gives the guarantee of law enforcement impartially and in
ultimately guaranteeing the necessary certainty and security that requires all
life in society.
Likewise, also strengthen the Administrative Court, which prevents arbitrary and unlawful actions of those who, with their resolutions from the Public Administration, may affect the rights of
citizens. While the Court of Auditors should not only control
legality of spending but, in our view, should do the same with the results and management.
The politicization of justice and its counterpart, the criminalization of politics should be avoided. And concomitantly, to ensure against negative phenomenon of "mediation" of judicial activity and the phenomenon of "corporatism" that may conspire against the good functioning of the judiciary.
We believe that should be defended and concrete positions, projects and initiatives on the basis of:
 The defense of the separation of powers and the full respect for the independence of the judiciary;
 The

strengthening

of

Power

Judicial

as

power

of

State ensuring the application of the law impartially that settles
conflicts between individuals and in general, in its modernization and development framework;
 The strengthening of the TCA as a way to protect citizens
arbitrary actions of the State;

235

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
 The strengthening and development of the Court of Accounts of the Republic
as comptroller entity;
 The strong commitment to freedom and the rights of all;
 Recovery weight of the law in terms of formality and conviction in the contents.
Strategic Objective 1 - Modernization of the judicial system and agencies
of contralor106
To fulfill this objective we will develop the following:
 Achieving a more agile justice through a reorganization of the judicial structure; simplify and streamline processes, strengthen, while the
this organization structure and financial resources.
 establish that the Court of Auditors also review the legality of
spending also assume responsibilities with the results and management.
Strategic Objective 2 - Ranking of Prosecutors separating Power
Executive.
It is necessary to wean functionally and hierarchically to the Office of Court,
the Executive (Ministry of Education and Culture) promoting the most
independence and impartiality. There is no democracy in America
America where the situation that prosecutors there depend Power
Executive and Uruguay. It should be decentralized and provide autonomy
prosecutors bringing them closer to the people. And creation of the National Prosecuting Authority as a
decentralized, autonomous and independent service outside the orbit
Ministry of Education and Culture. This implies wean the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Executive, giving it greater independence from the
in terms of its institutional location. To this end we have proposed the
creation of the Public Ministry as a decentralized service, independently, outside the orbit of the Ministry of Education and Culture. In this regard,
promoting a bill, based on the presented by Senator Ope
Pasquet and driven by the Association of Public prosecutors and Attorney Uruguay. In the same sense we must encourage all regulations

This objective is developed in more detail in the chapter on freedom, transparency and human rights that takes place later
106

236

Colorado Party
that, emphasizing its functional and technical independence, strengthen
greater transparency and professionalism in the appointment, transfer and promotion
Fiscal.
b) Rehabilitation
Conceive rehabilitation as an essential tool to address the
right of citizens to return to society while elapses
enforcement of sentences set by the courts.
The human person is a unique, unrepeatable and incomparable being who enjoys all the rights enshrined in the Constitution of the Republic, one of his
rights is to travel on a program that facilitates their reintegration into
society.
Therefore a system of rehabilitation should enable measurable results in previously established time periods and should allow the integration of persons with a full social life, wherever this is possible. To
Indeed, the definition of goals and objectives to be accomplished through the design, implementation, execution and evaluation of the various intervention programs
it is a priority that will be addressed.
The shares will be carried out to different ages (children, adolescents and adults)
with targeted interventions addressing the developmental characteristics of
people, the diverse needs of children and youth with behavioral problems and offenders, teenagers with problems resulting from misuse
of psychotoxic substances and adults with behavioral problems. He
development of these programs should assume an interaction on
public health to make the definitions of what it means care
Mental health of citizens (See Uruguay Plan 2015 -. 2020 - Chapter
Bless you)
The objective is that the participants develop skills for
a successful professional and social integration, allowing interrupt circles
exclusion, which are often the basis for recidivism. The management
intellectual and emotional aspects will be accompanied by moral principles

237

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
that enable them understanding and ethical valuation of their actions, and the negative consequences thereof, in the life of the injured people.
Rehabilitation is a very important factor in an integrated and just society, and better enforcement will benefit the entire community so that their development is essential.
It will give primary importance to training, training and capacity building and professionalization of operators of programs. In this respect it is mentioned that this work will support and conceptual
operating on the participation of interdisciplinary teams.
Our goal is to be a National Rehabilitation Plan defend fundamental premises of a modern society as they are attention
the rights of all citizens, equal opportunities, the repair of damage caused to victims and the reintegration into society of those who commit violations. The permanent scientific assessment from the
qualitatively and quantitatively, as well as an accurate systematization
all information generated in the implementation of the programs, will be an item
essential that enable you to understand and verify the successful development of plans, programs and management in different centers dedicated to this complex task. Over the same we have developed other actions on the objective concerning the modernization of the prison system listed above.
Without prejudice to prioritize care and addiction, treatment and
rehabilitation care propose the following objectives:
Strategic Objective 3 - frontally combat addiction and recovery values
 Create centers of care, treatment, rehabilitation and follow-up
addictions, actions developed in the corresponding chapter
Uruguay Health Plan 2015-2020.
 Develop programs and preventive plans against drug addiction in
coordination with the MSP, MIDES and INAU (scheduled as No. 39 among the "50 Steps to Improve Public Safety" chapter and Uruguay Health Plan 2015 -2020

238

Colorado Party
 Establish programs to support and strengthen the family and responsible parenthood, in coordination with the MIDES and INAU, see Chapter Social Policy - Uruguay Plan 2015 - 2020 ..
Strategic Objective 4 - Carry out a legislative update on the matter
 Approve Law tracking system addictions through a
liaison with the support and coordination of the agencies involved and the involvement and participation of families.
 Reform of Criminal Procedure with a new Code of Criminal Procedure (scheduled as No. 46 among the "50 Steps to Improve Public Safety"). Establishing a process, preserving the guarantees,
significantly reduce the time required for sentencing,
with all the advantages that implies, both for society and for
the defendants. Trial, neutral judge who was not involved in the investigation, the prosecutor equal rights (which investigates under control of a
Judge guarantees) and defense, determine a fair Justice
and faster. The cases of oral adversarial system in Chile, Peru and Colombia have successfully developed, based on independence
prosecutor and judge the existence of a guarantee in addition to the trial judge. They have managed, for example, that only a quarter of detainees
not having pronounced sentence, differing from other countries
three quarters of the detainees have no judgment.
 To provide a special regime of juvenile criminal responsibility, for
outside the Code for Children and Adolescents.
 Create a decentralized service dedicated exclusively to the internment and rehabilitation of offenders under eighteen years,
will work outside the INAU.
 Move the prisons of the orbit of the Ministry of
Interior, consolidating a National Penitentiary and Prison Institute
Rehabilitation, as decentralized service outside the scope of
Ministry of Interior (bill introduced by Rep
Hannibal Gloodtdofsky before the House of Representatives).

239

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020

FREEDOM, TRANSPARENCY AND RIGHTS
HUMANS
We consider together the full exercise of citizenship in a framework of respect for human rights and transparency Freedom. Freedom is conceived as
a coin which both sides form an inseparable pair, on the one hand
Rights and other obligations and responsibilities. We consider
that balance has been largely lost and therefore we must work
to recover. The same, as we have said, is linked to security in the framework of a state security system oriented to consider
issues that provide the biggest and best guarantees all citizens to exercise their freedoms.
Be free also means, have access to more and better information. In
that sense, we support the unconditional defense of press freedom and
media fullest extent imaginable, watching what has
to do with the allocation of official advertising and avoiding attempts to regulate content.
In the XXI century where borders are nonexistent information, we defend the so-called "net neutrality" (freedom of access, non-discrimination or censorship, or restrictions or privileges), among other actions
detailed in Chapter Vamos for Future Uruguay (Uruguay View Plan
2015 - 2020)
The HR are not only a right but an essential goal for peace,
coexistence, citizen security. And concomitantly the existence of citizen security and peace is essential to enjoy the rights and
freedoms.
In turn, transparency exposed to public scrutiny the actions taken
out by the rulers and accountability it involves the elementary obligation of all governments to inform and explain their actions to the sovereign,
its essential undergoing evaluation. Investing in transparency means
more democracy, more security, less corruption and less corruption is more
developing.

240

Colorado Party
It is necessary to adapt our national legislation in accordance with the guidelines
It provides the Convention against corruption United Nations, establishing the criminal offense of "illicit enrichment" and other
Figures recommended.
Finally, in this context, we emphasize the importance of access to information; and the principle of autonomy of the organizations and agencies set up in
this area; to provide greater guarantees to citizens in the exercise of their
rights, greater transparency in public management, and the power of comptroller
generally.
Respect for human rights reaffirm our historic commitment
to defend them and claim the leading role that the State should play in this regard.
The HR is not only a right but an essential goal for peace,
coexistence and citizen security. And concomitantly, the existence of
peace and public security are indispensable to enjoy the rights and
freedoms. Regarding the same reaffirm our historic commitment to their defense and claim the leading role that the State must
meet in this regard. The development of human rights today requires
public bodies more effective actions for the protection of all
people, with emphasis especially the most vulnerable, such as the elderly; people with disabilities; children; and victims of violence,
poverty and insecurity.

107

Human rights are ultimately rights

inalienable and inherent to all individuals, regardless of any quality that can distinguish them from each other, and the state should be your
ultimate guarantor. In this regard, we propose the revision and improvement of the "National Human Rights Institution and the Ombudsman" under the
Law No. 18,446 and 18,806.
Strategic objectives and actions to achieve them:
 Increase public oversight on the operation and results
the management of public entities.
This issue is addressed in other areas from a holistic perspective - See Uruguay Plan 2015 - 2020 -Uruguay
educated and integrated.
107

241

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
 Strengthen the Court of Accounts of the Republic.
 approve a new legal framework guaranteeing the independence of the supervisory bodies. And reformulate the institutional regulators (URSEC, URSEA, etc.) jerarquizándolas and giving them autonomy and independence.
 Provide more power to Parliament and investigative commissions
provide that the intelligence services are controlled by the Parliament.
 Regulation on illicit enrichment; obstruction of justice;
expanding incompatibilities with public office, and applicability of crimes of corruption. Expand and make more flexible the rules
Access to Information; Habeas Data for data protection
personal; Information Technology and Knowledge; and Promotion and Defense of Competition and Consumers.
 Defender in an unrestricted freedom of press and media
communication fullest extent imaginable.
 approve the project on "net neutrality" (free access, no
discrimination or censorship or restrictions or privileges).
 Establish a mechanism annual accountability of all rulers.
 Establish more and better guarantees for all citizens
exercising their freedoms under the protection and defense of
Human rights
 To limit the interference of the state and its agencies, in the private sector
citizens and their right to privacy. Ensuring the confidentiality and privacy of information, limiting the powers of inspection which may violate the privacy of the person, or affect the heart of hearts of people
Strategic Objective 1: Increase public oversight on the operation and
results of the management of public entities and private charges
confidence
To fulfill this objective we will develop the following:

242

Colorado Party
 approve transparency rules and behavior of incumbents
political and personal trust and mandatory management plan where
Ministers of State, the people appointed to political and personal trust in the central government offices and members of the Boards of the autonomous entities and decentralized services should occur within sixty days of his appointment,
management plan proposed comply under the Strategic Plan
the entity in which they play. At the end of each financial year,
will present an accounting of the proceedings in Parliament
National (Bill introduced by Senator Pedro Bordaberry
before the Senate).
 Create the Parliamentary Institute of Evaluation (IPE) as a dependent institution of the Legislature, which shall be responsible for the monitoring of the management of political positions and personal trust
(Bill introduced by Senator Pedro Bordaberry to the
National Parliament).
 Post management commitments and annual accountability by the persons referred to above, on page / website
of each entity.
 Establish good practices on fiscal transparency through: A) Clara
definition of roles and responsibilities; B) for fiscal management clear legal and administrative framework; C) Public access to information; D) Transparency in the preparation, execution, and reporting
budget; E) clear specification and implementation procedures
monitoring of approved expenditure and they apply to revenue collection; and F) assurances of integrity (Bill introduced by Senator Pedro Bordaberry to the National Parliament).
 Develop and implement the Charter of Taxpayer Rights, to equate the rights of the taxpayer Administration (Ombudsman
Tax) as well as a "Previous System Conciliation" to the previous resolution to judicial intervention, conflicts of taxpayers with the DGI, BPS and DNA. While the right of the Tax Administration recognizes collect the taxes legally entitled,
there is a permanent claim on the ways and means used

243

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
to make this collection, breach and violation of the rights of
many taxpayers. Also, successive legal changes, you
They have been granted almost absolute powers to the administration, which increasingly limits the performance of judges who also often lack the expertise needed to understand a material
complex as tax. This scenario takes on a very important
great when those affected are small businesses and taxpayers
They do not have the means to support long and costly process
Administrative up to obtain a favorable ruling.
Strategic Objective 2: Strengthen the Court of Accounts of the Republic
The Court of Accounts of the Republic is the only external oversight
established by the Constitution of the Republic and recognizing the need to strengthen its institutional quality and foster real effectiveness of its opinions. To fulfill this objective we will develop the following
Actions:
 Pass a law regulating the powers that the Court of Auditors are awarded to comply with the provisions of Art.
210 of the Constitution of the Republic which was never made effective. This law will have as main objective to systematize the existing rules and ensure that the opinions and observations issued by the Court will be taken into account.
 It must also ensure adequate monitoring of the Court's recommendations to identify irregularities in hiring
public, enhancing its role as a body that focuses on management
entities; in addition to the legality, engaging in the
transparency and management of the same.

108

In turn, frames will be approved

policy for the Court of Auditors to exercise effective control over
general management, ensuring that the state is not worth to organize it possible for the Court to be focused on management, it is in Article 228 of the Constitution: "Monitoring
in the implementation of budgets and the role of comptroller in all matters relating to public finance, will be charged
the Court of Auditors ". This article allows for a shift in policy, allocating more resources to make recommendations to improve management and monitor implementation of evaluating the level of efficiency are achieved with the
committed or management commitments. It also applies the literal) of Article 211 of the Constitution which states: "To advise and report regarding accountability and efforts of state bodies, including departmental governments, autonomous entities and decentralized services, whatever their nature, and also,
as to the appropriate action in case of liability, exposing the considerations and observations
relevant ".
108

244

Colorado Party
parastatal or private organizations to do what is prohibited from performing
directly.
 Integration in the Parliament of a Permanent Commission to consider
The opinions of the Court of Accounts and select those who understand must be addressed by the General Assembly to give effect to the
political control that the Legislature has assigned.
 Support

budgetary resources more efficient exercise of the

powers assigned to it.
Strategic Objective 3: To approve a new legal framework guaranteeing the independence of the supervisory bodies.
In Uruguay many supervisory bodies depend absurdly -the oversight of the executive branch depends on and have little power outside monitors and factual
law. It should be deducted, for example, the call Anti Board
(Board of Transparency and Public Ethics), the orbit of the Executive to
really be effective.
The designation and submission to the hierarchy controlled by the supposedly committed efficient and transparent control. To reverse should be devoting a
transparent system where power is independent of the parent
controlled.
In the case of that Board should transform and strengthen giving
functional independence, to make it a better body control and higher
prevention of corruption, with government interference in the autonomous policies and
with sufficient resources. The Board today under the Ministry of Education and
Culture (organ that controls), is composed of three members, it has technical independence and has about 15 staff. In these moments,
in considering a bill that aims to expand its competence in the instance that should consider the question of dependence.
We believe that it should be an autonomous entity which will propose the appropriate legal modification.
In turn, the Executive Council of the Unit of Access to Public Information
(3 members), the Executive Council of the Regulatory and Control Unit
Personal Data (3 members), the Honorary Board of the Agency

245

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
Development of Electronic Government and the knowledge society (AGESIC) (5 members) and the Commission for the Promotion and Defense of Competition (3 members) are all, 14 appointed by the Power Executive. By its very nature-given the guarantor criterion is prevailing in the world such bodies required
with institutional organizational autonomy, budgetary and operational autonomy and
technique. Positions such as member of the Board of Transparency and Public Ethics Unit of Access to Public Information and other entities control
and we understand that regulation must have prior consent of the Senate, and be
independent of any power, never depending on the Executive and
It happens in the present.
Strategic Objective 4: Reformulate the institutional regulators (URSEC, URSEA, etc.) jerarquizándolas and giving them autonomy and independence.
Regulators are nothing but instruments served the
Modern state to protect citizens from economic and political power
business that could be exercised to the detriment of citizens. Without these
instruments, citizens are more vulnerable to abuse of power
economic and political development of the suppliers of goods and services.
Unfortunately, the regulatory units in our country -except the
Central Bank- have no real independence from the Executive and show no economic independence, allowing confusing characters
controlled interests of the controlling and political influence can be exercised indirectly through the regulatory process, which must necessarily change.
In that sense we must transform regulatory bodies, institutes
independent, both organic and functional point of view, this quality constituting a guarantee of neutrality for operators
regulated services and transparency measure to protect the interests
citizens.
These bodies, endowed with the features we offer, are fundamental to democracy today. Are-for example those who must arbitrate pre-

246

Colorado Party
prices and quality among producers and utilities and dealers
the citizens. In setting prices and quality dirimen what income goes to the producer or dealer services and what income derived in better prices and quality. They are basic entities for income not accumulate in a few hands and
that resources and power are distributed in a balanced way, in favor of the citizen.
It therefore requires a strong regulatory power to end the alliance
privileged between political power and economic power against citizens
common; very hard for the economy to competition and transparent
it does not protect him in the thousand mechanisms that exist to make it opaque.
The current trend in Uruguay, however, pointed to weaken the power
of regulatory agencies. When regulations are bad citizens
pays the bill and particularly lower-income citizens. Services
they are expensive and of poor quality. This affects the basic services makers
public, to the less affluent citizens. Poor regulation is not another
but a transfer of money from citizens with fewer resources
the wealthiest companies. The strengthening of the regulatory bodies is
the only mechanism to point to a social market economy. It is one
distributive major springs in the developed world.
Chilean regulatory quality, for example, explains much of the remarkable
Low poverty in the country over the past 20 years.
The regulatory power is properly enshrined in the center of modern republicanism that defends citizens of private monopolies,
all public and economic abuse. The regulatory authority capable of controlling the employer State and the private entrepreneur, to avoid
abuses its dominant position, puts the citizen consumer guarantees
above any particular interest.
Strategic Objective 5: To provide more power to an inquiry committee
Parliament.
The bow of social control of power is made more recently, between
others for Justice, the press, the autonomous powers (courts of auditors,
regulatory) agencies, investigating committees of the parliaments.

247

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
In Uruguay all these actors are weak, however the legislator has always maintained that it was not necessary to give more powers to the Parliamentary Commissions of Inquiry, as other players in the arch controller
social were strong. Now they have not only weakened but corruption mechanisms have become more sophisticated, so it is necessary that these parliamentary investigative commissions have capital allocated, capacity to compel the attendance of those involved as well as witnesses, professional researchers, etc. promoting and approving the necessary legal framework for it.
Strategic Objective 6: Provide that the intelligence services are controlled by the Parliament.
Currently he has concentrated on a single charge of directing all state intelligence services. In addition, the current government has argued that
who occupies that post should not even accountable to the executive branch
integrated. Uncontrolled power is able to interfere in the lives of all
citizens in an anti-Republican optics company controlled by an uncontrolled driver, especially considering the current possibilities
technology. It is understood that this position should have legislative came on his nomination and must report regularly to Parliament that will create
a committee to monitor its activities. It is also the law that should
clearly define and limit the power of the intelligence services, establish their functions, regulate the special procedures of obtaining adequate information for the preservation of the constitutional and republican guarantees (Bill submitted by deputy Jose Amy to the National Parliament).
Strategic Objective 7: Create the Council of the Laity.
The recovery of a secular public education is a basic requirement Republican. It should be created by law an institution of the highest rank, with sufficient powers to ensure a respectful and neutral public education
the different aspects of ideas and beliefs that exist in the country. Teaching
field must be a stranger to partisan struggles, as it was in the country
success, he was able to build a "welfare state". Obviously it is missing
institutional counterbalance to the flood of political partisanship of education

248

Colorado Party
tion. This Council will have to do with ensuring respect for secularism in general, which should form part of the basic national consensus among political parties.
On the institutional organic area of ​​operation, many can
be the solutions, always with the understanding that the Commission should create
as a separate institution independent of the executive and the government of education, similar to some recent legislative solutions which create institutions for the protection of rights and guarantees
various kinds such as the Parliamentary Commissioner and Prison
National Institution of Human Rights Ombudsman (
NHRIs).
Strategic Objective 8: Reforming the law of party financing.
The laws of financing of political parties everywhere are set to
prevent corruption, and to achieve the independence of the parties regarding
large economic groups and the control of private contributions to the
thereof. Thus it is promoting greater transparency in financing
deprived of election campaigns being extended to the internal elections
limitations, prohibitions and obligations, especially the accountability,
scheduled for national elections and giving the Electoral Court and more
better tools for control of the legal provisions and sanction
defaults, are reforms that will promote.
Strategic objective 9: Modification of the National Institution of Rights
Human and Ombudsman, under the Law No. 18,446 and 18,806.
You must modify the integration of the same ensuring representation
the whole society and not as happening to date. In this regard, and as a
example, modifying Article 37 Law No. 18,446 (election system), for members of its Board of Directors are elected and inevitably only two-thirds vote of the full membership of the General Assembly.
Strategic Objective 10: Develop transparency in the public and private sector going from a reactive to a proactive and preventive approach.
a) In the public sector:

249

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
 Create a public body in a specialized area that preventive programs lead integrity (ethics, honesty, probity and rectitude).
To implement these programs, the agency will have the
supervision and guidance of the Board of Transparency and Public Ethics.
 Develop mandatory training programs for public officials
policy of integrity and anti-corruption tools.
b) In the private sector:
 Creating incentives, awards or recognition for companies
have implemented strong preventive programs have integrity and demonstrate behaviors which the central integrity in
organizational performance.
Strategic Objective 11: To enact more specific rules concerning conflict
interests and the establishment of new figures to acts of corruption
covering new criminal methods and legislate on applicability of crimes of corruption.
It is necessary to adapt our national legislation in accordance with the guidelines
It provides the Convention against corruption United Nations approved in Uruguay by Law No. 18,056, of 20 November
2006 and the Inter-American Convention against Corruption ratified by
Law No. 17.008 of 15 September 1998. It is understood must sanction of a regulatory body, which gives higher crystallinity and transparency to act and heritage managers of public goods.
In this guidance:
 Regulation on illicit enrichment and obstruction of justice
(Bill introduced by Congressman Anibal Gloodtdofsky to the
House of Representatives).
 To prevent the statute of limitations for corruption in the exercise of
public function. The proposal aims to prevent impunity for crimes
corruption by the mere passage of time. Such impunity beneficiary
corrupt ruler or official power or taking advantage of the position held in the exercise of civil, kept hidden the

250

Colorado Party
probative evidence of the crime or makes it impossible for your inquiry
within the general prescription. In that sense the consecration of extending the statute of limitations for corruption offenses, is
a measure against impunity under the same special characteristics.
 Review, adapt and extend the legislation on conflict of interest
and incompatibilities in the civil service, upgrading the modalities
that may occur (bill introduced by Rep
Fitzgerald Cantero before the National Parliament). 109
Strategic Objective 12: Expand the scope of the rules of access to public information by providing it with greater transparency
In this guidance:
 larger and more flexible rules of Access to Public Information;
Habeas Data for the protection of personal data; Technologies
Information and Knowledge; and Promotion and Defense of Competition and Consumers.
 reformulate the law on access to public information No. 18.381 limiting
the possibility of declaring a confidential or restricted matters for consideration by public entities, in particular to requirements that
formulated by the legislature. More precisely delineate
powers, scope and use of the rules relating to enact
"Confidentiality" or "reserve" of the State's actions. With the purpose of
minimize secrecy, derived from acts which may be processed as privileged or confidential.
 To survey the compliance of state agencies implementing the law, evaluation of results and necessary changes and establishing penalties for noncompliance.
Strategic Objective 13: To adopt rules and procedures that have as
focus whistleblower protection.
In a small country like ours must prevent denounce be transformed into the problem and harassed in the organization, giving all
Where from the general approach, seeking to protect is the smooth progress of the Public Administration (broadly)
and in particular, probity in the performance of their duties of officials within it.
109

251

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
guarantees. They need to overcome the reluctance of people to report by the
I fear of retaliation, establishing mechanisms that give confidence to
potential complainants. In this regard, it is necessary to establish mechanisms
adequate complaint, encoding processes within administrations enabling officers, insurance and reserved channels for reporting what
irregularity is perceived as both members of the organization as
individuals.
Strategic Objective 14: To defend freedom of the press and the media in all its imaginable extension.
 approve a law on "network neutrality" access-freedom, non-discrimination or censorship, or restrictions or privileges-(bill
presented by Senator Pedro Bordaberry - also see chapter
"Are we on the Uruguay Future").
 reject it approval of the media law proposed by the government and
all content regulation establishes the same, so we will proceed accordingly.
 Defender in an unrestricted freedom of expression that we think
as an inalienable right. Therefore corresponding defense against
any limitation or government crackdown on media
independent actions or advertising companies stocks, or
bias of government advertising.
Strategic Objective 15: To limit the interference of the state and its agencies,
in the private sphere of citizens and their right to privacy.
 Ensure confidentiality and privacy of information, limiting
inspection powers that might violate the privacy of individuals.
 Define the scope of the powers and actions of government departments, in order to avoid the so-called "fishing expeditions" on
groups of taxpayers, and any possible abuse of powers
inspection by them.

252

Colorado Party

253

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020

URUGUAY FUTURE

Science, Technology and Research
Innovation and Entrepreneurship
Environment and Sustainable Development
Transformation of the State and New Institutions

254

Colorado Party

URUGUAY FUTURE
From the Colorado Party we are talking, thinking and working to build the future Uruguay, look ahead, plan the coming decades
from the country. Sir Winston Churchill said that the difference between a politician and a statesman is that the former thinks only of the next election and the second in
future generations.
Inspired by this thought, we not only do politics, we want to make the party wins the next elections in order to make the changes that we think the country needs, we develop a model
country to begin work on their future, which ultimately is the future of all Uruguayans no exceptions.
If we only think in the short term, if only serve to remedy situations
critical and hastily improvised policies, we shall not have a model
self-sustaining country that allows the harmonious development permitting ultimately improve the quality of life for all Uruguayans.
Therefore our teams have also focused on a number of aspects that have to do with recovering the mystique of the country that dreamed Batlle y Ordonez, that country not feared to make great works, innovating, that
created buildings like the Salvo Palace and the Municipal Cylinder, who pioneered and copied in the world, not daunted by the challenge of
organize a football World Cup, which built the Centenario Stadium in a few months and are planted to other countries and earning more populous, rich and powerful.

255

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020

SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY AND RESEARCH (CTI)
The role played by research in science and technology and their applications
innovation processes to achieve a fairer, more prosperous world,
Balanced is well documented in the literature. A basic objective,
supported by the United Nations to achieve the "Millennium Development Goals" and
by working groups established to monitor the post-2015 development is the
creating an ecosystem of Science, Technology and Research (CTI) where
the, industrial policy and research policies and development policies
educational unite to the country's progress. The creation of an ecosystem is
extremely complex and involves creating conditions for political stability,
the proper functioning of the institutions, good education for the population,
solid infrastructure for research and education, and incentives
positive for the link between public and private actors, and the reasonable and balanced intellectual property protection.
The innovation that itself, culminating in processes where
transforms knowledge into economic benefits through a
well prepared work force, is based on a solid development
scientific and technological research.
Not necessarily all that research must be original, but many
Successful development processes (such as China, for example) were initially based on adaptation of processes and products developed in other places. All processes however have a fundamental characteristic: the formation of people ready to create and adapt scientific and technological knowledge. Such a thing can be done locally or by sending compatriots to form
outside (it is estimated that about 234 million Chinese have been formed that
form; India has a strong tradition of sending its postgraduates to study in abroad; Brazil leading the way) but in a moment
determined is necessary to give these people the possibility of applying their knowledge and training in the locale. An example of the opposite
is the recent divestment in science and technology by the government
Spain, which has sent thousands of Spanish scientists to seek positions

256

Colorado Party
abroad (Chile, Ecuador and Brazil have benefited from this by importing scientists).
Techne, a research group of the Knowledge Engineering and Product of the Junta de Andalucía and the University of Granada, has developed the
notion that there is a strong correlation between per capita GDP and the number
Researchers per million inhabitants, as shown in Fig.1 of the
next page. His line of thought can be raised as follows. Most developed countries are those whose workers are more efficient. Efficiency can be measured, for example, the wealth that may

Figure 1. Correlation between GDP / capita and the number of people engaged in science and technology in different countries (Source: Techné and own data)

generate the year with his work. The graph shows that GDP per person
employed increases proportionally with the number of researchers
per million inhabitants. From about 4,000 researchers per million
population, the optimal level is reached and productivity and remains constant. Of course it is well known that two variables that are modified
time in the same way are not necessarily correlated, but
it can be argued that there is an increase in GDP / capita with increasing number of researchers.
Among the possibilities, we believe that having
many researchers leads to higher value added production, better product of the application of scientific and technological developments, which means that using the wealth produced in the years of high prices of ma-

257

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
raw materials to increase the number of scientists and technologists working in research in the country will result in greater value for our
exports.
What is the current status of science and technology in Uruguay?
It has come a long way, not always linear nor ascending. Since the end of dictatorship, Uruguay has developed academic research at the University of the Republic, continuing a tradition anterior to that which
I was greatly diminished in the late 70's and early 80's
It focused on technological research institutes such as NARI or
development labs of public enterprises. Uruguay suffers from a
systematic lack of private investment in scientific and technological research.
Scientific research in Uruguay post-dictatorship was related mainly to the efforts of Conicyt operating within the Ministry
Education and Culture. The DINACYT later emerged with similar tasks, and in the last two administrations was created and strengthened the 4rol ANII
as a funding agency for research projects, scholarships and prizes, with
numerous development programs and sectoral policies. Nevertheless, most
investment in science and technology is carried through to UdelaR
subscribe about 73% of the total devoted to it by the country. The creation of
Clemente institutes like the Stable (1927), INIA (1989), the Pasteur Institute
(2004), all administrations for founding parties,
It allows the scientific and technological research, as well as the existence of LATU
(1965) and its certification work and analysis have also allowed innovations
technology. This set of institutions have joined universities
Private, UCUDAL (1984), ESU (1995), ORT (1996) and UM (1997) which, together with other
tertiary education institutions provide a small but growing percentage,
national research. In recent years they have begun to consolidate
technological centers where applied research is developed differently substance. Among them the oldest is the Pando Technological Pole (Academic Unit of the Faculty of Chemistry UdelaR, whose first works date back to 2002) and in subsequent years have established the Science Park

258

Colorado Party
Pando Technology (2008) and other less developed as the Cerro Industrial Technology Park (ITP, 2009 although previous attempts) or more
centric services like Aguada Park of Montevideo (2011). Also
it should be noted the activity of the Center for Imaging (CUDIM, 2006-2010).
The previous review would not be complete without a key source of funding and scientific development policy is not mentioned, the Experimental Plan
Basic Sciences (PEDECIBA) today called Development Program Basic Sciences created in 1985 with funding from UNDP and growing and reformulation since. It has not been less effort ANTEL for the development of internet penetration in Uruguay and increased
bandwidth and access speed. The complete digitization of the telephone network was completed in 1997 being Uruguay the first country in America and one of
the few in the world to have a 100% digital network. In recent years, telecommunication services have evolved positively (Uruguay held
position 52 in 2013 in the world of telecommunications) and the recent establishment (still in progress) of a national fiber-optic system has been
very beneficial for the development of scientific and technological research and
innovation. El Ceibal plan has advanced the first step of the digital literacy program has been beneficial, especially for children and adolescents with fewer resources.
From the point of view of the development of human resources, UdelaR also has the first place. Not only it provides funds specifically for the work
research of university teachers (as it is considered one of the
fundamental tasks) but provides funds for exclusive dedication to
university work (DT) and funds research projects and training
initial and ongoing human resources through the Sectoral Commission for Scientific Research. The Pedeciba own, until not long ago when
this task was taken over by the ANII, granted scholarships postgraduate training
(Masters and doctorates) and small annual grant funds for researchers, funds that can be used for current expenses or attendance at
congresses or stays abroad. A crucial step for the development of
research staff in Uruguay was the creation in 1996 during the Sanguinetti administration, the National Fund for granted pre Researchers

259

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
mine for the first time in 1999-2000 to 153 scientists in various areas of national life. Later, the Fund was transformed into the current National System of Researchers, in which some 1,600 scientists have several
areas of knowledge. It can be estimated that taking into account those who are engaged in science and research but, for various reasons, are not listed in SNI, there are 2,000 people conducting research and
development in Uruguay, which gives us some 615 people in the area per million
inhabitants. If the figure of the previous page is observed, the optimal number of
dedicated staff (when maximum GDP / capita is obtained) is about
4,000 people, so we can say that we are in Uruguay in no more than
1/6 of the staff needed for a truly value-based economy
added contributed by science and technology.
It is quite difficult to know the exact amount of money that is invested in science and
Uruguay technology and the numbers associated with the production. Since
This latter view, Uruguay produces about 100 doctors per year in all areas, like a single department of a University
US large. There are some 800 research units in the country and the production of scientific papers (as Scimago) it is in the range of 1,000 items per year (1,029 in 2012 which compares with 55,803 produced
Brazil in the same year). In terms of patents we are more or less
the same conditions regarding items, as shown in Figure 2 taken from the site of Sustainable Uruguay, with data from the National Directorate of
MIEM Industrial property, with the record of about 1,000 patents
year (830 in 2013). Anyway, only 10% or so of
patents applied for are companies and local scientists (79 751 residents and non-residents in 2013), which shows that in this respect we are much further behind in academic research.

260

Colorado Party

Figure 2. Applications for patents, utility models and industrial designs from 2004
2010 (Source: National Directorate of Industrial Property)

From the point of view of investment, UdelaR executed between 2011 and 2012
about 40 million. This represents approximately 70% of the
total investment, which is about 60 million, if you add the ANII executed by the Pedeciba, the various research institutes and technology, and executed in different directions of public enterprises. Having
note that Uruguay's GDP was around 49,000 million
in 2012, at present it is investing in the order of 0.1-0.2% of
GDP in research and development, in fact less than what is spent on
2004, about 0.3% of GDP. Indicated internationally to
reaching the average level of the European Union would be of the order of 0.91.0%, which shows that we are on the order of 5 times lower than ideal.
This is a consequence of the GDP, based mainly on the increase
prices of raw materials with low added value, has increased much more than what was spent on research and development tasks.
The correlation between investment in science and technology and the country's GDP has been
used as a simple indicator of development. Figure 3 shows
a graph constructed with data collected by ECLAC in 2008. It is seen that
there is a fairly reasonable exponential correlation between per capita GDP and
investment in CTI.

261

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020

Figure 3. Correlation between per capita GDP of different countries and the budgetary effort
made in science and technology (Source: ECLAC 2008)

In a recent article in the journal Science published the Presidential Address
for William H. Press AAAS (Science 342, 817-822, 2013) and shown
a graph correlating number of researchers, total expenditure on science and
technology and as a percentage of GDP. The size of the circle is proportional to the
Total investment made in R & D, the position on the abscissa is the%
GDP dedicated to R & D and the ordinate axis shows the number of people
engaged in research and development per million inhabitants. It is clear that in
any of the three variables being analyzed, Uruguay is much more
behind the developed countries and even many developing and
own region. We must change.

262

Colorado Party

Figura4. Correlation between number of scientists and engineers with investment in S & T

In short, it is clear that there has been an ongoing process over the last 30 years
which has made us advance in science, technology and research, but these
progress, both institutionally and results and budget have not been sufficient absolute and our overall objective should
be to achieve faster development and harmonious.
Strategic Objective 1 - Build and design a prominent and accepted capital
human science, technology and research
The primary aspect to be targeted with CTI programs (Science,
Technology and Research) will be for training, recruitment and maintenance
trained human resources. Plans and programs in this regard
They will be aimed at reversing the trend of "brain drain" (leak
brains) and generate a "brain gain" (brain). For that

263

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
it is necessary to train researchers, keep researchers trained and
attract domestic and foreign researchers who are not in the country. The various programs and plans that follow point to one or more of the above three objectives.
To do this we will develop the following:
1.

Develop programs for attracting researchers (PROCATI). The following plans will be administered from the ANII as political arm of the Ministry of Science, Technology and Innovation (MinCTI). In
Where appropriate bills will be developed aimed at ensuring
both the funding and the use of funds allocated. In specific cases
ANII can make specific agreements with public and private universities and other research institutions directly under the umbrella of
MinCTI the purpose of better utilization of human resources employed.

eleven.

Plan to attract foreign teachers - will be hired up to 300 foreign teachers (or Uruguayan settled prestige in the
outside) in the period of five years (progressively phased in each year of the term of office). The contracts will be in areas
Selected specific existing or not in the country, and may not exceed
a certain period, initially thought to be 5 years.
The purpose is to develop capabilities in areas weak or nonexistent
in the country, which are considered of strategic importance.

1.2.

Plan tax exemptions for graduates of Mathematics, Natural Sciences and Engineering - aims to encourage higher education through tax waivers similar to those offered to the
installation of physical capital (investment law). In this case we point
the incorporation of human capital, so full or partial income tax deductions will be offered for a similar period to the
post-graduate degree training (provided, as is obvious, the
professional residing in the country). These deductions will not be offered to any professional, but specifically those of the country races
set as priority to develop. Especially will work
to increase the number of graduates in mathematics, natural sciences
and engineering.

264

Colorado Party
1.3.

Plan for duplication of trained personnel in science and technology - The universe of scientists and technologists in research assets
Uruguay and development does not exceed 2,000 people (the 1600
SNI, 800 in Pedeciba and not included in any of these
categories, after removal of redundancies). We will increase the number
current 100% over the period of 5 years, considering the additions in the public and private sectors. In this regard, it will be used to
postgraduate fellows existing today in the Pedeciba (approximately
1,000) and those that will be incorporated in the rest of the period and
as the repatriation of Uruguayans living abroad. Training, youth and research training capacity in those who are selected will be prioritized. Additionally, it is proposed
improve current salaries of researchers what is considered a
extent necessary, develop actions to that effect. In particular,
you should consider a mechanism linking wage increases
additional to those already in effect on the productivity of the investigator, both
from the point of view of scientific and technological achievements, as
from the point of view of strengthening international relations and the formation of new researchers.

2.

Plan human resource training at postgraduate level in this case try to reach the end of the period, 3,000 students
annual graduate funded in whole or in part, throughout his career in the priority areas set out below. It will be designed
a mechanism for the best graduate students can perform postdocs abroad under conditions that ensure their return to a proper working environment for further development.

3.

Setting program development in areas careers
selected. This program is geared to career development
graduate (masters and doctorates) in priority areas. The
direct support in the form of economic aid as lump sum will be
awarded by tender to the formation of defined specialties, whose objectives will be specified, his development will be experimental for
determined period and its continuity or not, at the end of that period, be
responsibility of the University who imparted training (always

265

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
respecting students enrolled retain the right to the completion of their studies even if has ceased funding period
specific). This program aims to develop specialties that do not
not to provide or, also, to granting full scholarships to
Students of existing races. This proposal will be developed and
implemented jointly by the Ministry of Education and Culture and the
Ministry of Science, Technology and Innovation (new Ministry which
was created in the period).
Strategic Objective 2 - Implement Programs Research and Development
Science and Technology
1. Improvement Program telecommunications (telcos)
Telecommunications, this is understood as the physical and logical infrastructure
necessary for the transport of information, constitute a vast subject with many seemingly little connected edges. We intend to give a central role in policy research and development, the continuous improvement of betting points briefly outlined as follows:
 Electronic Government, development of a model for local operation and
possibly exportable;
 Support to enterprises of ICT (Information Technology and
Communications) having exporter future; support and Cuti
industry to easily access more international fairs and
for further trade missions as those already made to the US and
Israel;
 Encourage the installation of telecommunications research laboratories (all related hardware and software) of foreign and domestic firms, pointing to the value added by the installation and not
generate revenues just by providing the service; facilitate Uruguay is the country of testing and development of autonomous driving technologies (autonomous vehicles, drones, etc.);
 Encourage private companies to establish a data center level
world to provide public cloud services from Uruguay (similar to
scale to the Google Compute Engine Cloud Platform) and form a

266

Colorado Party
Internet backbone node in Latin America; promoting tender new
land or sea optical fiber in conjunction with other countries and private
to move the axis of telecommunications;
 To facilitate the licensing of radio spectrum for
developing new technologies by private; allow entry
new telephone operators, tv and data if the market requires it; Antel focus to develop telecommunications infrastructure
and legislate to lease private use to be mined, even in
basic telephony; reformulate URSEC to be more of a facilitator and driver quality and market freedom and not a tool of limitation;
 To promote the immigration of professionals in ICT, as the zero unemployment in this industry does not reflect an advantage, but a crisis and
limitation; UTEC has promote the careers of information technology and telecommunications; developing programs that provide
eg internships of teachers in such companies
so that they themselves learn and improve overall application, to
from acquired knowledge, technological tools
in classrooms;
 promote a more comprehensive legislation of teleworking and working methods of the new generations; encourage installation
focused on ICT technology parks in various parts of the country; study
the implementation of the mechanism of free zones to specific jurisdictions
of companies engaged in ICT. In particular, study the feasibility of
install a free zone focused on audiovisual production in all
support for export.
Within the framework of these objectives, some of the concrete plans to develop will be:
eleven

Plan delivery licenses only for band - currently licensed radio spectrum band and delivered by technology. What makes a company wanting to innovate with new technology that reuses a band on that already licensed, should manage
a license again. Since the licenses are issued by auction,

267

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
companies can not innovate until the state does, limiting
and the development of these new technologies, limiting innovation
within the country. The radio spectrum band should be licensed
so that each company can use that resource intensive,
allowing new technologies to adapt quickly to the resource
existing.
1.2

Separation of infrastructure provider providers
service - The State, through ANTEL, should be the developer
national telecommunications infrastructure and lease it to the
private that they can exploit. As examples, ANTEL should be responsible for:
i. Copper lines
ii. Optical fiber rolls
iii. Antennas for cellular base stations
iv. Antennas for repeaters
v. Satellites
saw. Data centers TIER-4
vii. Peering with other internetworks worldwide
Moreover, private should be responsible for providing the services
last mile, through the payment of a fee for the use of such infrastructure. This also means you should not offer services ANTEL
as software development.

1.3

Wireless sharing plan - In a country with almost
5 million active cell lines (as of 2012), we run the
risk that as in other countries (for Chile) radio antennas cellular basis is becoming a problem of visual pollution.
In some countries the legislation requires that operators should share the antennas in order to minimize the number of antennas spread
by cities, so we must move in that direction.

1.4

Transformation of the Post Logistics Service
International and Electronic Messaging - In a world where
Electronic communications are the basis of all trade and the
which companies and individuals organize their lives, in which privacy is
increasingly important as it is easily breached, the State must

268

Colorado Party
responsible for protecting the privacy of individuals and businesses established in the country so that they can develop their lives and businesses safely and confianza110. Mail should become a way of improving
parity shipments to and from the outside. Electronic commerce
It must be key to the Post Office and should encourage shipping outside the
produced in Uruguay. In teleworkers and small businesses
You must have their major customers. The development of electronic media
for procurement and control through an API, it should be a priority for customers to easily interconnect. Mail should support and invest in this to be available and used by the sites of national and international commerce. From point
electronic messaging view, the Mail should be the operator of a
email system quality and make the service management
Adinet, offering a new service internationally competitive with
large operators such as Microsoft and Google, so users Adinet and other inferior services prefer to migrate to the new electronic mail service and not to these international operators. All this information must be stored securely and encrypted within the territory of the Republic, providing privacy and security to its users in an adverse international environment to such interests,
as discovered in recent years.
fifteen

Plan of net neutrality - neutrality regulations
network should look no content provider with power over access providers be able to further their contents from
other less powerful suppliers artificially. This point has already been
developed in a bill introduced by Senator Pedro Bordaberry in this term.

1.6

Data Protection Plan - ANTEL currently has systems
DPI (Deep Packet Inspection) and the like which allow "snifeo" (data analysis transported) of the network-intensive and can
used to remove the privacy of the citizen. Although it is thought
a first for network analysis and "lawful interception" (interception

For 2012, the Post Uruguay lost 440 million pesos, with a grant of over 560 million.
She gave 40 million to the Republic internal shipments, while sent abroad 614,000 and received from abroad
over 2 million shipments.
110

269

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
users for possible crime against an injunction), also you have the chance to see much of what the user does no possibility that this is defended. It should be legislated on the correct use
of these devices, transparency in their use, habeas
data for the user and the parliamentary power of inspection and investigation of ANTEL systems.
1.7

Plan providing Internet access for all schools
of public and private research and development - Today
ANTEL has no policies that benefit especially the connection of institutions that conduct research and development network. Our proposal is to legislate for ANTEL serving wireless network
good speed and bandwidth for free to all institutes of public R & D, notably institutions as Clemente Institute
Stable, INIA, UdelaR, etc. We also intend to legislate
institutions whose primary or exclusive task is to conduct R & D in the
Private orbit with special prices in line with the momentum you
You want to give these activities in the private sector.

1.2

Declaration of the right to Internet access as a human right - Similar to what happens in countries such as France and Finland,
develop legislation providing that access to broadband internet is a basic human right. Create a permanent panel of specialists dedicated to developing an orderly legislation permitting provide access to broadband Internet in certain conditions such as
a statutory right (similar to Finland) and responsibilities
State in ensuring that right.

1.3

Installation Plan Special Economic Zone Production
Audiovisual and ICT. Similar to what has been done in Spain, England and Holland, the creation of a cluster for audiovisual production will be promoted primarily on digital media but also in
physical media. The idea is to allow the use conditions
special economic to produce for the outside but, in turn, allowing the implementation of related activities (eg filming locations
selected) outside the area. It will work especially dabbling

270

Colorado Party
in the areas of audiovisual services on demand, and augmented reality.
2. Modify the program of priority directions in science and
technology (POPCYT) - the implementation of sectoral policies for the development of productive subsystems with particular characteristics (eg, forestry, petrochemical, biotechnology will be supported,
etc.) while minimizing duplications and encouraging synergies based
on the priorities to be given to research in science and technology.
Assuming already exposed the main product obtained from the expected investment in CTI's human capital, the priority areas will
those in which it is reasonable to expect that focuses development in the immediate future but that are not yet well established at international level (which assures us that it is possible to find niche development) areas, or
not having a sufficient number of researchers and / or graduates in
country.
to. Priority direction towards applied mathematics, and computer algorithm development, system theory and modeling - is possible
markedly increase the acceptance and understanding of the
if it applied mathematics to everyday problems and it starts from
very early with the formation of the brain in logic and mathematics,
considered language to express ideas. "We all use the
math every day. To predict weather, to tell time,
handling money. Math is more than formulas and equations. It is logical; It is rationality. It is to use the power of your mind to
solve the biggest mysteries we know. "111 Our proposal is to create a special institute where research is developed postgraduate and doctoral degrees granted in Applied Mathematics, primarily in the areas of algorithms and
Between 2005 and 2010 an American series was shown on CBS showing the resolution of criminal cases by an FBI agent, whose brother, mathematical genius and professor at University of Caltec back, brings
different mathematical methods to solve them. The interesting thing about this series is that by the office of consultants
professional mathematicians not desmereció this science, but all methods applied are real and even a book written by Keith Devlin and Gary Lorden was published explaining some of the mathematical techniques used, and the blog
Wolfram some of the algorithms used are explained. The most interesting of this series was that the combination of
a popular attraction (the criminal intrigue) with real mathematical methods made the series was maintained for four
consecutive years as the most popular of the Friday night, which is certainly remarkable when one considers the
I hate that mathematics generally results in most young people. It was estimated that an average of 11 million viewers for each episode in the first four seasons. The transcribed phrase was used by this
series.
111

271

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
Computing, Dynamic Theory of Complex Adaptive Systems,
Modeling and Complex Systems. In turn, this will link to the
education plan for children and adolescents with high intellectual development, giving the Institute (call Insuma) the power
oversee special plans for training math
commensurate with their abilities outside the curricula of study. Finally, the National Statistics Institute is amended
to transform it into the National Institute of Statistics and Modelling, entrusting the task of modeling complex systems
citizens from the operation of networks (transport, communications, electricity, water, etc.) to the deployment of troops to the
safety, management of "big data" relating to economic,
social and environmental development, and the development of prospective studies
development and application of resources in the future, with specific plans according to changing critical variables. Likewise,
will open an area specially dedicated to the support of modelers
apply computer skills to the natural sciences
(Chemistry, biology, physics, geology, etc.) and applications (geophysics,
meteorology, chemistry, physiology, bioinformatics and biomedicine reactivity, etc.).
b. Priority direction towards the basic sciences - While
distinction between basic and applied sciences, technology, innovation,
etc., is a bit fuzzy, we explicitly point our option to consider as a priority the development of basic sciences. Normally there is a product, process or development applied from this science, the results are mostly obtained
in an academic environment and the results are published without restrictions in international journals or presented at conferences (which
if it makes possible a cost-effective implementation of this type
it can be done by other researchers in other countries). The reason
essential to prioritize basic sciences (in which we will include mathematics, natural sciences and some social sciences) is used to the rigorous training of new scientists, labor essential for scientific development

272

Colorado Party
technology. A person with a good background in basic science
You can then seamlessly switch to engineering and applied technology or other areas.
c. Priority direction towards ICT, software, automation, robotics and artificial intelligence - the future will be to
based mathematics but his expression as it affects every day
It gives citizens through engineering, especially in the
field of information technology and communications, the development of algorithms and software, the study and implementation of automation (for example, smart buildings or control
remote industrial facilities), artificial intelligence and
creation and development of robots.

112

We must make the option

tion to prioritize these areas where, in addition, there is very good demand in the market. Implement technological applications (apps)
mobile or other devices for people with discapacidad.113
d. Priority orientation towards microelectronics - The miniaturization of electronic components for use in everyday life is a
theme already installed in society. The most common applications
(RFID chips on cards, automatic connection between different devices,
etc.) are well known, but are exciting applications folder. Now is the time when the electronics are located
embedded in our daily use instruments (implements
can only be used by the owner based on their biometric data, for example), on our clothes (sensors conditions
health, rechargeable batteries with body movements, microcomputers installed in vision devices, etc.) or our
own bodies (identification chips, embedded phone, Internet communication and control by volition, and other sensors nanoretinas

112

As an application example, in Japan there are already very frequent applications of robots employed as receptionists or to accompany and facilitate the lives of the elderly. The evolution of drones for civilian applications as well
the creation of robots as children's toys (Lego Mindstom for example) and the emergence of computers
a versatile small plate (Arduino, Raspberry Pi) has become increasingly easier to introduce children in this
theme (is an important milestone Butiá project the appearance of the Faculty of Engineering to program robots
using ceibalitas). Also, the presence of robots in complex surgeries, or in automated factories, is
and routine matter in more advanced countries.
113 For example, in Spain there is a "Prometteo" project, which uses an application (reference) into cell for
accessible tourism, informs about hotels, restaurants, etc., which have accommodations and facilities for persons
deaf. Technologies accessible to deaf, blind and other disabilities are needed. We must incorporate the dimension
accessibility to development.

273

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
res, etc.) so that we will work aggressively to generate progress and development in this area.
e. Priority to agricultural engineering orientation One of the fundamental productive pillars of the national economy is agriculture. In addition to the excellent developments that
have occurred in genetics, breeding techniques, irrigation, crop rotation, soil improvement, etc., recent years have seen the emergence
hard improvement of agriculture and livestock coming from the field of engineering. A clear example is the traceability,
materials having components (caravans), logical (software) and logistical and should extend to smart tags
containing nutritional value (both meat and other
foods). There are many other possible applications and several universities in the world that dictate races this multidisciplinary area, so sentido114 implement such policies.
f. Priority orientation hospitality, housing and
building harmonious with the environment - entertainment services, where the subject is to provide the individual, temporarily or permanently, in an atmosphere of comfort and quality of life, grouped
many subjects ranging from hotels and restaurants services (which, in turn, covering topics from logistics to molecular gastronomy) to the appropriate interior design, homes
intelligent and harmonic buildings with the environment, such
as sustainable buildings that generate their own power and thermal conditioning. Two priority areas to be developed are the
interior design and elderly oriented architecture
towards people with motor or sensory difficulties. Two issues to support in this area are especially automation combined with building materials special features
(Decontamination, power generators, etc.) and software and
electronic (internet of things, speech synthesizer, text reader,
In South America they are in Colombia and Brazil (Pelotas, Campinas and San Pablo). One of the
aspects will definitely boost the design and construction of agricultural machinery, including
focused on the aspects of precision agriculture (Technology, ICT, satellites, software, etc.) and aspects of conservation and environmental improvement.
114

274

Colorado Party
video guide sign language interpreter, digital decoders
Automatic for translating languages ​​and subtitle programs
TV, etc.).
g. Priority direction toward health, biotechnology and biomedical engineering - The care of human health (and, by extension, animal and plant) is a cornerstone of the enjoyment of
full life. Without neglecting the investigations carried out today
in the biotechnology and biomedical area, the emphasis of this priority area will be on issues related to the development of molecular biology in the last few decades. Three technologies that are
It will pay particular attention shall be: (a) gene, from developing
GM (think of developing specific laws for the use of
genetically modified organisms, GMO, including mandatory labeling of food), gene silencing and therapy
drug tailored to individual genetic; (B) the development and
bioreactors start production in plants and animals, for
production of drugs, natural vaccines, etc .; and (c) stem therapy for the regeneration of tissues, organs and cell systems (for
which is needed to develop a Law and have a clear regulation).
This last point also be related to the study and production of biomaterials compatible with the human body and 3D printing artificial organ replacements (e.g., trachea).
h. Priority orientation towards quantum engineering - Unlike traditional engineering, macroscopic engineering
Quantum aims for full use of the quantum properties of the tiny systems. In certain areas (such as micromachines) has points of contact with nanotechnology, but
the most important aspects to which we orient interested
the investigation will be quantum computing and thermodynamics
Quantum. In the first case it comes to promote theoretical and applied research aimed at developing tiny computers,
very high computing power, based on quantum effects. In a second
case, it is to study heat engines (including cooling

275

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
ers) that can exceed the theoretical limit imposed by the second
law of thermodynamics and cooling with maximum supereficientemente
energy utilization. Both areas have potential technological applications in the near future, with major implications.
i. Priority direction towards aero-space engineering for several years, high school students in Uruguay compete in competitions organized by NASA to design vehicles
space, the successes being particularly noticeable in
the development of vehicles and cockpits related to the conquest
Mars. Also, recently it has entered development
satellite communications between ANTEL and the Faculty of Engineering of the University of the Republic. We believe that encouraging the development of a branch
research and aerospace applications, in specific niches
where we can have some comparative advantages, it is one of the
priority guidelines to be promoted in our program
General of priority projects in science and technology. For this
will work on legal instruments that favor partnership
the public sector and private organizations in the area of ​​ICT,
field where development potential is seen in this direction.
j. Priority direction towards designing and printing 3-D - The
latest revolution in the world of manipulation of information on the subject is the appearance of 3D printers. Unlike
dimensional printers to which we are accustomed, the
3D printers are deposited thin layers of material according to
scheduled computationally design. This allows transform computer models and material models becomes
the perfect interface between the worlds of matter and the
information on the subject. One of the priority directions of
our science and technology program will be to develop
software and applications where 3D printers are used. As
For example, these printers are a revolution in the world of
architecture for the manufacture of complex models, replace the
need trade in small goods (for example, duplication of keys is an example of small pieces made with printing

276

Colorado Party
soras 3D) and allows printing of artificial organs (already done with trachea, complete and exoskeletons hands). We work and
to develop programs to schools
3D printers are available midrange. Likewise,
will work for schools in each departmental capital and integrating the municipalities in Montevideo count on
modeling centers of last generation, with computational cluster
modeling and 3D scanner and printer for the job elements in
virtual (gloves and goggles in general reality and, if possible, virtual reality room that can be used in research, teaching and popularization of science. The accent from the point of view
Research will be on technologies (SLS, FDM, SLA) printing, the design of specific software and design models.
k. Priority direction in nanotechnology, materials,
Fine and pharmaceutical chemistry - This is a very vast area where the
Emphasis is placed on developing materials with characteristics
special, usually in niche and relatively small for what amounts global industry. The orientation
support the development in specific aspects of nanotechnology for medicine and industry (and in this respect studies
computational structural bioinformatics to enzymes and other
proteins considered nanomachines). It will also support the
development of new materials in four specific areas. By a
part of the development of generic drugs and so-called fine chemicals will be supported. In this regard it is proposed to legislate adapting a
the latest laws about who is to Ecuador. for another
side, it supports investment in research and development in mining
and processing of metals needed in microelectronics, especially rare earths needed for touch screens. In
Third research and development in doping of graphene, tubular and sheet for the design of new materials will be supported by
special properties, particularly semi- and superconductors. Finally, research and specific applications for 3D printing materials, from plastics (ABS, PLA, PVA, PC, will be supported

277

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
etc.) to materials with bone features, biotintas, skin and even drugs or materials for catalysis kits. Another interesting aspect of material linking him to develop in Uruguay
pasteras is the possibility of advancing research and development on smart roles (such conservation, environmental conditions change, smart tags, etc). One project
which will be included within this priority orientation will be negotiating with the KIST (Korean Institute for Science and Technology) for the installation of a center in Uruguay, in a similar way as
Installation negotiated during the administration Pasteur Institute
President Jorge Batlle, focused in the area of ​​strategic interest
materials, in order to realize a significant investment.
l. Priority direction towards biorefineries and production
precursors - Biorefineries are industries that comprise the
biomass (primary or other processes such as waste processing
cellulose pulp) in equipment capable of producing biofuels and value-added chemicals. It has increased the forest area of ​​the country and you may think of obtaining chemicals with high added value from biomass. This is
a renewable resource and research and development to get products to replace precursor chemicals derived from petrochemicals, which at present the country imports is needed. So far, the area is poorly developed and focused primarily on the production of bioethanol from the
waste. One of the projects to be included in this area, will be the
negotiations with industries sector in the country installed for
joint financing of a research institute specializing in bio-refineries and development and whose benefits may be appropriate jointly by the cluster.
m. Priority direction towards environment and development
sustainable - projects in this priority will target orientation
to develop methodologies and processes that help to mitigate or completely banish harmful damages to the environment, but,
also have productive value in itself. They will point to the development

278

Colorado Party
sustainable and environmentally friendly architecture (use of biosystems for lighting and heating by generating
energy, using special construction materials for catalytic destruction of polluting gases, building materials
from industrial waste, etc.) and waste recovery
agribusiness (in particular dairy farms, or obtaining and recovery of nutrients from runoff from fertilized land). In particular processes using microalgae grown on waste digesters will be supported, to obtain
biomass, food supplements (omega-3 oils) and breeders of livestock feed.
3. Program creating alternative careers in science and technology every nation that decides to invest in science and technology should think in terms of what has to exploit the possibility of a general education training in science demonstrating a comprehensive approach, not only
to fill his paintings of research in a scientific ivory tower
engaged in the formation of the new generation of scientists and PhD's. A
scientific training is too expensive in time, money and other resources,
both individually and collectively, to reduce their use only
academic or applied research. A policy of Science and Technology
General should consider very carefully, among its many objectives,
that will with scientists that "leftover" outside the traditional research activity. Not, but allow them to form, it would be a
irresponsible and demagogic waste. It will therefore be necessary to encourage
generating specialization courses where the methodology is applied and
knowledge. Some of the fields we view as
potentially profitable and to support specific policies are:
to. Technical Writing (manual); publications and popular science blogs; Science journalism (press, audiovisual media, electronic media, social networks); business communication
b. Venture capital investor in technologies; biotechnology analyst for investment; brokerage analyst for investment

279

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
technology companies; facilitator and business developer in technologies
c. Regulator and negotiator (especially within the state, but not
only); patent agent and other protection
intellectual property; design of public policies for education and
science and Technology.
d. Executive search firms to find the best
talents (head hunters); fund management research and
development, public or private; technology information
(Providing data for the industry).
Strategic Objective 3 - Creation of a new institutional framework for Science, Technology and Research in Uruguay
Most of the descriptions made hereinafter are also linked with other parts of this document, but are summarized here for you
the changes to make are appreciated and how they link together.
To fulfill this objective we will develop the following:
1. Create

Ministry of Science, Technology and Innovation

(MinCTI) - The MinCTI be a new entity that will design, in coordination with relevant parties, the national policy in this area, which does not mean that all institutions, groups or laboratories
research and innovation which are performed under its aegis, but it
is responsible to organize development policies, programs for
compliance with the aforementioned strategic objectives, coordination
with the SUN, development and coordination of Scientific-Technological Poles, and
other activities necessary for the consolidation of a national policy on the subject. They will join the Ministry ANII, institutes
Research (Clemente Stable, Pasteur, INIA, CUDIM and others created) over those addresses in the State that are affected to tasks that
Now you competerán this Ministry (eg Ministry DICyT
Education and Culture, Agesic or LATU).
2. Develop the National Agency for Research and Innovation
(ANII) - ANII continue to exist as the political arm of

280

Colorado Party
cas designed by MinCTI. Most of the current functions of the
Agency will be maintained and expanded, other design features
policies, which will be reserved to MinCTI. The Agency, however, advise the MinCTI on the aspects to be consulted. Integrating
Director of the Agency will be made using the best scientists and
innovative country, selected by a team of experts recognized national or international jury. Taking its President, half of the members are scientists from the
Academy and the other half will be innovators and entrepreneurs from
the private sphere. They assume as soon as they can be named and will last
in office until the assumption of subsequent government. It will regulate the
manner of appointment / election thereof.
While there are no official reports on the results of the promotional activity ANII in innovation, it is known that the results have not lived up to expectations. The Agency will implement
specifically the human resource plans that have been outlined above, both for researchers and students. As soon as
the scientific and technological development will require implementing a policy that rewards not only research and innovation Orthodox, in familiar areas, but proposals with a high degree of risk posed new proposals.
Also, an important part of the resources will be destined to the adaptation of technology projects within certain frameworks to define. The
Innovation must not be contained only in the projects submitted,
but the Agency should have less conventional methods
allocation and management of resources, somehow, allow
more leeway to the creators of knowledge, risking, by
Of course, to have a greater number of failures.
3. Improve coordination between existing entities in the national orbit related to Science, Technology and Research - Subject to a thorough analysis of the legal regimes under which
operate, some created or existing entities operate under the orbit
MinCTI and the executive arm of the ANII. Our intention is that these institutes will be entered into the coordinate system.

281

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
 ICBE http://www.iibce.edu.uy/ life sciences and related fields
 http://www.pasteur.edu.uy/ IPM development of life sciences and
biotechnologies
 INIA http://www.inia.org.uy generates and adapts knowledge and technology to contribute to sustainable agricultural development
 CUDIM http://cudim.org research, training and applications
Health Sciences
 LATU http://www.latu.org.uy analytical services, metrological, technological, management and evaluation
 INUMET meteorological services (proposed to extend to climatic)

Information

Colorado Party

INNOVATION AND EMPRENDEDURISMO115
We understand that an environment in which entrepreneurs can emerge, compete and innovate should be established. The purpose is "to build a class
entrepreneurial and innovative so that the best companies (ie those that export goods, services and even capital) not pale in comparison with entrepreneurs star elsewhere. "

116

If you increase the

productivity, future income will grow, which in turn will increase government revenues and the state's ability to invest in service delivery.
It would be possible to enter a virtuous circle of stronger public sector, higher growth and opportunity for all.
If we work effectively to boost the birth of new ventures and we create conditions to grow at a significantly higher than the current and being innovative in their proposals rhythm, we get an increase in opportunities for new generations, winning
continued innovation and impact on national development will generate more
balance in society and economy and have a positive impact on the Index
Uruguay Human Development.
Society - in the world and particularly of Uruguay - faces challenges
that go beyond economics. Entrepreneurship and innovation,
They are a way to meet those challenges, creating sustainable levels of development, creating jobs, generating economic growth and improving the general welfare of society. Not all new entrepreneurs develop
software. They can enhance social relationships, inventing new forms of
produced or treated food. The projects are handled in the most varied areas.

115 According to the World Bank report "Entrepreneurship in Latin America. Many companies and little innovation "published in December 2013, unprecedented social progress certifies that the region has made during the
Finally booming growth:
Almost 70 million people escaped poverty in the last decade.
Approximately 50 million people joined the middle class between 2003 and 2009.
The income inequality measured by the Gini coefficient dropped to the lowest level ever recorded
in the region.
However, about one third of poverty reduction was the result of social policies that transfer income to the poor, and the balance came from new jobs created during the boom years. In consecuense,
"Growth is necessary to keep reducing poverty and expanding the middle class."
116 Report referred.

283

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
We must think about entrepreneurship in the broadest terms: in small plants of ideas, entrepreneurial and proactive people working
in medium and large enterprises, including state organizations. Uruguay requires innovative solutions, fresh ideas, new approaches and forms
operating restarted. No one should be excluded. In this regard, we will work to:
Uruguay  Making of the 5 most attractive countries in the world to
undertake.
 Convert to Uruguay in the "enterprising hub" of the region.
 Switch from a foreign investment-led economy to
one led by domestic innovation.
 Generate a nationwide program to significantly increase the number and quality of enterprises born in the country, incorporating the profile "intrapeneur".
 To promote the entrepreneurial ecosystem of Uruguay.
 Develop a comprehensive program of qualification and competitive selection
that providing basic services for all who start their activity
entrepreneurial stepwise increase the level of training and overall strengthening funding towards those that prove Enterprise High Impact for society, as measured by standard
goals. EAI is defined as having not less than 3 years
activity and minimal growth in its workforce of 20% annually.
To achieve the objectives, it is important to create a clear message and
acquire a critical mass in the entrepreneurial ecosystem of Uruguay. While
they deserve more attention are the High Impact Entrepreneurship (EAI) by
its positive effect on innovation, employment, the economy and society,
its emergence depends on strengthening the ecosystem that surrounds the entrepreneurs and the generation of large numbers, it will develop
the following :.

a) Cultural
If we want to generate a steady and growing stream of new ventures, should be a single message from all stakeholders on the issue:

284

Colorado Party
an unequivocal message of support. It is important that young people recognize the
entrepreneurship as rewarding and generating future as a
opportunity for personal and professional development .. If we want to create change
permanent, it will require investment in changing public perception of entrepreneurs and have to invest in entrepreneurial education.
1. Work to generate an agreement to recognize the activity
as essential to the growth of the country, passing legislation to support entrepreneurs.
2. To invite prominent Uruguayans and people in general whose careers
entrepreneurship has been successful to act as Ambassadors
activity and become role models.
3. Post the challenges and rewards of activity at national or international level.

b) Training and education
Young primary, secondary and university education should include the
basics of gestating a business / personal enterprise. Should
learning to learn what matters quickly, in a world increasingly
dynamic, but they must also learn to emprender.117
We have to plant to harvest knowledge and culture talent, placing
within the framework of national education (primary, secondary, technical,
University), universally accepted concepts and ways of teaching that
promote these concepts and skills essential for the future of
who build and govern our country.
Undertaking involves leading and take calculated risks. Investing in education
entrepreneurship is one of the greatest investment return. EU studies suggest that between 15% and 20% of students who participated in such programs, then assemble your own company, a figure
that is three to five times higher than in the general population. But then
not start a venture, young people benefit from learning the
Young people who receive information about businesses in their youth are 3-5 times more likely to start their
own business. In Uruguay we are very creative, but very poor execution. The world is changing and
new generations are the engine of that change.
117

285

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
principles of entrepreneurship develop knowledge, skills and attitudes essential, including creativity, initiative, tenacity, teamwork, understanding of risk and a basic sense of responsibility. This is the
entrepreneurial mindset that allows people to transform ideas into action and greatly increases its ability to be used by a third party.
Education systems have shortcomings when it comes to provide a preparation to contribute to employability, and do not work properly with companies or employers to approximate the experience of learning to
reality of the workplace. In our country it is a recognized fact
by all. These inadequacies are an increasingly serious problem for
competitiveness. The number of jobs requiring a high level of skills
increases considerably. Education should raise their demands and levels
training to meet this demand, and promote skills
Cross needed to enable young people to become entrepreneurs and
adapt to change, increasingly inevitable, that will occur in the labor market throughout their career.
1. Define general objective of doubling the number of young people completing

higher education (9.4% to 20%) to a run for it under the agreements should arrive the future National University System. While graduation rate increases (we have passed the barrier
5,000 graduates / year in 2011), Uruguay is one of the worst countries in Latin America-graduates enrolled relation (18-1), only surpassed
by Guatemala (38-1). In a world that massification of tertiary education
(250,000 registered in 1950 vs. 25 million in 2011), to compete, we must achieve the necessary pace.
2. To encourage the learning of other languages, because in a globalized world,

must be enhanced so that the development of a national policy
Language is essential (See Plan Uruguay from 2015 to 2020 - Chapter Education).
3. Perform departmental and national competitions with national awards final

tions. The spread of events and sponsoring activities allows au-

286

Colorado Party
tofinanciar initiative that deepens and makes practical entrepreneurship education.
4. Enhance learning by experience and action, focused on resolution

problems. Young people should be encouraged to develop their entrepreneurial potential through formal and informal activities,
as volunteering. These experiences should be validated and recognized
as part of the student curriculum.
5. To deepen the link between work, studies, projects generated

annually in academia and the real requirements of companies, public and private organizations and even actions of social order.
6. Establish technical study programs that include design prototypes

as part of the post-curricular activity at the tertiary level. 118
7. Build local education programs that can be animated series

see on national TV and on the Internet, where basic principles are taught
and examples of aplicación.119

c) technical training and tutorials
To begin a new venture requires an evaluation process
internal, an appreciation of strengths and weaknesses of the entrepreneurial own
of your project, and then seek to strengthen the weakest areas of his knowledge attending specific training and / or complement their
strengths with partners or employees who bring with them the knowledge or skills he lacks. Approximately 50% of new businesses fail
during its first five years of life. We must increase external support to ensure that a greater number of entrepreneurs to overcome
the "Valley of Death".
An ongoing training program is vital to the smooth birth, growth and retention of new ventures in Uruguay and that
its activities generate returns that the entrepreneur seeks both to himself
We take as reference 118 program at Stanford University: http://designprogram.stanford.edu/
Some 119 programs that serve as examples:
NFTE. Network for Teaching Entrepreneurship. South Bronx. Steve Mariotti 1987. 500,000 low-income young
US and rest of the world have passed through its system. They enhance their knowledge of "street" and "court" positively.
The Leader in Me.
Desem (Junior Achievement). In 2011-14000 youth in Uruguay. Primary school and high school.

287

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
and their partners and employees, and society in general. In uruguay -
especially in Montevideo - there are a variety of courses and support provided by public and private national and international institutions. In such
You sense, you should:
1

Create a unique physical and / or virtual window to advise and facilitate entrepreneurs navigate the many options to choose / s most appropriate / s entrepreneurship is a clear need.

2 Implementing a comprehensive package of short, armed videos into a format
courses for hanging network with completely free access, whose overall objective is the orientation in the field.
3 Encourage the creation of associations supporting former managers, directors,
technicians, workers, professionals to advise new ventures, bringing his technical knowledge, contacts, etc.

d) Information
The quantity and quality of data provided today by the INE (National Institute of
Statistics) is valuable, but should be strongly enhanced to become
in information, understood as the result of processing, manipulating and organizing
data to add value to the person receiving it. The INE (we propose to modify INEMO) must move away from the simple collection of basic statistics to take a much more complex role.
1. Development INE generator as constant updates and
qualified delivered in a manner that is valid for decision making.
2. Generate knowledge on the most relevant market trends and
innovative business models in the world, creating a Monitoring Mechanism Online Market in collaboration with organizations, banks,
UXXI, to facilitate the collection of information and regional markets
international.

288

Colorado Party

e) Relations / Networking
Of all the factors identified as important by active entrepreneurs,
Networking is the main factor clearly implying that one gives and one
receives, in the process of growing each project.
To grow rapidly, entrepreneurs require specific skills, customized, which can help create competitive advantages and benefit from global value chains and the management of shared resources
humans. Clusters, business networks, and other organizations can create
required supportive environments, as they bring to the same table representatives from the business, education, research and the public sector.
1. Develop programs for the exchange of young entrepreneurs Uruguayans with other countries in the region and the world, especially the
areas where entrepreneurship is growing strongly: Chile, Israel,
Singapore, USA, through a selection process.
2. Report in centralized and professional manner, on the existence of programs and the value of the networks operating in the country.
3. Generate environments to facilitate the linking of networks of entrepreneurs
national, regional and international networks of class: Singapore Entrepeneurs Network, the Athena Network (created especially for
women.
4. Closer links between national agencies and private organizations dedicated to providing support to entrepreneurs (such as ANII, or SIC, to
way of example) and tertiary study centers and support educational processes of college students.

f) Capital
Without proper funding and illiquid, no enterprise can operate,
invest and grow. Access to finance is certainly another important restrictions on entrepreneurship in Uruguay so we
work in that direction:

289

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
1. Design solutions specific funding for entrepreneurs category "Web" so that they can implement their ideas.
2. Generate new opportunities for you to invest in new ventures by people who have resources that could be used for that purpose ..

g) Regulatory
Reduce tax compliance costs should be a goal. Given the
limited resources and experience, new ventures suffer proportionately more from the high costs imposed by the DGI and BPS and system
tax complex. It is proposed:
1. Use ICT more efficiently and effectively for the registration of new
ventures in entities such as the BPS or DGI, among others.
2. Exempt from payroll taxes for one-person enterprises during the first two years and until the fulfillment of 25 who have
with up to 4 employees (See Plan Uruguay from 2015 to 2020 - Chapter Economy
and Finance).
3. Generate an information service for businesses to restructuring
Early and tips to avoid insolvency.
4. Simplify the processes and procedures to be developed in general.

h) Innovation
Innovation management poses challenges that are far superior to those resulting from the normal activities, which is why innovations in enterprises
mismanaged end up not succeeding, that is, innovations do not end up being because no value.
1. Develop government agencies that specialize in assisting
innovative in particular on issues related to the international field and the development of relations between the national level and innovative
international.
2. Support innovations to be carried forward and that are properly
registered, in the case of international litigation, asistiéndose by the

290

Colorado Party
State innovators to request or express these requirements. TO
while the prestige and recognition of patent registrations will rise and
invention in the country and encourage the creative work in the scientific environment.

291

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020

ENVIRONMENT AND DEVELOPMENT
SUSTAINABLE
The planet is a very complex system in constant dynamic equilibrium. That
balance can suffer local or global temporary or permanent displacement, and suffers an adaptation to external pressures (relatively few) and
internal (many) that is not necessarily good or bad in itself, but whose
consequences for humans can be catastrophic. The continuing growth of global population and greater comfort we want to surround ourselves leads to an increasingly intense pressure on natural resources. Since
a purely theoretical view is clearly not possible to indefinitely increase the number of people who enjoy a high consumption without
exhaust the possibilities of the planet as it is nearly closed system, eventually leading to permanent breakdown in the ecological balance and perhaps
the disappearance of the human species or its reduction to levels consistent with
this new balance. It is not alarmist to think that the pressure of desertification, deforestation, pollution of air, water and soil change
climate and other phenomena that occur locally and can ultimately lead to a disruption of the global equilibrium. The actions to delay and
avoid possible such phenomena are not only a convenience or
Environmentalists foolish whim, but an ethical imperative for loved
modern humans and their descendants.
The development is not merely an economic concept but quality of life
the human being so that science and technology must be applied to
stop and reverse if possible, environmental degradation and the ecosystem not
It is a basket of natural resources that can definitely expoliarse,
but a complex system which requires commitment and healthy maintenance
dedication.
Uruguay has a long history of attempts to environmental protection. Civil Code 1868, Rural Code 1875 and 1942 Water Code 1979 Water and Soil Conservation (1968), Forest Law (1968, 1984 and updates)
general interest of protecting the environment (1994), and finally Article 47 of the Constitution of the Republic of 1997. Various environmental indices

292

Colorado Party
them (such as quality of beaches, air quality, etc) have relatively reasonable results and the whole process of installation of the Botnia pulp mill (now
UPM) helped put environmental issues on the daily consideration of citizens. The slogan "Natural Uruguay" was repeatedly used as a trademark
country and successive governments have tried to promote this vision of Uruguay
It is a country of remarkable environmental conditions.
Moreover, Uruguay has major shortcomings in various aspects both conceptual and regulatory materials. Politically, the environment is an issue
relatively neglected within a ministry that is not the most influential
and where he pays more attention to the issue of housing.

120La

protection

the environment has not been collected as a right of third generation
our legislation. The investments required for wastewater treatment (necessarily dependent public decisions) have been insufficient to prevent local problems of waste. There is no legislation
appropriate for emissions (beyond references
make the GESTA). Emissions from dairy farms, pig farms, slaughterhouses, and
agriculture in general to surface waterways suffer from large
shortcomings. This has been exacerbated by the spread of intensive agriculture, with great use of agrochemicals and inappropriate measures of protection
implementation, available to the tubs or washing the spray planes. Pollution of watercourses by nutrients, with algal blooms
Frequently that eventually affect the sources of raw water purification. And finally complicated in recent years by issues such as
megaminería, or fracking, in general, oil and gas extraction. Employment
technology obsolete in many companies, thereby apartment
the BAT practices, and lack of appropriate controls for lack of means and
thousands of personnel to control emission sources.
The foundation of the transformation we propose is clearly
political: environmental policies must operate as a counterweight
Economists of development policies and give conditions

Therefore we propose professionalize the Ministry in this area and spend the theme
MIDES housing.
120

293

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
border development of human activities, agricultural or
industrial.
Conceptual points that environmental considerations will be based


Abandon the unsustainable development practices based solely on short-term economic benefits.



Fully incorporate the environmental dimension as component
the concept of development and progress (Uruguay Natural).



Incorporate the concept of development as purely economic improvement but quality of life



Perform strong commitment to recycling, understood as a global concept
(Micro and Macro)



Develop strong sustainability (not superstrong) based on


Importance of technical solutions



Importance of economic valuation



Recognition of limits to the preservation and recovery
ecological balance



Partial effect of natural capital; recognition

im-

perfect substitution of natural capital by other capitals of human origin


Incorporate the concept of responsible preservation (natural areas, protected areas, preservation methods and replacement).

To fulfill the general objectives which have been described above will develop the following:
1. Reformulate the current Ministry of Housing Spatial Planning and Environment (MVOTMA) - All matters relating to housing will go to the Ministry of Social Development, with its
respective budget. The new Ministry, former MVOTMA will be called
Ministry of Environment, Sustainable Development and Land Management (MADESOT), and will include (in addition to the addresses and
Today already included units on environmental issues and development territories

294

Colorado Party
torial) also other units of the Executive Branch, with their respective
budgets, such as the National Directorate of Aquatic Resources,
the National Renewable Natural Resources, the Department of
Soil and Water (under MGAP) etc. This new structure will increase the efficiency and operational capacity unchanged budgets
global. The internal structure and budgets will be redesigned to strengthen the areas of control and development of general and specific environmental policies.
2. Strengthen the capacity of collecting and analyzing data
environmental control - the current operational capacity will be expanded and
inspective DINAMA with respect to environmental controls and audits of regulated activities. It will strengthen and organize the network
national environmental laboratory with a presence throughout the country, establishing the Monitoring and Analysis Network (REMA). With reference to the Environmental Laboratory Network of Uruguay, whose certification is the national benchmark and Standardization Department TécnicaLaboratorio of the National Directorate of Environment (DINAMA), is
It proposes to expand the network and extend it to other related and synergistic labs such as the SBI, LATU, Ministry of Health, Municipalities and private actors. At each site is identified as a strategic
for proper national coordination will be established with existing resources, plus other non-returnable loans allocated by the facility
control laboratories and environmental monitoring. These laboratories will work in coordination with other state and parastatal bodies referred encouraging sharing equipment and tasks, but with the strategic direction of MADESOT. The integration of technical cadres in
These laboratories will be only through competition and merit.
3. Develop environmental database and the Observatory
National Environment - Based on data collected by the REMA
They develop environmental performance indicators that are defined on
the basis of international and national experience categorized
general and Environmental Quality, Air Pollution, Water Resources superficial and deep, Habitats and Biodiversity and Sustainable Natural Resource Productivity. They apply in

295

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
across the country and in all areas, also acting as indicators
compliance management and overall goals. To this it will be created by adapting existing human resources, a specialized technical team
synthesis and dissemination of information in collaboration with INE -
transformed into the National Institute of Statistics and Modeling - which
include in their statistics and indexes relevant environmental information.
The suitably processed data obtained will be available
through the National Environmental Observatory (OBNA) established in accordance
the project presented by Senator Pedro Bordaberry.
4. Improve and regulate environmental protection - Right
environmental, as part of the human rights of the third generation,
It has a transversal nature. This implies that its values, principles and
rules, contained both in international instruments and domestic legislation of individual States, pervades the legal system of each. Within this framework, the MADESOT develop actions to count c on a clear and specific regulations regarding the following points:


Responsible use of natural resources



Conceptualization and characterization of environmental damage



Applicability of actions to prevent and repair damage
environment in specific cases (judicial and administrative actions aimed at prevention, cessation and redress
on environmental goods of common or collective nature based
the constitutional duty of safeguarding the environment)



Computation of limitation periods for individual or specific environmental damage



RME: corporate environmental responsibility strategy
corporate environmental (education and prevention)



Recycling (individual and corporate), and corporate responsibility
the temporary and final disposal of vessels, containers and
packaging.

5. Adopt Best Environmental Practices (BEP) in productive activities - a role model, existing in the country, it is the Code of Best Forest Practice. The State, through the MADESOT and

296

Colorado Party
in partnership with academia and professional associations from different areas, coordinate the setting up and implementation of Best Environmental Practices (BEP) related to activities that do not yet have. These MPA should collect national and international legislation and regulation, adapt and modernize the country. The MPA will understand,
but at least not enough, the implementation of standards of the series
ISO 9000, ISO 14000 and OHSAS 18000. Furthermore, the monitor MADESOT
by adecuamiento of preexisting enterprises for using
the best available techniques (BAT) in periods to determine as well as the absolute prohibition on new ventures that do not adhere
to them. In particular, it will tend to adopt the best standards
available (usually Canada and the European Union).
6. Develop a national program to rationalize the use of water (REDA Program) - In this program a rational use of surface and groundwater will be attempted.
The plan calls for the modernization of Decree 253/79, cataloging and regionalization of use of surface water (especially delimiting
watercourses should not suffer any contamination process
for their recreational or purification) uses the networking of water quality sensors, research of geothermal potential and underground mineral and spring waters, administration
polluting beaches and events associated with navigation between a
number of other aspects. Topics covered include protecting
margins of water bodies with exclusion zones for building and
agriculture, resettlement of people in flood areas, etc. Some aspects to regulate must be coordinated with departmental administrations. The ultimate goal is to have a complete and modern, at the end of the period of government legislation.
7. Implement national program for waste treatment
solid (THREE Program) - One of the biggest national problems in terms of environmental protection is the solid waste. Yes
While these are produced in different circumstances, it is possible to group
into four main categories, which will be addressed with different plans. These plans involve both public and private actors, whose

297

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
activity should develop within the regulatory framework is perfected in the period. It is not considered a specific plan for the disposal of industrial solid waste because your treatment should be
performed in toto by the plant and detailed when submitting your EIR.
to. National Plan for Solid Waste Treatment (Tresus) - Since these are the waste produced in greater quantity in the country, particular attention should be to establish a regulatory national implementation plan, even though the
specific implementations will be developed jointly with Municipalities and Municipalities. They will point to the generation of a plan
national public recycling containers sorting through the installation of regional plants controlled incinerators complete combustion to put energy value waste merit, regional landfills with leachate control and biogas, and installation as far as possible
Recoverable landfill, composting and biogas digesters generation. It will seek to generate economies of scale through regionalization and the appropriate concession will be sought in cases
that competition can not be established between different actors.
b. National Waste Management Plan Hospital
and Biological (TREHBIOS). Update the existing rules
for the management of hospital waste (Decree
1357/1999, mod. 2009). Extending the rules for inclusion
of non-hospital biological waste that pose a
biosecurity risk (eg pesticide residues and containers). Encourage the installation of private treatment plants
economies of scale and competition, discourage incineration for sterilization processes and pollution,
with non-polluting disposal in landfills
items that do not lend themselves to recycling or reuse.
c. National Waste Management Plan on Agricultural Activities (TRAGRO). The establishment of regional treatment plants will be encouraged to reuse

298

Colorado Party
as fertilizer, biomass for energy or components
Animal food, operating on a model similar to that of the Conaprole for dairy networks.
d. National Plan for Waste Treatment Equipment
Electrical and Electronic (TRAEES) - Generation of a
General rules for treatment of WEEE, as currently they are considered as a waste product house
and they are regulated as hazardous waste. Adaptation and incorporation into our legislation of the Directive 2002/96 / EC of the European Parliament with regard to extended liability
producer and its local or regional representative (principle of post-consumption responsibility, "the allocation of the burden of environmental waste management extended to the manufacturer / importer"),
reuse and recycling of components safe removal and recovery of waste. Establishing regional plants
recovery, reuse and recycling. Generation rules
for entering the country WEEE as input for plants
treatment. Legislate to ensure that they are not introduced to
AEE country containing lead, mercury, cadmium, hexavalent chromium, polybrominated biphenyls (PBB) or polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs)
and new components of high potential toxicity. Support
and improve the domestic implementation of the "Agreement on politics
MERCOSUR Environmental Management Universal Special Waste Generation and Post-Consumption Responsibility ". Analyze, and
adapt relevant legislation in this regard in Colombia,
Chile and Costa Rica, countries with recent legislation on this in
America.
e. National Treatment Plan and Getting Plastics
Fuels (TRAPOC) - Consumption of containers and bags
Plastic produces a significant effect on the pollutant
country. It will develop and implement a national plan to reduce, reuse and processing of plastics based on three pillars:

299

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
i. Decrease the use of plastic bags and starting allowance and limited to its full replacement by products derived from biomass.
ii. Total producer responsibility (or local or regional representative) on the reuse or recycling of plastic containers. I encourage the substitution of possible
same for products derived from biomass.
iii. Installation of an industrial plant adjacent to the refinery
ANCAP for plastics processing oil, according to models like the Blest Company (Akinori Ito) or the like that have been developed from 2010. Encouraging
research for the development of processes and technologies plastic fuel conversion.
8. Implement national program and effluent treatment
emissions (trefe Program) - Existing legislation in the country
for the treatment of effluents and emissions should be improved. They
will seek special plans to attend the urban, industrial,
agriculture and tourism. State intervention will ensure both
control of discharges and in facilitating access to technology and financing plans with benefits for the installation of plants
treatment.
to. National Plan for Urban Wastewater Treatment (Trelus) - This plan, in close cooperation with Municipalities and Municipalities, work to ensure that all people
more than 10,000 people have a treatment plant
wastewater with sufficient capacity to meet the expected growth of the population above for a minimum period
20 years.
b. National Plan and Industrial Effluent Treatment
Air Emissions (Efinea) - The objective is the development of sector-specific rules following the example of the
European Community-for those industrial activities
established or emerging development in the country. The specific sectors for which envisages the development of environmental legislation and

300

Colorado Party
Best practices include, but not be limited to, central
traditional energy and new technologies, mining and steel industry, leather industry, industry of pulp and paper, cement, mining and chemical, biochemical and
agrochemicals, food industry. Within this plan and
coordination with public health policies, contain the mandatory joint employers and the state in the development of
reliable statistics on preserving the health of the populations affected by the enterprises.
c. National Plan of Emissions and Effluent Treatment
From

from

the

Activities

Agricultural

(EFEPAG) - The emission of solid and liquid waste without treatment (dairies, farms agricultural establishments
pigs, poultry houses, soy plantations, etc) is the most important country diffuse source of pollution. They
develop a policy to monitor and encourage the implementation of measures of waste treatment, especially using biotechnology processes to take advantage of the high nutrient content of some of these wastes in training
biomass, by the action of microalgae provide
energy, animal feed and high value chemicals
added. It will also be regulated with particular concern about
activities of management and disposal of chemicals and
like.
National Plan of treatment of effluents and emissions
Tourist Enterprises and Quality of beaches (EFETUP) Uruguay receives a very important tourism income. The
realization of new tourism ventures and expanding
existing is often done without regard to the accumulation of people in a confined space generates a significant environmental pressure to be mitigated. For the purpose will establish a
law that addresses all relevant environmental aspects
tourism, from the treatment of solid and liquid waste

301

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
two to the certification of beaches and attention to biological problems of algal blooms or red tide type.
9. National Conservation Plan Natural Environment (Plan
CAN) - will work to support and maintain the reality of
country Uruguay Natural brand. For this law and will be refined
environmental technology for the preservation of the natural environment and
the best use for human benefit. Under this program, an area of ​​active discussion and exchange of views with all social organizations dedicated to be implemented
ecology and conservation, setting minimum requirements of representativeness and professionalism of the participating NGOs.
to. Quality of surface water and groundwater aquifers. Construction of the full hydrological map, with descriptors of environmental quality and biota for the country. Network Design
Fixed monitoring stations at critical nodes automated
hydrological network. National plan for decontamination of water courses and reservoirs critical.
b. Air quality. Modernization, adoption and implementation of
GESTA-air plan for emissions. Network Installation
monitors critical gases (NOx, SOx, halogens, ozone) in
places relatively large cities. Developing a plan
monitoring of noise pollution in population centers.
c. Deforestation, reforestation, erosion and treatment
soils. Build, maintain and develop a policy for the
appropriate land use by land use. Here are
They will address the problems caused by agriculture (erosion, deforestation, emerging involvement of watercourses or aquifers,
etc.) and also aspects of nature conservation
appropriate to preserve ecosystems and enjoyment controlled
nature. Common sense aspects related to land use, especially in rents will attend producers
not based in the country, rebuilding of post-employment soils, and
generation compatible with the preservation of the natural environment tourist activities.

302

Colorado Party
d. Wildlife conservation, reforestation, restructuring of habitats and biodiversity. It is especially serve
public-private participation in aspects of creation, maintenance and improvement of parks and protected areas. Involvement policies should be designed population
in the conservation and wise use of natural environments as well as in the study and protection of national biosphere.
e. Climate change. Conveniently take advantage of the fact
the industrial capacity of the country is reduced, your beef stock
not too relevant, and its very high potential for forest
develop an active policy of market share
carbon credits. Invest and encourage research in areas of
meteorology and climatology for both modeling
local climate behavior and for the establishment
a network of control points for monitoring and collecting
data for such developments. INUMET boost as a tool for such developments.
10.

Regular extraction of nonrenewable resources - (Pro-

ERENOR program). The extraction and marketing of non-renewable resources is, in our view, a legitimate productive activity subject to certain limitations are taken into account. The pillars
basis on which our proposal is based are


Extractivism can not be the basis of development. For
the sensible extraction of natural resources is sustainable productive activity, this should allow generation
human resources, technologies and eventually own industry
related national.



The extraction of nonrenewable natural resources may not lead to an environmental liability to compromise future activities or the present and future welfare of the dwellers.



The extraction of non-renewable resources, but that generate significant environmental impacts mitigated with measures
technology appropriate and where the overall benefits outweigh
the damage may be done only through cooperation with

303

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
and the conviction of the affected populations, taking steps to ensure full transparency towards the population.
1. Plan Regulating Oil and Gas Extraction (REGAP) - The activities undertaken so far by ANCAP
for prospecting and exploration of potential sources of gas and oil
They will be continued. In the case of studies carried out in the offshore platform will focus on mitigating the effects produced
on marine fauna. In case of finding of a
gas / oil and the feasibility of extraction, ensure employment
the best available techniques for such extraction, paying
special attention to potential problems affecting tourism in
coastal areas. In the case of studies on land, shall be prohibited
the use of hydraulic fracturing techniques as there is no clear scientific statement on the environmentally developed countries about the best techniques to use. The plan also includes measures to invest in funds that address the future of the country's inhabitants (sovereign fund like Norway, or majority employment in education, science, technology and health, and Brazil). 121
2. Plan Regulating Artisanal and Small
Porte (MAPEP) - there is artisanal mining primarily in Uruguay
related to mineral decorative use. This sector requires a
formalization attending social aspects, contribution of mining and processing technology, and economic-financial contribution of technology. In the case of small-scale mining will tend to
support the creation and adaptation of technology and knowledge to
prospecting and exploration of precious and semiprecious stones,
especially for special metals, pointing to those required for new technologies, especially rare earths, whose
possible existence and potential are unknown in the country today. They
will encourage the development of geology and related disciplines in order to know precisely the national minerológico potential.
3. Mining Plan of Great Porte (MIGRAP) - The big mining
bearing, even those in the open, not be ruled taxativa121

304

Energy Chapter is included and develops this theme.

Colorado Party
mind (provided that the principles listed above are met). They
improve the Mining Law of Great Porte correcting aspects
we consider lacking (transparency, closure plans, underreporting shortcuts to profitability, etc.). It is particularly favor
companies point to the measured extraction, develop
national industry and human resources, and fundamentally
pointing to the specialty metals application in electronics, computers, etc. rather than base metals. As for the extraction of iron seek to ensure strict compliance with the commitments
ethical, environmental and economic for the company, and the renegotiation of the aspects that are harmful to the state consider or
affected populations. It will seek to encourage research and technological development needed to build steel mills that use the
iron obtained locally in combination with fuel from forest biomass and limestone of our territory to generate at least pig and eventually up to "green" steel.
11. Support the development of "green" industry (DIVER Program)
to. Plan to support replacing petrochemicals by
biorefineries (Bioref) - The proliferation of forest plantations and the presence of two floors and very large cellulose,
together with the possibility of a third installation, makes it
attractive the idea of ​​obtaining precursor chemicals from
intermediaries waste or biomass processing. TO
As an example, it is possible to obtain biofuels from
hemicelluloses and certain small organic molecules (which serve as precursors for the production of other chemicals in the plastics and resins, for example)
from lignin. These factories already exist in the world and called biorefineries. The ultimate purpose is
b. Plan to support R & D in renewable energy
(ERENO) - will continue to support the installation of mini power plants and hydropower generation potential of geothermal energy and tidal energy will be explored. The fundamental and technological research support especially with

305

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
renewable energy. Using discarded in the short term
nuclear power in the territory and will bet on research and
developing materials for better use of energy
solar water heaters from low-cost solar panels and
biotechnological developments for artificial photosynthesis.
c. Plan to support green chemistry and industry (Quive) installation of chemical industries will be encouraged to incorporate
the 12 principles of green chemistry and in general throughout the industry that emphasizes the use of renewable materials, efficiency
energy, reducing side products, and biodegradable products generation. The support will be done through incentives
positive and negative tax according to adhere more or less
As to green principles.

306

Colorado Party

TRANSFORMATION OF STATE AND NEW
INSTITUTIONS
The current reality of the Uruguayan State shows a centralized organization,
bureaucratized, away from people, which absorbs significant public resources and
certainly tarnished a functional career. In the last two administrations have seen an excessive increase in the number of public officials, charges of political confidence and spending on the functioning of the state, which clearly has not resulted in an improvement in their
services and performance of its functions. We need an efficient, effective, decentralized, transparent State and having as center and
citizen focus.
We will work to build a modern state that promote the strengthening of democracy, which promotes the participation of citizens, ensure the exercise of freedoms and contributing to an equitable distribution
of revenues. Generate a new state model in which the individual
is the substantive basis and the ultimate goal of their actions.
For Batllists, the state plays a key role because it is the tool / instrument to carry out the changes deemed necessary.
The transformation will involve consolidating propose an innovative state,
ensuring quality public services, with efficient and transparent services whose ultimate goal is the citizen.
Transform the management of the State on the basis of national strategies
development, public finance quality, medium-term fiscal frameworks and
open and transparent government. It will be necessary to improve the capacity allocation of public resources that will advance the basic systems
performance such as corporate strategic planning, multi-year budgeting, integrated national systems of public investment,
systems and evaluation of policies and programs.
The programming of the public sector will be essential to increase the overall productivity of the economy and to interact with civil society through
the transparency of its decisions and executive actions. Those effects

307

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
also will measure the productivity of the public sector itself using performance management tools to measure the impact of services
government in meeting the needs of citizens.
Within this framework, the guiding principles for the transformation are:
1. Individual Honesty, personal, group and systemic ethics, anti-
corruption.
2. Transparency, open government, measuring instruments and reporting
cuentas.122
3. Free competition and vigilance against abuses of dominant positions.
4. Culture of public service with responsibility for meeting goals.
5. Performance Management with strategic planning, objectives and milestones.
6. Institutional security and personal safety.
7. Capacity building of organizational and individual performance of public entities.
The fundamental pillars of the new structure will Macroeconomics, Environment and Sustainable Development, and Science and Technology (including education). The country must be developed using four key tools: the
economics, environmental sciences, mathematics and natural sciences, in order to achieve greater human development and well-positioned among the first countries in the Human Development Index (HDI)
After a first term, and improve steadily in the future. He
this conceptual framework is articulated is the constant concern
social Colorado (the Batllismo in particular) Party that has manifested itself in
achievements as establishing the maximum working day of 8 hours / day and 48 hours
weekly; prohibit work by children under 13 years, restriction of working hours for those under 19, establishing the right to strike to protect
unoccupied, protect the rights of illegitimate children, to approve the divorce law, create colleges and night schools for workers installing the Ministry of Education, creating the National Commission of Physical Education
many others. We intend to maintain and strengthen all actions
guarantee the exercise of the rights to food, health, housing, educa122

308

The corresponding actions are explained in the document Free and Secure Uruguay

Colorado Party
tion, work, freedom of association and social security without discrimination of any kind, in an environment friendly to humans and the environment with the
Incorporating intelligent technology compatible with human welfare and
social. As creators of social policy in the country, we continue guaranteeing the right of choice of citizens and providing opportunities
for all are distinguished only by their talents or virtues, regardless of gender, race, religion or sexual orientation.
The first pillar of government Educational, Scientific and Tecnología123. We will give special importance to the systematization of efficient and effective national development, with the most intensive use of tools possible
. scientific and technological It should work to ensure that all the state and
society by extension, teach, adapt and develop technology. In particular, we strongly support all branches of applied mathematics to reality, especially social and economic phenomena and productive development, encouraging the emergence of modelers, who apply the
knowledge generation models to provide guidance about
how things work, are those relating to processes in a factory models
drug delivery, transport systems or events such as
sport and security among others.
The second pillar is the environment and sustainable development.
We intend to rescue the life of the "Uruguay Natural", which should not be
only a slogan, but a key element to achieve the HDI increase. Care for the environment and sustainable development are and will
increasingly important even looked at from the point of view of non-tariff restrictions on our exports and, consequently, economic development. In this respect we have introduced important bills that implement such as The Environmental Observatory, the proposal
the Parliamentary Commissioner for the Environment, the proposed moratorium
for hydraulic fracturing and the proposed ban on pit mining
open.

In the chapters on Science and Technology Education and the actions that will be developed
later in each of the aforementioned areas.
123

309

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
The third pillar of our government will be the economy. The economy will have as its ultimate objective to maximize human development of its population. Uruguay will point to a prosperous, more and better integration into the world with
macroeconomic stability and competitiveness levels, to achieve better
occupation and a generalized increase in all sectors. It is necessary
return to a more egalitarian society with more and better distribution of wealth, enterprises and institutions with quality public services within a framework of
efficiency which is an urgent goal. It is therefore necessary to advance
to harmonious relations of employers and employees, joining the
labor market today excluded, the development of small and medium enterprises and the upgrading of innovation, attempting to use the
internationally recognized best practices in various activities and
they have been tested by the global entities from diverse backgrounds. It will seek to develop a regulatory framework consistent with the progressive approach to the OECD.
At the same time, we will work for the operation of cabinets, instances that
will strengthen as areas for effective coordination within the executive branch.
Production, Social, Infrastructure and Strategy: always intended to maximize the HDI, four cabinets will be formed. The first two are in place,
others must be set within the framework of actions that develop the effect.
Production in the Cabinet, which include all ministries
contribute to wealth creation. In this cabinet will be integrated
the Ministries of Industry, Energy and Mining, the Ministry of Tourism, Inmobiliario124 Development and the Ministry of Livestock, Agriculture and Fisheries and the Ministry of Environment, Sustainable Development and Land Management.
The Social Cabinet is the coordinating and working on everything related to aspects of human well-being in their relationship with others. It will be integrated by the Ministry of Social Development, Housing and Family 125, the Ministry
Labor and Social Security, Ministry of Public Health, Ministry of
Education and Culture and the Ministry of Interior.
Sport happen to be met through a National Institute of Sports made up of public and private actors
The housing 125 will join the Ministry of Social Development, considered vital to develop a policy
national in social housing.
124

310

Colorado Party
The Cabinet of the infrastructure to be created, separating the physical communications infrastructure (roads, railways, aviation, ports, shipping, etc.) what is the necessary infrastructure to circulate information and knowledge (networks and telecommunications). This cabinet will
composed of the OPP, the MTOP, the MIEM, the MGAP and a representative of the Congress of Mayors.
We are in a time when the former is more important than the latter,
but in a few years what we will have are going to be in 3D printers
addresses, which may be used for communication devices
(A cell phone, a computer or microchip associated with household appliances,
animals and even people). These serve to make financial transactions with certain company, this will send the appropriate codes and at home
of the desired product person is printed, whether a blender, a bicycle
or a shirt. That is possible because today is not science fiction. It will be necessary,
example, transporting raw material (for example plastic 20 kilos
fiber type A or type B) to power the 3D printer, in the same way that
today buy ink jet printers or fuel for a stove. Finally, something fundamental is the orderly development of habitat, including, of course, decentralization. A goal or idea that will force
that point is that no department capital falls below certain minimum standards of communication, which involves developing a network
multicentric physical communications and information (with star networks
nodes in each capital) to what is essential to have the mathematical modelers that shape development programs.
Finally, another nonexistent Cabinet as is today's Cabinet
Strategy, as we consider very necessary to have a clear strategy
development to achieve the objectives proposed in each of the areas. He
it shall be composed of the MEC, the MRREE, the MinCTI and a representative
the Congress of Mayors.
In that sense, there are three key areas, one of which is the defense of sovereignty, understood not as defend themselves against armed attack, but the plundering of
natural resources, the environment aggression, from unauthorized use from the

311

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
our services abroad, data networks. etc. A different concept of what
that is defense. Second, the international insertion. A geographic country
poblacionalmente small and can not not be embedded in the world. Taking
the example of Switzerland, it is clear that the strategy must go through a set of
Intelligent connections, such that the country is positioned at the point of balance
The more varied the better. opposite tensions And, of course, that implies
professional, partisan political independence, competence building,
highly educated and modernization. And thirdly, a strategic pillar
normally it regarded as a social service, which it is, but that
It is vital for development: education and culture. Again we try to maximize the HDI, making education not only in the sense of instruction, but also educating socially coexistence, anger,
respect and civic education, enjoyment and appreciation of activities
intellect and spirit. In this sense we will promote the Ministry of Education and Culture, with an eye on a cult and educated country, defending its
way of being with its own strategy of inclusion, collaboration and competition
with the rest of the world.
Within the above conceptual and instrumental framework, we develop the following:
1. Strengthen the Office of Planning and Budget and guiding entity that issues policies and performance evaluators to establish criteria for managing general agencies, establishing performance indicators (management) related to the efficiency, effectiveness, equity, whose excellence and sustainability
Compliance is checked permanently. In turn, special technology development will be granted and the process reengineering
eye on effective decentralization of the State and services in general.
2. Establish a renewed institutionalization of the Office
National Civil Service as the central government adviser and evaluator of public policies in the area of ​​human resources to contribute to its improvement and quality, allowing better body
analysis and decision-making to the central government, where possible and relevant

312

Colorado Party
you adapt the relevant legislation in the UK. Return address / managements officials and highly specialized training,
with more powers and responsibilities with the least amount of charges
confidence by promoting political neutrality strengthen technical component. The differentiation of the civil service will promote establishing the specific requirements of each public entity and
develop better training of public officials. The object
Finally is to professionalize the civil service in general developing a
transversal and professional human resources policy throughout the state.
3. Develop the new structure of ministries and cabinets.
Creating the Ministry of Science, Technology and Innovation (MinCTI), to transform the current Ministry of Housing, Land Planning and Environment in the Ministry of Environment, Sustainable Development and Land Management (MADESOT) At the same time, the issue of social housing will MIDES which will become the Ministry of
Social Development, Housing and Family (MIDESVF). In turn, the Ministry
Tourism will become the Ministry of Tourism and Real Estate Development, through all the themes of sport to the National Institute of Sport
to be created.
4. Establish a reward system subject to compliance with
goals in each area, using information provided by the boxes
command functionally representative of each institution. The rewards to be established in all cases be above the salary levels corresponding to each category and the respective
adjustments in each case may be. They will be assigned following guidelines
objective, avoiding cronyism reward or obsequiousness.
5. Establish new mechanisms of control over the entities
parastatals and private companies property rights
existing state bodies to date, and establishing effective
efficient systems to date and a significant number of companies (85) that are wholly or partially owned by public entities that manage public resources but they work in the private orbit without Comptroller of the Court of Accounts of the Republic without further
the procedures for public companies under

313

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
public law applicable to these and ignorance almost
all of its goals, objectives and performances.
6. Strengthen regulatory bodies turning them into entities
autonomous (URSEA and URSEC), increasing its technical and functional autonomy, with particular emphasis on people who integrate their boards are appointed based on their knowledge and skills
in regulatory matters or on specific areas subject to regulation. Particularly at this point new regulations on its legal nature, the manner of appointment and requirements relating to the integration of directories and provisions related to advertising the sanctions that are imposed by these entities to public or private companies subject shall be given to regulation and defense consumidor.126
7. Regular private investment and encourage popular investment
in public companies, issuing shares as part of what is commonly known as popular capitalism.
8. Strengthen the General Accounting Office (CGN), the Internal Audit Office (AIN) and the Court of Accounts
Republic (TCR) and external controllers with 127 full-time managers and subject to evaluation goals.
9. Reduce by 50% the total number of positions of trust who have
created in the last two administrations. This in turn, will allow enhance and strengthen professional career in Public Administration
general and in particular in those areas where they have doubled
presence of these charges with the consequent increase in public spending.
10. Develop a systematic mechanical evaluation of policies and programs that will:
to. in the institutional, assess compliance and management goals
end results; know what level of efficiency, effectiveness, quality
and economy were brazen actions of entities
b. programs, see the results and impact management
social
Further elaboration in Uruguay Plan 2015 - 2020 - Chapter Transparency
Further development of this proposal is in the relevant chapter for Free Vamos Uruguay and
Insurance (Transparency)
126
127

314

Colorado Party
c. investments, establish the social profitability of projects and assess the cost / benefit decisions.
11. Develop and strengthen territorial cohesion funds pose a strategic axis that seeks to gain greater territorial equality seeking greater devolution and decentralization to
departmental entities ..
12. Strengthen the capacities of the different levels of government
for effective devolution and decentralization, through
training programs, training and technical assistance for the effective
exercise of its powers and sponsor projects aimed at
the establishment of operating regions by the regional governments and / or municipalities.
13. Continue with the unification and centralization of purchases
state in large areas, following the policy initiated in this direction by 2005, through for example the Centralized Unit
Food Acquisition. This will lead to improved management and efficiency of the state, saving costs in different areas and items.
14. Ensure transparency subsidies: subsidies are awarded preferably through specific items in the budget
National clarifying existing conflicts between business objectives and social objectives. Progress is needed in this regard
instituting a national policy of direct subsidies to beneficiaries, setting budget items with credit allocations
transparent.
15. Enter the RBM (where there is) by:
a) Contracts of managing for results and products widely and
strict compliance; b) procurement by open competition Managers
Area subject to assessment for compliance with targets; c) New emoluments as variable compensation subject to compliance
goals.
16. Introduction of Asset Accounting, much to the government as a whole and for which advance.
17. Improve the high public address system. Professionalization of public employment, improvement of the institutional framework

315

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
state enterprises, to generate better results, greater transparency and management quality.
18. Institutionalization of a system in their professional HR
distinct phases: recruitment, selection, promotion and compensation, for
which will lead to the National Parliament approval of new legislation.
19. Increase public oversight on the operation and results of the management of public entities. Where Ministers of the Executive Branch, citizens appointed to positions
political and personal trust in the central government and the boards of the autonomous entities and decentralized services should
produce within sixty days of his appointment, the management plan
they intend to pursue. While a Parliamentary Institute of Evaluation (IPE) is created, the content will be published commitments
management and annual accountability and will encourage / they shall regulate the
Good Practices on Fiscal Transparency. 128
20. Provide greater functional autonomy to all agencies
State control. Specific actions will be developed respect
the Court of Accounts of the Republic, the Board of Transparency and
Public Ethics and the Unit for Access to Public Information, everything
that is developed in Chapter Freedom, Transparency and Human Rights.
21. Develop and adopt a telecommunications law which will contain, among other things:
to. Promoting effective competition in the telecommunications markets and in particular in the operation of networks and the
provision of electronic communications services and the
providing the resources associated with them.
b. Grant a framework of legal certainty for users and investors.
c. Encouraging efficient investment in infrastructure,
encouraging innovation.
d. Ensure compliance with these conditions and
public service obligations on the operation of networks (which
128

316

See further development of this proposal in Uruguay Free and Secure - Chapter Freedom, Transparency and Human Rights

Colorado Party
reaches all public service = universal service) and provision
electronic communications services, in particular universal service.
e. Promote the development of the telecommunications sector,
as the use of new services and network deployment,
and access to, equal, and boost the territorial, economic and social cohesion.
f. Make possible the effective use of limited telecommunications resources such as radio spectrum and numbering, and
adequate protection of the latter, and access rights
occupation of public and private property.
g. Defend the interests of users, ensuring their right to
access to electronic communications services under adequate conditions of choice, price and quality, and safeguard the life of the constitutional requirements, in particular non-
discrimination, respect for the rights to honor, privacy, protection of personal data and confidentiality of communications, the protection of youth and childhood and
meeting the needs of special groups, such as people with disabilities needs. To this end,
obligations may be imposed on providers of services
to guarantee those rights.
h. Promote, as far as possible, technological neutrality
in regulation. Avoid regulating technology. If the object is a technology to regulate, the risk that one runs technology changes
and the law will become obsolete by new technology. What I know
You should look for is the regularization of supply of services. He
principle of technological neutrality must leave open the door to
any technology.
i. Promote the development of industry products and services
telecommunications.
j. Telecommunications development in poor urban areas
and isolated rural areas, regulating the matter.

317

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
k. Establish and control the computer offenses: fraud, damage,
forgery, intrusion and privacy violations by media
e.
l. Regulation of certification services and electronic signature,
which would facilitate transactions, mainly internationally.

318

Colorado Party

URUGUAY INTEGRATED TO THE WORLD

Foreign policy
Sovereignty - National Defence and Strategy

319

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020

URUGUAY INTEGRATED TO THE WORLD
The Colorado Party, founded in the liberal and universalist tradition Batllista, and
in light of the phenomenon of globalization that encompasses the diverse subjects,
Uruguay integrated conceives the world from its own identity as an open and democratic society. Foreign policy is, for us, a Policy
State - stable and permanent - and it invariably involves the defense of our
sovereignty and national interests as well as the essential principles of
the international community enshrined in treaties and conventions in force. In this regard, multilateralism remains an area that should be given due attention and support when appropriate, without detriment
necessary space for bilateral relations.
The sovereign equality of States, non-intervention, compliance
good faith of obligations and the peaceful settlement of disputes
international, are principles that the Uruguayan government must meet and contribute to international peace and security and justice itself,
as stated in the United Nations Charter.
Our country has been able to sustain as a state, uncompromising, these
essential principles and values ​​without affecting any of its capabilities, both political and commercial international integration, all of which the Colorado Party assumes as a fundamental duty, as it always has.
Accordingly, we envision the world as a natural environment that is not
alien and does so from its deep democratic culture, accredited by the best
history of the Republic, which would enable our country to occupy a level above that of their own territorial and population level international recognition.
The detailed breakdown of regions and international organizations contained in this document illustrates foreign policy that world in which
Uruguay must act, counting on certain definitions of topics
Foreign Policy plants, of which the Government of the Colorado Party
will be protagonist and guarantor.

320

Colorado Party
Foreign policy is the means to link the country with the world
Also keep the defense of national sovereignty in all aspects: strategic, political, economic and cultural.
For us, and as we have said and implemented, foreign policy should be a state policy, with employment stability and permanence. This requires focus on the defense of national interests and not doctrinaire or ideological preferences. Therefore,
notwithstanding the invariable major guiding principles and criteria shared by the international community attachment, and in particular by the American States.
After more than five years after the global financial crisis occurred, the
global economy remains problematic. They are stuck to the immediate monetary system and international financial reforms that were raised in
time, while governments take measures not own
coordinated between them. Therefore, it is uncertain how much the current situation which
It looms in the foreseeable future. In response to these factors mega economy, we can not change, our country should set its own strategic and foreign policy professional. And geopolitical reality of international trade require that Uruguay is open to the world. We, from
then closely involved in what is happening in our region; but our
economy and having only two neighbors compel us to negotiate outside
the region looking for new alternative markets and establishing a
coordination between the various stakeholders responsible both for trade policy, and the promotion of exports by optimizing the use
professional and material resources for the purpose.

321

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020

FOREIGN POLICY
Strategic Objective 1 - Establish closer links with Latin America
The more the unity of our country is strengthened, the better it will go to Uruguay, by
what the deepening of ties with all countries of our continent will
a priority. In particular, we refer to:
eleven)

Bilateral relations: Uruguay-Argentina - Argentina and Uruguay consecrated

great classical balance of Rio de la Plata, highly strategic for the regional trade area. It is for this reason that bilateral relations should be
a serious policy designed within the framework of a coherent strategy in the hands of
diplomatic experts, not sharing the logic of presidential diplomacy
developed in recent years.
Argentina is an important country for the development of our trade:
channel dredging, energy cooperation, tourism and homing of Argentine exports in Uruguayan ports, becomes our neighbor in partner
essential and priority service for Uruguay.
We are aware that, in the past, there have been disagreements between
the two countries, some more important than today, which were eventually resolved and in which the Uruguay highlighted its willingness to respect its sovereignty and interests. It is with this view that this bilateral problem focus. Greater priority and turning issues between the two countries include the dredging of the Rio Uruguay and Rio de la Plata, which has become
Argentine default for several decades, and seems to fall into simple Uruguayan protests without any solution, in turn, highlights the Argentine measures
not to call at the Port of Montevideo in alleged response permission
Uruguay to UPM to increase production.
As Uruguay did not adhere to the Multilateral Agreement on Maritime Transport
Mercosur does not have a current agreement with Argentina on the subject and therefore the
loads from that country can not be trasbordas in Uruguayan ports,
affecting a very important activity thereof, to the extent that it is estimated
the transit of the same through our terminals is approximately equivalent

322

Colorado Party
mind to 25% of all operations. Argentina has acted unilaterally, so that way the system violates the Treaty of Asuncion.
Meanwhile, the Uruguayan government has supported unreservedly Argentina claims sovereignty over the Falkland Islands, to the point of preventing ships with that
flag access to the port of Montevideo, with an estimated annual loss
US $ 70 million. In this regard we discuss the empowerment of income and supply ships to and from the said islands in Uruguayan ports.
On the other hand, there is an adequate legal framework established by the Treaty of
Limits of Rio Uruguay, the Boundary Treaty of Rio de la Plata and its Maritime Front, as well as numerous instruments of international law that
its implementation have resulted. We must ensure that no rule or decision
instrumentation taken in context, any change involves no longer
to the letter but the spirit of these agreements. The aforementioned Treaties determine the
existence of three binational commissions (CARU, and CTMFM CARP), whose competencies define a first step in the treatment of potential disputes.
The greater stability of the respective delegations of our country and the
increased competition and convergence of views, both technical and political, will lead to better results for Uruguay. In this regard, it is imperative to define a
higher organic step to resolve the problems in these areas for which it is necessary to strengthen the Department of Boundary Affairs
MRREE.
Finally, it is clear the need to facilitate effective coordination space between private interests and policies that define the country to the area
binational, so we work in this regard.
Without delay, and to the extent that this state of affairs continue, in good faith we begin talks with Argentina in order to study the multiple
issues remain outstanding and which are of our concern, and search
mutually satisfactory solutions. If there are cases in which these negotiations did not lead to an acceptable agreement, we will take all measures
we deem necessary to look at national interests at
game.

323

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
1.2)

Bilateral relations: Uruguay-Brazil - Federative Republic of Bra-

sil, it represents one of our key strategic partners in the region, and
world, being a country with growing international presence, aiming to
play a commensurate role in the coming decades. For good measure, the sectors in which they can enhance the link with the neighboring country are those of trade, investment and economic integration. Therefore, we propose the strong need for recognition in Brazil, a regional party that is set to global participation. He is an actor of remarkable importance in the economic agreement and
political world, which will bring significant benefits to its nearest neighbors, particularly to our country. Meanwhile, full import will strengthen ties in trade agreements with third countries, provided they are
MERCOSUR keep the inability to negotiate as a bloque.129
Also, Brazil has shown interest in Uruguay, through investments
Structural Convergence Fund of MERCOSUR (FOCEM), to finance
electrical interconnection with Brazil and the construction of the deepwater port in Rocha. Uruguay also provides port services to provinces
the Mato Grosso (among others), which are antecedents to be considered for future understandings with this country.
1.3)

Bilateral relations: Uruguay - Paraguay - Paraguay is a country whose

interests often coincide with ours. Means how easy
access to the Atlantic Ocean through the port of Nueva Palmira becomes a
concrete manifestation of our support for that country. There is a solid foundation for
new insights into the political and economic, that should be studied
and new agreements as well as the enhancement of already subscribed to that country.
1.4)

Bilateral relations: Uruguay - Chile - Traditionally, Uruguay and

Chile share positions in the diplomatic arena. A few years ago
that the neighboring country has emerged clearly, accelerating economic development
and investments abroad in exceptional circumstances. There is a Chilean-Uruguayan, Business Advisory Council is a good example of the advantages offered by the
public-private partnerships and serve as an example to establish bodies

In turn, one of the framers of UNASUR, with the ratifications of all South American countries, seeks consensus for a strong voice as the voice of the region. At the same time, seeks to be a permanent member
Security Council, where the United Nations Charter is reformed.
129

324

Colorado Party
similar to other Latin American countries. the relationship will be enhanced with this
country, building on this solid foundation and good understanding.
fifteen)

Bilateral relations: Uruguay - Bolivia - Bolivia a long time ago

seeks to improve access to the Atlantic Ocean, the Rio de la Plata. Whatever makes the Uruguay to support this purpose, it is desirable to every point of view,
we will work in this direction.
Strategic Objective 2 - Develop and improve links with the Americas
North
2.1) Mexico - Uruguay This country shares notorious commercial interests,
deepened through the Free Trade Agreement during the government of
Colorado Party was signed in 2003. We understand that the use of such
trade agreement can and should be increased to increase the volume of trade. The Mexican government has in recent years maintained a policy of
international integration that seeks to diversify markets. Among them is
participation, as founder member of the Pacific Alliance. These
facts point to a policy of trade liberalization coincident with the
Uruguay should apply, so look for the ways most conducive to
translate them into reality in our trade with Mexico.
2.2) USA - This country is a world leader in strategic, scientific, financial and commercial matters. As such, it is obligatory point of reference for everyone
As for international relations. It is a vigorous democracy
projecting its image worldwide, and that - in this concept - coincides with our country, without excluding the differences of opinion that may arise
on issues puntuales.130 At the same time you should take into account that is a member of
OAS Charter of the agencies - which commits all member countries - contains provisions as regards non-interference in the internal affairs of States, which are vital for small countries like ours.
In trade, while our exports have declined to that destination,
It remains a potentially very important market. Still disagree
with their protectionist practices in agriculture, remember this
We are aware that the US government has responded positively when the Uruguay - in difficult times - has used their support.
130

325

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
country has a demanding and high level of consumption, which offers challenges and opportunities that will be available to the Uruguayan producers to the extent that
We investigate thoroughly.
For all these reasons, America is a country of particular importance in
our foreign policy scheme. As such, our relationship must be dynamic
and constructive.
Also we deepen efforts to link the respective sectors
private.
The fact that the World Bank, the Inter-American Development Bank and the
IMF have their headquarters in Washington highlights the importance of this destination for our diplomacy.
In short, we deepen economic and trade relations through
instruments possible a greater access to the market, and if the circumstances and
the facts is in favor, negotiate the signing of a free trade agreement, of
ways to enjoy higher tariff advantages.
2.3) Canada - The defense of common principles such as democracy and human rights as part of an inclusive and multicultural society, allows
considerable scope for joint action, to which must be added the fact that it
a lot like the US market - although smaller - in the
also we develop an intense campaign of penetration for Uruguayan exports.
Strategic Objective 3 - To strengthen and increase links with the European Union
The European Union is the third largest economy in the world behind China and the United
America, and a major political player in the current international order. They're
processing changes that tend to limit the power of decision of the countries
members and increase the power of the European Parliament, making decisions
and will now transversal alliances between ideologically similar parties compete with the positions of the governments in power in each country. The European Commission has long been in charge of relations with the rest of
world, reflecting - as - the consensus views of the member countries.

326

Colorado Party
It is, in short, one of the most important traditional markets for
Uruguayan exports, despite the protectionist measures applied
Depending on the Common Agricultural Policy. In the present Doha Round of World Trade Organization negotiations are liberalizing the trade and performances there of the European Union respond to instructions issued by the European Commission. This is another element to boost the country's representation in Brussels, in order to strengthen ties, follow developments closely and enforce our views on matters that directly affect the national economy.
Strategic Objective 4 - Develop ties with the Russian Federation
This country is today a significant player in the international arena, in a world
multipolar. Geographically it is a huge country with great wealth that is
intended to be an economic, political and military power. Growing your
GDP has created a dynamic middle class demand products and services
quality. This is a window of opportunity for our country, that when used
it effectively fulfill its purpose of increasingly open to the world in the field
commercial, so we will work to strengthen ties with our country.
Strategic Objective 5 - Develop links with Asia and the Middle East
5.1) Asia: Today and probably for years to come, this is the area
higher economic growth in the world. The process is led by China, for its
huge population and dynamism, but not going on behind India, South Korea,
Malaysia, Thailand, Indonesia and Singapore. Such as noticeable developments are contributing to a significant shift in the areas of international influence. Obviously, it is added to this table Japan, already industrialized, prosperous and strong international country, along with Australia and New Zealand.
Constantly growing markets are in Asia and there must go high
As Uruguayan export efforts. As with the Arab world, Asia
also he lives cultures and religions other than our own, which should lead to intensify our efforts. We will have to strengthen existing diplomatic representations and supply them with new ones, to fully investigate markets
potential and improve our income to the most affordable. This will be a priority area for the Government from 1 March 2015.

327

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
5.2) Middle East - In this region, there are two sets of countries clearly
differentiated: those who tend to be the focus of political instability, and those who
maintain high rates of economic growth, based on being producers
oil and gas. As for the former, the Israeli-Palestinian situation stands.
Uruguay is one of the countries that made within the United Nations
for the creation of the state of Israel, while adhering to the resolutions of that body regarding how the dispute facing longstanding makes peoples who have lived in the region for thousands of years to be resolved.
The Uruguay should continue tending to a stable and lasting peace that ensures equal sovereignty of Palestinians and Israelis, while the establishment of
reject the use of violence that conspires - precisely - against peace
desired.
With the oil countries, it is economies that are fully complementary to ours. The need for food in these regions offers valuable insights for traditional exports of Uruguay. In addition, rapid
capital accumulation in these countries means growing prospects
investment, which can also reach our country.
It is necessary to build bridges of understanding and mutual trust leading to closer relations in the economic framework and strengthen current
incipient trade should be encouraged. There are pronounced differences in
matter of mentality, customs and religious beliefs, which must be overcome by both sides, and this is the task that carry forward from the government.
Strategic objective 6 - Expand and improve the work being done in Africa
On this continent, often he is shaken by military violence and suffering from a
extreme degree of underdevelopment, diplomatic representatives of our country is
modest. Embassies in Egypt and South Africa play a valuable role, since
Pretoria is the capital of the country with the most vibrant economy in the region and Cairo
what is the main Arab power, with projection on the dispute palestinoisraelí.

328

Colorado Party
The limited financial resources of the Foreign Ministry and the general situation
Africa mean you can not greatly increase our representation
diplomat in the region, although the Uruguayan participation in peacekeeping missions
UN demonstrate our very real and valuable contribution
to an improvement in the political structures of the region.
However, it shall establish and expand the work begun at the Embassy to be opened this year in Angola (Luanda), with the possible opening of a
Embassy in Ethiopia (Addis Ababa) where the headquarters of the African Union is located.
Strategic Objective 7 - Improve, develop and professionalize participation
of Uruguay in the International Organizations
7.1) United Nations (UN) - The organization that emerged after World War II, is the forum in which the efforts of the international community to secure peace are concentrated, equal rights and self-determination people; Human Rights protection;
and raising the living standards of humanity.
The importance of the actions of the UN and its related agencies, is vast and
hits close to a huge variety of Uruguayan interests. Many Ministries
our country involved in the matter, since the Ministry of Economy and Finance
deals with the IMF and the World Bank; the Ministry of Livestock,
Agriculture and Fishing of the FAO; the Ministry of Health, WHO; and the Ministry of
ILO labor. Consequently, there must be a coordinated action within the
Government to achieve better tracking of issues that are heard in these
forums and maximize the benefits they can provide to our country. In
this task, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs plays a key role. Therefore and
without prejudice to the attendance of experts in the various disciplines to
international meetings, must accompany members of the foreign service,
who maintain permanent annual contact with different agencies. The
effective coordination of all these actions is a difficult task as
complex, requiring constant vigilance, so act accordingly.
7.2) Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
(OECD) - Founded in 1963, the OECD actively pursues coordination

329

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
economic and social policies its 34 member countries, which represent about 80% of world GNP. OECD's work is carried
ahead by more than two hundred committees and working groups, covering a multitude of topics. By integrating a profound impact on international politics both through direct action and within agencies
intergovernmental. The fact of forming joint positions between countries
this entity means that - often - majorities are formed, even before becoming formal approaches in international forums, with obvious disadvantages for absent.
The OECD brings together the industrialized world, Israel, Mexico, Chile add,
South Korea and several countries in transition in Central Europe. They are in the process of
enter Colombia, Costa Rica and Russia, among others. In addition, four Latin American countries (Argentina, Brazil, Colombia and Costa Rica) involved in the Investment Committee of the same. There are 24 observer countries in committees, and
additional fifty participating in various activities.
In the known process of adjusting to the rules of the OECD that Uruguay had to make, he has had to do with the disadvantage of having been
oblivious to the previous discussions of the members with regard to our
banking legislation. Instead, Brazil fully involved in a dozen
committees and more than thirty other working groups, while Argentina is associated since 1995 with no less than twenty of these mechanisms
cooperation.
For these reasons, it is our intention to negotiate as soon as possible, the quality of observer in the committees that most interest us and strengthen Embassy in France
with the right people must. Depending on how the development you register
Subsequent events will be determined whether to run for
member of the OECD. 131
7.3) World Trade Organization (WTO) - This entity and its predecessor - the GATT -regulan exchange since the end of World War II
World, based on the application of two basic principles, which include the clause of the most favored nation and national treatment among its members. The vigen131

330

Until this happens, it is essential that our country is aware of the work and initiatives that are developing in her womb.

Colorado Party
tion of Article XXIV of the GATT allows the signing of free trade or
creation of common markets, with the establishment of the preferential arrangements that implies. Mercosur is based on this provision, which has allowed the proliferation of these agreements, with the effect that the increasingly
exchange of goods and services takes place under preference systems, in
detriment of the most- favored nation.
The reality is that if the multilateral system does not provide the expected benefits,
he opts for free trade treaties, what it is currently happening. Many countries have followed suit, and in Latin America
those who have done most are Chile and Mexico, which have expanded their markets
world significantly.
It notes that, at present, three treaties are being negotiated free trade global132 level - in the case of fruition - radically modified
trade flows by further weakening the validity of the clause of the most favored nation. In all three cases not only a treatment would be set preferably
among members on tariffs and rules of origin but
that a number of important obligations would be included beyond
regulating the WTO commitments. The prospect looms if realized
these mega-deals is that the Mercosur countries remain outside the preferential arrangements should be trained and access most of the main
world markets at a disadvantage. Therefore, it is imperative to stimulate deep reflection within the Mercosur about the effects these
trends will take over the interests of its member countries, and how to answer them. In this scenario, we understand that Uruguay should continue to contribute actively to the work of the WTO and the Doha Round, especially
because one of the objectives pursued is liberalizing access
markets for agricultural products, while making approaches
as indicated in the Mercosur.

United States intervenes in the proposed FTA with the European Union, while seeking to create another TLC
with many major Asian countries. For its part, China - accompanied by India, including other Asian FTA promotes equal scope.
132

331

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
7.4) Organization of American States (OAS) 133 - This is the body
bringing together the countries of the western hemisphere, which is -together with the
United Nations that the main international contact between Latin America for
hand, and the United States and Canada on the other. OAS consider a pillar of the
hemispheric cooperation at all levels, both at present and in any circumstance that may arise in the future and which harms the interests of
its member countries. Therefore, it is necessary to intensify and Nest
action, a task that will assume from the Government.
7.5) Latin American Association for Integration (ALADI) - Successor
LAFTA, the agency has contributed greatly to the establishment of closer economic and trade ties between our countries, and even a basic element - along with the common markets of Central America and the Caribbean for the eventual formation of the market and very delayed Latin American common. You can not underestimate its contribution to the integration convergence of our countries, nor the benefits that derive from Uruguay it, so strongly seek invigorate their actions.
7.6) Other Latin American Organizations - Today the Uruguay integrates
several continental cooperation agencies, namely CELAC (Community of
Latin American and Caribbean) states that promotes a regional space
one of its 33 member countries on integration and development
thereof; SELA (Latin American and Caribbean Economic System) drives
cooperation and integration of its members, as well as the coordination of positions on economic issues to other groups of countries and international forums; Y
UNASUR (Union of South American Nations) dedicated to establishing an area of
integration and unity in the cultural, social, political and economic, in addition to promoting the convergence between MERCOSUR, the CAN (Andean Community of Nations)
Guyana, Suriname and Chile through the perfecting a free trade zone. Uruguay's interest lies in actively participating in them,
trying to advance as means to rationalize their activities and lead
in practical application formulas leading to the creation of the common market
Latin American, so we will proceed in this direction.
Particular highlights deserves its adherence to the principle of nonintervention in the internal affairs of States, which
is enshrined in the Charter, which is an element that -recogido in the Charter of the United Nations is a
defense of sovereignty, which is essential for a small country like ours.
133

332

Colorado Party
Economy and Trade
You can not question the fundamental and essential contribution of a vigorous and growing foreign trade, economic development and prosperity of each and every one of the Uruguayans. Our country found over the past
years to benefit from the boom that marked the high foreign demand and
good prices for many of our main production items. In
care being registered a slowdown in global demand, the primary objective must be sustained growth. Now, after many
years various initiatives and changes in direction, we find a set of policy-setting organizations and export promotion
It characterized by their variety, without having achieved so far, the degree of
coordination necessary to allow full use of investment in human and material resources involved. Neither it has been the degree of integration of efforts of the official and private enough to achieve the same purpose sectors, so that effective action is necessary.
Strategic objective 8 - Achieving sustained growth in export flows through a professional and coordinated action related services
To achieve the aforementioned objective accionaremos, simultaneously, in three key areas, namely:
1) Rationalization and optimization of the entities related to foreign trade and foreign investment, official and private, promoting close cooperation between them, as it is shown that it is
only this harmonization efforts purposes are achieved - other
but complementary - the Government and the business community. It is necessary to avoid
dispersion of efforts and ensure consistency of policies and procedures
so there needs to be a sustained and reciprocal current initiatives,
advice and concrete proposals that generate coordinated actions. In the
Currently, the main mechanism for this purpose there is the Interministerial Commission for Foreign Trade Affairs (CIACEX), composed of the Ministers
Foreign; Economy and Finance; Livestock, Agriculture and Fisheries;
Industry, Energy and Mining; and Tourism and Sports. This commission should establish a system of permanent and close consultation with the most representative organizations

333

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
tative of the purpose of achieving an interaction that benefits both parties business area and therefore the country. Often, the employer has
own sources of information, at the service of the Government, contribute
positively to the development of policies pertaining to foreign trade. 134
2) Expansion and diversification of markets by developing an action
simultaneously negotiating in different areas:
(2.1) at the multilateral level in the WTO. Here, governments still stuck in the negotiation of the Doha Round, which does not advance in any way shape
consistent with the requirements of the vagaries of the global economy. We must continue
this process closely, remembering and trying to use the fact that while there is a multilateral mechanism means exist within their complexity
achieve particular advantages in dealing with governments.
(2.2) in the region, with ALADI and UNASUR;
(2.3) in Mercosur, and through it with the Andean Group and the Market
Central American Common;
(2.4) in bilateral, with countries like Mexico in Latin America, and the rest
the world with the highest achievable given the emphasis obligations Mercosur.
(2.5) in the Pacific Alliance, which remains an open policy of opening
markets coincides with our interests and represents an economic force and
Mercosur trade higher than where immediately intensify our
Observers, in order to become full members.
(2.6) in the plane of the Free Trade of new generation,
they are radically transforming the rules and trade flows
world.

The existence of Uruguay XXI, an organization whose mission is to internationalize the Uruguayan economy stands out,
promoting export growth and positioning our country as a strategic investment destination
productive. It has a significant potential that is not fully utilized, although it be for lack of
resources official and private sources. It is necessary to equip Uruguay XXI funding to enable it to fulfill its
tasks entirely, for all investment made in this regard will yield strong benefits to the country.
134

334

Colorado Party

Mercosur
Regarding Mercosur is necessary to have a thorough analysis of our present and future as partners thereof in all its facets situation.
It does not seem, a study of the entity claiming the seriousness of this state of affairs have been conducted so far. We must do it with fair, professional and strict standard. We must initiate an immediate action, in order to
reach conclusions at national level and - depending on their content - determine the policies to follow. Nobody is aware of the importance of the guidelines that would emerge from a study of this nature, as not limited to trade and
the economy but include relevant policy considerations.
The main motivation for the incorporation of Uruguay was the Mercosur access to a market that lifted the restriction for investments, resulting from the small size of our domestic market. At the same time, Uruguay
he must accept the need to protect the goods not produced in its territory
but in Argentina and Brazil. Thus, the Common External Tariff was adopted, while
Uruguay had the expectation that the Mercosur adopt the principles of open regionalism, which would mitigate the assumed cost. In fact, access
the Argentine and Brazilian markets suffered a series of outages and restrictions acted to prevent investments in our country, while
the AEC was applied so that it did not offset the extra cost accepted by Uruguay. This is the essence of the problem we face, which is intensified because Mercosur has closed and has only conducted negotiations
modest extra-continental countries, unable to access those conditions
markets we serve mayormente.135
Our notorious dissatisfaction caused by adverse imbalance has fallen Mercosur, led to an effort to conclude an FTA with the United States,
which he was wrecked by internal resistance of the government of the time, to which Argentina and Brazil joined refusal giving us the necessary freedom of action

135

During these years, it is true that Uruguay has increased its sales to Mercosur partners (in 2012 the same reached about US $ 1,700 to Brazil, US $ 500 million to Argentina, US $ 400 million in Venezuela and US $ 150 million to Paraguay) circumstance consider.

335

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
according to the Decision 32 of Mercosur. 136 In 20 years, we found that great
Part of the assumptions that the Asuncion Treaty itself provides for the creation of the Common Market, have not been fulfilled. We have lost the balance of benefits and obligations of member countries, which was intended to achieve in the year
2000 with multiple outcomes of the eighteenth meeting of the Council
Mercosur, where it was stated that the relaunch of Mercosur was contemplating balanced the interests of the United Partes.137
In this context, deserve special mention the Free Trade
(TLCS). You can highlight which should focus our attention as - if
come to fruition - will transform the currents of world trade
radically.
United States (USA) promotes the Trans-Pacific Strategic Economic Partnership Agreement, which aims to cover two-fifths of trade
worldwide and 45% of global GDP. We are negotiating the US, Canada, Japan, Singapore, Australia, New Zealand, Malaysia, Brunei, Vietnam and - significantly
, Mexico and Peru, while Chile and South Korea join study. This FTA is
preferential rules for fixing the benefit of its members in a
variety of issues that go far beyond WTO disciplines. The announced purpose is to conclude activities shortly. America is a
main promoter of this initiative, it is worth remembering that already has FTAs ​​with
Chile, Peru, Colombia, Central America, Dominican Republic and in the case of Mexico through NAFTA North Atlantic. This FTA would cover not only the rights
customs and non-customs barriers, but would include labor issues,
the environment, intellectual property and government procurement. From
crystallize this agreement would establish preferential treatment for their
members in all disciplines mentioned.
Simultaneously, China promotes the 'Regional Economic Parnership', which should be running next year, which includes, among others, China, India, Australia year,
Japan, Korea and New Zealand, which represent 30% of world trade and

136

Recall that this attitude, as well principled, those two countries, in contrast to the way others
commissives equally formal pronouncements and Mercosur (many of them adopted simultaneously with Decision 32) that have been ignored or put aside until today.
137 The country is deeply frustrated by the continuing uncertainty as to whether the conditions of access to the Argentine and Brazilian markets will remain firm, which discourages foreign investment, among other damage.

336

Colorado Party
with global aims of eventual implementation of a comprehensive preferential system
among members of enormous scope.
At the same time, the US and the European Community have revived a project of many years negotiating an FTA between them that is intended to be formalized
this year. They work at least fifteen working groups dealing with other
so many issues that are intended to integrate the preferential arrangements, and that also go beyond the rules of the WTO. Anticipating events,
Canada recently concluded an FTA with the European Union and Japan, negotiates
therewith a TLC whose scope is certainly important.
The consequences of the three initiatives mentioned - if realized - are vast. That would result in North America, Europe and Asia-Pacific implanted preferential arrangements would in very serious competitive disadvantage to countries that do not integrate, as our country. World trade is definitely overturn toward FTAs, inevitable detriment of OMC.138
Moreover, the Pacific Alliance, which encourages regional integration, has warned the consequences of these movements, and its members are close to
initiatives that focus on the Asia-Pacific region.
Under these conditions, we will offer possible avenues of action to vent our economy. One is the crystallization of negotiations demoradísimas
Mercosur and the European Economic Community, and the other is to explore
how far signed 71 bilateral Protocol with Brazil last year would - in significant ways intensify trade with that country and to give greater meaning to the statements of the Treaty - whether advertising purposes are met
Asuncion.
In short, it is necessary to improve the competitiveness of the country, whatever the
print direction is trade policy. Latin America, and Uruguay with
her, and fell far behind the members of the OECD, and now there are many Asian and Middle Eastern countries that surpass us. In our continent, only Chile has managed to catch up with the modern world, where efficiency is the claAsia is the region with the most dynamic present and future. Last year's economic growth was 7.3% in
East Asia and Pacific, and 5.2% in South Asia. Far superior to the industrialized countries and 3.3% of America
America and the Caribbean. Concentrates the masses of people and future consumers. United States and the European Community represent most of the industrialized world.
138

337

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
sees success. If the Uruguay still located around the number 75 in the index
Global competitiveness, we can only go on what we are. The rest will
frustrated hopes and expectations beyond that we establish good policies or that we enter into negotiations. 139
It is certainly necessary to increase our competitiveness in order to approach even some members of the OECD, within five
years, means making a huge effort that can only be achieved with a real awareness nationally and acceptance of the changes it
it implies. However, for a small country that seeks to thrive in a world
where technological advancement, higher education and efficiency are the keys
undisputed success, there is no alternative. This was understood by Finland, Iceland,
New Zealand and Ireland, among others, and the results are obvious.
Here are the major issues that should focus the attention of the Mercosur,
as they shape the future of its members. We must address this problem
force and exhausting efforts to effectuate the agreement between Mercosur and the European Union and also realize the part in the Pacific Alliance. We will lead these integration processes as a priority.
Ministry of Foreign Affairs
Strategic objective 9 - professionalize the management of the Foreign Ministry as an essential tool for the conduct of foreign policy of the Republic
For efficient management of international relations, it must return to
behave professionally. The main responsibilities of it should be in charge of the best negotiators and political offices should be reduced in key embassies due attention to the interests of the country, using trained professionals and career in the foreign service.
Professionalize the Foreign Ministry and the Missions abroad is to professionalize
Uruguay Foreign Service. We promise to carry out the following
actions to achieve this objective:

The ITC has long identified the topics that Uruguay is poor. That is, since
we work agenda ready to put to work. It's a matter of doing it.
139

338

Colorado Party
1) Establish a demanding test for admission to the diplomatic career, returning to the path left by the current government - in recent years,
thematic tests such as culture, music and art of Uruguay, and perhaps
More significantly the national history, were removed as knowledge
general. An applicant can perfectly joining the Foreign Service without
accredited knowledge of national history (aside history
international relations and international politics, which itself is part of what
asked in the contest). Besides this circumstance, it is noteworthy that
Previously, they were asked contestants a minimum score of 70% for
be entitled to fill a vacancy. From 2011, this requirement was removed by
what all vacancies are filled by following order of priority, which is clearly counterproductive to the interests of the Chancellery.
However, one of the most striking issues, which came to pass hard in the public sphere were the contest to enter the Service
Exterior 2013, in which the requirement of knowing the English language was removed. From this year there is only a single proof of languages ​​(including languages
UN officials and Portuguese) which is required to pay and not
It is necessary approval. In short: You can enter the diplomatic career of Uruguay and depending on the decisions taken by the government, without knowing the national history, not knowing English, without meeting basic minimum score
fitness and with any age and the maximum age prescribed for submission to the contest entry, it was removed historically set at 35
años.140 These circumstances should change, it is necessary to establish requirements
professionals to join the team of the Foreign Ministry.
2) Delete political positions in the foreign service, losing 21-5
the number of positions of personal trust. Reduce the excessive amount of heads of mission is a political imperative.
While in the Colorado Party rule (2000 - 2005) they were appointed
five political ambassadors, and this figure rose to twenty quadrupled in the current government, adding to it the creation of five counts of roving ambassadors, figure created in the Frente government.

141

In this sense, we com-

We promise to eliminate political positions in the foreign service, from the
Embodied in the Accountability 2012 (voted in 2013) the current government eliminated this requirement by considering
as discriminatory.
All 141 despite the election campaign promise not to bring the number of Heads of Mission to over 12.
140

339

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
21 counts only 5, we will allocate to the missions abroad. This situation has led to not only leave aside the career ambassadors,
but they appoint consular officials also political, as in the cases
Buenos Aires and Mexico.
3) To improve and develop existing computer resources
Ministry of Foreign Affairs, among which we highlight the design
Current page / website and generate content in English to reach a larger audience
global. It should unify e-mail boxes and response procedures. They
should improve security in sending data and centralize data on servers
local, managed by technicians with expertise in security. In turn, involve AGESIC in these processes of change and also in scanning applications and forms, requiring advice in this specialized entity.
Issues whose importance will be subject to preferential treatment in action
of the government:
to)

Human rights

The Colorado Party conceives society as a community of free-true center of the system of coexistence people with similar expectations
personal development, to which the State, as a great articulator of the inevitable differences that occur within it, must provide the tools
appropriate measures to ensure their rights and encourage their expectations.
Within this frame, human rights and their effective protection deal
a priority that the Colorado Party defined as the central commission
the rule of law and democratic government.
In this last aspect, we must stress that they have been prominent citizens
our Party who have stamped their mark on democratic instruments
such as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights 1948, the American Declaration of the Rights and Duties of Man of 1948 and the Convention
American Commission on Human Rights in San Jose, Costa Rica in 1969 so
our actions will be inspired by these procedures ensuring permanent by
respect for and compliance with international and national law enforcement.

340

Colorado Party

b)

Natural resources

For a country like ours the preservation and proper use of resources
Natural is a central objective that no area of ​​state could
subtract others, not all of them seen from a contemplative or static view, but
from a dynamic perspective.
In this regard Uruguay has major river and marine resources
which basically shares with Argentina. The rivers of the Plata and Uruguay,
waterways extraordinary commercial and geopolitical value - not to mention the
Waterfront - with its ports and other port facilities placed at
country in remarkable condition as openness to international trade and tell
today binational commissions with individual whose institutional strengthening
The Colorado Party has contributed and is committed to continue in that line.
It is thus undeniable participation of these joint committees on internal and external coordination - where appropriate - of the interests and rights of
riparian and smooth operation countries depends greatly
political and diplomatic relations between Argentina and Uruguay, as it has
to reaffirm eloquently about the CARU the recent ruling of the Court
International Hague on current pulp mill UPM (ex Botnia). Control of possible contamination of the Uruguay River is central task
CARU through their bilateral Scientific Committee, created by the CARU with
In order to comply with that ruling, which is demonstrative of
practical value of this type of joint work that the Colorado Party will continue
support accordingly. The Joint Technical Commission for the Maritime Front,
meanwhile, also it plays important roles in all regards
fish resources, oil exploration, etc. and to the eventual construction
deep water port.
Deserves special mention here the issue ports, including Montevideo
Nueva Palmira, which have imposed unilateral measures Argentina
that seriously affect normal operation (particularly the ban

341

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
transshipment cargo from or to Argentina) with serious damage to the Uruguayan economy.
Given the unilateral announcement without prior notification to the CARP and solicitation by the Argentine government to build a new canal (which they call "Magdalena"), the Colorado Party will defend through legal channels corresponding full compliance with the Treaty of Rio Plate and Front
Maritime being a project that "can cause significant damage to
Navigation interest of the other Party or the Rio regime "(Article 17 of the Treaty)
For his part, called Guarani Aquifer - usable confined waters
varying temperatures - Uruguay an extension of about 50,000 square kilometers of its sub-soil is a natural resource that must be paid
special attention for its rational use for human consumption, tourist exploitation (hot spring), irrigation and agricultural and industrial purposes,
protect recharge areas.
c)

Policy for the drug issue

The Uruguay comes to pass legal rules and regulations on marijuana that deviate markedly from international conventions on the
matter and introduce a fundamental shift in the policy of combating the use
narcotics. While this decision has received some informal support level
international, they lack institutional support and a more or less immediate future it will bring rigged effects and consequences that placed the
theme internationally for which will be the subject of foreign policy to the
the Colorado Party devoted special efforts in the area of ​​the competent bodies and in bilateral relations aimed at protecting the
joint and committed by the country through international treaties
in force. 142

At the national level we have committed to repeal Act No. 19172 legalizing the production and marketing of Marijuana
142

342

Colorado Party
d)

Environmental Protection

An integrated to the world also means a Uruguay Uruguay actively participate in regional and multilateral fora where thought is generated,
the right policies and referred to the environment. Environmental pollution
the atmosphere and the oceans, increasing pressure on natural resources and the
climate change are some of the global challenges facing humanity. The
International concern in the matter is manifested in a wide arc that goes
since the 70s with an initial milestone in the Stockholm Conference on Environment, to its ultimate expression was the summit of presidents and heads
State of Rio +20. This world summit called to establish an international agenda in 2015 with goals, targets and indicators of sustainable development,
agenda which countries, among other actors, should contribute and that will
as a framework for action by international organizations, countries, financial institutions and civil society, both nationally and internationally.
Uruguay must be vigilant and active in creating this agenda of international governance, as well as its subsequent implementation.
In short, Uruguay as a "world citizen" should actively contribute to scientific research, political debate and the generation of law
international environmental matters. But it must also do so from the perspective of the promotion and protection of its national interests, as it would be
naive to think that this debate takes place without the presence of the latter without
the use and abuse of "environmental issue" to determine policies and constraints on smaller and vulnerable countries. It can not be accepted false contradictions between environmental protection and the right to development of the country
and its people. Foreign policy must therefore contribute at the international level to ensure economic, social and environmentally sustainable development
nation. (See Plan Uruguay - Uruguay Futuro where develops widely
Environment theme and the position of the Colorado Party was set regarding
this subject).

343

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020

SOVEREIGNTY AND NATIONAL DEFENSE
STRATEGY
Security and defense today face new and increasingly complex challenges.
Therefore, to achieve effective measures to preserve the security of the country, they are
necessary effective and coherent, both national and international field preventive activities. Uruguay safety is inseparable from the political and socio - economic development itself, regional, American and global. In spite of
its small physical size, our country has historically achieved a prestigious position in the international arena, both politically and economically, we consider today in various aspects and significantly weakened
we must strengthen and reaffirm. The country has recently raised its bid
as non-permanent member of the United Nations Security Council.
This will mean, if carried out, an honor for our country, but certainly also a great commitment and challenge.
Especially in the context of the United Nations (UN) and the international community, Uruguay should position the reaffirmation of peace,
defense against global threats, promotion of democracy and human rights
Human, sustainable development and the creation of security schemes
cooperative.
In another order, with the almost unanimous approval of Law No. 18,650
our country took an important step in terms of accuracy and update
legal framework of Defence, defining it as a multidisciplinary activity, which far transcends the Military Factor and whose driving is assigned
the Executive Branch, in the upper echelon of strategic responsibility. Unfortunately very little progress has been made in the effective realization of the provisions of this law; just beyond the launch of its bureaucratic and organizational expectations.
At the same time, after many ups and downs, shortcomings and historical dissidence, is
currently before Parliament the bill introduced by our
Party, aimed at creating a strategic intelligence system that,
all democratic guarantees of the case support the Executive in its conduct of National Defense.

344

Colorado Party
Strategic Objective 1 - Develop an effective defense policy under the leadership of executive power
To this end consider it necessary to have a broad parliamentary agreement to ensure its permanence beyond the current government, because of its substantial characteristic of state policy covering civil and military activities, and many other factors of the national potential for the which shall confine:
1.1) Full operation of the law CODENA and National Defense
the conceptual aspects defined therein as well as the guidelines
for operation of the National Defense System.
1.2) Rapid adoption and implementation of the National Intelligence System, with conception and assurances included in the project currently under treatment in the Parliament. These measures will allow the analysis and decision making
with a properly coordinated and providing strategic intelligence updated multidisciplinary approach.
1.3) Improve management of parliamentary affairs of Defense "
coordinating or restructuring the functioning of the Committees as appropriate, so as to faithfully reflect changes in the legal framework for the country
It has been given on the subject.
1.4) To strengthen civil relations - political - military. We consider relevant the selection and training of cadres capable of qualitative civil suit
and quantitatively requirements imposed by the conduct of Defense
National, Military Policy and Strategic Defence Intelligence, together
with proper use of the capabilities of military personnel in activity and retreat to positions related issues before mencionados.143
1.5) Participation in Peacekeeping Missions, increasing civil and diplomatic components, as relevant aspect of foreign policy and shows the
country's commitment to the system of international law and world peace and security. In defense of the principles of non-interference, cooperation,
Better communication with the public policy of the High Command set for the Armed Forces
will provide bring in the relationship between these and the society as a whole.
143

3. 4. 5

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
peaceful resolution of conflicts and self-determination of peoples, we believe that should continue to support the missions of peacekeeping in
those parts of the world which requires international consensus,
according to the United Nations and without affecting compliance with the fundamental missions of its armed forces. At the same time, it is deemed necessary
support stages of reconstruction after the restoration of peace. We consider integrating relevant components of the Foreign Service throughout
mission whose size warrants, as well as the participation of civilians, mainly in regard to humanitarian assistance and recovery infrastructure.
Strategic Objective 2 - Define and implement a military defense policy
properly articulate the political and technical levels of the conduct of
armed forces, strengthening the link between these and society
We believe that the political system must unequivocally reaffirm membership
Armed Forces full cultural, social and political community of the country.
Within this general context, we identified the following specific proposals:
2.1) Develop and enact the Organic Law of the Armed Forces and for each Force. These rules constitute the legal basis of the Military Policy
Defense and require revision and updating necessary because they contain
numerous partial amendments that make them lose coherence and clarity.
They must also comply fully with the framework law enacted agreement
policy in early 2010.
2.2) Ensure basic enlistment ability to fulfill
the tasks that derive from its mission. This does not in any way neglect
other tasks, but due to a simple reason: this structure allows adaptation to meet peacetime tasks, while it is not impossible
achieve a minimum level of efficiency in fulfilling the primary mission.
2.3) Give priority to the following tasks:
2.3.1)

Maintaining the territorial integrity and strategic resources

a logical framework for the defense of our sovereignty and our resources
natural and economic, with particular emphasis on the surveillance of land borders and air and sea territories.
346

Colorado Party
2.3.2)

Acting as organizational and operational backbone of the system

National Emergency regarding which propose specific measures to intensify coordination and readiness and revise and supplement
its legal framework to give greater accuracy.
2.3.3) Enlistment of military capabilities required for defense
territorial integrity and to address the tasks arising from the implementation of peacekeeping missions.
2.3.4) Technical and logistical support to the development of national interests
Antarctica and the delimitation of the outer limit of the Continental Shelf.
2.3.5) Maintain and enhance the development and implementation at national level of specialization and technical capabilities which materials Forces
Armed available exclusively (System for Search and Rescue, manufacture and testing of explosives, land mapping and marine hydrography
and oceanography, waterways beaconing, emergency air transport, air traffic control, rescue ships, military engineers, etc.)
2.4) optimize joint actions and interoperability Forces
Armed by the General Staff of Defense (ESMADE) and mission established in the Framework Law on Defense, as an advisory body and coordinator to more
high level, implementing actions in the educational, operational and logistical plans for all forces.
2.5) Support for internal security tasks. Insecurity
citizens often motivates proposals for assigning security tasks
Inside the military. Our basic position is clear and indicates that the
Armed police tasks do not develop character. It also may
consider in this regard the performance of security tasks in Banks, buildings and public institutions and diplomatic offices, thereby releasing personally Interior Ministry for the development of their specific tasks
(Research, prevention and suppression of crime) on the street. In this regard, it must clearly define the legal framework for the operation of the Armed Forces

347

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
Internally, in order to prevent crises in laws are passed
and decrees without adequate preparation and counseling.
2.6) professionalize the designation of positions of personal trust in
Ministry of Defensa.144 While not reach a "critical mass" of staff
It formed in the areas of Defense and Military Policy considered desirable and
more efficient, except to officials close to the Minister environment and
he required, positions with the departments of the Ministry of Defense
Military personnel active or retirement, restricting the positions of special trust created in the current administration basically DG
Secretariat and Financial Management Accounting and redirecting the resources thus released to other priority purposes.
Strategic Objective 3 - Improving and professionalizing the armed forces according to the requirements determined by the tasks assigned
This objective corresponds to the level of technical driving - military that acting
under the guidance of the Defense Policy and the Military Defence Policy, you should define and drive the organizational, logistical and personnel structures of each Force and jointly as corresponda.145
3.1) - Organic
Despite the sensitive changes in technology and context
international, design and organizational structure of our Armed Forces,
in essence, it remains virtually unchanged since the 50s, so
to consider implementing two strategic lines to guide its
organizational restructuring:
3.1.1) A rational step towards the whole, which has already been mentioned, having
in mind that a joint structure should be applied only when efficiency

144 By nature budget laws were created in the Ministry of Defense numerous charges including
confidence to be assigned to officials in their different directions. This has implied not only
important budgetary cost in an agency that has experienced constant reductions in their allocations
but more importantly, he has placed in leadership positions to people without much experience treating
very specific topics. This situation results in expenditure of scarce resources without achieving higher
efficiency levels. Previously these functions were performed by Senior Staff of the different Forces,
without receiving any compensation in addition to their salary, they contributed to ministerial decisions with decades of experience
in the treatment of military affairs and defense.
145 Precisely for the above mentioned technical nature, we believe that this program is not for proposal
delve into specific solutions. Then we will just express political views that guide
the detailed technical decisions.

348

Colorado Party
It is expected that greater than can be achieved with component forces
acting independently under proper operational coordination.
3.1.2) The categorization of forces / units on three levels: Availability
immediate, stabilization or reinforcement and support for the purpose of
guide and streamline the process of resource allocation, selection and
staff remuneration and operational readiness, within a framework in which
it is impossible to keep all the capabilities, particularly the military, continually maximum enlistment.
3.2) Logistics
This will be the first topic of work in which he will emphasize joint analysis and execution highlighting the need to process their renewal and upgrade
technology. Efforts will be made to access it, as before, incorporating materials
used through various forms of international cooperation, but trying to put two factors around its potential scope: industry participation
national and purchase of new equipment, in order to improve the equipment
that to date it has for the care and protection of natural resources
and economic.
3.3) Human Resources Armed Forces
3.3.1) education, leadership and personnel selection. About the formation and conduct of the military must be strictly observed and emphasized the principles governing the internal order. Useless the effort to educate and properly socialize the military, if the conduct of the entire chain of command - political and military - does not reflect in their actions the values ​​transmitted by the
education system or whether the selection for relevant promotions and positions,
ultimately the "career pattern", nor does and begins to be influenced by
reasons of "political trust" generally as soon as you put forward explicit.
3.3.2) Recruitment and remuneration. The creation of a School of Sub Officers
the Navy and the establishment of special courses within existing in the
Army, we propose, will encourage entry into the Armed Forces to the group
citizens who, having completed the basic cycle of Secondary Education, vacuum

349

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020
to access a more senior junior staff and then continue progressing according to plan career específico.146
3.3.3) Social support staff of the Armed Forces. Military personnel have experienced a deterioration in their quality of life, mainly due to
deterioration in their wage remuneration relative to the rest of the civil service of the state, to remove incentives and poor functional consideration. We
in the short term and complementing wage aspects already mentioned,
There are two areas in which it is possible to operate to alleviate the situation in question:
health and housing.
3.3.3.1) The military health system continues to suffer from budgetary constraints and decisions imposed by high negative impact
the previous administration, depriving him of his support, unlike what is done
with FONASA.
Thus, an organization of health care providers and staff in retirement activity,
as well as their families (over 180,000 users), in recent years has
significantly decreased the quality of care for its users due to the lack of human and financial resources. In this regard, we must address this service depending on the particularities of the same and the need for improvement
permanent.
3.3.3.2) The Department of Social Protection of the armed forces also has extensive experience in social support programs for military personnel and their families, especially in the area of ​​housing. Enhancing their resources and capabilities
They will achieve implement solutions that address the social aspect of members
Armed Forces and particularly to alleviate the acute housing shortage
They suffer.
3.4) education, training and promotions The military profession is a
element among specialized professional components of the State, in-

Beyond this, in recent years the staff has experienced a profound deterioration quantitative and
quality, lack of incentives for recruitment and retention. It is also obvious that the wage is a factor
146

essential to keep in mind. The remuneration of military personnel, moreover, despite the
improvements granted in this five-year period, are undoubtedly among the most neglected of the civil service

Been. It clearly difficult to compete for the acquisition and retention of adequate human resources to
requirements of the military profession with the private sector, and even the rest of the public sector. To this end the current
wage offer is extremely low, especially if salaries with workload and demands of the service profile and compare, so you have to work in this direction.

350

Colorado Party
tegrando the social fabric of the nation. Appropriate training is needed
Initial in differentiated for each branch of the Armed Forces Schools, keep as far learning professional knowledge
specific, as well as the common virtues of honor, discipline, obedience and loyalty should be the essential being of military personnel and
above which we have referred specifically.
Individual training must be a constant throughout
entire career, making heavy use of national academic resources
as well as opportunities for exchange and exercises with friendly countries.
This effort required the military, you should be rewarded by the
hierarchical promotion consider fundamentally the proven professionalism.
Consequently, we propose to maintain the basic training of officers of the
Armed forces in three different schools, gradually encouraging learning
common from hierarchies Chief Officer, concurrently with the line
strategic development that we have set forth above.

351

Uruguay Plan 2015-2020

352

Colorado Party

353
