Election Platform 2014 - UP-Lema AP
For an anti-imperialist and popular government!
A vow of commitment A vote of confidence!

Maestro Gonzalo Abella - Gustavo Lopez
PRESIDENT

UP

VICE PRESIDENT

Popular Unity - MOTTO POPULAR ASSEMBLY

M. 26M 326 - 960 PCR - PH 1969 - 3060 MODEJU - 13013 ADVANCE - 101114 POyCU

Introduction
Introducing measures and objectives for the Cast
Wealth, social justice and national sovereignty, and a process of
imperialist and popular changes.
This platform reaffirms the defense
Main rights and interests of workers and the people
Uruguayans.
The red and white governments
They have ruled in favor of classes
dominant, large landowners, big business,
bankers, importers and exporters, for decades. The FA,
He took office as option
town. Did you meet the expectations of the people, he resolved some of
their basic needs?
DO NOT!
In these 9 years governments
Vazquez and Mujica wealth grew as ever. And never
concentrated, benefiting "the
haves ".
Between 2004 and 2013 large landholders (over 2000 ha /
C 100) have been enriched by that of
land rent and increasing
its value at more than 60 billion
dollars. They are less than 1,300
national companies and monopolies

foreign. Have half the
land in the country, of the 16 million
through ha., and pay only
3% tax. Furthermore,
-through large companies received exemptions impositivas-
more than 10 billion dollars
in the last 6 years (said by the
former Minister Lorenzo).
Meanwhile, in these years
field were more than 12 thousand
small and medium producers,
alone among dairy farmers went from
5900 in 2005-4800 in 2012;
workers receive in wages and pensions less than the
2000. There are 800 thousand workers
earn less than 14,000 pesos, 500,000 earn less than 10
thousand, 400 thousand precarious workers and
informal, 100,000 retirees earn
less than 7000 pesos and more than
100,000 total unemployed. The
Uruguayan teachers - teachers and
professors, are the worst payments
Latin America.
In fact agricultural policy
and wage policy have consolidated and deepened: delivery
of sovereignty, social injustice, concentrated wealth and increased exploitation of the working people.
This is not a model country

ASSEMBLY

POPULAR

service of the majority of
people, nor a leftist government.
No one ever can be held, and deepens the privatization of public enterprises
previous governments, who uses
low wages as the main hook of foreign investment and reinsurance of high profits
imperialist monopolies and
big bourgeoisie, who concentrate
the wealth.
They delivered to megaprojects (Botnia, Aratiri, the Pipeline and Deep Water Port, the regasification) at once
imposes welfare plans, work
precarious and labor flexibility; are
signing of Free Trade Agreements,
It called for military support to Bush and leaves
enter elite American forces. It is said that US and
is not imperialist, maintaining or
accepting occupy Haiti and Congo.
They have doubled the foreign debt
country; delivered the land and water
They are sinking and education
public health, ensuring private businesses at the expense of the people; who practices the accommodation and
corruption (casinos, Moonies, or
PLUNA colossal embezzlement). They
persecuted, criminalized and murders
young people in poor neighborhoods; are

harass, spy and repressed leftists while maintaining
impunity and manage forgiveness
for the "poor old people". For a real project
country people and for the people:
Popular Unity -lema
Popular Assembly for being a unitary tool and struggle, a
important part of the left,
coherent and consistent country,
also embodies a true
option left at the next
elections.
Reinvidicando the artiguista tradition that allows us to integrate with
Other popular struggle and processes
imperialism on the continent. With
Latin American governments and peoples, such as the ALBA, drive processes based on principles
social solidarity, national sovereignty and development, breaking
dependence and underdevelopment.
In these elections
We fight for parliamentary representation, voice
of the voiceless, to put the
serve the people and the class
working; amplifying and supporting the struggles of all
that across the country
They are mobilizing against the current extranjerizador and exclusionary model.
As an instrument to achieve these goals we offer our platform consideration of people
electoral and struggle to make the maximum artiguista reality:
"What are the unhappiest
the most privileged "
A vow of commitment
A vote of confidence!
For an anti-imperialist government
and popular!
POPULAR UNIT
Lema People's Congress
1) External Debt-Break
with the IMF
Moratorium and Debt Audit
external. Rejection Letters
Intent with the IMF, World Bank, IDB and other agencies serving imperialism and multinationals, the BIT treaties and TIFA
with the US, and similar treaties with
Finland, Mexico and Chile and the ICSID.
2) Nationalization of Banks and
Foreign Trade. Elimination
bank secrecy.
3) Land Reform
2000 expropriate land

You have., and more, index 100 Coneat
land along the border,
which are held by foreigners.
Prohibition of land tenure
by corporations and foreign companies.
Fractions will be awarded
under a usufruct to family or groups of producers and
collective land use will be promoted. Priority will be given food self-sufficiency, productive diversification, the repopulation
campaign, overcoming
differences between country and city and
the practices compatible with environmental protection.
Setting minimum prices or support. National Fund
Land for production plans Colonización.Recuperar
beekeeping. Impulse suburban gardens.
4) Industrialization and Energy
Nationalization of industry
refrigeration and other major strategic industries or strongly
You extranjerizadas. Strong protection,
development and distribution throughout
the country, the National Industry
to create decent working sources
and stable and mainly meet people's needs.
Ban the export of live cattle. Development of heavy industry.
Rejection of megaprojects
driven by imperialism,
UPM paper mills as ex-Botnia,
Montes del Plata and others that
planted, the open pit Megaminería as Aratitrí, Regasificadora
and Deepwater Port
Rocha. Effective --Nacionalización
of mineral resources and the
subsoil
Fishing.
Creating a Ministry of Maritime Interests, River and Harbor. Installing a Ente
Witness for the fisheries sector.
State Fishing Fleet. As a first step the bottom trawl fishing is deleted
It is declared of national interest
artisanal fisheries. Disarm monopolies or concentrations of fishing permits. Merchandising
and price controls and fisherman
the population intervention
Been. Infrastructure for artisanal.
energy
The energy must be declared
a
essential and strategic service and therefore a public service and
It should not be considered as a

goods to which they apply the
market laws. We will promote
Search and use of sources
alternative energy as
geothermal, solar, wind energy, and
the small and medium dams
hydroelectric. Repeal of
Regulatory Framework Act.
the installation will be banned in
national territory of plants
nuclear power, will not be allowed
the development of forms of exploitation of hydrocarbons, such as
called "fracking" .It reject
projects like the regasification of Puntas de Sayago.
Pricing policy be modified
UTE that promotes benefit
large industries and
all of multinationals
5) Nationalization of companies and
privatized services
Nationalization of gas, ports,
airports and reactivation
AFE. Pluna, will reconstitute the
State airline company like.
State monopoly of all
insurance.
Defense and development of the Entities
Public. Social policy rates. Deleting calls "peripheral privatizations", the outsourcing of services, etc.
6) Tax Reform, famine and
inflation
Elimination of VAT to items
Staples, the rates
public stock (OSE
UTE ANTEL), medical services,
staples, as well as
loans to social workers
and retirees. Elimination of income tax and
replacing heavy taxes
progressive capital, large
bank deposits, etc.
Income Tax and Utilities
Business and Personal,
unique and highly progressive rates. They are taxed assets
Uruguayans abroad.
Elimination of taxes
affect the wage tax
Social Security. Control of
especially effective collection of taxes
high incomes and accumulation
capital.
Control of inflation. Eliminating forms of intermediation
in production and marketing chains. Price fixing
maximum price in the area
wholesalers first
need. Business creation
State of supplies.
7) Social Security
Removing AFAPs and pa-

sage of funds in the hands of the
BPS same. Categorical rejection
AFAPs system, considering antagonistic System
Social Security, which should be
intergenerational solidarity and sharing.
Elimination of taxes
pensions. Return
70% of the average of the last
three years worked (or better
ten) with 30 years of work and sixty met. Lead to lower pensions that amount
half basket. In case of
single women caring for children
and old, the whole basket is paid. Quarterly adjustments.
8) Health
Single national health system,
state and public. The State System is responsible for the Integral Health Care. In this
system will be essential community participation. Comprehensive care, free to all
population will be done through a
Organized Services Network, funded through the state budget.
Production National Drug Formulary Single
Mandatory, with active ingredients, not trade names. He
state will regulate prices and quality control, so as to ensure accessibility, quality and rationalization of its use.
Enhancing the role of the Hospital de Clinicas, as Center
Reference and responsible
Organization of Highly Specialized Medicine.
Creation and adaptation of Special Programs: Mother and Child, Adolescence, Mental Health,
Human Rights, Eye Care, Dental, Addictions, of
Ecological Preservation and Environment
Environment, etc ..
9) Housing
Expropriation of properties
They are not inhabited, beginning
by taxing them with higher taxes.
Repair and immediate occupancy
for the needy. Suspension of releases and evictions.
Massive construction plan
housing. Elimination
the regime of free contract
in respect of rents. The
settlements will care
priority.
Mutual aid cooperatives,
land portfolio is expanded and the
State ensure sanitation
on the grounds. It will be promoted and di-

It vulgará alternative construction
ecological. The BHU will have a monopoly of mortgage credit.
10) Education
Education is a fundamental human right. The system
State National Education
Public ensure the: gratuity
compulsory, secular, comprehensiveness, universality and academic freedom. It was based on autonomy,
participation and co-government, and
integration within a project
sovereign and popular social liberator.
Design Study Plans
popular, participatory content
and democratic in the service of
town. Promoting culture
the anti-imperialism imposed culture from villages.
Will be central to our educational proposal Rights
Humans. Critical thinking is actually promoted.
Single National System of Public Education. Must be completed
with direct and indirect state subsidies, education
Private.
Immediate budget not less
6% of GDP. -Wide
the country, with training
High quality, adequate infrastructure and professional workers,
with a minimum wage aimed at the
basket.
11) Wage and Labor
National Minimum Wage average basket. Wage increases will be promoted by
Fixed departure. Extend right
the holiday pay for all
workers, including state employees.
Job-Guarantee job security. Redistribution hours
Working via the shortening of working hours without loss of pay. No dismissal for
restructuring of companies and
free dismissal. Suspend deliveries unemployment insurance.
It will be effective the right to work getting the maximum occupancy
of the population in activities
productive. Protection and development
of industrial and agricultural production
national. It will take out a
public works plan.
It enshrine the right of
woman equal pay for equal work. It will ensure work
youth, entering all
junk rights without contracts.
Respect and extension of jurisdiction
association. Removal work
precarious and outsourcing

labor tasks at all levels.
12) Human Rights
Prisons must not be an instrument of repressive criminalization of poverty but of rehabilitation. The prison system will
the orbit of the Ministry of Culture. Release a significant number
prisoners serving their sentences
for nonviolent offenses and have
willingness to work.
INAU be restructured in all
its dependencies. They are developed
policies to fight serious
addiction of children, adolescents and youth. Rejection
lowering the age of criminal responsibility.
Foster a swift and fair
Reparation Act for
all Victims of Terrorism
of State. Real and effective nullification of the amnesty law
Punitive Claims of the State
(Impunity). Judgment and Punishment
repressors of the last dictatorship
13) Rights of Women
Prevention, treatment of diseases and promotion
bless you. Prevention, planning
care in the development of pregnancy.
Legal and free abortion, with support
medical and psychological. Information,
education and contraception
no abortion, and abortion legal and truly attended to not suffer
or die. Safe delivery, in optimum
technical and psychological conditions.
Violence in the family care
real and immediate to all
denunciation, and in cases of
abuse or harassment at work level. Effective protection measures
kickers. Safe housing and dedicated attention, physical and
psychological and labor for victims
domestic or private violence and
their children.
14) Young: No to the stigmatization and criminalization.
Ensure rules and controls to ensure the non-criminalization and police repression against the
youth. Concrete programs and
especially measures to ensure access to education,
health, housing, sport, culture and decent work for young people.
Under no circumstances is the lower age of criminal responsibility
criminal. No security policies based on the criminalization of poverty. Not to
"Raids" and so-called "mega
operational ".

15) constitutional reform and popular participation
Media law
Democratization of the media
diffusion. Regular granting
and especially radio waves
open TV channels, digital,
etc., so that the distribution
comprising wave is amplified
different social groups and
popular. Support for requests
community media
Boost from the State (people's government) forms of consultation
popular.
Full exercise of democracy
Real or mass. He shall convene the
National Constituent Assembly.
The appeal for referendum must also meet budgetary matters. Facilitate consultations with all binding character.
Constitutional Reform
Establish a ban on
International loan agreements that constrain or violate the
political and economic sovereignty
land rights and social and / or environmental impacts of the entire population of the same. (IMF, WB, IDB, etc.)
Establish the so-called Area
Strategic Economics, which
It shall be limited to the exclusive participation of the State as owner
and investor. Set limits
land ownership by a
natural or legal person, whether domestic or foreign. That the
Social Security can only be organized on the basis of a system
and intergenerational solidarity.
Elimination of the Senate. Obligation of all constitutionally elected official, to pay
accountable to the people in audience. Progressive democratization
Judicial system. Elimination of the state of internal war. Requirement
compliance programs promised by political parties.
Constitution fully incorporate the existing rules of international law Humanitario.Imposibilidad plant installation
Nuclear condemns the arms race. Unable to practice
usury
16) Transportation
Nationalization of ports, airports and toll roads. Developing a multimodal system,
bringing about lower costs of moving
of goods and passengers.
It will proceed to the municipalization of passenger transport. Ensure degrees ticket

Tuito for students, retirees
and pensioners.
Railway - His recovery
It will be a priority as a means of
passenger transport nationwide with new lines that serve the population growth
in the metropolitan area and
a charge transport layer.
He will create a Merchant Marine
national merchant fleet, tankers and refrigerated and
fishing. Development of Shipbuilding. 100% of crew
Uruguayan flag vessels
National
Reviews feathering Act and Merchant Marine
of the Fisheries Act. Transport
Fuel and Dredging is
They run with boats and especially national flag
Uruguayan civilian crew.
17) National Defence
Debug the Armed Forces, who have participated in crimes
against humanity during the dictatorship. Restructuring of the armed forces on
Based on downsizing.
Elimination formulations
the Doctrine of National Security.
Dismantle the repressive apparatus
Internal of the armed forces, fortifying
an authentic National Defence
with imperialist sense and popular participation. Services
who went to military orbit
last dictatorship must be returned
civil orbit. Ending intervention of Uruguayan troops
abroad, at the service of imperialism in Haiti, Congo
and Sinai.
18) Public Safety
Public Security, shall be exercised by the Ministry of Interior.
The role of the police will not have
repressive towards the town ..
Ensure a minimum wage
half basket for
officials. They will be removed
222 and similar services. They
will integrate the Retirement
and Police Pension system
Public and State (BPS) .Rechazo
the use of the computer program "The Guardian"
19) Culture
An educated man is a being
Free Human .The book is the main cultural tool, in that
our slogan will be a sense
child a book. Reopening of the National Press. The music will be
considered the most important

you massive dissemination tool.
Reverse strictly in culture, tax revenues
caused by cultural events.
Fair, democratic and strictly controlled distribution
public funds allocated to
artwork
Freedom of expression and equality
opportunities in all areas of state expression. Decent pension for artists. Reactivation of cultural centers
neighborhood. Culture should be a
scope of freedom of expression
and solidarity
Science and Technology
Consider the progress of
science and technology as world heritage. Consistent coordination of plans
scientists and technicians, with areas
educational, social, cultural and
economic. Using the Software
free in public administration,
the three branches of government, autonomous entities and across company
with State participation.
sport
It will take out a policy
Sports national character
amateur. His practice is mandatory in all branches of education.
20) International Politics
-Solidarity
MERCOSUR has not been a process of integration on the basis
the interests of workers
and peoples, as taught by the
artiguista legacy, but for the benefit
imperialist multinationals installed in the region. We support
integration of our country into ALBA.
Solidarity with Cuba, rejection
the imperialist blockade, solidarity with the four fighters
US-Cuban prisoners with
the people and the anti-imperialist and popular governments of Venezuela and Bolivia, Palestine,
Western Sahara and Puerto Rico.
Solidarity and recognition
the sovereignty of Argentina
over the Falkland Islands. Solidarity with all peoples
They are fighting for their liberation against
imperialist oppression
Popular Unity
Lema People's Congress
March 15, 2014

UP
Headquarters: Vazquez 1463 - Tel .: 2407 85 10

