all the imperialist countries which began in 1974. This
It is the depletion of an entire period of political
offensive reaction worldwide.
2.3 This offensive of imperialism over the masses of
worldwide, in Brazil we had as flagship governments
Collor / Itamar and Cardoso was notorious and promoted a
historical backtracking on already precarious living conditions of
vast majority of the population: the majority of the working class
He was ordered to stay even without a formal contract,
million jobs have been outsourced or degraded (for
through temporary contracts and other devices); at
pensions were attacked as ever; services
public (such as Health, Education, Transport etc.) were
destroyed to boost privatization and profits of a
handful of capitalist vultures infecting the State and
maintains its profit only grace the expropriation using the
state force (of laws, justice, repression and police terror)
against working people. The field has advanced as never
land concentration in the hands of a few
speculators and landowners, many of them foreigners
snapped entire regions of our country, even the
Amazon, the territory fell into the hands of these vultures.
2.4 The policy of privatization and capital favoring
international and financial boosted the mass resignation
of millions of workers and an extensive process of
destruction of productive forces to make way for the
recovery of imperialist capital choked by the crisis
overproduction; the linkage of the Latin American economies to the US dollar, the closing mass of companies
industrial, settlement of historical workers' gains and
reflections of the financial crises of the imperialist countries; in
short the further deterioration of the living conditions of the masses,
sacrificed due to the "stability" required by
imperialism.
2.5 Depletion of this imperialist plunder policy
It led to the failure of these neoliberal governments before the
deep revolt of the masses against the gang that tucana
commanded in our country all this harms operation homeland and
unprecedented attacks on the living conditions of the people
worker. In Brazil, the same as occurred in almost
throughout Latin America, followed by a victory wing parties
nationalist bourgeoisie, here grouped in the Popular Front
led by the Workers Party, which in the "opposition"
They had collaborated decisively with the offensive
neoliberal through its class-collaborationist policy
("Sectoral chambers" of the Collor government participation in government
Itamar, breaking the national oil workers strike in 1995,
support the reform of the FHC Welfare, disguised support
privatization, breaking thousands of strikes etc.)
2.6 Assuming the government in a state of collapse of
neoliberalism (triggered inflation in 2003, the rise
struggles against neoliberal offensive etc.), the PT took on the role
referee in the political crisis, seeking the path of reconciliation of
labor movement with the bourgeoisie. The government of front
popular, sought to defeat strikes (post 2003;
federal employees etc.) and weaken further
workers' organization sponsoring the breakdown of centralization
workers through the distribution of resources for
creating new "core" (supported by the left of the sectors
petty-bourgeois, as the PSTU) and thousands of corrupting
union leaders (Ministries, Mail, Petrobras, BB etc.)
who gained positions of trust, high salaries etc. for
support the maintenance in key aspects of policy
expropriation of the workers in favor of large
capitalists (wage squeeze, new "pension reform"
more privatizations, delivery of the pre-salt oil, high rates
of interest for the benefit of bankers, tax exemptions for
capitalists etc. etc.).
2.7 In its first government the PT sought
match the convening of the bourgeoisie to use his
leading role of the mass movement to impose a
capitalist program of most of the bourgeoisie consensus
dictated by big business and imperialism for driving

PCO FOR PROGRAM
ELECTIONS 2014
Resolution of the National Congress
PCO valid national elections and
state
1. The revolutionary tactics in
elections: a defense Tribune
revolution and socialism
1.1 For a revolutionary party, elections are not
an end in itself, but one of the many (and not the most
important) land struggle in which the party intervenes to
to defend the independence of the working class in the face of
bourgeoisie and their candidates.
1.2 The PCO elections are a tribune (more
one) defense of the fundamental claims
harvested population, which seek to give an expression
political character, ie not only conscious, but
directed unitary and centralized manner against the state
bourgeois trends of struggle that manifest (still
embryonic form) in all parts of the working class
the landless occupations through the workers' struggles in the city.
1.3 Our party does not sow the illusion that the
working people's problems can be solved
by the vote, but only for its actual mobilization
class with their own means of struggle. Under these conditions,
for PCO elections are a secondary ground Fight
working class and the exploited, which can only win
their claims through its organization and
revolutionary mobilization.
1.4 The Workers' Cause Party, however, understands
the political participation of the working class is a condition
essential to their victory over the ruling classes and
struggle for socialism and that in this sense, the political intervention
independent in the elections with a socialist program and
struggle for self-government of the working class is
essential. That is why the PCO appears to have elections
as a central theme the defense of the Revolution, Government
Labor and Socialism.
1.5 Abstentions in the current electoral process would amount to
abandon the struggle to boot the working class of influence
nefarious of class collaboration policy and overcome
their illusions in the parliamentary mechanism.
1.6 The VII National Congress Party Cause
Workers take the decision to intervene in the electoral process of this
year to defend a revolutionary and socialist program
opposed to all the other candidates and their programs
bourgeois and capitalist defense, fielding candidates
they are the expression of the people's struggle, in particular the fight
working, the elections at all levels and in all
places of deputies the presidency.

2. Elections in advance frame
the capitalist crisis and the crisis regime
2.1 The Brazilian electoral process takes place amid a
colossal deterioration of the historic crisis of capitalism (which
marks its exhaustion), whose current stage is reopened
fully after the collapse of the US subprime in
2008.
2.2 We are experiencing the collapse of so-called
neo-that is, the attempt to overcome through a
the onslaught of the masses living conditions (thousands of
privatizations, mass layoffs, outsourcing large
scale, lower wages, rights of withdrawal etc.), the crisis
overproduction leading to widespread recession
1

State in crisis, making minor concessions to
poor to placate the crisis (family allowance, Proune
etc.).
2.8 The government of the Popular Front was well-abiding
the policy of "fiscal austerity" (the goals of "surplus
primary "), restricting the use of public money (needed
to meet the demand for essential services to
population) and the growth of the state machine. For Joy
the bankers, the PT has kept Brazil with the highest
Interest rates in the world of internal public debt and
outside, making up 47% of the national budget
were directed to the payment of interest and services
domestic and foreign bankers.
2.9 In these conditions favoring monopolies
capitalists, social programs of PT governments, one
way to get the support of the masses to the dispute with the
big business, not way more than a safety valve
for the coming pressure "from below", with deep resources
limited to the point of projects such as the "zero hunger"
really suffer from starvation of resources while billions were
distributed to banks and other leeches.
2.10 The advance of capitalist crisis (from 2008) led
to a crisis of these consensual relations between imperialism
and the governments of the national bourgeoisie, leading to a
intensification of the conflict of interests between the different
factions of the Brazilian bourgeoisie, already announced in
Lula's second term.
2:11 The case of the "monthly allowance", which appears in the first
Lula's mandate already showed the struggle of the bourgeoisie against
EN growth within the political system, highlighted the
advancement of scammers trends in pro-imperialist right,
which proved willing to use the up control over sectors
Key political and economic power of the country (judiciary,
Armed forces, monopolies of the media etc.)
to impose a defeat not only the PT, but to all the
masses and decisively to its most sectors
arranged to try to enforce by a huge
manipulation and even a coup (as is
occurring in various countries under the direct impulse
imperialism) a more deeply committed government
with the imperialist policy of austerity in the face of crisis,
ie carry out an accelerated attack on the
living conditions of the masses to support the parasitism
of capitalist monopolies on the verge of collapse.
2:12 In this situation are part of the elections in a frame
crisis of the political system as not seen for a long time
that threatens to take the country to a huge frame
political destabilization, which goes beyond political polarization
between bourgeois right (led by PSDB and its candidate
presidential, Aécio Neves; having as a "second line" o
"Socialist" Eduardo Campos) and the Popular Front (led by
PT and its candidate for re-election).

petty bourgeois) redirect demonstrations against
governments of the pro-imperialist right toward a
positioning "corruption", "against the parties" (in
reality against the left), in favor of the Supreme Court, measures
reactionary discussed in the infamous National Congress
(PEC 37 etc.) and even military intervention in
Country, ie the reestablishment of entreguista dictatorship,
murderous and corrupt.
3.3 In this way, the right deepened its campaign
coup aiming to confuse the ranks of the labor movement and
youth who took to the streets in June, continuing the
operation developed during the trial of the monthly allowance,
which had up to 6 hours of daily broadcast TV while
election campaign of 2012 and put in jail two party expresidentes governing the country, among others of
its leaders, while the larger
Country criminals and the corrupt (like the toucans that
They privatized the largest companies, such as Vale do
Rio Doce and made the greatest resources of deviations
public after the dictatorship - among others - remains in
freedom and have their "clean sheets" approved and exalted.
3.4 In view of this coup policy pequenoburguesa left (PSOL, PSTU and the like) sought to hide or
underestimate the action of the right and his putschist action, leaving
obviously out front of class conciliation policy
popular, working to hide the mass character
undemocratic and violent of the bourgeoisie, trying to evade
youth and the general public that the care of their
Claims can be done through an alliance of political
with the pro-imperialist right, with "the masses in the streets" without
these are equipped with a program and a
organization that allows them to act independently and
opposed to the interests of the reactionary pro-imperialist right
of the whole bourgeoisie. Not coincidentally, this same sectors
left (as the PSTU) reached the end of support
openly pro-imperialist coups (as in Egypt and
Ukraine) stating that these were "revolutions".
3.5 The VII Congress of the PCO reaffirms the position
assumed by the party before these recent events
denounces the right of the coup in our country and around the
world uncompromising defense of democratic rights
the entire population.
3.6 We denounce the trial of the monthly allowance and all
actions taken in the last period that violated openly
constitutional principles and basic democratic rights
aimed at strengthening the right and its institutions, against the
interests of the Brazilian people.
3.7 We denounce the brutal crackdown that
He emphasized throughout the country against the working population
(UPP's and other forms of occupation communities
workers; increased killing of poor and black population
the PM, landless killings etc.), their organizations
(heavy fines against unions, intervention of Justice and
MTE in unions in different ways) and against
their struggles (brutal repression of strikes, adjudication of
"Illegality" of workers' mobilisations as the dictatorship
military etc.).
3.8 The struggle of the working class and its party not
down to fight against the bourgeois government on duty
(antigoverninismo). The working class struggle against the bourgeoisie,
against the bourgeois political system as a whole and against
bourgeois governments. The working class and its
Organizations must fight, while the right and against
the left of the bourgeoisie, but you should not confuse the two.
We denounce the capitulation of the Popular Front and governments
nationalists in front of the pro-imperialist right by their
attacks against the people and national interests, but
It takes place in the first row of counter-coup
the pro-imperialist right who want to go over the
will the national majority governments elected by
population, organizations built by exploited
to impose a regime of total submission to the plans
hunger and misery of imperialism.

3. June 2013: reaction to repression
the PSDB and coup right right
3.1 The election campaign begins one year after the
closing the biggest wave of popular protests of
past two decades. Faced with the violent police crackdown on
demonstration in São Paulo on June 13, 2013 (which
was repeated to a lesser extent in Rio de Janeiro and Belo
Horizon) burst into a massive popular massive protest
against the right of governments dominating the top three states
rich country, deepening the crisis of these administrations
totally unpopular on the population.
3.2 Unable to keep using repression, right
bourgeois (aided by PT) sought to intervene in using n
his favor forces to police the extreme-right National
an intensive control campaign of demonstrations
means mainly the monopolies of the means of
Communication looking (with some support from left
2

union bureaucracy of the PT (and other even more sectors
reactionary as of Força Sindical, with which it has
good relations) controlling the unions through dictatorship,
fraud and alliances with employers and even their own right
(as in the case of SINDSERM- Teresina / IP) and blocking
struggle of the workers (metallurgical SJC) and defeating
their mobilization (as in the subway).
5.4 Sower of electoral illusions, this left
petty bourgeois imposes increasingly a policy of
subordination of the real struggles of workers to the dispute
parliamentary positions (acting this way against against
workers' party)
5.5 His electoral front of leftist politics, whose only
real purpose is to get electoral dividends (as evidenced
in all previous experiences with applications
bourgeois such as Heloisa Helena, the PSOL in 2006
with a capitalist program) shows the path of the abyss
for any class independence perspective and are
totally trailer and the service of politics variants
bourgeois, either right or left hindering the
construction of a workers' party and the masses and the struggle for
revolution, the workers' government and socialism.

4. The right against the World Cup and against
people
The OCP VII Congress takes place at the moment
takes place in Brazil, "football country", the XX World Cup
Football, preceded by a huge right Campaign
national and international (supported once again by sectors
petty bourgeois left) against its execution, with
clear intention of obtaining electoral dividends against the PT and in favor
its reactionary policy.
4.1 Showing a high degree of political maturity,
overwhelming majority of the working population (which is not
represented by bourgeois and petty-bourgeois crowd
present in stadiums) rejected that real political
coup in the Cup, promoting a real party atmosphere
popular before the most beloved sport in the country which is a
their cultural brands more features and therefore
target of massive attacks of big business does everything it says
repeito the needs and interests of the population a mere
instrument to revenue.
4.2 The campaign against imperialism Cup (which
falsely announced on the international newspapers
demonstrations against the World Cup would have gathered up to half a million
people, when they have not meet or 0.5% of
total) and national right that spurred how can the
manipulation by the left of the sectors
popular demands (which were not presented before
Cup) to try to support the right of the policy against Cup
and and get electoral dividends and smaller advantages
"Successes" with the government, shows the reactionary character of this
right, deep enemy of the people and its manifestations
cultural, as the big capitalists (that only admire
when they offer them some kind of profit or advantage).
For them no right people to the party, is not entitled to
fraternization. Only to work and oppression by gang
capitalist. Twist against Brazil (not only against the team
Brazilian) because they want to use a possible reduction of the people,
to promote the implementation of its policy of "austerity"
ie the expropriation of the majority in favor of banks and
the big monopolies that every day are stealing
often more than certainly it was (and is being)
subtracted from people with business Cup.
4.3 socialist and revolutionary struggle in order
conscious - in all trenches - in defending
interests of the majority (the working class and other exploited)
against the minority (the parasitic bourgeoisie and leech
who lives at the expense of the misery and suffering of the vast majority
of population). The defense of popular culture, the festivals, the
the sports people etc. against attacks and strokes of
capitalists and its most reactionary wing, imperialism
world, are part of this class struggle, irreconcilable.
Faced with this situation, we stand together in class
working and the vast majority of the Brazilian exploited people,
cheering for Brazil, also as part of the struggle for defeat
the right and imperialism.

6. For a fighting program
working class of the city and
field
6.1 The central task of the present moment is the struggle for
political independence of workers in relation to all
variants of bourgeois politics. This fight involves the defense,
in this election against bourgeois and pequenoburgueses candidates, representative of the socialist candidates
struggles of the working class, rural workers,
youth, women and blacks.
6.2 The basis for this is the program governments
vital demands of the working class and the masses
popular town and country that we defend all
days in the struggles of the masses. The PCO has two programs,
as the bourgeois parties or class collaboration: A
to demagoguery with the masses and another "real" to the
elections, but the elections appears with your program
revolutionary
integral
what
comprises
since
at
most immediate needs but vital class
working, as the transitional democratic demands
against the reactionary and oppressive character of the bourgeois State
respect of all sections of the population to their struggle for
a government of the exploited directed against the capitalist state.

7. Against the coup constitution, by
a National Constituent Assembly,
free and sovereign
7.1 Behind the democratic facade survives in
current regime, which succeeded the dictatorship, fundamental elements
the previous regime.
7.2 The Constitution of 88, rather than preaches
bourgeoisie, in some way, be called "democratic". She
was no more than the "democratic" solution found by
State dominated by the military and the politicians of old
dictatorship to seek to stabilize the political system and exhausted
harassed by the working mobilization.
7.3 The 1988 Constitution has served to rebuild the
anti-democratic aspects of the military regime placed below
the mobilization of the masses.
7.4 Besides leaving the door open for intervention
military in the political situation, the Constitution of 88 gave the foundation
to a new anti-strike law and a set of
forfeiture measures of democratic rights of the population.
7.5 To this reactionary constitution were being added
a series of "reforms" (like Social Security) in
Congress dominated by the right actions
Brazilian judiciary medieval that allowed privatization,

5. The petty bourgeois left
right trailer coup
5.1 Without having an independent policy in the face of crisis,
petty bourgeois left supports the fundamental policy
coup of pro-imperialist right against the front of the government
popular and anti-worker, putting themselves in the field of
a competition with the PT, the fight against "governismo"
leaving aside the struggle against the bourgeoisie and capitalism.
5.2 With such a policy, this left seems unable to
defend to the same democratic rights of the population
(as seen in the case of the monthly allowance of the trial and also in
If the defense of the UPP's and the very existence of PM
(disguised with the "demilitarization").
5.3 Repeats in the labor movement's policy
3

such as oil, and the delivery of the riches of the country and
"Hardening" of the regime, of the dictatorship of the bankers and
big monopolies against the people.
7.6 Given this situation, the Workers' Cause Party
considered as a central issue at the present stage the fight for
a true Constituent Assembly.
7.7 The clash of huge street demonstrations
occurred this year and the police and judicial apparatus of the State
It showed that a real dictatorship is in full force in
Brazil. Protest became a crime, and attitudes that challenge
the streets the strength of the police state, and the arbitrariness of
Judiciary, have been transformed into a real attack
against the facade of democracy in which we live.
7.8 Cases like Amarildo and Claudia (RJ) - both
black - murdered PM, the UPP's, we massacres of
landless, show the methods of terror that the current regime
They use against the poor, black majority in the country.
7.9 a National Constituent Assembly is needed to
do what the Constitution of 88 did not: already dissolve the police
military; dismantle the whole repressive apparatus, ensure
election of judges and prosecutors at all levels by a vote
popular.
7:10 We must fight for real constituent to
an agrarian reform truth: putting an end to landlordism and
ensuring land to those who work it; confiscating
latifundia and distributing land to small farmers.
These and other accomplishments can only result from the mobilization of
workers in the city in the countryside.
7:11 The mobilization by the constituent should clarify the
need to end the arbitrary and control
State by a right-wing minority, as it was also evident
in the trial of the "monthly allowance" and the arrest of the PT leaders
without evidence shows that, despite being in government for 10
years, is not the PT who really calls the shots in politics
national.
7:12 This is a real fight for Assembly
Constituent Assembly to approve a new constitution, which is the
basis for a radical overhaul of the Brazilian political system,
which must necessarily be supported by the population
working, the working class, rural workers and
other oppressed sectors by Brazilian capitalists and
imperialists. For this, the National Constituent Assembly,
democratic and sovereign can not be conducted by
parties that are there from the time of the dictatorship, can not
perform without an end to the monopoly of the press
cartelized right; without an end to the control of
banks on the national economy; without full
freedom of party organization and are
dismantled the repressive forces such as military police.
7:13 In these conditions our struggle is for an Assembly
Constituent where social organizations are
represented.

working class, since it even becomes a
minimum wage, to which millions of workers
They have maturities of their tiny value: one in
four workers, 25% of the national workforce
or about 26 million people (including million
civil servants) have "wages" less miserable value
the "minimum wage".
8.1.3 The situation is even more serious when it
considers that 70% of workers receive the equivalent
to three times the minimum wage (about R $ 2,172), an
all that does not quite equate to the minimum wage paid
in any of the rich countries. This serves to
show who is holding the "stability" of
Brazilian economy and the massive enrichment of a
handful of monopoly (foreign, in most cases)
in our country: the working class which receives one of the
lower wages in the world.
8.1.4 The reality is that while the production of high
profits for bankers and a handful of monopolies
has grown significantly in recent decades in the country, the
costs of expropriation of wages and jobs of millions and
the assault on the public coffers (theft budgets
consist of taxes paid by workers),
minimum wage and the average wage of Brazilians, even remotely
He approached the received value and purchasing power
minimum wage in developed countries.
8.1.5 Against this farce and force value protection
work of the Brazilian working class, it is necessary - more than
ever - raise the claim that the capitalists and the
government who claim that Brazil has come or is coming
the world's first and holding one of the highest GDP (Product
GDP) in the world, to pay to the Brazilian worker
value because of its workforce, ie the one that
should be sufficient to meet the needs of the
worker and his family and that today it could not be
under $ 3,500.

8.1.6 On a national campaign in defense of a
1 minimum wage. World. For a minimum living wage
that meets the basic needs of a family
working, enough for food, housing, health,
education, personal care, transportation, leisure, clothing etc.
For a minimum wage of R $ 3,500.00.
8.1.7 No to the regional minimum wage, minimum wage
unified nationally, calculated by the peak.
8.1.8 The workers lost with Real, not
should lose to inflation, restore all
Real losses, sliding scale of wages, an increase
Emergency 100% on all salaries.
8.2 Work less for all work:
maximum journey of 35 hours per week
8.3.1 The only real solution to the government and the bosses have
to address the crisis is the systematic expropriation of
workers, which will increase the journey through the
salary reduction, to the total income of expropriation
worker
through
of
unemployment.
The only real right that workers have under capitalism
is the right not to starve and even this right
elementary, which formerly was assured even
the slaves, is in question. The fight against unemployment,
that is, the struggle for survival of the working class, not
It can be carried forward either by agreement with the
employers or through government benevolence and the regime
bourgeois politician. Mass layoffs, or confiscation
livelihood of a portion of strength
work in order to increase competition within the class
working and increase their exploitation is a weapon of
bosses against the workers' struggle. The situation can only be reversed
causing the burden of the capitalist crisis falls
entirely on the ruling class. In this sense, the only
serious proposal against unemployment is that the journey
work is reduced, without any wage reduction, to

8. The PCO's Program for
elections and the struggles of
workers
WAGES, WORKING AND EARTH
(Points Central / Fights Platform)
8.1. Not the minimum wage from hunger, by a

minimum living wage of R $ 3,500.00
8.1.1 The Brazilian minimum wage is one of the lowest of
mundo.Mesmo that falsely asserts that Brazil
He turned developed country and it would be up to the 6th. World economy,
our minimum wage does not reach 20% of the amount paid in
imperialist countries. It is a source of super profits for
capitalists argue that they can not afford more
simply because they do not want to lose their immense
social privileges. To impose the minimum wage from hunger.
8.1.2 Unlike those of developed countries,
Brazil, the minimum wage is an essential reference for
4

the existing employment is shared by all
members of the working class:
8.2.2 To immediately create millions of new
jobs funded with the profits produced by
workers and individually appropriate by employers:
immediate reduction of the working week to 35 hours in
all branches of production without reducing wages; day of
maximum working seven hours;
8.2.3 In view of the reduction of employers' threats
production in the face of high and low production: Scale
Mobile working hours in order to share work
existing among all workers without reducing
wages.
8.2.4 With mass layoffs, employers seek
divide workers playing against employees
his companions fired. The only way to avoid this
situation is to unify all workers inside the factory.
No to mass layoffs: to unite employees and
unemployed, occupying the factories.

Public to fill the vacant positions in
public and state service; hiring all
employees needed in the key areas of service to
population etc.
8.4.7 With the so-called outsourcing, the employers and the
government to dismiss sublet hand labor costs
smaller and divide workers to weaken their struggle:
equality of workers of subcontractors with
contracting companies; guarantee the same contract
collective; right to organize in the same union.
8.5 No tax on workers, which
employers uphold the rule: only tax
capital and large fortunes:
8.5.1 End of all taxes on earnings and on
popular consumption; by a single tax on profits
capitalists on financial speculation and consumption
luxury goods; end of the property tax, taxation of luxury real estate,
vacant and rental;
8.5.2 End of financial parasitism and interest
extortionate: nationalization of the financial system, state-owned bank
only under workers' control; subsidized credit
for consumption and for small businesses; ignorance
debts of small businesses and consumers
indebted by the Real Plan; cancellation of domestic debt
the State due to the great capitalists, preservation of
small investors and savers;

8.3. On inflation: Full Resetting
losses and Mobile Wage Scale
8.3.1 End of expropriation of wages to fund the
capitalists in crisis.
8.3.2 full replacement of all losses
workers with the Real Plan.
8.3.3 Salary Scale Mobile: automatic reset all
sees inflation reaching 3%.

8.6. Down with imperialism coup

8.4 What employers should bear the costs of

crisis

8.6.1 Non-payment of external and domestic debt;
8.6.2 End of privatization, forfeiture of all
privatizations carried out without compensation to the profiteers,
workers' control of state enterprises;
8.6.3 Abolition of banks and all the great capital
domestic and foreign. Nationalization of health, education and
of all key public services;
8.6.4 Outside the IMF cancellation of all agreements
political, economic and diplomatic dictated by imperialism.

8.4.1 To the bosses and the bourgeois governments is sense
common that workers must bear the full weight of
crisis by settling their labor achievements,
Welfare and all public services and
unemployment. The working class can and must reverse this
situation through struggle, making them the bosses
that pay for the crisis created by capitalism.
8.4.2 The employers and the government are solely responsible
by the crisis and unemployment. When the economy is doing well, the
worker gets nothing, when it goes wrong, bears all
cost of the crisis. It is up to employers bear the burden of the crisis
created: unemployment salary paid while the worker
remain without employment, equal to the last salary
active, funded by a tax on profits
businesses;
8.4.3 Exemption from payment of all services
public for the unemployed (gas, water, electricity, provision
the own telephone, property tax, garbage fee etc.); subsidy
State for the payment of rent for workers
unemployed; re-nationalization of all public services;
establishment of a maximum ceiling of 10% of salary for the
all public rates for all workers,
financed by an increase in tariffs for large
businesses; that companies should bear the needs
Basic workers who resign (service
medical, school, basket of food staples etc.).
8.4.4 Law and opportunity for all who wish
work: complete freedom for local businesses
walking; access to pension equally with all
employees; end of laws guaranteeing
monopoly for large companies (for example,
public transportation of St. Paul); end restrictions on work
of perueiros);
8.4.5 End of the privileges of senior officials
(pensions, higher wages, commissions and retirements
judges, officials, police and military, parliamentarians etc.); end of
privileges granted by the State to the capitalists;
8.4.6 Immediate reinstatement of the dismissed from state
and privatized state; immediate calls for tenders

8.7.
End
gives
repression
expropriation of large estates

to

landless,

8.7.1 expropriation of large estates: land for whom it
works; expropriation of large agro-industrial company:
workers' control of large holdings;
8.7.2 Immediate settlement of all occupations; per
a national plan of occupations; by a campaign of
workers' organizations in cities in defense of the landless
and their struggle;
8.7.3 End the repression of the landless; punishment for all
the killers of landless and its constituents; freedom to
all political prisoners, the end of all processes
fraud and intimidation against the landless and their
leadership; dissolution of the paramilitary militias of
landowners; organize self-defense of rural workers.
8.8. End to repression and terror against the population
working: PM's Dissolution and the whole apparatus
repressive
8.8.1 End the occupations of workers' communities
of Rio de Janeiro and throughout the country (UPP's) by PM and troops
federal, carried out to defend the interests of
real estate speculators and other capitalist sharks and
to intensify terror against the poor
8.8.2 Ending the war and terror machine against
poor and black population which is the military police: Dissolution
PM and all the repressive Aparto

5

period

8.9. Below civil dictatorship, rights
democratic workers and population
oppressed

in

breast-feeding;

8.10.9 For a special law for the protection of
women's rights
It is necessary to establish a set of
legal provisions to safeguard the woman on the device
judiciary, dominated by men and prejudice against
female population, a situation responsible for the acquittal
Most criminals accused of rape and assault.
In these processes is very common that the abused woman
become victim having to prove the morality of your life
past. It is the insidious idea that the crime happened because
the woman provoked strong case when it is a
discussion
get in
two
men.
Accordingly we fought the following changes in
legislation on the subject:
8.10.9.1 What all research, reporting and judgment
involving crimes against women are carried out by
Professional female;
8.10.9.2 The set special criteria for the crimes already
provided by law, when the victims are women, for
eg automatic declaration of probation in
cases of domestic assault;
8.10.9.3 The punishment of sexual harassment crimes, ie,
the prohibition of men holding management positions
use their position to force subordinated to pay
sexual favors.
8:10:10 against sexual exploitation of women
The last decades have been marked by ideology in favor
the sexual exploitation of women is the inviolable right of
bourgeoisie to exploit all spheres of human activity,
under capitalism. Democracy, in this sense, it was a
the main weapons used to legitimize one of the largest
attacks on women ever seen and a downgrade without
previous expectations of society and of women
particularly a human, and emotional development.
The ideology of democracy is that everything is permitted,
that with the proper payment. The female nudity can be
explored in all newsstands, and it is not
characterized the bombing of crime to decency, provided that
a commercial transaction recognized by the market through
magazines
as
Playboy
and
like.
The sexual exploitation of women by the capitalist market as well
as the luxury prostitution are permitted, including
euphemisms and new designations leaving the condemnation
moral and repressive legislation for low concorrrentes
prostitution.
8.10.10.1 Prostitution has become a true
domestic industry with sponsorship Power members
judicial and legislative, and in one of foreign tourists
preferred users. At the same time it is allowed to
rampant commercial exploitation of women in the field
sex, sexual freedom of women becomes object
increasingly bitter attacks, particularly in
working families and low income of the big cities: no
There abortion law, there is in the public health system
any type of care of sexual problems
woman, the right to motherhood is hamstrung all
ways, there is in schools, in full process
destruction, any education or sexual orientation,
proliferation of adolescents aged 12 or 13 who become pregnant
early without any guidance or assistance etc.

8.9.1 unrestricted right to strike;
8.9.2 Full freedom of trade union organization;
8.9.3 End of censorship, freedom of expression.
8.9.4 Freedom for all political prisoners, end of
fraudulent trials. Punishment for the murderers of
workers. PM dissolution and the whole apparatus
repressive. Right of the population to arm. Replacement
police and the standing army and controlled by the State
popular militias system one.
8.9.5 Freedom of party organization; equal
access conditions of all parties to media
mass communication;
8.10. Fighting for women's rights
8.10.1 End of wage discrimination against women:
equal work, equal pay;
8.10.2 Prohibition of performing overtime, for
women, explored with double shifts
8.10.3 For the decriminalization of abortion. Care of
women by the public
8.10.3.1 Although it is a problem of better public health would qualify as tragedy - the issue of abortion
always comes up covered with a deep and obscurantism
a lot of demagoguery. The statistics put Brazil on
forefront of the world rankings in the number of maternal deaths
resulting from abortions without the minimum conditions
technical and hygiene. Despite achieving, overall, the
Women together abortion becomes more dramatic in
poor segment of the population. According to the World
Health (WHO), more than 200,000 women die
annually in poor countries because of botched abortions.
In countries where it is permitted by law, women are 275
times more likely to survive than in nations where
practice is prohibited.
8.10.3.2
IT IS
needed
what
at
organizations
Representative women's struggles, as well as all
the labor and popular movement, the battle for encampem
regulation of the "legal abortion" and also, in
Full discrimination.
8.10.3.3 Service of cases of "legal abortion" by
public health;
8.10.3.4 Discrimination of abortion;
8.10.3.5 On the woman's right to choose on
desirability or otherwise of pregnancy;

8.10.3.6 economic and social assistance to the State
women forced to continue the unwanted pregnancy;
- Punish the owners of clinics butchers
clandestine!
8.10.4 On the broad right to divorce
8.10.4.1 As a legislation guaranteeing broad access and
unrestricted divorce at no cost to women and men;
8.10..4.2 institution of divorce by simple request
one spouse.
8.10.5 Maintenance and expansion of license-pregnant for
six months;
8.10.6 Implementation of public day care centers across the
country, with access to all women who need them
and appropriate places for breastfeeding. Crèches
the companies for working mothers; payment
further ensuring the care of children, in
companies or government agencies working women
(schools, for example) until you meet the right of
mothers;
8.10.7 During the breastfeeding period, all
worker must have at least half an hour each
three to breastfeed;
8.10.8 Reduced journey to six hours during the

8:11 In defense of black rights
8.11.1 Below unemployment whose main
victim the black population
The unemployment plaguing the country reaching all the
workers, is to first target the black. This is
the result of a conscious policy in the procedure
the end of slavery that subjected the black freedman to
6

subhuman living conditions, with no educational background and
appropriate professional to compete with white under
equal conditions. Soon, in addition to low wages,
black is the first to be fired before the capitalist crisis.
Unemployment: reduction of working hours
to 35 hours weekly without salary reduction.

8:12 profit End to Education. Education
public, free, secular and quality for all,
All levels
8.12.1 For a single system of state education, under the
workers' control. Nationalization of private schools.
8.12.2 End of municipalization and all measures
destruction of public education of the toucan government and all
governments enemies Education
8.12.3 School autonomy: educational, political and
administrative. Putting schools under the control of
school community (teachers, parents and students)
8.12.4 tripartite Governments in universities: students,
staff and faculty
8.12.5 Against the pseudo educational projects and
government ratings
8.12.6 Reopening of all schools and classrooms
closed
8.12.7 No to the coup of all-day schools
partnership with capitalist groups
8.12.8
End of "automatic approval"
8.12.9
Reducing the number of students per class
class: maximum of 25 students per classroom teaching
East and II cycle of primary education; Up to 15
EF students in the cycle I
8:12:10
Minimum wage that meets the needs
Teacher and his family: that today it could not be
less than R $ 5000 ("A teacher is worth more than a
Neymar ")
8:12:11
Equal pay for Equal Work. Not the end
the wage equality. Under the bonus policy adjustments
differentiated etc for workers Education
8:12:12
Maximum hours 26 h / week class.
Immediate compliance with Law 11,738 establishing 1/3
journey in extracurricular activities for teachers

8.11.2 End of wage discrimination: wage equality
- Equal pay for equal function!
8.11.3 Defend the Health of Black people:
8.11.3.1 No to privatization of health. Compliance with
carriers
in
diseases
ethnoracial
fur
SUS
For the capitalist governments there is no need for a
health program to combat the diseases that kill
black population. Moreover, the official figures indicate
the three main causes of death enters the black population
is alcoholism, high blood pressure and sickle cell anemia. And his
Instead, doctors ensure that the deaths occur due to lack of
one
diagnosis
correct.
Thus, an information campaign is needed policy
and immediate demands to prevent the permanence
this situation.
8.11.3.2 For the laboratory tests in
newborns for diagnosis of hemoglobinopathies sickle cell disorders and leukopenia.
8.11.3.3 For assistance and monitoring médicofinanceiro
for
the
carriers
these
diseases.
For carrying out an awareness campaign and
education about sickle cell anemia and leukopenia.
8.11.4. Defend democratic rights
black population
8.11.4.1 there is a law against "discrimination
racial ", the black population is subjected daily to all
forms, direct and indirect, vile and subtle, to a situation of
population without rights, since, due to downgrading
their social, economic and cultural conditions, is
segregated and was conditioned to live outrageously.
Only a portion of the black middle class and a few who
amounted
The
bourgeoisie
can
if
develop
intellectually and have expertise to
claim the same democratic rights guaranteed to
white. However, it will not be through policies and actions
statements that the black population will end the oppression
racial, but only through political struggle capable of destroying
the bourgeois state in the revolutionary process for building
socialism.
8.11.4.2 Below racist criteria for hiring
workers, as for example, the criterion of obnoxious supposed
"look good" and the demand for photos in the curriculum.
8.11.4.3
Wages
equal
for
functions
equal.
- Equal access rights for blacks in all functions
public.
8.11.4.4 Electivity of all public offices, including
judges and prosecutors.
8.11.5
Below racial oppression, the right to
self-defense!
8.11.5.1 Dissolution of PM's and the whole repressive apparatus.
8.11.5.2 By popular militias controlled by
workers.
8.11.5.3 Review of all cases against blacks.
The formation of a special commission of black entities
to accompany the process.
8.11.5.4 not the reduction of legal age.
8.11.6. In defense of black culture
8.11.6.1 Under the privatization of the carnival - the end of
strings; street carnival under the control of black and entities
popular.
8.11.6.2 That the Brazilian black culture is matter
regular curriculum available to all students.
8.11.7 At assurance
quilombo remnants.

possession

in

land

8:13 End of profit with the disease: Nationalization of

Health
8.13.1 Ending the trade of health through
expropriation of the big pharmaceutical companies.
8.13.2 Public Service and quality in all
areas of health.
8.13.3 National Plan of emergency, under the control of
health workers and the population exploited in general,
through its fighting organizations, to combat
endemic and epidemic slaying the Brazilian people and
immediate
8.13.4 implementing a plan of public works to
ensuring basic sanitation and housing to the entire population
8:14 Expropriate speculators: Reform
Urban under the control of the organizations
workers and homeless
8.14.1 Nationalization of the Housing Finance System
under workers' control to ensure cheap credit and
unbureaucratic to the low-income population, to
home ownership;
8.14.2 Non-payment of external debt to the bankers
International, in order to ensure the use of the wealth of
country for the benefit of its people;
8.14.2 No subsidies to the capitalists; public funds
only for public services. In the area of ​​housing, only
for the construction of affordable housing, not profits for
bankers, speculators and large contractors.
8.14.3 expropriation of idle homes and property
intended for speculation, to ensure housing for all
working population.
8:15 In defense of the national crop production,
access of people to culture

to
7

liquidation of the bourgeois state, maintenance tool
fundamental of private ownership of the means of
production and the establishment of the unique class of power
the proletariat supported in other oppressed and exploited the
capitalist society is that such a program can be placed
fully and solidly in place. Workers can
get to form a class of government, although it is
unlikely, under the bourgeois system at the municipal level,
state or national. However, this government will always
nothing more than an episode and a tool in the fight
incessant between the revolutionary mobilization of the class
working and exploited and the counter-revolutionary action
bourgeoisie by effective state power.
8.18.3 The working class and the exploited of the city and
field can and should seize the levers of power
State to put in place a program that serves to
their interests against the bourgeoisie. The set of
claims constitute, in reality, the base and the program
a central government and city workers
field, a government without bosses, dominated by
organizations of the working class of cities and
field workers, the result of political defeat
employers and the breakdown of its political system, ie its
tyrannical domination of the overwhelming majority of the population.
OUR CENTRAL GOAL IS SOCIALISM, OR
BE, THE PROPERTY OF THE END OF PRIVATE MEDIA
PRODUCTION TO BE PLACED IN THE SERVICE
OF SOCIETY. THIS OBJECTIVE CAN ONLY BE
REACHED
PER
ONE
GOVERNMENT
FACTORY WORKER
SET THE REVOLUTION OF BROAD
MASSES AND POPULAR OEPERÁRIAS.

8.15.1 The overwhelming majority of the population is rare
opportunities for recreation and culture, as ticket prices
in film and theatrical and musical shows are restrititivos.As
possibilities for the children of the working class
develop their artistic skills are almost
non-existent. There are few public areas for
classes
in
theater,
dance,
song
etc.
In this situation, the PCO, stands as central points
his struggle platform for cultural issue the following
questions:
8.15.2 Nationalization of large private companies
cultural sector. Namely that the state holds a monopoly on
great cultural production in the country (movies, music, TV)
pulling it out of the hands of private capitalist groups. The
investments would be defined from a large,
democratic discussion with the artistic community and
representatives of workers' and popular movement.
8.15.3 Protection of national cultural industry through
imposing barriers (double taxation) to import
cultural products (films, disks, etc.) of low quality. The
criteria would also be defined by established bodies
with representatives of the artist- and the labor movement
and popular.
8.15.4 Encouraging small artistic producer,
provision of cheap state credit and access to infrastructure and
necessary technical assistance.
8.15.5 allocate the bulk of state investments
directly for the benefit of the population: the creation of schools
theater, music, dance etc; offering courses and workshops
on a large scale; construction of cinemas and theaters in the neighborhoods
poor, with tickets at affordable prices; among others. With
Therefore, the government would be creating channels for the population
express their artistic skills and also get access to
great cultural production (films, plays, concerts,
musical and dance etc). It is interesting to remember that a
cultural industry can only grow and be strong if it has roots in
population; ie if the citizens as a whole spend
consume it in large scale.

9. For a workers' party,
revolutionary and mass
9.1 Throughout the next period it is worth noting
tirelessly capitalist terminal crisis and the fact that
Private property maintenance is the main obstacle to
solving the country's problems.
9.2 On this basis, should arise by the steps of
fight a broad workers' party, which brings together major
unions and workers and youth activists, the
women's movements, agrarian, black etc. Therefore, it is
must fight for an independent press and denounce
capitalist press and reactionary coup. This is the meaning
general of the revolutionary struggle at the present stage.
9.3 Under the organization of the strengthening of the base
revolutionary, independent of the bosses and their state and
struggles program approved in its VII Congress, PCO
act make your campaign a campaign
clarification among workers, youth and all
exploited sectors of the urgent need to put
standing a fundamental tool for the struggle of trabalahdores
for the overthrow of capitalism and its dictatorship against
pasta that is the workers' party.
9.4 A workers' party, revolutionary and mass (the
which the PCO is THE MOST IMPORTANT CORE AND ONLY
PARTY DEFENDING THE CONSCIOUS WAY
THIS PERSPECTIVE, that drives this policy in order
conscious and organized) to organize the vanguard of the class
workers and their allies and boost the mobilization of
exploited toward the overthrow of the capitalist dictatorship and
its replacement by a government of the city's workers
and the countryside and the achievement of socialism in scale
International.

8:17 The indigenous issue
8.15.1 Respect for the demarcation of indigenous lands -
guarantee all the rights of indigenous peoples;
8.15.2 Apart from the Brazilian army and all the forces of repression
of
land
indigenous;
8.15.3 In defense of culture of different peoples or nations
indigenous;
8.15.4. Not the internationalization of the Amazon and the sharing of
country by imperialism;
8.15..5 Punishment of the landlords and capitalists
agribusiness responsible for the massacres of Indians.
8:18. Against the employers and their governments
antioperária policy: fight for a government of
workers of the city and countryside.
REVOLUTION, AND GOVERNMENT WORKER
SOCIALISM
8.18.1 In the face of the capitalist crisis and in order to do
fall entirely on workers the burden of
backspace
economic,
the
capitalists
They argue
repeatedly that "no conditions" to take any
measure against unemployment, wage squeeze, misery and
hunger, except those that serve their purposes
increase the exploitation of workers and settle their
social achievements, or even get state subsidies for
their companies on behalf of false programs
preservation or creation of jobs.
8.18.2 Only through a unitary mobilization,
massive and conscious, that is, by mobilizing
revolutionary working class and other exploited, the
8
