SUMMARY PROGRAMME ECONOMY
PUBLIC DEBT
1) The two key indicators of the state of the public finances, that is, the public deficit and public debt relative to GDP (Gross Domestic Product), we report a serious situation, especially in relation to the constraints fix them by the Treaty of Maastricht and the agreements with the EEC in 1993. We are of double values ​​for the debt and to triple the deficit, even excluding the debt on pensions, which would bring the values ​​to astronomical levels.
2) The most worrying aspect is the tendency of debt to grow continuously, as indicated by the increasing value of the ratio of deficit to GDP; on the contrary, GDP tends to decrease or stagnate, partly because of the economic downturn. The guiding principle for regeneration policies is therefore, in the formula, the following:
II deficit debt must be less than the increase ratio Pii / Pii. For this purpose it is necessary:
1) To hijack public spending from current expenditure to capital expenditure, reducing waste and unnecessary expenses.
2) Restructuring the public apparatus, downsizing the intrusiveness of the state economy in favor of private enterprise.
3) The concrete actions to achieve the objectives that we suggest are:
1) restructuring of the civil service.
2) Start of production investments in public works.
3) Rooted review of state holdings: businesses should be closed when they are sold at a loss and in other cases.
4) Privatization, from companies and public services to get to the property and state property that is not in the national interest.
5) Decrease in interest rates, with positive effect on the public debt and the transfer of savings from government bonds to productive investment, through investment funds, pension funds, real estate funds and the shareholding by privatization.
6) Replacing the layoffs and mobility with unemployment benefits.
7) Resetting strategies to combat unemployment: more flexibility in the labor market, rejection of the old logic of expansion of public spending to create "places" and not work, allocation of expenses to productive investment, increased business investment in the continuous training of workers.
8) Tax incentives for private investment, which would lead to growth of GDP and therefore employment and tax revenue, resulting in a decrease of the public debt.
9) Aumentale forms of indirect taxation.
10) Make the fiscal federalism according to the theory of the five streams.
11) Pensions: transition from the PAYG system to a funded system, stimulation of pension funds in competition with each other.
PRIVATIZATION
1) Privatize means liberating productive energies and resources to combat the failures caused by the invasion of the State-entrepreneur; distortion of the market, supply and demand in the labor market, employment, diseconomies of proliferation, waste and debt that weighed particularly on finance publish them recent successful operations Credit and Imi and descent rate interest make viable the way of privatization.
2) Objectives: To improve the efficiency and effectiveness of activities and public services, boost the economy and thus employment, reduce public spending and the debt of the state, create a popular capitalism and widespread, pluralistic and modern.
3) Subject of privatization:
1) state-owned companies or public, where they are to be closed permanently.
2) public services: postal services, telecommunications, air and rail transport, electricity.

6) real estate and state property of the state and public bodies, when they are not in the national interest.
7) long-term concessions for the best use of the artistic heritage.
4) The tools to implement the privatization:
1) the creation of a "hard core" or pact between strong shareholders may be indicated in the case of industries that need a careful industrial policy and a particular investment, as the steel industry;
but in this case you can think of forms of equity participation by employees
2) shareholder base and model of "public company" for other types of businesses and public services in order to transform the "public" in "deprived of all" and encourage the emergence of a popular capitalism and widespread.
3) list voting to protect small shareholders.
4) facilitate tax different types of funds that can actually * facilitate access of savings to privatization, thus contributing not only the shareholding spread, but also to achieve other primary goals of each fund, eg pension funds.
5) Through the system of privatization it is possible to create a new class of worker-entrepreneur, that is, of a national owner of the means of production and therefore the subject of participatory democracy. which presupposes the development of the sense of responsibility of the worker, but also of citizen participation in decision-making of the management of his savings. That they were included in the business capital.
SAVINGS AND FINANCIAL MARKETS.
 Protection of the World Economic and Financial nation. Protection and promotion of energy saving as a primary value of the economic system. Rebalancing of public finances.
Promote the transfer of financial resources from unproductive expenditure to investments that produce income and employment.
Reduction in the interest rate spread, the financial system more efficient and economies. Moral recovery of the vertices of lenders. Practical implementation of the rules for the control of! market. Promote the process of modernization of the market, new intermediaries. Focus on the small and medium industries to which must be credited to the appropriate financial resources:
local stock exchanges, banks with focused attention to the territory.
The bag must regain its institutional facilitate the flow of venture capital companies.
Tax incentives for the take off of new forms of financial intermediation.
FISCAL FEDERALISM The structure of a federal state, based on the preservation of autonomy and the principles of freedom, respect of self and condemnation of centralisms, must be grounded in fiscal federalism. The central state, through the centralization of fiscal powers, has managed so far to exercise extensive control of economic relations that take place hates society, causing a serious distortion of loans. The programs of power of the parties that currently dominate the state are based on centralized control of tax revenue, which allows them to procure the financial means. Subtracting the citizens of the verification of the effective use of the funds inerito erogali considerably limits -and almost annulled the political justification for the management of the funds, preventing to clearly identify those responsible for a bad management-

The local coti must therefore be given the power to levy taxes and the administration of the tax revenue. But part of the revenue should be earmarked for the Federal State, to provide for the funding of activities of general interest (such as national defense, justice and a few others), but reserving to local ownership of the management of the largest share of revenue. Therefore, there are two basic elements of fiscal federalism:
1) attribution to local authorities of full fiscal autonomy.
2) attribution to local authorities of responsibility for expenditure, which must reflect the revenue
Is realized thereby meeting locally to those two moments - taxation and spesa- which are currently divided between the center, imposing and collecting, and suburbs, spending. Making a reform of this kind, we will open new prospects for freedom of choice for citizens on projects that affect their community and in order to restrict public spending: think of the school system and the health sector managed at the macro-regional.

In this context, it is possible to think of abolishing the layoffs and introduce unemployment benefit managed by the local authority and not by a central body such as the INPS; of course the local government also controls the possible job offer and withdraw the subsidy to those who do not accept the job opportunities that are given. Rejecting false and distorted ideas of fake solidarity, federalism is an expression of unity and true solidarity: the macro-regions should help the territorial entities in fact children in need, but without intermediaries central state (horizontal solidarity). "It should be clear the divide between aid and waste, and you can easily incur costs that exceed revenues, especially for those projects pharaonic and bankruptcy that have so far characterized the management of public resources.
Our proposal for tax reform, aimed at the realization of fiscal federalism, is based on the "theory of the five streams." In practice, we propose the elimination of derivative finance, the fiscal autonomy of local authorities and the reversal of the cash flows in the following format:
1) the local authority collects 100% of the flow.
2) deduced what is within its competence, transfers a specific share to institutions for higher level (macro-regions).
3) transfers to the federal state as determined by the tasks allotted to it.
4) transfers a share in Brussels for the budget of the DE.
5) transfers a portion solidarity funds.
a) for municipalities that actually lack of resources.
b) to repay the debt.
e) to ensure the payment of pensions accrued before the transition from the
PAYG it goes to funding.
This is - in sintesi- the way we propose to build a modern state and efficient, m which the tax will decrease because of savings on costs and wastage.
TAX PROGRAM II Treasury no longer represent for the citizen a figure oppressive absorbed unjustifiably resources not pursuing the goal of equity, but the strategy of sanctions and the clientele they serve only to discourage the company and to create a terrorist against those who produce. The only way forward is represented by fiscal federalism, the only means able to restore the joint relationship between the state and the taxpayer, taking it away from the condition of subjection. 11 program is distributed over two phases, the first in which we become aware of the serious situation existing four denouncing excesses become chronic:
1) the high levy.
2) the excessive number of taxes.
3) too many formalities.
4) aggressive on some goods.
The second phase highlights the proactive proposals and concrete actions to prepare to achieve the desired results:
1) introduction of fiscal federalism.
2) full and exclusive fiscal autonomy for local authorities who are granted authority to establish the rates to be applied.
3) reduce the personal income tax and levies DUPEG.
4) reducing the number of taxes and fees.
5) elimination of unnecessary and unproductive tax impositions minors and those double or related.
6) simplification of the procedures by eliminating formal obligations as obsolete as expensive.
7) uniformity of taxation of all types of companies in the same geographical areas.
8) reorganization of indirect taxes.
9) abolition of benefits and burdens that affect or benefit particular groups other than the generalities of the foregoing.
10) protect the savings, investment and home through specific rules.
11) modernization of tax administration.
12) availability of a comparison with the tax systems of other CEE countries.
It is also mentioned the bill already prepared by the Northern League for the reversal of flows of revenue and commitment of parliamentarians of the Northern League to accomplish a Federal State.

PROGRAMME INDUSTRY AND PRODUCTION ACTIVITIES (SUMMARY)
INDUSTRIAL POLICY Industrial policy for the next decade is to develop along lines totally different from those hitherto followed.
The first major difference has to be one that clearly distinguishes the type of development of the North, towards the type of development in the South. At the base of these two different developments there must be:
drastic simplification of all the laws and procedures related industry;
funding mainly dished as tax exemptions and / or finalized projects.
Apart from these two premises, the two areas should be developed according to the characteristics of "natural" of the same areas.
II North must widen considerably the areas of products.
Too many restrictions and technical policies have led to an impoverishment of the areas of the product, and then to a
reduction of job opportunities.
Or North must therefore develop:
research aimed time the aim is to increase their knowledge of current products, and (above all)
to develop new production areas.
Implement a policy of development for new industrial application areas such as:
energetics.
sophisticated electronics.
mechatronics.
textiles.
Mountain agriculture. This may seem like a curious notation, but it should be noted that since the dense
much of the Northern territory occupied by mountainous terrain, not the unthinkable to use them only as fields
slopes.
E * therefore essential (similarly to what happens in Switzerland) to study and develop agricultural products that
allow to adequately exploit mountain resources.


As a complement to (and not in competition) to the North South must develop those products that are most relevant to its
geo-cultural conditions:
Specialized tourism.
Specialized agriculture. Understood agriculture spedalizzata vegetables of high quality and
related industries.
Aerospace. Area of ​​particular interest for both direct jobs, that for the armature.
DEVELOPMENT INDUSTRIALEDELLE SMEs SMEs which represented the pivot bearing Italian industry, must be supported and developed. The lines of the support and development of the next decade will have to be, in addition to the growth lines outlined for Industrial Policy Generic:
development of applied research centers and units of the interface between research centers and companies.
The lack of technological development is largely due to a large gap or area of ​​applied research and,
above all. Inability (due to the small size structural) to take advantage of search results
available.
* It is therefore essential to create operating units that make it possible to translate the results in language
understandable to SMEs.
Stress and help towards the establishment of consortia.
The size of the SMEs are too small to withstand the impact of international competition. And then
must urge the formation of consortia, through increased size of the Group may
have the financial and organizational structure of the minimum to survive.
Stress and aid to cooperation with countries of the third world.
Many products, or product components, realized with manual interventions, not easily automatable. not
They can no longer be made in Italy. This requires that, in close collaboration, the Italian companies and operators
Third World will share the work appropriately, in order to achieve results economically acceptable.
Facilitating access to credit.
The difficulties for SMEs, not only consist in reducing the extent of the credit, but also in difficulty
paperwork that must be reduced.

* It must also expand (or in many cases create) opportunities for input in SMEs to venture capital
external.
Coordinated policy for the development of the image Italy and for export.
\
EMPLOYMENT is, in this program, dedicated ample space to the problems and issues concerning the work, as employment is no longer a problem, but it is "the problem". It has been rightly said that the work is not defended more where he is, but creating new opportunità.-
The employment crisis that is sweeping, finds its peculiarity in internal reasons for the country. To manage an emergency that is more than three million unemployed, representing 12.5% ​​of the workforce and to rise throughout the 1994.6 must give soon Italians, a political class honest and a new government and liberal. that is authoritative and legittimalo by voters.
They were hit in particular small and medium-sized enterprises and self-employment, foul unable to grow. It should block the welfare policy; lighten the tax burden and para fiscal abolish improper social charges that have high labor costs and stripped of every resource healthy companies.
invest in research and new technologies, introducing cages wage, to boost employment, especially in the south: achieve fiscal federalism, devolution in the area of ​​production, labor and economy and in administration is to create renewed vigor the different vocations local production. E 'should be greater flexibility for both the working time and for the forms of atypical employment. The simplification of the regulatory and fiscal framework should be pursued in order to stimulate the formation of new self-employment. * It is essential to develop a network of royal servants / the small business, decentralizing the decision-making centers to give a slimmer public administration / ion II framework of interventions, needs economic measures and interventions in favor of the activities, acting in the interstices, as well as in new areas of production activities in the environmental field. Employers and workers should be free to counter the duration of employment, in terms of hours per week, or monthly, or yearly.
PARTICIPATION IN THE RISK CAPITAL HEU.EPM! The Northern League believes that the contribution of SMEs to the development of the economy and employment are determined in the coming years. The SMEs will be the winning business. The bond Maggioro the development of SMEs is financial.
Until now the in / tents have used the self-financing and bank lending, especially short. It 'should therefore create innovative tools to provide the flow of venture capital to SMEs (pension funds. Closed-end funds. Merchant Bank. Handbags local).
Today the investment in venture capital Company is very profitable because of the tax system, the same entrepreneur has more interest in investing out of his company in it. even for institutional investors it is more profitable to invest the capital received elsewhere, for example in government bonds. 1 Highlights of the program of the Northern League include:
the tax relief for businesses, in order to make the taxation of the income of equity corporate lighter taxation of income from other investments.
the taxation of capital gains realized by institutional investors.
tax and credit to financial entrepreneurs.
Direct deposits from bread of institutional investors through their IPO.
creating focal bags in which they can be quoted local institutional investors and medium-sized enterprises.
the purchase of shares owned by the regional Mediocrediti by local savers (privatization) and the conversion of these institutions in financial entrepreneurs. They already have many skills they need and know the local SMEs.
SIMPLIFIED LEGISLATION INDUSTRIAL The current regulatory framework relative to the industry is a patchwork of laws and regulations difficult to interpret. The Northern League believes it is essential for the establishment of a special committee for the Simplicity, however, articulate where appropriate, local level. Any measure taken by the government, both central and peripheral level, that directly or indirectly have the effect direct or indirect creation of new formalities for small and medium enterprises and self-employed, will have to obtain a visa from the simplicity of the above Committee. before becoming executive. The Committee's activities will be geared in part to the past, with the power to propose hypotheses of simplification, partly towards the future, with the establishment of the "visa simplicity". A sort of approval issued by highly competent individuals in matters of corporate law and business practice.

ENERGY.
For a more efficient management of the energy system, devastated by decades of inept management and patronage, they are the primary objectives for an immediate start of privatization, market liberalization and decentralization of management.
As regards, in particular, the electrical system, the Northern League considers it necessary to make some amendments to existing legislation m so as to eradicate the monopoly of the management of this sector, in line with the directives issued by the EU. As regards the energy sources, Italy is heavily dependent on foreign. Therefore it is of great importance to focus on energy conservation. The combined production of electricity and heat is one of the most significant energy savings: fuel consumption can be reduced by over 30% for the same services provided, compared with separate production of energy in power plants and heat single-family and condominium boilers. In addition to the economic advantage, the cogeneration plants are equipped with the latest technologies to reduce pollutants and silencing machines, which allow the localization in the vicinity of residential areas: the Northern League proposes the large scale use of this type of installations.
Finally, to reduce the risks of political dependence from the oil supplying countries, the Northern League believes it is essential to focus on a real diversification of sources with great attention to the development of new technologies of coal processing (gasification) and the resumption of studies in the nuclear field ( intrinsically safe).
MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION. The goal of the Northern League in the trade and distribution is to create a free trade, open to all operators capable and industrious, properly inserted in the territory, adapted to the local socio-economic type, size and location.
Expansion, specialization, transformation, amalgamation, transfer of profit to be boosted by tax law, especially when it comes to precise market requirements and then the consumer.
With regard to the problem of liberalization of business licenses, the Northern League believes appropriate programming local shopping to be implemented not so much and not only through the assessment of demand over supply exists but with recourse to planning restrictions.
In order to avoid a traumatic impact on the market, liberalization must take place in a gradual way and from a certain date does not close. In this way the value of goodwill would fall in a gradual approach of the term.
In such a system there would be a proposed definition of urban areas to be allocated to the trade and within these Product diversification would be made by the market. This is also a form of protection of the small trader who, embarrassed by large retailers, could diversify its offerings very easily.
In order to both current issue of the times of the shops, the Northern League believes that alternatives to a total deregulation could be:
- Eliminate the requirement of uniformity of the half-day closing midweek for the exercises in the same sector, leaving the closure on Sundays and half a day of your choice.
- The possibility for local governments to bring forward the closing time of the mandatory daily
exams Business Standard Time fixed by law.
 - Put a timeframe (eg. 8-21) in which retailers would be free to choose the time of opening with a minimum guaranteed to the user (eg. 9 hours). In this way, for example, it would not be impossible to shop during the lunch break.
- To ensure the "small" and highlighted fears in order to provide additional flexibility is proposed then do not fix
no limit to those exercises that do not have employees. 6 This system already used in France and good performance
of it being a benefit to the consumer and a weapon for the retailer faced with increasingly aggressive
Supermarkets.
Special provisions should then introduced to tourist resorts and other special cases
SUMMARY electoral program AGRICULTURE.
INTRODUCTION.

Over the past 50 years, the agricultural sector has been considered, from party politics, a reservoir of votes which now allocate interventions patronage rain now providences of social and welfare. B primary sector, so abandoned by a legislative point of view and economically put into the hands of lobbies and potentates of the DC and the PCI, did not grow as its entrepreneurial characteristics would allow him: Tethers bureaucratic, wheeling and dealing in the distribution of contributions, constraints against the modernization of production facilities, agricultural loans that did enrich banks and a policy of patronage that has, among other things, caused the failure of the Federconsorzi, d are delivering an "agriculture on the one hand is based on subsidies and that by ' the other is that the loser in comparison with European agriculture. -THE NEW CAP
Italian agriculture, to be a viable economic activity, would need much political clarity, foresight legislative and economic incentives to start, after the war onwards, on the road in production efficiency. It would have been necessary to use well the Italian participation in the European Community to affect, rammodernandole. structures both agricultural production and on those related to the agro-industrial processing of agricultural products. It 's always been privileged instead a policy Wings' income support in favor of the Mediterranean productions abandoning to their fate the continental production.
Italy, now inserted nell1 European Union which has as basic principle the formation of productive budget planned and coordinated according to the internal needs (with only some minimal valve open external markets), it must adapt to the policy production quota production facilities agricultural. In the coming years, export subsidies will be cut by 21% and 36% market interventions, while withdrawals wings' will be replaced by reciprocal import duties. In this international scenario, for nothing rosy, you are found to workers farmers, with the institutions that old and still claim to act in a manner patronage inserted in a state centralizer demagoguery 'and arranged for anything new, wings' efficiency and to the service for the productive categories. INSTITUTIONAL REFORM
Voters have abolished, with the referendum, the Ministry of Agriculture: the party politics has remade calling the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, entrusting the same tasks that you had before, so pretending to continue to manage the 'not for agriculture farmers and to provide more and better food to the people, but to continue management of patronage and the business sector.

The league says clearly that this way of dealing with the world of agriculture must end! The Ministry must be streamlined, and we must strengthen the Italian presence in Brussels, so that our country is not always forced to chase with their national legislation transposing the EU regulations, but is present and actively participate in the European Union to the formation of the same. And 'then necessary that at the time of the study of EU law C Italy has a real representation connected with the moment decision and with the Parliament so that it becomes automatic, by the regions, to implement European standards, thus eliminating the long-standing delays so penalized * The modernization of agricultural structures.
Local authorities often have been unable to take advantage of European funding for the legislative delay, for the delays and bottlenecks caused by bureaucratic Roman unhistorical filter represented by the Ministry managed by the DC. The program of the Northern League the thus clear: to strengthen and qualify the political presence at the 'EU., Streamline the Ministry ,, legislate less to Roman level, creating direct links with the regions that are the only way I titled to manage, with the other local, agricultural policy that will be more and more sectorialized. specialized and localized. This program must also be based on two cornerstones, namely a built-liberalism as economic practice and political federalism as a decision-making method that riaffili the 'administration of agro-territorial problems are the genuine expression localism. This requires a renegotiation of P.A.C. that restores the primacy of the quality of agricultural products on the sheer quantity and entrusting goodness and specificity of the same penetration in much wider markets. With this policy aims to free the agricultural sector as a welfare based on prices whose political survival, even leaving aside its adverse outcomes, already it seems to be problematic. COOPERATION ASSOCIATIONS AND REFORMS
This framework will foster associations and cooperation that they rest on a concrete base is real and declared search of income in the economy and not on a full-blown solidarity often unrealistic that today attracts more than even his most persistent advocates. It is to focus more on the market and use of government measures to bring the primary sector to serious and real economic activity and entrepreneurial This is the first "fundamental idea of ​​the Northern League: The federalize 'agriculture so that it responds more and more to suitability of areas and productivity more efficient firms that guarantee a fair income for those who work and investe.- And "therefore need a new policy in favor and for farms managed by professional contractors to enable them to become increasingly efficient, changing the succession law, favoring the 'amalgamation
business, changing the law to purchase at a subsidized rate of agricultural land, reforming the agricultural credit, the law on associations and cooperation in general.
Final recipient of the choices of agricultural policy is the professional agricultural entrepreneur, who organizes the factors of production (labor, land and capital) of a "self-sufficient farm income and producing for the market, it should also be carefully considered the" operator Rural, a farmer. for reasons related to reduced business entity or wings' geographical location, it has an important role in the production of goods. but it can play a central role in the protection of the territory. While the 'professional contractor can also be a legal person, the rural operator must be a natural person residing in the territory which is necessary to ensure effective civil and social services and an income support in accordance with work done for the community, such as monitoring and maintenance of the territory, cleaning of the woods, roads, waterways fire prevention etc .. as well as for the defense and recovery of the housing and cultural development of rural areas. Molar-AGRICULTURE INDUSTRY
Finally it should be developed in terms of fair economic relationship between agriculture and industry and trade, the relationship should not be seen as passive adherence of the producer organizations, cooperatives and producer associations, but that must be a convinced participation in an important phase economic values ​​of / ion of agricultural production by concentrating supply of agricultural production and eliminating steps of speculative trading achieves better prices for producers and lower costs for consumers.
Then inter-trade agreements should not be the instrument for disposal of surplus often irrationally produced, but. led to a management exclusively regional, must be the tools that ensure agricultural production its placing on the market, The "agro-industry can not be divorced from the world agricultural sector, because with it interdependent and complementary.
Privatisation of the EMS. that the moribund party politics is doing, concern and suspicion, as it does not involve viable agricultural structures, but only business groups and investors often speculators.



Then a new role to be played by the associations of producers in tulle from the facilities available to the agricultural world, research institutes and testing facilities gestenti qualification courses and professional specialization -ward NEW COMBINATIONS
The dependence of the farmer by the membership hierarchy and psychological subjection of the farmer organization must end. The Northern League has as force of freedom of farmers and producers against trade unions and party that in the past have bound and constrained within narrow limits development.
The management of production quotas for milk, with the costly delays of the Ministry and the absurd constraints imposed on manufacturers for associations, has offended breeders Po. Instead of saying that there are 27.000 false farmers, must dissolve the 'AIMA that did not make the necessary checks and prosecute those who have made and organized the scams, which have condannalo honest farmers to pay incredibly high fines. Now we must not entrust the bandwagon UNALAT management, paid by the taxpayer to the tune of billions Italian, dell'Anagrafe dairy. -THE POLITICS FAUNISTICO-HUNTING
The Northern League finally considers the hunting place in the more general management of the fauna. Related skills can in no way be separated and limited to the functions of general management and international coordination, should continue to remain in charge at the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry.
Matter fanistico-hunting, in conce / ion of the Northern League, is an aspect of the rational management of land and natural resources while respecting the ecological balance but also with a view to an economic advantage for the rural population. In this perspective, the political sector should help strengthen the link between the hunter and the territory as a condition for a responsible and active participation in the hunting management and effective collaboration with farmers. The latter must be cointeressali environmental improvement aimed at natural breeding of game by tangible rebates and incentives, and should therefore be involved, along with the hunters, the management of territorial hunting.
The Northern League is favorable to the promotion of private hunting areas, organized in the form of farm, in order to encourage new business to compensate for the reduced profitability, especially in marginal areas, agricultural production and to limit the damage to the balance arising from commercial hunting tourism.
We also believe that the policy of hunting can not be separated from respect for traditions firmly rooted in the culture of our people, such as those that are expressed in the forms of traditional hunting and the protection of economic activities related to the practice of hunting. We therefore believe that we should move to a significant revision of the laws of national framework of exercise hunting (157/92) and protected areas (394/92). The League
North finally will fight for the abolition of all government license fee and because the proceeds from the collection of regional licenses is used to improve the environment and wildlife and to the activities of hunting management. CONCLUSIONS
But the 'Agriculture is the farmers and the league has confidence in them, in their common sense in their corporate capacity, in their seriousness and their attachment to the land, to the ground and wings' environment. The whole country should know that farmers are the first defenders of the land! The party system has so far preferred to pay for the damage and rebuild after disasters see Florence and the Valtellina, rather than invest in the territory. We need to change policy; the soil, the environment and the land are the main somatic signs of a society and a civilization, and therefore must be defended to defend and improve more and more need of human presence and who better than the farmer can perform this function? Agriculture and 'very important in the life and economy of our country, and' need to see it in a new light and especially make farmers protagonists of their policy.
PROGRAM FOR THE WORK OF nestled (Summary).
The labor legislation. - E1 legislation necessary support, non-invasive, creator of opportunities and development opportunities for enterprises and not only bestower of student welfare interventions The Northern League proposed to simplify the legislation to the level of other European countries, the transfer of legislative competence in labor, the macro-regions and therapy business to make companies competitive, thereby overcoming unemployment.
Production labor legislation in the XI legislature stands out for:
Amendments to Law 113 f 91 with the Decree Law 398/92 reiterated provision no. 478/92.
Change the institution of CIGS limiting it, but m to encourage the use by companies
instead of seeking solutions real employment.
Law of 20/5 / '93 n. 151
After eight decrees never converted, with the above shall be extended to 05.31.1993 the term for benefit
tax breaks for companies operating in the South and is halved for the period were excluded from the benefits.
D.M. 11 / W92
It introduces the roll call and an additional reserve of 12% in hiring.
D. Lg. or. 29 3W93 and corrective D. Lg. 10 / ll / '93. 470
That the new rules on the public sector, privatizing the employment relationship, rationalizing spending and
the organization of 'work. It has not been implemented and remains on paper.
D. L. 19MW
Establishing Inpdap grouping m management nell'INPS separate social security bodies, it seems action
rationalization is instead a compulsory levy on pension funds assets.
Law & 19W93 236
With measures to support employment are introduced limited elements of flexibility, however, thwarted by
red tape required.
D. L. 18/11/1993 462
Partially implement the agreement on labor costs by 3/7 / '93, it does not solve the underlying problems that give rise to
economic recession and the recession.
Law 4 / 12T93 no. 501
Extending treatments CIGS, mobility and paid unemployment for employees of non-operating companies
operating in the South and Sardinia.
THE CULTURAL PROBLEM.
With the fall of Marxist ideology is not the opposition of class, it is a change in the spiritual order that places the citizen in a search box that is the antithesis of struggle. Today both in big cities and in the factories, processes ask to be humanized. It faces so the hypothesis that in the next "Global Competition" the trump card may just be the cultural foundation of the West. humanistic culture shaped the corporate culture.
THE TECHNOLOGICAL REVOLUTION OF YEARS * 90. B changing patterns of transformation of society is closely linked to the development of new technologies.


The loss of competitiveness is heightened, but due to new efficiencies, removing the higher costs of business and labor and seizing three key factors linked to technological innovation:
1) competition between regional areas is placed at high technological levels.
2) to build on the experiences abroad (Bayern-Lyon) also with regard to administrative capacity.
3) development of advanced technologies with strong regional character.
FORMATION.
The sector backwardness and separation between training and '' management "business. Programs are made
the Ministry of Labour through an emanation Isfol and do not even meet 50% of demand.
The Northern League believes U strategic sector for the overall quality, corporate culture, the development of young people, the
redeployment and mobility.
U framework is the region.
GLOBALIZATION.
A new factor is the internationalization of the markets, which results in competition, innovation and permanent search for quality with a significant financial commitment. Outstanding, it becomes one of the reasons for the unemployment.
LABOUR COSTS AND COMPETITIVENESS '.
Current situation. - We have now burned margins of competitiveness in Europe due to increased business costs and labor due:
- Wrong policy and wage bargaining between public and private, labor rigidities.
- Greediness of tax equal to 50.7% (higher than the wages paid), unsatisfactory services, public debt, anti-inflationary policies of monetary tightening.
DEINDUSTRIALISATION.
Current situation. - The costs of a political patronage and the resulting loaded it on productive work have led the Italian system out of business.
It's consuming a massive deindustrialization in three directions: high technologies seeking competitive situations moving to France and Germany, the secondary technologies with significant manpower to Asian countries and most recently in the East, finally, a third de-industrialization due to the transfer of entire holdings in noon attracted by incentives and tax advantages to rain upstream production.
EMPLOYMENT: a free society and active creates jobs.
To manage an emergency that is more than three million unemployed you need a new government, liberal
authoritative, legitimized by the voters, no work instead of finding appropriate policies need to change it
It has been left to chance, subject to higher taxation and rendered powerless by legislation
crippling, they were hurt small and medium-sized enterprises unable to grow.
More market and less state for emergency work.
The delaying tactics are no longer compatible with the gravity of the crisis. Only in a context of relief and adapt
investments, may expand the small and medium manufacturing base, marking the rebirth of the work,
employment, welfare. It should first therapy business that stops tightening economy, which
blocks the welfare policy, lighten the tax burden like nature starting with the improper.
B framework for needs of economic measures, actions for enterprises. We must act in the interstices
production activities and the development of economic activities in the environmental field.





RULE CHANGE EL.
For policy of productive activities we mean indirect interventions to create the optimum conditions of
support to enable companies to stay in the market, developing competition, without interfering with the free
competition.
Today a policy, even if surreptitious and ruinous, exists only for the South. In this macro-regional policy
It does not match an industrial policy and production activities for the region north of the country.
Immediately to increase the "employment trends * it is desirable the creation of general conditions and
sectoral policy work, such as:
I) privatization of PP.SS. and of non-strategic services in favor of a popular shareholding spread.

2) shifting resources from passive to active and patronage work: training, technological research, starts to work, initiatives 'outplacement' (training for redeployment).
3) reduction of the public debt by programming the extinction, which would reduce inflation and provide for monetary policy development.
4) tax relief, and a maximum of 30% on impassable personal income tax and 25% corporate income tax.
5) delegiferare and bureaucratisation.
6) restoration of wage cages to ensure the development and purchasing power.
7) decentralization of bargaining at regional and corporate employees with wages in the economy function.
8) labor flexibility, detassando overtime, extending the 'part-time', introducing temporary work, telecommuting, compressed weeks, forward contracts, properly regulated.
9) a social pact to absorb the negative effects of globalization and building a culture of participation.
PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION.
The sector has large pockets of inefficiency and cronyism, the grazing favorite of party politics.
The Northern League proposed the transfer of power from central to local authorities and the privatization of services
possible, the introduction of private contracts, the optimization of the cost-benefit to the user,
The organization of work for the decentralized territorial units, inspired by the model of self-government, with its center
a decision.
INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS
Current situation: the industrial relations system is in crisis today, dissatisfied workers and causes difficulties for the
companies.
The triple is responsible for not having foreseen the consequences of the global recession and that he wanted
conflictually a welfarist social policy and patronage bad copy of the "welfare state" together with the Labour
governicchi phocomelic backed by some sectors of Confindustria, which has thus endorsed the enormity of the debt. There
affair have not been able to reach an agreement on labor costs.
The Northern League proposed a reform of the industrial relations system that creates collaboration between all
components of the work, the only way to market yourself and give balanced responses to the collection.



THE CRISIS OF "WELFARE STATE" ITALIAN.
The current situation: born as a system of social policies in response to the conflicts of industrial society, today
It manifests its contradictions due to the absolute unsustainability economic and political imbalances.
Rather than pursue redistribution policies of the Italian "welfare state" seem to activate mechanisms
self-supply in favor of intermediate groups that benefit most.
In addition, access to these services often encounter barriers such as "particularistic, patronage or brokerage".
Absent however, compared to the reality of other countries, a policy of support for families, women, the elderly.
The 'Lega Nord offers:
- A policy to support the family and the woman referred to the problems of dualism between work and family.
- The introduction of forms of support in favor of single parenthood, birth, pregnancy, for housing, marriage and children orphaned.
- For the legal problems of the elderly need to go beyond the concept of hospital admission and promote the values ​​of coexistence.
- Rebalance deeply social spending in favor of motherhood, family and unemployment rising.
WORK AND IMMIGRATION EXTRACOMUNTTARIA
Current situation: a very permissive law the 39 of February 28, 1990 (Martelli law) with which the party politics
seeks to introduce, in contrast to the general will of the people, the multi-racial society and its contradictions
Italy.
Without a job and housing immigrants they are often prey to crime and become, for this,
laborers.
In reality behind the word solidarity masking a massive introduction of market he loved to colonialism
reverse, which provides benefits to a few significant social costs borne by the whole community.
The Northern League aims to stop the flow of migrants and introduce any shares of labor
required only when there is a contract of work and accommodation.


To meet the basic needs of those who work here, you could use a portion of their Social Security contributions for:
- Ensuring that landlords the rent in the event of interruption of business or any material damage resulting from the use of the property:
- To make courses of professional qualification, aimed at learning specific work activities.
SOCIAL SECURITY.
The "current situation.
With higher deductions, pensions are the lowest in Europe and the INPS abbisogna every year tens of thousands of
billion from the state budget. A cheerful and reckless management of the parties and unions of the regime has created a
chasm 3 million t75mila billion lavishing false pensions and for the welfare of patronage.
The Lega Nord offers regional pensions can safeguard an appropriate standard of living for our pensioners free. The abandonment of the deleterious go system and the return to investment with the criteria of capitalization.





NOON.
Current situation. - It 'an error grant facilities upstream of the production process and not create occupies / ion. Lack the most basic condition of development: public order. The area is in the hands of organized crime and politicians that prevent the formation of an entrepreneurial middle class, it is a feudal society that has developed its own resources: agriculture, tourism, fishing or fish farming and has ignored the historical role of bridge in the Mediterranean II period disoccuparne the average of 20%. The Northern League proposes:
- The rejection of welfarism, the incentive income product, the development of local resources.
- The reduction of crime at least physiological levels.
- The reintroduction of wage cages to turn the disadvantage into development (thesis of the Northern League also supported by the OECD).
- Ensure the proper governance of the Southern reality, that & only possible with a federal structure.
JUSTICE SECTOR electoral program.
The "revolution * in place on the Italian scene qualifies first in relation to the protagonists among which stands the figure of the judge makes a beautiful setting where the judiciary as a whole consider it. The modern conception of the State requires that the Justice act and qualifies especially given to the needs of individuals, identified as members of a core function of the state precisely what the courts.
The desire to "legality" now rampant throughout Italy becomes effective and is expressed not only by the public judgment of the great corrupt state, but through a judicial function that provides a concrete and speedy resolution of cases expressed by the daily need in a fair relationship between the requirements of the law and those in the case. Ultimately, a Justice conceived as a "public service * and as such invest the character of transparency and accountability necessary to the work of individual judges. It is to abandon a concept too" sacred "Justice understood as" power ", resulting in management of the organization by a caste of bureaucrats, judges officials.
In a constitutional state today. no one can be considered the '' master of law ", but deaths are to be called to its management. Such a conclusion, in fact, closely followed the more penetrating analysis of the problems of modern law and justice delta not only in Italy but throughout Europe. Analysis who see postponed sector reforms confused and hampered by a dominant legal culture now old and dated, pure survival of legal positivism century.
It is in fact today to affirm definitely a vision of the legal system no longer thought of as an exclusive expression of statehood. stamped inside a monolithic formal logical consistency. but as a set of microsystems. irreducible to unity with the simple aid of interpretive methods unsuited to the needs of industrial mass society today.
Hence the need to anticipate and build a new class that will be legal guarantees, with its upgrade them skills, the structural complexity of the current legal and judicial systems, so going to play a fundamental position of intermediarietà between the state as political power and now as the home of the cases that make claims in the name of various constitutional principles.


Above on the basis of a renewed vision of the "science of law" as a practical science and law as
phenomenon is not static but dynamic.



So, as each service rendered to the company that wants to be the perfect answer to people's questions,
Justice must also groped to give adequate responses to the needs expressed: this can only be achieved through a
constructive cooperation between the judiciary and legal profession.
It requires, in fact, occurring conditions to produce osmosis between these two different orders
bureaucratic
A cultural-legal revolution that creates a homogeneous class of legal professionals from which you realize
a common interpretation-application of grandmothers in courtrooms as in professional studios.
And "now that the machinery of justice is compared with the movement of public opinion that calls for the citizen
It can finally feel protected in their aspects of social life and to all intents and purposes considered a member thinking
the social forum.
Justice-service is one of the primary solutions that even glancing at the future, it can provide the key
from time to exit the judicial chaos that currently paralyzes, indicating some guidelines for the country
steer the way.
It is not enough that the disruption of a public service exercised in favor of the private are justified
amorphous attitudes like those of one who appeals to budget shortfalls or deficiencies internal organizational
While fully aware of the opportunities and the waiver of the constitutional guarantee against
the judiciary as regards the recognition of its independence and impartiality, we believe it makes
need a quantum leap act to ensure that it should not be considered just a bureaucratic and
corporate.
Task very difficult, but indispensable for those who want the current judge and the office where work on criteria
management that could be called almost "managerial" (such as efficiency, effectiveness etc ...), geared to ensure
quality standards mean that the acceptable and verifiable
taxpaying public has right to be paid by the State,
in income taxes paid.
It can not be silent about the statements made by the Minister of Justice at the opening ceremony
the judicial and playing as hard as rock.
According to the Minister, in fact, the Civil Justice is in the present moment almost complete paralysis and situation
It is not very different from register-level criminal, beyond the recent procedural reform.
First, to give a semblance of seriousness to any reform in the sense proposed above, it is necessary and
essential require an increase in resources in favor of Justice, albeit within the limits of content
public debt,
In addition, through a serious plan for restructuring and reallocation of existing human and material resources, it is possible
implement an "indirect strengthening" of the justice system, implemented by means of a different use of the 8,300
Judges operating in the country.
The choices of an operational nature would be as follows:
A) replacement of the current governing bodies judging by the establishment of the single judge in the first instance trials.
B) input of lawyers who have completed a certain level of seniority in the judiciary, thus operating the sovracitata osmosis between the two professional orders, the realization of which is keenly desired by us. The lawyer, another important figure standing to play roles for judicial competence, should see a number of assignments entrusted sussidiaci in criminal and civil matters.
C) redefining global, throughout the country, the court offices by establishing for each new organic plants.
D) distoglimento magistrates and from secondary tasks. however, not strictly relevant jurisdiction.
The current need for justice demanded by the citizens can not allow highly qualified staff performs tasks extrajudicial, except in cases of extreme necessity. These tasks are represented by
1. organization of the courts that should be referred to officials of the judiciary and / or qualified staff, prepared to handle the property management attitude.
-2 Consulting assignments entrusted to ministries or legislative bodies, study committees, examination boards, sports courts, tax courts, arbitration (the latter should be allowed only where the figure of the judge is strictly reputala required).





<








positive or negative effects that their proposed legislation may have on the organization.
H) mandatory and uniform extra preparation college for future lawyers and judges, and to allow the exchange of role in the advancement of its rooms, is to create the necessary legal homogeneous cultural base in order to correct and unambiguous interpretation of the principles which should underlie a new legal order. I) reaffirmation of the constitutional principle on the full independence of the judiciary, however, accompanied by criteria of professionalism and with specific controls regarding the appearance of ethics. L) revision of the concept of mandatory prosecution, which is structured so as he demonstrated arbitrariness on the part of the magistrate in the activity of practical application and targets to hit and is, as such, revisited in light and compared with the experience of other countries in which such obligation is however more complex. As the above outline of a reform finally deep and meaningful.
M) organization to rely on a multidisciplinary team, where are prevailing engineering capability
systematic, organization, relationships with staff to analyze the machinery of justice as a whole,
seen as a "system" in order to identify internal diseconomies and the degree of incompatibility between the legislation and the
structures called upon to manage the first.
Based on the analysis, the group should draw up a "Meta - project" to coordinate "operational plans" different (eg. Of
education and training, justice, development of information technology / telematics legal, construction and
prison) allowing effective planning of investment required to report under
acceptable operating the machinery of justice.
According to the Northern League such a project should be the point of reference for the establishment of a financing
special.
CRIMINAL LAW.
A reform of the Italian criminal law must first leave, if not the complete draft of a new code, at least from the revision of the code that will take him to conform to the values ​​and needs of today's society as well as to the Community law and other countries, with which Italy must constantly confront both cooperation in the fight against organized crime, both in the search for synergies aimed at making modern societies increasingly impervious to illegal conduct.
To this end it is necessary to repeal all those offenses which are nothing if not the legacy of authoritarian rule under which the code itself was approved, instead introducing new criminal cases that currently appear to play a greater charge of antisocial behavior and that are nevertheless , because of their connection to the modern society, almost totally neglected in the penal code in force: we talk, for example, rules on money laundering, receiving and using money obtained illegally, the facts extortion or otherwise having Chania intimidating detection and repression of any sudden and unjustified enrichment regarding public officials and employees.








Above all we must fix beforehand as main objective to return
penal code the role of defending the rights of liberty and physical integrity, thus emphasizing the anomalous trend of the judiciary that affects today with zeal and rigor especially property crimes against the state, disregarding those duties it has for the community to motive of the social contract that is the foundation and die is its raison d'etre We show, therefore, as the main objective of criminal law to protect the legal interests (freedom. physical and moral integrity of the person, assets) and careful judgment based on the principle delta offensiveness of conduct that those loose, emphasizing the exceptional nature of the criminal reaction, in particular imprisonment, the citizen who can be struck only if this is absolutely necessary for the protection of civil society
It follows the decriminalization of (addi those cases, generally but not exclusively contravention. Artificially create them by a State illiberal in the administrative, social security. Tax etc .. as well as mourning those crimes die hit the town with harsh penalties without particular set of circumstances social alarm Thus the project for the decriminalization of certain provisions of the penal code and criminal laws through an examination of the institutions according to two fundamental principles are: to verify the non-value of social behavior and the effectiveness delta penalty in terms of deterrence. It 'should also be noted that decriminalization should mainly cover those cases of offense click punish behaviors that are relevant purely administrative. Finally, another intervention system would be to extend the regime of the lawsuit so as to expand the cases in which it is left to the private 'initiative to exercise or not to prosecute, thus freeing the prosecutor from that requirement that most often resolves measures then in storage, leading to the production of paper-click the Judiciary distract from its main function investigating.
All in an attempt to bring the Penal Code, as above comply with the new structures Delta company, at that central pier which pertain to his organic structure, both for the convenience necessary legal practitioners, correspondingly reducing the plethora of special laws, synonymous with ineffectiveness of existing preventive-repressive months in place by the State, which took on the size and complexity abnormal.
Finally in Italy and strongly felt the need to implement measures to compensate the community wanted to damage from party politics to the entire national economy, real attack perpetrated not by a sum of isolated facts but by a "system" that may well set the 'conspiracy. And 'then it is studying legislation to establish a link between the party official accused of corruption / bribery / illicit funding and the party which heads to establish a responsibility of the latter (like the one objective) in order of its competition in compensation for the loss suffered to the community.
PRISONS
As for the problem of overcrowding of prisons. it should be observed that in the space
time of just one year the prison population has nearly doubled on account of tightening the legislation
prison implemented by the "Martelli decree", which has sharply reduced the benefits of the "law
Gozzini ".








This entails hardship situations moral and social in prisons, making even the most utopian!
provisions of article 27. 111 second paragraph of the Constitution where it is stated the rehabilitative function of punishment in
against the condemned and not only his character afflittività.
The current situation can not be said to be worthy of a civilized state, then it must urgently act through a dual
face intervention. By the allocation of new funds for prison construction and the 'hiring of new staff
surveillance; the other, the review of legislation encouraging prison for those convicted of minor and that real
showing clear signs of repentance, the possibility of using alternatives to detention institutions
At the same time, whereas a large proportion of the prison population is sourced
outside the Community. establish rapid procedures for sentencing and the subsequent immediate expulsion from the territory of
State in the case of minor offenses.
MAFIA AND pentitismo.
Just as he was about terrorism so also for the Mafia can only effectively prepared by the State and use it <i full
hands by the Judiciary was spying and emergency legislation. The army put to guard some cities
the South and the clear evidence of the difficulty of the state to contain a phenomenon like the Mafia, fruit
of decades of indifference if not outright connivance.
If you fail to give rise in the mind of many Italians credibility in this state, then the Mafia.
although decapitated of its vertices, he regenerates them as a Hydra stubborn, supported by distrust of those who see the Bushel
as something external, and the enemy will be imposed only by abandoning welfarism. encouraging liberalism
entrepreneurial and renouncing n harass citizens with continuous petulant obligations, deadlines and levies, focusing
the judiciary and police to the primary task of safeguarding the physical safety and the work of honest people (without which you can not hope for taxes) that addiverrà to the change of mentality that alone will decide the defeat of the mafia from within his environment.
CRIMINAL PROCEDURE.
With regard to the Code of Criminal Procedure we advocate a line of greater efficiency, in the hope
together with greater effectiveness of the process which should primarily protect the rights of citizens as well as those
social defense and the fight against crime. We can not ignore the importance moved by the Attorney General of
Cassation, which reported a weakening of the effectiveness of state repression against crime
organized.
Against processes egregious to some arrests excellent it exists an elusive widespread petty crime, the tank
which it draws macrocriminalità, which attacks deeper into the city in his goods, in his safety and
in his freedom.
We believe in an adversarial criminal trial. but the current Criminal Procedure Code, following the changes
introduced in legislation by the Courts of legitimacy, no longer has such character. It is therefore necessary to review
the entire trial discipline, combining the need for a modern process, respectful of the rights of freedom, with
that of a social defense against crime.
Therefore, the system for obtaining evidence in court and the recording of evidence should be reviewed to avoid procedures
unnecessarily expensive, exhausting and ineffective in ascertaining the truth.
In addition, they must be reconsidered alternative rites currently envisaged, possibly decreasing the number, but
expanding coverage.
However, if we want to expand the scope of! plea bargain we must keep in mind that, at present, a
tangentista admitted to the plea bargain would not pay the court costs would suffer the punishment
interdiction from public office.
It must also be reviewed institutions of preventive detention and the confidentiality of investigations.
Bearing in mind that, in any case, to the reasonableness of any rule and much depends upon the men who
apply.
CIVIL RIGHT.
Civil law is the one that most are feeling the pinch of the general backwardness and inadequacy of the entire
Italian judicial system.
Civil law, which in its general principles still can be called modern, marking time instead of specific
topical issues.
In the field of commercial law, the situation in which one is appropriate is simply shameful for a country
modern: it operates in relations between companies in complete ignorance of the nature and consistency of subjects with
which is contracted. .Significativo The fact that from 1942 to date has not yet been able to establish the expected log
businesses. Institution that must be seen more as a revision of the system of advertising that as a public offer
advertising.
Anachronistic and harmful to the entrepreneurs themselves is the instrumental and unnecessary distinction by craftsmen, who are
actually small entrepreneurs, and small businesses with total disregard of the real dimension of this form of
self-employment.
Little or nothing has been innovated in the field contracts, especially given the high incidence level
economic now joined by many non-standard contracts of Anglo-Saxon derivation.
Regarding contracts typical upgrade needed a change and integration of rules
governing major contracts already provided for in our legal system.
Purchase, lease, guarantee, contract, credit, bank contracts, to cite examples, are provided
the Civil Code and by subsequent laws and sneaky, with reference to a proto-industrial economic reality, without
absolutely take into account the actual needs of the Contracting Parties in the modern reality.
The abstract cases, as well as planned and regulated, now badly adapt to concrete contractors operating in
economic world, chiefly if entrepreneurs.
Considers that a civil law independent of the transfer of the dwelling house, in particular the
dwelling house under construction, following the French example and with an intent to bring more security for
the purchaser and a more fair and equitable tax treatment.

By a strange and illogical myopia of the legislature since the war the area of ​​transfer of the house,
in particular the construction is bonded to thin rules of the civil code on the transfer of
real estate in general, allowing ample room for maneuver on the part of manufacturers, a very considerable tax evasion, and constitutes probably the strongest incentive to the degeneration of the political reality of today's highlights
leaving the buyer without warranty of any kind at the mercy of manufacturers.
It makes it necessary to revise the inheritance system, today in many respects outdated and far from reality, from its
requirements and regulations of the interests worthy of protection; where such retains the prohibition of agreements
successors that most developed countries have eliminated from their codifications, or is not meeting the need very
heard of consideration of the assets of husband and wife as sole inheritance, or finally take little or
no consideration for the purposes of distribution of the estate, the acts of various kinds with which today
You can be attributed to life assets to future heirs.
The review of the association system in general that today, with the gradual emergence in Italy of non-profit
Organizations often leads to substantial confusion among foundations, associations, cooperatives, mutual insurance
usually, with remarkable effects on the social system.
Bankruptcy procedures prescribed by law are virtually the same in 1942, when Italy was a country
predominantly agricultural with a few companies.
Today the assessment of the insolvency of the company has become a tragedy for creditors, such is the inadequacy of the
existing legislation.
You could say that the organs operate only failed to justify their existence, remaining credits
unsatisfied even when with rapid interventions, you could save a considerable activity, removing it from the usual
speculators.
There are many changes to be envisaged, but are easy to understand the usefulness of a distinction between two forms of
failure, a more complex and garantista for the failures of most relevance and a quicker and more flexible for small
failures.
Essential but it should be a strengthening of preventive procedures, creating a form of, effectiveness
binding to arrangements with creditors out of court, provided and managed by serious professionals with easy control
judicial.
CIVIL PROCEDURE
And 'necessary that the civil process with the characteristics of a process of parts where the judge is really
and only arbiter of the dispute decider.
In essence, it is claimed that all the long and tiresome preliminary activity is reduced in the terms and delegated
Only the initiative of the contracting parties.
Currently the slowness of civil cases is, to a large part, determined by the slope of numerous causes,
where at least one party resista- only in the near certainty that the eventual sentence will not matter
fully executable. With what you always hope to induce your opponent to a good transaction.
And 'necessary to reduce the volume of cases that are daily registered at the courts: through
the institution in specific fields of litigation of judicial bodies of such arbitration, the possibility of prodromal
access to the decision by the ordinary courts.
These bodies, with characteristics of simplicity and rapidity of procedure in issuing the decision,
They should ease the burden on the courts for the benefit of the Contracting Parties.
The structures for the functioning of these bodies could be partly financed by the State
Finally, we need a comprehensive review, based on criteria of efficiency, effectiveness and speed of the entire procedure
esecutiva- Currently running is so chaotic as to be ineffective and useless it seems appropriate to grant
the ability to form real agencies that operate in close contact with the organs of enforcement for
sales securities and real estate, in sufficient numbers to create competition.
SUMMARY electoral program "FOREIGN" - election '94
With the end of the Cold War has created a scenario contours still vague and characterized by a general and
dangerous world disorder
How should we put Italy in this new international environment?
- Europe. The Northern League is clearly in favor of a united Europe only a united Europe can indeed tackle
problems and challenges of the coming decades, as employment and competition in international markets A clear
"Yes" to the European Union, political and economic, that is taking place in accordance with the Maastricht Treaty signed by the governments of all countries of the EEC This decision imposes on the country a pro-European policy consistent and credible, under the banner of liberalism and federalism and the strict respect of the Community commitments.
- Born. The Atlantic Alliance has remained lutt'oggi the only defense of our continent. A united Europe will develop as soon as possible a system of European defense and security, as stipulated in the Maastricht Treaty. but as long as Europe will not be able to defend itself can not give up the Atlantic military alliance Consider eg a possible extension and internationalization of the conflict in the Balkans.
- Humanitarian missions, the Northern League or favor, in principle, to the Italian participation in humanitarian missions of the United Nations if it is to save people persecuted or in danger of life and a moral duty of the international community intervene to help them.
- Somalia although it was initially in favor of the UN mission in Somalia which had purely humanitarian tasks (supply and distribution of humanitarian aid and health care), the Northern League has condemned the subsequent degeneration of the mission and called for the withdrawal of our contingent's mission was indeed
turn it into a bloody urban warfare against January Aidid and only marginally continued to pursue
* Its humanitarian purposes. Now the emergency is over in Somalia and Somalis are having to find a political solution to the
government of their country, not us or the Americans
- Bosnia to try to end the tragedy in Bosnia can only intensify the humanitarian efforts and those international diplomats. For this reason it is also necessary to keep the attention of world public opinion on the issue and involve the entire international community only complete international isolation of Serbia and the Bosnian Serbs can stop the civil war and prevent a spread of the conflict, which She would result unimaginable. Intervention armalo earth would turn into a new Vietnam, with tens of thousands of deaths on our part to no avail.
- Russia and Eastern Europe to Russia are looming new revanchist and chauvinistic forces in contraposition / ion to government policy reforms, and "need to support President Yeltsin in this dangerous and disturbing phase of transition towards democracy in the Russian Federation and the free market, and gradually integrating the countries of Central and Eastern European Union.
- High development cooperation: development problems of the Third World can be solved only with a cooperates / ion producing wealth locally. that encourages and enhances the capacity of local production involving especially the SMEs of donor countries.
- Istria. Italians abroad, human rights, United Nations reform
Electoral program DEFENSE SECTOR
In matters of defense and security, the Northern League takes up the fundamental importance of these issues in the institutional framework of the state, which also including the changes in the fee for a reworking of the media and the culture of the military and security Italian . Our program can be articulated in the following points, that we want:


1) a restructuring rooted Forces Vintages through the creation of a mixed system of conscription,
based volontario- professional and military.
The volunteers and professional constitute a core for the emergency, even wings' of external
national borders or otherwise in emergency situations, the enlisted personnel will form units recruited and
used on territorial and regional basis, intended to guard and defense of the capillary territory.
We wanted to keep the component of conscripts to conscription, although recruitment
regional, mainly for political reasons arising from the fact that we are living.
In fact only an army of professionals and could have a very positive significance
in state systems with political culture "mature" as federal ones, where the military are trying to exercise their
role only in the manner prescribed by the Constitution, those with centralized political culture and "immature", as is the
Italian case, it is important to maintain a rather popular element as a condition of stability and
effectiveness of the institutional role of the Armed Forces.
2) contribute to the preservation and maintenance of peace in areas of vital strategic and economic importance, for the 'Italy and the' Europe, strengthening the case all forms of cooperation with the countries of Europe, demonstrating such occasions seriousness of purpose and democratic consciousness constituting everything a valuable contribution to rebuild a more credible image of the country.
3) ensure and promote the 'democratic evolution of institutions as a condition for a free and peaceful civil coexistence among citizens.
4) step up the fight against large criminal organizations generated in some parts of the country that spread and then later also in the North, especially in those areas where the 'influence of crime comes to economic levels and financial unsustainable, undermining any possibility of healthy and balanced economic and social development
5) renew the Armed Forces in terms of means, of values ​​and of men, anchoring them to the professionalism, wings' efficiency and the territory, developing and creating new motivations and cutting off any attempt to subdivision partitocratrica and patronage within them, balancing the regional origin cadres and non-commissioned officers with the criteria of merit and not of welfare logic.
6) rebuild an efficient and credible system of security services and information, able to represent the smart weapon to defend the citizens and the state, not to protect interests or to divert public opinion.
7) consider the 'military industry as a strategic base for the public and inalienable' entire industrial system and for technological innovation, thus increasing military spending productive, ie for investment and research and development of new weapons systems, with special emphasis on.
I) technologies and dual-purpose products, military and civilian.
n) specialization for production niches, emphasizing the qualitative element.
VX) cooperation agreements or mergers with other European industries.
IV) industrial offsets related to all imports of components or weapons systems.
V) research and development of prototypes, rather than mass production later, fragmented and wasteful of resources.
8) recognize the 'conscientious objection as a right, the base of which must be proven by the objector a sincere and honest feeling peaceful and total rejection of the logic of the arms, in the case involving a higher cost of the civil service.
9) create a national civil service, general, that absorbs and totally fulfilled the function of civil and social solidarity of a modern state, in times of actual emergency, emergency response and reconstruction.
10) strictly observe the 'execution of international treaties to which it joined the' Italy, for putting to
ban nuclear weapons, biological and chemical, that is to say of every weapon of mass destruction.
An intelligent action of the government against the defense and security will create a new awareness of the role
played by these institutions in the context of the launch of federalism: in this regard will be the privileged
staff training to overcome any resistance to making this sector a sector witnessed and poor
productivity.
Defense Sector Government Programme As for the aspects of economic policy and the budget, it is appropriate:
a) decrease all forms of unproductive expenditure, ie act with the cuts on current expenditure, both for the personnel both for the '
exercise, through enhanced optimization of available resources through waste elimination. The
* expenses of investment, namely those intended for modernization of the means, to new productions or to research and development
of new technologies, they should instead be increased, otherwise the obsolescence of the entire military apparatus.
However, since the funds available do not allow major initiatives, one could think of a partial sale of the
Real Estate and military areas abandoned or still underutilized, especially those within the centers
urban.

Upon agreement with municipalities, or with other local authorities, such areas could be transformed into public places where establish centers "for voluntary action (eg the elderly) or any kind of social, sporting, recreational and leisure , cultural (eg. museums and exhibitions), economic (eg. workshops, shops, schools, apprenticeship and professional qualification), can absorb unemployment, especially youth. Through such an operation would be possible to find money to fund new programs and increase the share of volunteers in the Armed Forces, which means both increase the human and physical capital, ie the quality in terms of preparedness and efficiency, is more jobs.
In summary:
1) cut the running costs; less personal, and less waste;
2) to increase investment in people (volunteers) and means (programs of modernization).
Resources that obtainable from the cuts described above and a passage to the municipalities of Real Estate military or by a
easing of servitude.
As for the aspects of military policy genuine need:
a) a reform of the military by creating a "unique figure of operational commander, and was so privileged to be a joint and being able to approach thus transmit wings' arms industry specific requests according to clear objectives so as to generate paths growth consistent.
b) the formation of brigades of volunteer professionals, ie paid, highly skilled, flexible and designed wings' intervention. It should encourage the recruitment of young people * of each Italian region, providing for these future job opportunities once completed without demerit the firm for several years. The number of volunteers will be a total of about 50,000 to 70,000 units.
e) the processing of the conscript army in a series of regional militia (National Guard), defining specific areas of recruitment and use of conscripts. These units will be scattered and dispersed so as to saturate the 'whole territory and not to constitute an economic burden as supported by existing infrastructure and equipped with light weapons and modern. The perfect knowledge of the region and the local presence will constitute the main elements of such a fighting force.
CIVIL PROTECTION.
The Civil Defense has always played an important role in safeguarding and protecting the citizens and the environment.
And "important for all of us that this Civil Protection functions accurately and on time so that you
can always create a safe or at least assistance to people affected by any
magnet.
The Northern League wants us to become more involved in the field of Civil Protection, whose current legislature
too centralist, has often highlighted the inability to work in a serious and timely.
In light of the numerous gaps expressed by the current system, the Northern League proposes:
1) decentralization of Civil Defense Regional level so that each region is provided with a permanent Civil Protection Department that is able to intervene in case of need, in a timely and competent.
2) that are set up study groups that deal with forecasting and prevention and that those services are activated for the study of the territory and for the subsequent preparation of measures to be taken in different emergencies.
3) to be created between the local authorities and structures defined or operational aid, continues suburbs and channels of communication for mutual flow of news and information to learn about certain events.
4) that strengthen the operational role of local structures because it is important to understand that civil protection is done on the spot, without waiting for the 'arrival of the troops from the capital, thus preparing men, equipment and technologies, eOertuando testing and verifying contingency plans .


The Northern League also wants to emphasize the paramount importance of the role of volunteering wings' internal Protection
Civil, a role that can evolve and develop only with a well-Property and efficient organization, which
abbisogna of new laws.
The proposals of the Northern League on volunteering that should be codified in the new legislation
I'm:
I) Primary importance of forecasting and protection.
And 'involved the development of a culture of solidarity, a * educates / ion environment to take the place of a culture of patronage-mafia of justification, waste and the indiscriminate exploitation of resources. The school has a fundamental role for the achievement of objectives;
2i Local communities as the first cell of the fundamental system of civil protection.
And 'here that it has to organize together the human, cultural and material in a programmatic collaboration between
public and private.
The mobilization of synergies at the local level will be an incentive to the specialization of the existing groups and the
form / ion of new groups. This allows the local volunteers will help to build skills that
They put in a position to intervene on other reality d "emergency.
Voluntary organizations will be identified on three organizational levels:
a) promotion of technical and scientific groups.
b) logistics groups.
e) units.
In the first group they are inserted preventive interventions, emergency plans. the documentation. connection, regulations and information to the citizens.
The logistics groups will have the task of keeping in place the operational networks of relations with the organs of the Provincial and Regional civil protection, will have to update the lists of experts and means that the various bodies will be made available.
The third level will finally interventions of "emergency, be they technical, health and personal care.
Another example of volunteerism that the Northern League wants to propose, in the sphere of all laws that protect this kind of servants / I to the most needy populations, is that of radio amateurs. pass them in the light of emergencies, they have collaborated with their resources to radio links with the affected areas more isolated. The involvement of conscientious objectors in the proposals is part of the Northern League, and in what ways Ire:
1) initiating a civil service but not nationalized at the regional level of conscientious objectors so that they are engaged in both emergency situations and in the prevention:
2) objectors could find its own space of great value and absolute propriety both in training
that in training for civil protection.
Basic objective: the 'popular education to civil protection.
3) the civil protection service of conscientious objectors, entered in civil protection is not a substitute or competitor who is looking for work, but must provide forms of experimentation, study and (footprint / ion for the development of culture Civic territory, able also to gradually replace the first "intervention Forces special vintages;
It is an appeal, therefore, is to make a quantum leap, civil protection should not be a waste of time for lack of will.
SUMMARY OF THE ELECTORAL PROGRAM SECTOR CULTURE.
1. Introduction: The role of culture in society deity
"The men of culture should not be prophets disarmali, there should be no separation between political leaders and culture because
specific culture of the compile to provide the compass to build progress. "


With these words, Altiero Spinelli, one of the leading theoreticians of federalism, flaps to many, especially in a time of emergency in political, social and economic, believe that culture is not body with a priority In the phase, as it goes through, the growing and widespread concern for the moral aspects of civil and political life, the need for rationality and functionality are signs of a growing demand for spiritual values ​​and a new organization of life and of the commons.
Today culture is felt, worldwide, as a fundamental change. From the research of John Naisbitt (Megatrends 2000), published in 1990, it shows that the tendency to fight and overcome, what we might call, with the famous expression, "the winter of the spirit", is widely implemented by companies in the western world: the author considers the desire need for cultural growth, alongside the spiritual renaissance, one of the trends of the 90s.
Looking at the whole reality culture ", beyond its specific and primary character of" investment "intellectual, you
It can emphasize that today. in the post-industrial, it is emerging as a valuable "economic resource".
While Italy has a great cultural wealth (at least as a historical legacy) and 50% of assets
monumental and artistic world: it is true that this connotation characterizes also in the business (we think
Made in Italy), it is unclear why the country does not have to invest in this area to also obtain feedback
economic.
Consider, for example, at how much work could generate a detailed plan of restoration of our heritage
monumental that really would not only protect the cultural heritage, but to respond positively to the growing demand for
cultural tourism, making these "goods" actually usable.
All the sector offers great opportunities to raise employment and, also for the North, this outlet would be valuable
in the current phase of de-industrialization.
For it is in more developed societies, such as those in the West, the cultural capital and science,
information, processing and transmission of knowledge will take on an increasing importance to the
development of economic activities.
2. The culture of the political project of the Northern League
The land of culture is in place, strategic, immediately visible: in this area you play in a short time,
the consent or dissent, with superior results to the efforts disasters or superior to mistakes.


Locate a leitmotif that culture federalist Liberal Democratic is relatively easy: it is a culture that is essentially based on the freedom of the individual and respect for the human person against any kind of historical determinism, companion or fatalistic.
D our cultural project moves along two main lines:
- The recovery of expertise at local level
- The adoption of a "liberal" culture to ensure autonomy to the sector.
We think in fact the abolition of some ministries as providers of money and their transformation into organisms
the only national coordination; massive inclusion of private interventions with the use of foundations, committees
sponsors, donations, especially in the field of cultural heritage; in legislation that facilitates the mechanism with a
series of tax relief level; to incentive the industry that gradually replace those
welfarism.
U all in a humanistic vision of the problem: in fact we believe that everything that happens depends on the individuals,
by their adherence to standards and the constant unwinding of them.
3- Objectives for the next legislative centerpiece of our project is the Reform of the Ministries of reference, namely:
- Former Ministry of Tourism and Entertainment
- Ministry of Cultural Heritage


In both cases, the orientation is of type federally, to achieve, albeit in a gradual manner, a Empowerment at local level (regional, but also municipal) on various interventions address the economic and operating of the two Sectors. At the center is assigned as unique expertise, the coordination function of the programs in order to:
- Quality of interventions (think above all to the problem of the artistic heritage)
- Plan initiatives (avoiding duplication and dispersions)
- Organization of information at the national level;
The goal is a progressive elimination of the "business" at central level, with the usual distribution
grants and contributions port (and this is history) phenomena consociativismo, housing development, corruption.
In addition, a reorganization at the regional level will allow a "streamlined" more of the agencies and the possibility
controls faster and treated both Sulla plan economically and productively.
Our proposals can be outlined briefly as follows.
3.1 Ministry of Cultural Heritage
As for the protection of cultural heritage we propose a management model based on the competition of historical sciences, physical, natural and criteria of rationality and functionality. It must be done in view of a process of ongoing formation open to all citizens in order to translate the commitment and activity of the preservation of historical and artistic heritage in increasing active enjoyment and fulfillment of a precious common good.








To start in meeting these goals, it might consider the hypothesis, already the art critic Giuliano Briganti, to abolish the existing Ministry and translating it into a system of autonomous units and decentralized. You might think the figure of a Secretary-General supported a Coordination Centre for Research and the Ministry of Environment, which carries out the "scientific management" of the historical, artistic and library; to a central body, agile and scientifically reliable, you draw the guidelines for the protection of cultural property and defines the general criteria for the disbursement of funds, to peripherals that under conditions of autonomy in the management of human and financial resources and of more direct responsibility towards citizens, carry out their activities in respect of "criteria of scientific accuracy, simplicity and economy. The process of empowerment undertaken by Law 142, which provides for the institutions, and the Law 512, which provides for the payment contributions do "liberal" by private (since 1980 but still lacks regulation that makes it effective). It appears to be at present the way to improve and integrate to specifically address the protection of Cultural Heritage.
Institutions (amalgamations with character of homogeneity and compatibility of museums, libraries, galleries, etc.) can start an effective process management and recovery of historical and artistic heritage, freed from the shackles of bureaucracy and administration bound only with regard to scientific criteria and guidelines, as well as control over the money is spent correctly.
3.2 Former Ministry Entertainment
As for the complex world of the show, which is now, more and more culture, research and experimentation,
we design a kind of reform that guarantees creative freedom and the quality of the contribution that the arts and culture
Country it is to receive.
Along these lines, the Northern League proposed the:
- Create a National Agency, without portfolio, for the coordination and circulation of the performing activities of national interest, as well as the promotion of the subjects of greater prestige and representation abroad;
- Enable the regions at a reference body for the promotion and protection of the show with economic expertise and control
End Lyric: This is one of the most delicate components and representative, not only but the entire history of the universe-Entertainment Costume music of our country These organizations are paralyzed by decades of management and parceled partitocratrica: the Northern League is proposing a reform with four main objectives:
- Submit the management of opera companies in rigorous up close and personal, committed, therefore, to organs of absolute transparency established by the Local Authority and not by the state,
conducting opera houses, albeit gradually, to a state of self-financing and competitiveness, reversing the current ratio of public subsidies, often sunk, and effective capacity of insertion and retrieval of resources market.
- Combat waste of public money by banning normally duplication of equipment and fees are too high.
- Also respond to the expectations and cultural choices of the public according to the different local situations.


- Promote Italian artists, now sacrificed and often marginalized dahlia present, very numerous and sometimes not justified by foreign artists.
Theatre To support and encourage one form of entertainment in the highest educational value, the Theatre, the Northern League intends to propose measures to make this a privileged place where you actually culture, open to the circulation of ideas, the work of professionals capable and prepared to receive and disseminate cultural offerings truly pluralistic.
The strategy is based on the concept of promoting forms of facilitation and gradually replacing the current relief seasoned / ion assistance guaranteed by state subsidies. Our plan therefore provides for:
- Reduce social security contributions for all categories of workers of the show.
- Drastic reduction of the VAT on ticket prices (now 9%).
- Abolition of Entertainment that currently adversely affects the price of the ticket for an additional 4% (VAT and other taxes are incassale Entertainment SIAE and turn to the state).
- Subsidized prices for heating oil
- Support the administrations / .ioni municipalities in terms of services (advertising, information systems for the ticket. Promotional activities, etc.):
Finally, it remains to explore the road of private contributions: in this sense we look to the positive experience of other countries where it is allowed to all taxpayers (companies and individuals) to allocate a percentage of their taxable income to subsidies for theater, inscribing this Share in budget spending as fully deductible.
BROADCASTING INDUSTRY It can be said that the anomaly of the Italian television system is already evident from a reading of the data on the number of our National channels compared with the systems of other countries:
Italy 12 including 3 public 'Germany 5 including 2 public France 6 including 2 public Grand Bret. 5 including 2 public USA There state TV and the Public
Television is an independent network.
In Italy, the high number of national channels is a counterpoint to the Babel of local TV: about 1,000. that is, a third of all TV de! globe.
As part of his project, the Northern League wants:
- The privatization of RAI. a public company currently use internal parties, which ripiana its debts with taxpayers' money.
- A public service, still privately owned, totally redefined in its roles and its program schedules information and training of quality.
Regarding in particular the information, we think that the public service should be limited to news timely and essential, nothing more: this is because the best guarantee of pluralism of information comes from the market, whether regulated evenly, while the public service It can be a guarantor of pluralism (think of the case Pravda) as the voice and megaphone governments.
- Private TV: the privatization of RAI. which can occur only under conditions of market normalizzale, will lead to downsizing in the private sector: this sector must be regulated with clear legislation that protects workers and citizens: a law that restores the right to equality for all those working in a free market, cost reasonable concession. careful antitrust rules, transparency of ownership, advertising limits clear. analogy called for national broadcasters and to regional ones. A system, in summary, that is rearranged in accordance, moreover, with European standards.
SUMMARY FIELD SCHOOL PROGRAM.
The Northern League has reservations about the school system in force, considering general, inadequate and not suitable to the demands and the present times.
What catches the eye, with an analysis of the school system is the combination of various negative characteristics Generally it comes to lack of program / .ione. prevalence of instrumental responses and attitudes demagogic
instead of objective and scientific attention to educational issues, employment, economic, cultural, social revolve around the school. Instrumental use of the educational world as a chamber explosion of the contradictions and delays guilty of the general policies of the government. Key points of our program are:

1. Reform of the central and peripheral of Education
We aim to transfer of legislative and administrative provisions by the state to the regions, according to the federalist perspective.
The Ministry of Education state will be reserved exclusively coordinating functions of the Standing Conference of Regional Ministers to public education and representation in corresponding bodies of the European and international. All other skills will be assigned to Regional Councillors who will manage in Toto recruitment and grading of staff faculty and staff.
2. School Building
In our school system the municipal government, possibly consortium, will provide the
construction of nursery schools, schools for children and schools; the provincial governments,
Instead, they will have the burden of providing all'edificazioni new school.
The management of the ordinary maintenance of the buildings will be entrusted directly to high school units that individual
They will receive a special financing of local authorities of reference.
3. Report public school and private school
The Northern League believes that they have access to forms of public funding, only private schools, non-profit-making, in which it can fulfill compulsory education; these subsidized schools, however, are required to disclose their balance sheet, secure within their administrative council the presence of at least one representative of the public regulator preliminarily present an educational teaching.
4. Nursery School for children
While accepting Rasilo nest as a social and educational service that aims to ensure the optimal conditions for children .sosteniamo that in this period of life is critical to the proximity of the mother and child growth in a warm affective family.
We aim to a unitary system of preschool where skills in order to pass local planning and services to local authorities, while the functions of verification and coordination are the responsibility of the Regional School.
5. Elementary School
It provides for a review redeveloped, rejecting the idea of ​​the teacher of the class plural is for economic reasons,
practical and child psychology.
The benchmark student fact must always be the class teacher who gives security which are
poses as a reference certain and consistent only with integrated auxiliary teachers are tied to specific disciplines.
6. Reordering of upper secondary education and reform the school-leaving The Northern League calls for a modification of the institutional, so that we can initiate an acceptable plan for the reform of the upper segment of the studies scolaste !, which necessarily involves a substantial investment of financial resources, also in function of the inevitable extension of compulsory education.
7. Secondary school obligation
It would behoove any proper consultation period that has never been officially brought to term, in order to know involving operators of the school definitive positive results achieved and the many shortcomings. the Northern League will propose its own P.d.L. that, following the spirit of the law establishing the '62, providing for the introduction of flexible curricular and optional study of some new materials. Certainly, in this new framework, it will find adequate space recovery manual.
SUMMARY OF THE PROGRAM SECTOR RESEARCH & universities.
The objectives of the reforms


It is believed that any work of reform of the university system should set itself the following objectives
standardize the Italian university system to EU standards and North America;
significantly increasing efficiency, reducing unit costs through appropriate relaxation of
bureaucratic procedures;
reduce the share of costs to the public finances, giving autonomy to individual universities;
promote the rapprochement of the Universities to producers, using the skills and potential
Technological University, for the support of businesses, mainly those of small and medium-sized;
improve mechanisms for! recruitment of teachers, which should be based on merit
scientific and educational organization and the necessary and proper generational change;
empower teachers and students in their rights / duties;
in view of a market economy, encourage the creation of private universities.
Universities and scientific and technological research should be considered, as is the case in most developed countries,
one of the crucial levers, medium and long term, to overcome the economic crisis in which the country is struggling:
increasing the international competitiveness of our graduates;
encouraging the exchange of technological know-how in support of Small and Medium Enterprises;
providing tax breaks to encourage investment in the University and Research;
encouraging the performance of professional activities within the university.
it seems necessary to rule on a regional demand and balance the number of students compared to
needs of the labor market and the availability of accommodation universities.
It must finally overcome the lack of exploitation of the variable "time". The parameters of this type should always keep
of the time (academic years) spent over that grades obtained.
A reform plan staff of the university system and scientific research can not, however, immediately translated into a single law. So it has to articulate the reform proposals in several places that could be the subject of separate bills.
View the Federal subsequently identified as priorities certain issues on which it is deemed necessary to propose an urgent modification interventions.
I) AUTONOMY OF UNIVERSITIES.

Public universities and / or private institutions are independent legal entities and economic and financial responsibility.
Any such public intervention of a financial nature and approval for establishment of plants are commensurate based on coexistence and to the quality of the following key services offered:
a) development and dissemination of culture.
b) professional training.
e) research.
To take into account the differences and similarities between the various disciplines, and the differing needs that
characterize them, proposes the separation and articulation of existing universities in areas disciplinari-
training different and autonomous, hereinafter referred universities:
a) Scientific.
b) Technology. e) Humanistic.
d) Medical Sciences.
e) Legal and Social Sciences.
The individual universities enjoy complete operational independence, economic, scientific and educational, regulated
through appropriate statutes.
The university maintains its autonomy of management and staff, even in the face
regional administration. In particular, the lack of available currency.
The Regone, according to the requests of the universities, decided annually by the amount of loans to be made to
Universities, including those for the implementation of new degree courses.
The principles of autonomy outlined above inevitably the abolition of the legal value of the qualification.
Also consider integration at European level, the equivalence of licenses issued by the various offices,
as well as a license to practice, must take place at Community level; by individual must then
take responsibility to recognize the degrees awarded
Because the relationship between scientific research, professional and educational activities will vary from university to university, it refers back to the statutes of each university regulations and the possible incentive of such activities, and the arrangements for the conduct of professional activities, is to ' inside and outside of universities.
2) IS TO LEGAL REFORM OF PERSONNEL.
Retraining of teachers via latch mechanisms of the market, regardless of
by the end of belonging.
Redefinition of powers between the different bands teachers in strict compliance with educational autonomy and
of research.
Opening university studies to the world of production by hiring, on short term contracts, personnel
highly qualified coming from production activities.
Recruitment on a local basis, prior judgment of maturity on a national and / or international
Reducing the time and cost of any round of judgments of maturity through the elimination of the meetings
joint and sending publications to the Commissioners. A judgment on the merits can not be anything but
individual expression of Commissioners. The actual compliance of candidates to educational needs.
scientific and research of each university will be evaluated locally at the time of recruitment.
Given the educational function of the teacher, it would be appropriate to introduce a code of conduct in
concerns of the students, as well as its controls to be included in the Statutes of each university, as already
It happens in other European countries and North America.
3) RESTRUCTURING OF INSTITUTES AND RESEARCH INSTITUTIONS.
Identification of two different policy areas: STRATEGIC RESEARCH, of paramount interest Federal and Community: RESEARCH AIMED, the prevailing regional. The first requires an efficient system of coordination / supervision of the financing, the second of a greater orientation to technology transfer to companies.
As regards research aimed especially, you need to reduce government intervention just to fund essential structures that are brought up and complement the private contracts.
However, with respect to strategic research and to remove the current situation of confusion anger persons charged in PERFORM SEARCH, and those entrusted to FUNDED RESEARCH.
11 CNR will be renovated and the national groups turned into research agencies deputale sector to fund and coordinate research but not to carry it out in person.
All mechanisms that favor the INTERCHANGE OF PERSONNEL BETWEEN UNIVERSITIES AND RESEARCH INSTITUTES are encouraged, including restructuring / .ione of employment on the basis of contracts
multi-year renewable.
4) ORGANIZATION parts based UNIVERSITY.
The problems of composition and representation in the highest bodies of the University, which the Board of Directors and the Academic Senate, will generally be resolved by the respective statutes, in a transparent manner and competenza-
The articulation of the existing universities in autonomous disciplines (universities) involves a redefinition of fill and prerogatives of the principalities of University governing bodies, which could be rearticulated as follows.
1. Council of the University: it includes all the professors of the same, and will appoint its own rector and pro-rectors.
2. University Senate is composed of the chairmen of the Boards of the Degree and the Directors of Department / Institute and is chaired by the Rector of the University. This body draws up program / .ione and address and is in every respect the official interlocutor with the Board of Directors
3 Course Council {.aurea: identifies with the body contemplalo by DPR 382 / SO. The moment will be eliminated on the legal value of academic qualifications, the Boards of the Degree Course will have responsibility in shaping their own curricula.
4 Department Council: in its essentials it is strutturalo in compliance with the D PR 382/80.
5 Student Council: who will fill advisory, proposal and control delta management in relation to other organisms.


5) TEACHING IMPROVEMENT OF THE OFFER.
5.1 ICURRICULA.
Given that most of the Western countries has long organized high school in three levels (Diploma, Degree and Doctorate or Specialization) seems appropriate uniformarci this scheme structuring curricula (Diploma and Degree) will be determined by the statutes of each university the needs of different subject areas, ensuring an appropriate level of qualification.
5.2 OBJECTIVES AND MEASURES FOR THE RIGHT TO UNIVERSITY STUDY.
The primary commitment should be directed to a new way to identify the beneficiaries of the interventions
care, giving particular emphasis on efficiency, merit and economic condition.
Public Administration and Universities, will be required to fully implement the right to education
university with tasks and actions clearly differentiated, in a financing scheme "direct", ie
by providing subsidies directly to those users.
The regions will have to implement interventions with a dual address;
a) monetary donations, reserved for students living in the region, leaving the student the right to carry out their university studies in the same region, in other regions or in foreign countries.
b) services directed to all students that will enable the integration of the student in the new
context of life and study. Regional authorities for the right to study must still deal exclusively with:
1. identify the beneficiaries of economic measures for the right to study.
2. provide checks and make the management of student loans.
3. provide guidance services.
Other tasks of the University will be to enter into partnerships with students as part of university services, expand the spaces for the study and the workshops, to equip the libraries of all the texts needed for studies, enabling the enlarged forms of loan services model of loan books are already active in the organizations for the right to study. It will then strengthen laboratories and computer rooms or establish them where they do not exist, in order to prepare for exams and thesis. Finally, we will need to encourage the cultural, professional and educational experience of providing for the exchange with other universities in Italy and abroad.
PROGRAM OF THE SPORTS SECTOR (SUMMARY).
INTRODUCTION:
Despite statements from all quarters about the usefulness of physical activity and sport in shaping the character of young people, and their legal and administrative provisions enacted, physical education and sport it is definitely the Cinderella of the Italian school.
The shortage and inadequacy of facilities, preparation sometimes precarious teachers, the limited number of hours available for the performance of programs but especially the poor culture of our people in the field, did remain on paper all the good intentions .
Fortunately, in recent years there has been a cultural re-evaluation of everything related to the body and human motion and while remaining much to do to eliminate deviations, such as hooliganism and hedonistic attitudes excessive, we must take advantage of this positive trend by eliminating other negative factors hindering the development of a system similar to that of the best liberal democratic cultures like the United States and England, where physical education is of prime importance both within and outside the school.
1. The sport and youth
It should take initiatives which bring young people to the world of sport and to do this it is important to find forms of cooperation between the different agencies operating in the area, such as the City Council, the Provincial Administration, the Region and the sports associations of the CONI high purpose of organizing a series of sporting initiatives widely throughout the area.
2. Sport and private initiative.


In every city we can not help but point out that entire neighborhoods are completely or severely lacking
sports facilities and that this fact favors and be assuming the deterioration of neighborhoods themselves, lowering the quality of
life.
The proposal of the Northern League to try to give a solution to these problems is very simple and at the same time
very inexpensive for the city administration.
In the general Master Plan of our cities have identified some areas to sporting facilities: our
proposal is to give those in concession areas and private individuals willing to invest in sports facilities.
3-Sports Building
Envisage a coordinated intervention between the Ministry of Education, individual schools and municipalities and
Provincial, in order to build multipurpose facilities used both by the fact that most schools sports
extracurricular.
It must, moreover, provide the possibility for schools to use sports facilities through special
conventions.
4. Training of teachers.
Transforming the ISEF in the Faculty of Sport Sciences thus obtaining a teaching staff better prepared culturally and
provide for the inclusion of physical educators in elementary school.
5. School hours
Increase the number of hours dedicated to the teaching of physical education and sports compulsory (school
lower and upper) from two to four hours (divided into two classes for two hours each, spaced by at least one day
rest) from two to six hours (divided into one hour of class daily).
This is necessary in order to allow the completion of the program would otherwise be impossible because of the
logistical needs (transfer to the sports, operations of personal hygiene and dressing and dressing
the beginning and end of the lesson) typical of this discipline.
Besides this substantial increase in the number of hours it is essential to ensure the minimum amount of movement
necessary for the harmonious development of the individual, the amount that in modern society is not spontaneously
reachable unlike what happened in the past through the normal recreational activity in the courts or in environment
natural.
6. Regulation of gyms.
In Italy the vast field of commercial gyms is free of a law that protects citizens against those who
He works, for profit, in these structures. To undertake this activity are in fact necessary only normal
authorizations from the USSL and the City related to any business that is intended to open the
public, and no type of job requirement is required in prescribing and controls the physical and sporting activities
carried out in the gym.
This precarious situation is absolutely untenable as it may lead to serious risk to the health of
citizens who turn to these structures hopeful, not better.
Even worse were recently enacted regional initiatives on the subject, which are likely to create yet
more confusion.
And 'you need to quickly get to a national legislation relating to the opening and operation of gyms
commercial that includes the presence, throughout the opening hours, a graduate of ISEF (or a future graduate
in Sports Science) as a technical manager, with the task of planning and supervising all activities
physical and sports activities carried out in the gym ensuring the adequacy of the same against
morphofunctional characteristics of the subject. Attached to this measure will create a register of those responsible
technicians in order to protect the professionalism of the same.











7. Riionna higher institute of physical education
The reform of the Higher Institute of Physical Education should be the first step towards a more general reform
diverse world that revolves around physical activity and sports. Unfortunately, even in the eleventh legislature very strong economic and power interests have prevented a solution to this
vexed question of burying the hopes of students and graduates in physical education that are waiting in vain, to
Like all the rest of their European colleagues, the opportunity to get a regular college degree and above all a
different kind of professional training that will enable them to specialize and then to integrate more
effectively in the various sectors of the labor market of school, only way forward given the total saturation
that school.
Our high schools equalized, confined to the margins of the most renowned universities, they collide with a
really close friend that also requires all the potential and services that are basically allocated but not awarded.
Whereas it is absolutely a need for better qualification of those working at the highest levels in the field
physical activity and sport is considered appropriate that the next legislature is finally approved, after
some necessary adjustments, the consolidated text approved by the Senate in the last legislature, since you can
make use of certain facilities on ITER bureaucratic to follow and to stipulate, with the establishment of a
new faculty. Centrala full of physical education and sports in the university.
'"'
The interests that oppose the creation of a university faculty in the field of physical activity and sport are
different and very strong.
The state and the regions have actually legislated often on sport without ever put these initiatives into a
and systematic framework for its action and indeed creating confusion and difficulties of interpretation and application.
The Northern League only real political expression new and innovative on the national scene, denies the presence in
sporting world of so-called sports promotion bodies recognized by CONI. borne by the parties that
divide annual funds that only since 1991 a presidential decree authorizing controlled.
The Northern League proposed that the funds currently destinali these sports bodies politicians are diverted to all those
healthy societies clicks without aid play an important role in the sports field.
As previously affermalo you need to quickly get to the launching of this reform by approving
definitely the single text already approved in March 1993 in the Senate. In fact this bill, although little
clear in a few key points, it establishes a political choice: the establishment of a university faculty.
clearing the field from other solutions such institutions universitari- degree courses in other faculties, departments,
etc.
SUMMARY OF THE ELECTORAL PROGRAM LAND.
1. Replace all monumental and cumbersome legislation operates with a planning law clear and simple. 2 Unify all the skills in the area in an entity that plans and controls for each institutional level.
3. The central government and the regional framework laws emanate. Planning must be at supra (with mandatory consortia of municipalities) and municipal.
4. You should not consume more agricultural land and nature. It must recover all the existing assets and optimize their use.
5. II regime soil should be based on common indices of building rights in order to avoid creating injustice among the owners of land to different target and eliminate any chance of embezzlement.
6. We must reform the property taxation to enhance recovery and improvements, and to punish the waste and neglect.
7. The housing must be of municipal jurisdiction and reserved only for eligible residents and verified. The rest of the estate goes resigned. Royalties must be free.
8. The register should become municipal and structured as a database on land available to citizens and operators.
9. The transport system is differentiated favoring rail and water. Go quadrupled rail crossings and increase the operating speed.
10. Rearrange professions dealing with territory reviewing skills and training structures and control.
SUMMARY PROGRAM ECOLOGY.
1) Programming and effective coordination of all direct and indirect uses of the land and the environment as a whole, giving the environmental policy on the features and content of an economy of scale in the long term, according to the principle, enshrined in the Act Single European Act, that "Environmental protection requirements shall be a component of other Community policies."
2) Recognition of different aspects in which they occur, in the various geographical areas, according to which the components make up the sector of environmental protection: in principle "environmental governance" must. therefore, it is entrusted to the institution. knowing and managing the socio-economic development of an area made of homogeneous, it can assess the best initiatives to be undertaken and the consequences that will determine ecologically
3) Even in the environmental field, the person who invests resources must also be the person making the payment of tax, reassembling the split between revenue and expenditure, the two levers must be in the same hands if you really want to act responsibly on decision-making skills public administration.


4) Proceed quickly not only to the simplification, rationalization and harmonization of the laws operating ni different specific areas, but also to the preparation of a consolidated text of the law on the environment.
5) Implement effectively a clean separation between controller and controlled, creating a modern system of supervision and environmental inspection, so that there is no interruption in the chain "analysis
environmental-control-sanction ".
6) The current Ministry of Environment needs to be reformed, strengthened and unified with the other ministries involved
expertise in the area, giving it a power to only one address and coordinates
environmental issues. T) It is believed that the environmental issue has become a structural element of both production
market; the environment is, and will become more and more a factor of economic growth, employment, and profit,
at the same time, reduction of environmental degradation.




8) The policy to revive the economy and the market can not do without, including environmental impacts, from an instrumental use of taxes as a means of stimulating production and employment; according to the principle of fiscal neutrality, what Chania tax environment must be downloaded from other areas, so that the overall pressure remains unchanged ("more environmental taxes, lower taxes on earnings and income"), directing as much as possible the 'use of resources to the recovery of the land and the environment and to encourage the choice, on the part of traders, innovative technologies that negate or reduce the impact of polluting processes and products.
9) In the field of waste management services of public utility should be supported and strengthened competition culture, activating all possible stimuli of free and fair market competition, within the laws of business economics.
10) Protected areas and soil conservation
Amendments to the law on protected areas (L. 394/91), providing the broadest powers of
Regions and Local End in handle.
D principle that is at the basis of policy for soil conservation is vital that the presence of man is the
precondition for a recovery of degraded environment and "indispensable for the prevention of landslides,
define a consistent and continuous system of financial incentives and tax breaks, the model
As m act in the cantons of the Swiss Confederation, to develop economic initiatives and
employment.
11) Protection of water
It is necessary to implement integrated water services involving aspects from collection to distribution, in optimum areas, also adopting economic instruments as consideration for the service provided and not as a tax (additional consumption to find resources for saving and recycling of 'water). It should also pursued a policy based on the following points:
- Radical reform of bankruptcy and inadequate law Merli (n. 319, 1976);
- The enactment of grandmothers techniques on water purification:
- The retention of river water, in order to safeguard the natural self-purification capacity;
- New legislation on bathing in relation to the enhancement of the tourist areas.
12) Protection of air quality
Prevention and mitigation of noise pollution
In much of the instruments of containment air pollution coincide with those for the rationalization of energy production; the problem is also linked to a large extent, to traffic, the solution of which involves radical interventions on spatial planning, urban and intercity public transport, the parking policy and access to urban centers, the quality of the discharge. As for the emissions caused by production activities, the necessary regulatory activity, which however must not compromise the objectives of environmental protection and quality of life, must take account of employment needs and business, acting not only on tools sanzionatoli, but also on the incentives, both fiscal and in the form of investment, and ensuring the protection of the companies that have converted the activity in terms of increased environmental protection over the competition that are not appropriate.
As for the noise, considering the broad correlation with the problems of air pollution, it will predict the recovery plans of a general nature in harmony with the other sector, according to instruments and methods of intervention similar.
13) Waste disposal


Strategic objective is to reduce as much as possible the production of waste and, therefore, plants
disposal. This implies the reorganization of our relationship with the waste, through recycling and
mode of production base, so as to bring back the lives of the products at a cycle that includes a
form of reuse, rather than just neglect.
The refusal must thus be transformed from waste to resource, reusable and recyclable in the production processes of goods and
energy, according to a principle that has already found a validation at EU level.
Mining activities in the field of mining, quarrying and peat bogs.
Given the damage caused to the area by prolonged lack of planning of mining activities.
the main objective is to complete a framework law, according to the following
principles:
- The manufacturer must be taken to the recovery area at the end of mining, providing about appropriate economic guarantees.
- Simplification of procedures, while safeguarding the professionalism (regional register of miners);
- Regional planning and administrative discipline by municipalities through concession.
They must also be transferred to regional and municipal powers still relevant central state.
related to mining policy and the excavation in the beds of water bodies, so that these skills are
confirmation report to a more comprehensive planning and management.
Environmental Impact Assessment (VJLA.) And high-risk industries
The street. should be the instrument of the integrated ", to be implemented at the regional level, which
It is to examine, from the design phase, of all the environmental aspects and risks related to
realization of a work or a plant.
This implies the unification and integration of related administrative and authorization, according
the principle "only assessment for a single authorization."
The logic of the integrated approach "should also lead the ongoing revision of the legislation on risks
industrial and transposition of Community legislation to address this issue, in relation to
quantity and quality of hazardous substances that are used in industrial processes.
Environmental protection in the energy sector
The stimulus to the production of electricity, if stimulated in proportion to the performance
energy systems used and the containment of emissions, has positive impacts on both the budget
companies both on the state of the environment, as it creates jobs in the energy industry that operates on
systems of small and medium size, reduces dependence on foreign energy and reduces dependence
elephantine state structures that have controlled the situation outside of all logic of the market and of the
out of any local environmental requirements.



The large systems must be designed or renovated according to the principles of savings
energy, reusing the low-temperature heat, cogeneration, district heating, with a benefit
net immediately for residents of surroundings of plants, both economically (lower expenses
Heating and others) and environmental (eliminated local polluting emissions).
They must be removed constraints, shackles and autorizzatile regulations for the exploitation of hydropower
with systems of small and medium size by individuals, who, in respect of that guarantee outflows
the ecosystem of the individual rivers and streams and the overall watersheds, should indeed be encouraged to
Recovery situations abandoned and for creating new resources: the only recovery of existing resources and
renewable equivalent to the construction of some thermal plants of large size and has a lower cost, even
from the environmental point of view.

The issue of nuclear energy must be re-addressed conscientiously and carefully, and without demagogy,
the prospect of new generations of reactors with a high safety factor.
In this sense, they should be evaluated rationally the actual energy needs in the medium-long term, on
the basis of the potential of the existing plants for the production of electric energy, natural resources which
It can draw on, as well as the changes taking place in the different productive sectors.
17) Radiation protection
The legislation will have to be restated in the field of ionizing radiation, as well as relevant references to
directives C.E.E. and the most qualified international recommendations, must contain:
- Reference to a single authority for the whole issue, to aspects of authorization, for supervision, with strong territorial characterization.
- Grandmothers for the protection of the patient during the implementation of, examinations and treatment with the use of radiation.
- Rules for the management of nuclear emergencies, also originated in other countries.


- Deepening delta problematic of natural radioactivity that, under special conditions, may be an important risk factor.
- Protection of the population, workers and industry compared to risks associated with even need recycling, which, increasingly, are contaminated by radioactivity.
- Identification of sites for the final location of radioactive waste arising from medical and industrial activities; As regards, however, the issue of non-ionizing radiation (radio frequency, radio waves, electromagnetic fields), require immediate legislative measures, in line with international recommendations and with scientific trends on the issue, both for the protection of the population and workers . 18) Information, participation and environmental education.
The rights of information, control, and participation in environmental matters are almost completely disregarded by law for the simple reason that they are not matched by the precise duties of bread
public administration. Lack the tools to monitor its implementation and to punish the officials defaulted.

They will continue to churn out "Bills of Rights", but the real problem is to set a "Table of duties" for the
bureaucracy, reorganizing it according to two principles.
- The accountability of officials.
- Democratic control of the users.
The federalist democracy, for support on a base of controls from below, in addition to ensuring the information
environmental, it must recognize associations of citizens the right to intervene in proceedings
administrative and judicial. use in some cases the institution of the referendum, giving impetus to systematic
education initiatives and environmental awareness, in collaboration with the environmentalist associations.
Environmental protection is not possible without an educational activity, involving the school system at all
levels, allowing citizens to interact in a conscious and responsible.
Education, training and environmental research are also aimed at new skills, professions and
technologies for the ecological conversion of the economy.
PROGRAMMATIC PRINCIPLES OF SOCIAL SERVICES (SUMMARY).
11 Program for Social Affairs of the Northern League tends to rejection of statism, understood as individualism that denies the nature of man and close friend sees in society an association utilitarian and that results in a collectivism that stripped the man of his personal dignity, reducing it to a mere object of social processes and especially economic. The society tends to standardization, to flee in the impersonal, the absolutizing of the standard of life, so much so that the man is reduced to an object of social policy and not subject to, as an actor of social policy. It should re-evaluate the principle of solidarity, which is enshrined in Article 2 of the Constitution, which is simultaneously rooted in personality and sociability, because then it aims to perfect the first. The Northern League intends to promote a new culture of human rights as service culture, by recognizing that welfare is not abstract from the individual or collective community, but a process of reciprocity in order to protect the common good.
This implies the creation of a new law, a law of cooperation, associations, voluntary, law that is still struggling to emerge, because the welfare contrasted with each other "public" and "private", giving the social organizations intermediate a marginal role. We must start from the local communities, through a network of relationships that develop between all the communities, from the smallest to the largest, in order to create an organization of exchanges and relations whose ultimate aim is the common good, because the good of each is the good of all, and because it is required the expression of all social groups interested in the welfare of the community in which they live.
It 'must, however, that the state, too centralized and too prescriptive, declining to be runic actor and manager of all or the major part of the services, to focus on the formulation of safeguards to ensure effective sharing of rights and responsibilities by of all stakeholders and to allow local communities to participate, through the institutionalization of such companies and through greater synergy and reciprocity, because the political cronies have become something more and different from welfare to buy a more general sense and more differentiated, both with respect to the concept of well-being that compared to the actors of the latter. The State is under a system of society as a whole, under the system of legal guarantees universal and material security guaranteed to all (minimum subsistence guaranteed).


It 'also important that the new servants / encourage and strengthen the social know the autonomia- knowing how to strike on himself, the mutual aid, self-help, the strengthening of cooperation and voluntary agencies working level the local community. Thereby. the state assumes more responsibility for it must monitor the effective implementation of this mourning. because all social needs are covered and guaranteed, even if management of them and not concentrala in his hand but is delegated and decentralized manner involving all users, instilling a new sense of civic duty, and encouraging home care. This means greater empowerment of citizens, increased promotion of solidarity activities (in full harmony with Article 2 of the Constitution), better relations between the haughty grief of social networks, more action and looking for welfare.
So the new welfare state will have as a destination and as a general rule of thumb for any action undertaken by it, producing greater solidarity autonomous in order to increase the responsibility of citizens and to protect the common good that is in all social relations .
One can not fail to note that the very people who denounce the crisis of the welfare state and the lack of solidarity of the welfare state. strongly support its continuation, not realizing that their welfare state, as manifestalo in Italy in recent decades, is the origin of individualism that today negates solidarity So the new frontier of social policy is not recognizing new individual rights but to promote relational goods that are common goods.
Interventions to support the family. The Northern League believes that the family should be of priority interest in the choice of interventions as a community education and training more important for now and just when it is no longer the foundation of society take over the massification and depersonalization
If it does not see hyenas recognized as the most specific place of primary reciprocity between the sexes and generations. not be replaced by other forms of society, creating huge imbalances and processes marginalizes / ion this certainly would suffer first, the weakest members of society, primarily children and the elderly, not to mention the disabled and people in existential difficulties.
And a society that recognizes and protects the family necessarily create social problems against which no longer has the key employees that are necessary to solve them. because, in a complex society, is the family that provides the resource base for the maturation of the personality of the individual and for the production of meaning in everyday life What diseases can result from a start-latency radical family is something we can not imagine.
a) Interventions for young couples financial interventions involving the granting of loans or aid finanziali without interest. Revaluation of the institution of parental leave. Right of priority in the allocation of alloggiai being married. Reformulation urgently institute checks family
b) Interventions against unborn life and childhood. Immediate drafting of a statute of the embryo and other standards on bioethics Increasing positive actions in support of motherhood as an alternative to the choice of abortion. Payment of a lump sum for the birth of a child, accompanied by vouchers for services (such as childcare). Strengthen the nests of tenement managed independently by the families. Provides for the reorganization of kindergartens click consults / ion of families for the definition of the educational. Establish rules governing the hospitalization of the child with the opportunity for parents to take advantage of the accommodation and the food.
e) Family and Work. Flexibility of working time and extension of parental leave for working mothers, until the third year of age of the child, the parent's presence guaranteed in the event of serious illness of lime. payment to the working mother of 100% of earnings in the period day absence due to pregnancy-birth maternity and extension to the adoptive parents and the facilities above affidatali
d) Minimum vital family. Guarantee a minimum income capable of assuring each individual the satisfaction of his basic needs, that is, the minimum availability required to conduct a free and dignified.
e) Fighting poverty. Reform of the tax system, considering the family primary subject, through the creation of quotients family (household income and divided by the number of members).
f) Health and social services. Promoting the integration of the family in public services and initiatives of solidarity family or neighborhood aimed at keeping the patient in the home environment. Organisation of services consultoriali. protection of the hospitalized child and familiarization of childbirth, promotion of home care, creation and development of palliative care units, and recognition and promotion of forms of solidarity help both associative that cooperative.
p) Promotion of associative-based family. Promotion of self-organizing capacity of households, promotion of voluntary family-based, incentive forms of cooperation and solidarity of families, political representation of these associations through the creation of special bodies.


h) family and school. Collaboration between school and family perspective dell'affiancamento collaborative.
i) Family and mass media. Clear regulation of the broadcasting of television programs, in order to protect
childhood and adolescence.
1) Domestic violence. Approval of a charter of rights and duties of children, strong campaign
^ awareness against violence, as well as the intervention of the office of the state in cases of violence, with more
aggravated offense committed within a stable and lasting.
m) Families of fact. Refusal to recognize the de facto families, except when you are in the presence of a child, and
Taking account of themselves only to the individual case, through judgments of the Constitutional Court.
n) single-parent families and single mothers. Social policy measures in favor of single mothers, with the same
rights of married mothers and aid to couples in crisis through family counseling.
o) The family planning clinics. Strengthening the role of family planning in order to make it a place of
unification of different responses as opposed to a culture conducive to the division into sectors.
p) adoption, custody and joint custody. Placement of foster joint, where both parents are considered affidatali, which means that every decision of any importance must be taken jointly, to prevent disturbances arising from the separation of their parents.
q) Equal opportunities. Effective removal of the cultural obstacles that impede the full equality, through a campaign to raise public awareness, in schools and in the workplace, with an education of boys and girls to take on more mature awareness of their own place and responsibilities in the world.
u) B child distress. Expansion of the organization, public or private, tend to socialize and to the recovery of difficult situations. Establishment of a socio-medical-psychological counseling centers inside to act as a system of information to young people, to prevent juvenile malaise. Awareness campaigns for young people and parents to help them understand each others' needs and vice versa.




BI0ETICA.
And 'urgent drafting of a statute of the embryo that stigmatizing those behaviors offensive to human dignity and setting out the limits beyond which you should not go, in the field of biological experimentation.
THIRD age Enhancement of initiatives tending to the social (leisure centers, community centers) and the performance of an active role of the elderly. Support for initiatives aimed at strengthening the human and social relations of the elderly and to prevent irregularities senile through culture, education and social life (universities of the third age, socio cultural animation). Developing opportunities for integration of older people in the initiatives of a social (voluntary), and the reuse of older people in the work context (work of social utility). Implementation of measures of information and awareness on the prevention of geriatric diseases. Realization of supports basic care (housing, social assistance and home care, tele-aid, family support). Establishment of shelters on a human scale, residence and nursing, hospitalization at home, where possible, with the upgrading of existing shelters. Palliative care interventions, support for people suffering from Alzheimer's, cancer care for the elderly, psychogeriatrics interventions, support for terminal patients.
SOCIAL DISEASES a) Handicap. Three are the priorities as local authorities must do to support families, the employment and scholastic integration.
Local Authorities should take handicapped in its staffing plan, ensure the training or retraining of the subject and ensure that families have a continuous service, enabling housing community centers and social riabilititativi and help service staff As for the inclusion working, priority is lowering the rate to 7% compulsory recruitment distributing it equally among people with reduced working capacity and ability to work full. Equally important is the creation of a commission entrusted with the preliminary investigation, to detect elements objectively assessed. Then, they must be assessed the potential and / or working skills, through experts in the world of work. Must be provided: incentives for the company by the local authority, deductions on the income from the state, awards for recruitment at the end of a period of training, job placements. Total support to the formulas of wage (a part of the wages paid to the company, a part of the local authority). Careers and prelavorativi centers in normal form / ion professional or common school. No to sheltered workshops and special departments in companies due to their inherent marginalization.


Creation of courses for disabled prelavorativi intellectual with training activities at public or private companies, laboratory exercises and teaching activities aimed at achieving maximum autonomy As for school placement, should be given special importance to the dynamic-functional profile of the circular . 250 of 3 September 1985, to overcome fragmentation of effort, but rather to support collaborative work. Revalue the figure of the teacher support, too important to be relegated to a marginal role and often unnecessary.










b) Development of mental-health services in the local area that will enable the patient to maintain relationships with your family and environmental group, speaking in support of families and social and work. Refusal of the previous asylum institution, source of promiscuous coexistence between different diseases, separation from loved ones and from social stimuli, lack of privacy and all the functions needed to recover rehabilitation of the mentally ill. Need for greater integration between health and social services. e) Addiction. Without going into the merits of the problems associated apt repression of crimes related to the use, the canteen and the trafficking of drugs, from the point of view of the social significance of the phenomenon highlights the need to act in two directions: prevention and treatment. Prevention: promote coordination between public deputies in this (town, Ussi, school) and between them and the private structures (associations, voluntary work and family), increase and improve the efficiency of information on the matter, especially among young people care : From the social point of view, ie excluding the strictly health implications, it is necessary to increase the number of public and private structures aimed at the recovery of the addict not only in the forms of the therapeutic community, but also the residential centers. E 'must also ensure a better control on the effectiveness of the work of such structures recovery.
d) alcoholism. Legislation enabling immediate strategy social and health oriented global prevention of alcoholism and in the care and reintegration of the person alcooldipendente. Regulation of advertising of alcohol.
e) social exclusion. Increased controls on the carrying out of compulsory education. Held: promote all activities of rehabilitation within the prison, useful to the future reintegration of the prisoner into society. In any case, the conditions of detention must permit a satisfactory level of social relations, compatibly with the objective security needs.
Immigration: notwithstanding the refusal of immigration intended as demagogic and irresponsible solution to address the problem of! pauperism world, consider the issues raised in the social policies of the government in this regard taken Reiterate strongly rejection of the racist policy of disparity of treatment between Italians and immigrants in need poors- the immigrant as is recognized the right of residence, should benefit the same rights and duties (civil, not political) of Italian. No, therefore, to the collection centers available only to immigrants, ghettos, sources of lawlessness, promiscuity and social tensions. No care services and health services preferential for immigrants, who make up an undeniable injustice for the marginalized Italian. It is to strengthen the structures, public and private, aimed to the assistance of all the marginalized, regardless of race and nationality. No pseudo cultural interventions aimed at spreading a mentality multiracial, hence the loss of the sense of belonging to their ethnic identity, culture and religion of the Italian populations.
f) Homelessness. Stimulate the activity of welcome and assistance from the social actors, public or private, operating in the area, providing also that public action to promote the social reintegration (home and work) of those assisted.
VOLUNTEER. ASSOCIATIONS AND SOCIAL cooperativism. Establishment of a legal framework on associations which recognizes the important civic role, giving autonomy (including financial) to deserving organizations, establishing relations with the institutions, so that through the associations will be to set up an indirect financing of political parties. Reassess citizens' associations, cooperatives, where the same do meet the common needs (the common good) and the volunteer work that often makes up for chronic deficiencies of the state.
PROGRAM Health
PREMISE.
When talking about the crisis of the National Health Service (NHS), and substantially implicitly refers to the failure of the law 833/78, so as statement of principles as the possibility attuatile. Failure to recognize this, basically, two lawsuits: one political, the other economic.


The first is the direct result of a health care strategy consociational pseudogarantista that he should sanction (the conditional and must) the constitutional equality of citizens in the defense of corpses
The assumption THEREBY CAUSED of "a free health care for tutu", as a key element of a welfare state that could be defined. It began vacillare- especially in the last decade, under the blows of a historical spending out of control m where individualistic interests inextricably mixed with other party, have finally prevailed, leading the financial management of Health to dangerous levels of bankruptcy besides absolute inefficiency
This was essentially the result of this strategy
welfare-patronage towards conduzione- management of public health, both at the central level peripheral territorial state.
If this political motivation can have its undoubted importance, the second, economic, and not least the increase in life expectancy and therefore the considerable increase in the number of elderly people with the classes of diseases, an increase sommali considerable performance
diagnostic and therapeutic high technological level and then by elevali costs, distributed to all age groups, thulium not separated the appropriation of public goods and services as well as of consumption are not always supported by an acceptable basis motivational. Well all of these moons causal components accidents economic factor, they could not undermine the existing system, however,
compromised by strategic health policy choices proved completely wrong.
The direct consequence of this has been a progressive gap Ira annual increase in health care costs and GDP growth. mancalo associated with a relationship between increased expenditure and identical increase in benefits.
This evolutionary process costs blatantly denied the principle that free health care would improve people's health to such an extent as to reduce the overall cost of the assistance
In light of these considerations, we can not avoid a negative critical judgment even against the current compulsory contribution to which is bound the citizen. in the face of high taxes, has not
findings into adequate services not only in the future but will be forced to pay more and more for less and less Ne. almi of bread. as an alternative, it is proposed forms of contribution exclusively voluntary institutions
the insurance that they do not give, by contract, covering over a certain age and for certain types dr pathology, thus excluding the weaker and vulnerable population Between these opposing systems, the Northern League will promote, we will see in the proposals, a strategy but differentiated contribution to the harmonized social terrain in mourning his levels.
Some considerations then impose the way of Legislative Decree 502/92 and the 5 7/93 change previous decrees that substantially disregarded the expectations of both the health care workers as citizens
users and that is because, through these measures, not creating the conditions for a genuine regionalization of Health, a strategy for economic-financial and administrative state and detached by the mortgage
soak more relevant to different territories, for a clear separation between health policy and management policy guided by the latter, to a self-control spending and a drastic elimination of waste.



All this is the priority because our National Health can adapt to European standards not only in legislative but also in terms of organizational efficiency that, however, do not allow that in an area so important in life National, they tend inexorably towards an intolerable condition Third World.
If it is true, then, that in Europe we will have to go with a strong currency and a healthy economy, prepare to go with an efficient health.
1) organisational- INSTITUTIONAL REFORM.
- Full financial autonomy, administrative, legislative to the regions in the field of Public Health and privala - rely to the regions of the decision-making power regarding the number and operation of future health districts m as replacement of existing USSL.
- Enhancement of the Provincial Administrations in matters of territorial control of Health and elimination of conflicts of jurisdiction between local authorities.
- Maintenance by the state of residual powers in the health field such as public health, the policy of prevention and prophylaxis as well as certain obligations in the international health policy.
- Scaling with limits on the powers of intervention of the Minister of Health.
- USSL radical transformation in health districts to autonomous administrative juridical personality - acquisition by the future regional health facilities, the characteristics of real "special companies" in business management.
- Certification of financial statements and the levels of effectiveness and efficiency by, respectively, the companies audit and ad hoc committee formed.
- Introduction of processes all'incentivazione targeted towards health care and the implementation of control systems locking spending.

- Competition notices for healthcare professionals and administrative regionally.
2) REFORM OF SERVICES OPERATING BASICS.
- A) the hospital reform.
- Full financial and administrative autonomy, decision-making to the hospital administration, scorporale from USSL or future districts healthful substitutes, according to managerial criteria - company with its own budget.
- Selection of medical, paramedical, administrative through regional competitions, favoring the recruitment of residents with commissions of competition free from external political interference but operating with conceptions meritocratic.
- Contribution to the figures directives of that decision-making power, now debased, with clear definition of roles, skills hierarchies.
- Contribution to hospitals with high-tech with the legal power to graduate medical specialists and paramedics.
- Reports of non-interference between University Hospitals and in compliance with the principles of cooperation and upgrade.
- Acquisition by the hospital staff with a private law contract to replace the current audience, with compensation divided into a fixed bread, stuck to real values ​​and a contingent bread variable coefficients commensurate with the productivity and management achievements.
- Publicity of committee meetings and administrative hospital Budgetary Control by specialized companies audited.
b) the reform of primary care and specialized medicine.
- Strengthening the image and role of the doctor in charge of the base giving the power to decide that today is private.
- Discouraging at the GP of easy policy prescriptions with reappropriation of their autonomy to the Institutes insurance and towards patients.
- Proposals incentives to doctors of the area, to finalize contain excessive demands and not justifiable admissions, diagnostic tests, therapeutic prescriptions, abandoning the vision ospedalocentrica Health as no longer functional community needs for increasingly higher operating costs .
- Creation of multipurpose facilities outpatient primary care in the area with the cooperation and participation of specialists, therapists, nurses to manage financially, with individual or collective strategies budgetary category.
- Evaluation of the Image of the practitioner in terms of health education, preventive medicine, first level of care with particular reference to the elderly, the chronically sick with cancer



- Creation of special facilities, bearing in mind the needs of seriously ill and / or violent; allowing the final overcoming of judicial asylums; alternatively transformation in the sense of rehabilitation of the latter and their passage by the Ministry of the Interior to the Ministry of Health.
- Strengthening of volunteering and social privalo: start of training and upgrading of staff specializzalo, especially for rehabilitation activities and socializing.
- Economic support to families who undertake to assist their patients.
3) Emergency AIDS.
- Revision of Law 135 for the prevention and the lota against AIDS because as inadequate at the present time.
- Upgrading of hospital facilities to accommodate to those with AIDS.
- Systematic checks on the obligations of reporting by the doctor of the bread forms of LAV. ARC. AIDS proclaimed according to the current legislation concerning infectious diseases.
- Allocation and distribution of disposable syringes locking
4) Emergency drugs.
- Certainty of punishment in the repression of drug dealers.
- Decriminalization as by referendum, the personal use of drugs with high efforts to fight the liberalization and encourage legalization check it through voluntary and mandatory medical treatment.
- Increase in health care facilities and rehabilitation.
- Greater impact in the anti-drug campaign in every school.
- Increase international cooperation in the fight against drugs.
3) REFORM CONTRIBUTION - INSURANCE.
- Abolition of compulsory health insurance at the National Health Fund (as referendum initiative) and free choice of bread citizen of coverage from private insurance or from sickness funds or mutual professional and "non-profit".
- Revision of the insurance system in terms of mandatory health insurance coverage, coverage currently voluntary or optional caratterizzala as constraints on bands of pathology and age. thus providing clauses for chronic care and elderly without limitations.
- Possibility of being able to deduct, for citizens with private insurance mandatory health insurance, their premiums from taxable income for the purpose of personal taxes (income tax) for figures not exceeding one cerium amount.
- Ensure the two possibilities of direct and indirect assistance to payment and reimbursement as free choice of bread citizen, ensuring speed in bureaucratic procedures.
- Taxation of the costs for maintaining a Regional Healthcare Fund is intended to cover the risk of serious and protracted, through the normal processes of direct and indirect taxation.









