3222092
Italy goes to the polls and. for the first time since 1948, no one can predict what will be his choice, which country we will have later. And 'it demonstrated that a system is at sunset. Sets the eternal "centrality Dc", there is the eternal "enemy" who do barrier, there are no more excuses for that piece of the left that has allied with the center. Who asks for a vote of "continuity" mind. In any case we will have to change. Indeed deaths speak of re-founding of the Republic.
What's the matter? The problem is that Italy is a modern country ill, developed but threatened, strong but insecure, rich but unjust, democratic but disheartened to the state.
We are a country with a double-sided. A country at risk because the bad face can prevail over the good, as the rotten apple that infects healthy. So behave with common sense: before choosing a good way we evaluate the risks. And there are many, some unimaginable only a few years ago. And 'democracy at risk when the head of state is the first to use the pickaxe against it. institutions do not work, politics is corrupt, the public interest is replaced dall'arrembaggio particularism. And 'at risk the life of society when whole areas of the country are under the heel of the crime, and in the other there are those who want to break the unity of the nation. And 'at risk the right to work when the profits go to speculation and the development of the productive base. And 'at risk the savings when inflation persists. And 'at risk the fate of future generations when every inhabitant weigh 20 million of state debt. And 'at risk the quality of life when basic services are in crisis. If things look good, you'll see that the problems that plague us are the problems that have not wanted to deal with. We offer you some ideas to solve and avoid the risks.
They are not just ideas. Are our commitment.
Death of the republic?
No, sunset of a regime.
There are those who shouts or whispers that the Republic is dying. But we have another common good that this, and then we want to see clearly in these ads from dead Who (Cossiga) and from below (alloys) is proposed as a gravedigger what gives us in return? The republic's authoritarian leader and savior of plebiscites, the republic of Italian separated in the house (the North on its own, II South on its own). We do not agree, would pass from the frying pan into the fire. We do not like who caresses the 'party of the President "or who would like to use instrumentally bodies
armed state, the dreamer zones from national duties.
We know that the republic is in crisis, and we know why. Something has aged because of social and cultural changes. But the most it degenerated due to a special regime that dominates almost half a century? Thanks to the "cold war" and even after it, the De became a state party that uses public resources to maintain the consensus of economic oligarchies, bureaucracies, occult powers and separate, and also of popular layers that makes and breaks political alliances but always with those who accept or tolerate his domains. Consequence: the state has lost sovereignty and transparency, the economic system is distorted by the parasitism, the government looks increasingly like a fiefdom.
In such a regime has thrived "Italian mystery" made of subversive use of the security services, of coup attempts, covers the massacres black day General who lie even to the government. For 40 years there has been an illegal armed group, linked to foreign service, to fight the democratic opposition: the "Gladio" Cossiga who called legitimate, patriotic, praiseworthy, but a parliamentary report blames "unconstitutional progressive" .
It had to happen sooner or later, that such a regime would explode. Its symptoms are: the distrust of the people in the institutions, the open conflict of any kind between the same powers and organs of the State, the incarognirsi of political relations. So collapses functioning of the state. You're very careful: when the state performs poorly the first to pay the citizen weak. Thus, the crisis of the state is the foremost social emergency. But the solution is not to bury the democratic republic, is buried in this political system. To this we say: reforms parts.
We give a state to the citizens, not the citizens of the state.
The state performs poorly. The season of the reforms has to start here because it is the State that must attuartele that it can correct the market when it creates social injustice, it is that it provides essential services to citizens and businesses, protects the rights, guarantees our security? Then the health of the state is a matter of each of us. That's why the PDS puts this issue at the top of his I planned. We move two simple ideas: a state is democratic if citizens are masters of its institutions if a State's right, getting all fees, in exchange for efficient services and redistributes the wealth in favor of the weakest. This is based on our reform proposals.
A strong parliament. The Parliament must be strong to get rid of thousands of tasks and less of everything that belongs to the region must be really sovereign in two fields: the great laws and control over the government. Chambers may not duplicate each other's work than the other, but to specialize.
We offer: a National Assembly of 400 members (there are now 630) that makes the laws and the confidence in the government, and a Senate of 200 members of the Regions (today there are 315) to the legislation on regional and constitutional control over Government-Regions report. And we raise two democratic requirements; introduce mechanisms and positive action to increase the presence of women who are now under-represented; ensure the opposition penetrating powers of investigation and control.
An effective government. If the executive is subtracted to the games of political parties and invested more directly by the citizens, it can be reorganized as a strong political and administrative authorities, with greater powers and secure stability. In short, the Government of the Republic and the political oligarchies.
A new regional power. Anything that is not reserved for big national legislation should be attributed to the regions, so that our become a quasi-federal state.
This approach especially on the issues of the local and the economic and social life. This will require considerable fiscal autonomy of the regions. And is development of popular sovereignty: direct election of the president of the region and of its majority programmatic. Consistently, it will proceed to a full reform of municipalities and provinces and their delta finance.
That democracy and 'if people can not choose the government.
And here we are aita crucial question of political sovereignty of the people. You will not believe it, even if you have voted several times in ejections policies, you have not picked a bad government. You voted for a party but not knowing what use would your vote. Take the case one day who voted Dc: true and that his vote has served to bring the Oc to the government, but not to determine which government, with whom and, therefore, for which specific program. In the course of forty years the De decided (she, not his constituents) with those who govern now alone, now with right now with the centrists, golds with the yielding of sinistrai This created an absurd situation in the aspect Democratic: has always ruled the DC but there have been no fewer than 49 different governments: on average one every eleven months. So Italy is the only country to have a party powerful and weak governments. We have seen the same faces for decades, but that did not stability but inaction is not governance but division and looting of public resources is not authoritative policy but block of democracy, which by its nature, you mean the possibility of replacement. True democracy you mean that there are no catch-all parties and personalities, but that there are stable governments, chosen by the people, really can take big decisions and bring them to fruition.
This is the meaning of the electoral reform proposed by the PDS to give your vote to a real strength of decision. A reform that will allow you to give confidence to the party but also preferred to choose the government and its program. A government that, with your endowment, will be delivered from the ambushes and the bargaining secrets, which will last a legislature, and that, if it were to fall, it would cause a new electoral verdict of the people. No more catch-all parties, no more intercropping power inconsistent and quarrelsome, but a frank discussion and alternating sides programmatic recognizable. As in any mature democracy. In short, we must "restore the scepter to the ruler", that is, the power of decision to the citizens.
You could start with the direct election of mayors: a reform that the DC and PSI prevented resorting even vote of confidence, and that - if implemented - would put an end to the immortal's transformation of many local governments. And then go to the regions and the national government.
Economy: long lean (and great faults).
Olivetti, Pirelll, Italsider, SKF, besides thousands of small and medium businesses: Italy is flooded with requests for dismissals, mobility lists, layoffs, early retirement. 200000, 300000 dramas, personal in 1992. "The biggest crisis of the postwar period," said the union. And the government is doing? The last budget law raises taxes and levies equal to deity thirteenth of the average worker; and other front throws money to rain on the usual "protected 'not to lose votes. Where are we in our economy? At the end of the decade of the" fat cows "and penta, unemployment and inflation do not diminish, in exchange, the public debt has reached 1405000000000000 (was 421,000 in 1983). In 1991, production decreased of 'I, 2% but the deficit increased by 14%. In 1992 it is expected zero growth and a deficit of 150 trillion. What good is that people gain more if always lose the race between incomes and prices? What good is another aid if you lose your job? It all depended on how the government and bosses have wasted years of the expansion. Yes, in those years, companies have restructured giving a blow to the union, have begun to make profits but you are equipped for their future competition: decreased the quality of our products, foreign competition began to strozzarci. Were reduced costs, have not improved the goods. Meanwhile, the government, with its senseless political patronage that swelled public debt, had a strategy of general modernization of the system, and everything is rapidly aging infrastructure, training, services businesses. By the way, you know that Italy is the last among the major European countries in the use of trains and aircraft, and is the first in the number of days required to deliver a letter? So, if the individual company could get rich, the Italian system has lost the ability to compete and even prosperous companies have started "knocking". And if it were not for foreign tourism (but the mountains and the sea are not the work of the government) would also to the currency collapse. In addition, the 80 will be remembered as those where the distribution of income has worsened, have widened social differences. An example, and not the most outrageous: an employee pays an average of 8 million contribution, a "stand-alone" less than 2:30. An Italy unjust. And now, as cicadas greedy and careless, we pay the crisis, with the risk of a "de-industrialization". But it is up to us - that we have been deceived and defrauded - put the bill to those who ruled.
Economy: how to become a European country.
If you want to return to the path of development we need to change economic policy. The PDS has prepared a ten-point program. Its purpose is to have a dynamic and open, capable of innovation and expansion in terms of financial strength of the state. There are urgent rehabilitation (public debt first) we face. We see only two right ways: to charge all but in justice, eliminate the bubble of waste and cronyism. Here is the first important choice: make a giant shift of resources from protected areas, patronage and parasites to the sectors of labor and production.
Then there is the need for a large-scale modernization of the Italian system to ensure an economic, infrastructural and natural that encourages you productive enterprises. And here we have a special idea; an extraordinary investment plan coordinated by the state, divided into four "major projects" (as we called them us): energy, transport, telecommunications, ecological restoration and hydrogeological. So we doteremo Italy of a "social overhead capital" of Europe and we will block the dispersion of public spending.
While we will continue this strategy we will provide designs for coordinated industrial policy for the farm, for the tourist, for school, vocational training, scientific research.
It takes a different relationship between the public and private sectors. We say that the public should be only what is necessary to ensure the essential goods (such as the environment), social solidarity, the development of disadvantaged areas. But provided that it is efficient and transparent. It 'also important to establish, with strong rules, competition between public and private capital and enterprise in the offer of services, always letting the
citizen to choose. But we want to add that there is good this "Italian capitalism" as it is now: the ownership of the means of production is extremely tight, the bag does not promote the popular shareholding, the banking system is inefficient. We want new rules to democratize capitalism. For example, ensure that no family and group can seize significant shares of national wealth, and this not only for intangible assets such as information, in which the public presence is indispensable, because there is no monopoly more dangerous than that Exercising on knowledge and consciences.
We have a dream: above all the work.

Yet .Eppure ... nothing can replace the work (not cunning arrogance, dishonesty) as the engine of civilization. As there is eli civil, of progress in Italy brings The sign of the labor movement. His are the values ​​of justice, solidarity, equality written into the Constitution. Here are our objectives:
1. Full employment, strengthening the manufacturing base especially in weak areas (Noon), creating opportunities for mobility of creative professions, making the company competitive-ltalia with the new economic policy. You can not enter Europe with 11% of unemployed.
2. The revaluation of the work, eliminating the absurdity to which we pay slips read and labor costs more heavily (to give one hundred pounds more than it pays the companies have to spend more than 200); the introduction of the "minimum income" of which at even unemployment benefits.
3. The economic democracy, that is, the participation of workers in the determination of the purposes of the enterprise, its technical innovation, the organizational, productive choices, the shareholder structure.
4. Equal opportunities for women and men, through systematic "positive actions" that go beyond the formal equality between the sexes and enhance the work of reproduction and care of reorganizing the time of everyday life.

We have a dream: a more cohesive society.
We envision a society where they are not wolves he lambs tax evaders that take breath and life for the disabled, marginalized, homeless, sick evaders evidential that subtract pariah to pensioners at minimum. Climbers financial swell their rents destroying jobs. So to try other wolves and lambs. And our utopia, which created a program and we oniamato.
"The society of rights." We are not starting from scratch, there are institutions and laws of the rights but must rifondarne, bills of exchange in sunken, moralizzarle. E 'over a historical cycle of the "welfare state" Italian style, too expensive, disorganized, source of inequality, sometimes corrupt. And 'time of great social reforms.

Tax reform to eliminate the jungle of privileges and discrimination and give justice to the foundation of citizenship pact not increase the tax burden but redistribuiria with a strong reduction of taxes and fees paid by income from work: systematic fight tax evasion; equal taxation of the real interests of the investment income, replace Ilor, Invim, register a property tax with a low rate; eliminate secret II in respect of the tax; reform of local finance and regional.
The pension reform, promised a thousand times, never implemented. There are difficulties:
increase in the number of pensioners, favorable treatment that transform the board in assistance or donation patronage. You can raise the retirement age? Yes, but only on the decision of the worker and the worker. We propose a system financed by contributions from state coffers and the household savings that is convenient to everyone because it ensures a working board and a voluntary supplementary pension. There should be a "board of citizenship", a guaranteed minimum to all, equal for workers and citizens. Above all, to introduce a mechanism of automatic and universal protection of purchasing power of pensions.
The reform of the care and services. Italy is the only country develops to the EEC not to have a national system of care. A thousand and a thousand laws inequalities, much money and little protection actually a country with 8 million seniors and disabled a million real, we want a single, universal and 'assistance articulated needs: poverty, marginalization, disability but also youth policy , women and the elderly. And we, by the minimum income for disabled and indigent, a complete network of services for prevention, treatment, rehabilitation, social integration and of occurrence for those who have no prospects of recovery.

All less safe in life and in their material.

Strange road that goes down the concern for our physical sustenance, feel swell another concern, a more acute insecurity. Growing material goods but, together, grows around us the violence, lawlessness. It kills (even children), stealing, and kidnaps, rapes you. We feel surrounded by darkness from which can emerge suddenly threatened the E 'so that the shopkeeper scrutinizes the face of the unknown customer, so the retired looks around coming from the post office, so sbarriamo with the knife the front door, so the small industrial hires a private police. In the market of the docile dogs Setter it is replaced by the menacing Doberman.
There is no rule of law when the city is unsafe, when criminals come out of prison as if they were hotels, so that it circulates 22,000 identified, 85% of crimes go unpunished.
It is said, it is the common evil of developed countries. And 'only partly true. Italy has something special: in other countries crimes decrease, which we grow. In five years, the murders have doubled while in Japan decreased by 22% and Germany 10%. The difference is the mafia. Here the Italian specialties.
The Mafia is not just crime: crime is more government policy more. A fifth of its "turnover" is given by the proceeds of public contracts (a figure close to the drug).

STUK NIET GESCAND (you donker)

We also are the hard hand, but ... ..and
We also are the "heavy hand" against violence and crime. Because we want to live safely and without respect for the law also our dream of the left can not be realized. But what do you mean "hard hand"? It means to raise (to bring it up to 100%) the likelihood that the crimes are discovered and pointed the certain penalty is infinitely more effective than punishment fierce that remains on paper (one example: you kidnap the assets of the mafia). Mind you, the situation is so serious that a leftist government could not do miracles. But they would change, now, so many things. It would block terminals political crime, it would prompt improvement of efficiency of justice and of the police, it would have an offensive in the situation of a broader lawlessness. Here are some things that we would do.
Justice. Italy has few judges. If this Justice bad, it depends dahlia its poor organization and codes misdeeds. You need: to develop criminal procedural law and reform the civil trial; double the resource materials, and instrumental techniques available to the courts, strengthen judicial independence by defeating the attempt to subordinaria political power; the organs of self-government (CSM) ensure transparency, rigorous discipline, the refusal of corporatism because the other side of autonomy is the responsibility of the judge.

STUK NIET GESCAND (TE DONKER)

Post a good dictionary to the word "politics". You will find that it has two meanings. You will find that it has two meanings. The first is: science and art of governing the state. The other is: mode of action of those who participate in public life. You understand that organized a sit can not do without the policy, as a train can not do without the driver does not know the "science" and does not carry the '' art ', but only cares about the "way of acting" ie its conveniences? It happens what, for a long time, it happens in Italy: politics becomes cunning, the politician does not express more now but tends to enslave bribing and being bribed, forgetting the general interest and devoting himself to the exchange between consensus and favors, mixing public and private spartendosi shadows every space. The democracy degenerates into oligarchy. So politics becomes a dirty thing. Make it yourself, looking around, the account of how much dirt has accumulated in Italy. You we only give some suggestions in the form of a question:
- Where it went trillions to the earthquake zone in the South?
- How many highways, bridges, kindergartens, hospitals, schools, fake factories were financed and remain unfulfilled to 10 and even 20 years?
- Parties which have the support of the Mafia in the elections?
- To which the parties belong hundreds of administrators charged with bribery, corruption, extortion?
- Parties which divide banks and public companies?
- Who distributes the recommendations and assumptions more or less precarious day in exchange vows?
- Who allowed, tolerated, protected subversives and mass murderers who have twenty years of bloody history of the Republic? And now, the calculated volume of dirt, let's see if there is a remedy.
We try to make biodegradable dirty politics.
Berlinguer called "moral issue", and he caught criticism and irony. But he was right. Let's take a few examples of recent times, as quell'ex Dc Mayor of Palermo sentenced to ten years for contracts mafia, or the socialist president of the Province of Viterbo arrested for bribes, or that municipal councils dissolved for mafia. Corruption thrives where there is spare and public control, where commandos always gi themselves and create
Impunity in a regime of complicity and protection. So the first condition is to moralize change the ruling classes.
Let's face it: the Christian Democrats, to break free from encrustations 45 years in power, needs a good washing with a biodegradable detergent opposition.
But you have to go deeper to prevent the new ruling classes fall in the vices such earlier: we need new rules based on the principle: "not into temptation but by the certainty that anyone who pays wrong". This first of all want to say that politicians engaged in economic bodies and public services must play a role in the decision of the programs and objectives, and monitoring their implementation, without interfering in management. They should not touch personally even a penny. Here are some possible new rules and decisions:
the appointment of managers, incumbent political authority, must be excluded from the subdivision between parties and be of roses of competent candidates and clean.
As the state owns but does not respond to a public primary function is privatized, especially in social forms of property.
Authorities are really closed unnecessary formally dissolved.
the assumptions must be all for competition, and "calls" must be numeric and not registered.
Contracts are governed by stricter rules.
They are formally thinned administrative constraints (permits, licenses, permits, certificates) that are likewise opportunities for corruption and clientele.
It should be encouraged and regulated by law the user control of acts of public administration and the general ombudsman.
We really believe in clean politics. But we need one thing:
The support of the people clean.

To give a perspective to the left we break the pact dc-psi.

STUK NIET GESCAND (TE DONKER)

Craxi has responded by confirming the alliance with the Christian Democrats and riding the devastating activity of the President of the Republic, hoping thus to be named head of government. And to do that thing, if it would always dominate the Christian Democrats. See, you also would like to share what is not there: the government of the post-election, as if the will of the electorate did not count anything. Instead it is possible that the pact
DC-PSI bait minority, defeated at the polls. We fight because it is so.
You can obiettarci but what you put in place of the alliance DC-PSI?


First answer: if voters make the minority, if not scatter their iI vote in confusion inconclusive and demolition workers alloys and listucole no consistency, there are many forces (seen as yes in the referendum on the preference only) that can clump together around a reform project and attract other still uncertain. Second answer: the PDS itself as initiator and driving force behind that consolidation of progressive forces, in any case, according to the opposition or by going to the government; and, in any case, it wants all the left is shown joined to the appointment of the constituent reformer. The PSI now you say no, he prefers the Democrats.
It is left to the voters impose a different convenience. And the surest way is to support, by a vote, the proposal unitary political autonomy and ideal of the PDS.


Here's our identity cards we Democrats left.
We told you a little 'how we think and what we want. But what guarantee do you have that the words will follow the facts? So we just have to tell you, in a nutshell, about us.
We are those who have always fought against the penta. We are those who, through a harsh self-criticism, have overcome the old identity of the Communist Party, but without losing the positive values, and they are credible as a force of renewal because they started with renew themselves. We are not those who became involved in the shame and in the crisis of the political system but are open to new movements of the company: the liberation of women, saving the environment, voluntary solidarity, pacifism. We are those who want to rebuild the broadest unity of the left around a project truly reformist, without hegemonic ambitions.
We are those who, starting from the needs of the working world, they want to build a new civil pact between all Italians. In short we are and we want to be:
A party of values: equality, solidarity, social justice, integral democracy.
A party rights, and therefore we want to extend democracy to every aspect of social life: from the factory to the state.
A party of women and men, who want to reshape the company, the production facilities, the daily life in the light of female subjectivity.
A pluralist party that values ​​differences, he wants clean politics bringing it back in its legitimate limits, accepting the market economy with the aim of harmonizing the private interest with the social solidarity.
A regionalist party, pro-European, and therefore strongly internationalist anti-rockets-it is.
An opposition party that builds with people a perspective of progressive government and reformer.
This is the identity card of the PDS. To which must be added a last connotation: we (showed we are in areas that we administer) the party of the results. Now you are able to judge what will produce a success of the PDS. Try, for your part, wondering what would happen if the PDS was weakened and to come back to win those who have brought us to this point.
And ask yourself why all conservatives, forgetting other opposition forces, yes railed only against the PDS. Simple: because it is the only opposition that affects and constructs, which has been right on so many things (Gladio Cossiga), not sparing anyone. We have a belief: PDS stronger means democracy, labor rights no longer at risk. We do not ask our word. We ask an investment trust to be managed together.
