We renew Italy, together
The program of the Olive
for the Government 2001/2006
by Francesco Rutelli

Newton & Compton
www.rutelli2001.it

The program was coordinated by Iginio Ariemma

Typesetting: GI Graphics International, Rome Printed and set up in April 2001 at the Bindery South Ltd., Ariccia (Rome)
We renew Italy, together
The program of the Olive
for the Government 2001/2006

© 2001 Newton & Compton LTD Rome, PO Box 6214

The program was coordinated by Iginio Ariemma
ISBN 88-8289-563-7
www.newtoncompton.com

Typesetting: GI Graphics International, Rome Printed and set up in April 2001 at the Bindery South Ltd., Ariccia (Rome)
2001/2006
A vote that lasts five years
Italy is one of the most advanced countries in the world. With a growth rate higher than 2.5% and inflation under control, the challenges we face are not scary. When five years ago we were talking about modernization we meant just that, the construction of an economic and social system solid, mature and open to change. We initiated. Over the next five years, the changes will be even faster and more radical, and face them without traumatic repercussions on cohesion, the social balance and the level of welfare of the country is not granted. To succeed, we need two things: a political project and a reliable government authority can achieve it.

By 2006 Italy will be a different country from today, with a high level of competitiveness, a more dynamic development, a good social integration, unemployment back to their physiological limits, a state more modern, more efficient services, a set reform finally done, a starring role in the new international scenario. A metamorphosis, therefore, with respect to which the old economic and social models appear overtaken by events. We must therefore know how to call things by their name, which is often a new name. We have to design a renewed society, in a new country where everyone feels fully recognized and involved.

In this program, we seek proposals and concrete measures, with a credibility that comes from the results achieved in
five years by the governments of Prodi, D'Alema and Amato: the consolidation of public finances, the resumption of the development process, the entry into the euro, unemployment dropped below 10% - with 1,454,000 more jobs - the capitalization of the stock market tripled, the reduction in interest rates to 5%, the strong recovery of tax evasion, privatization and the launching of strategic reforms.
What we submit to the country, however, is not just a set of proposals is a new model of society, based on large basic choices and radical alternative to that envisioned from the right. Starting from our large roots - anti-fascism, constitutional patriotism, Christian culture - we want to build a society stretched forward and knows how to protect and develop the great values ​​of peace, freedom, democracy, social justice typical of the Italian and European reformism . So we want to clarify the thinking behind our government program, explain the logic that links the various measures, now give account of the objectives and expectations also not immediate.
We say now that we want more equity. Improving the lives of some can not mean the deterioration of the life of others, the development must be fully compatible with the protection of the person, of the territory, the water we drink and the air we breathe, and well-being for which we work You must be spread as much as possible. Our program confirms its objective of a balanced budget and the priorities of the reduction of public debt, in full respect of the Stability Pact and honoring Italian commitment for a strong, united and increasingly integrated. Our goal is a modern, faster decisions and achievements and lighter procedures, and constraints. A country where services and opportunities are the same for everyone: to the north and to the south, for employees and for the self-employed, for the employed and unemployed, for young and for old people, for men and for women. Without which no one is excluded. This is what we mean by reformism: creativity and responsibility.
We would like to insist on the responsibility. It is the common heritage of all the traditions that we represent - the left, the social Catholicism, liberal democracy and republican culture environmentalist. It is what allows us, if we draw a scenario, to do it on concrete bases. When the Italian right shake the specter of a centralized state, hypertrophied, welfare dependency, clinging to an image of the old country, that reforms undertaken over the past five years have permanently deleted. All the choices of our governments, from privatization, have however been in the way of effective liberalization of the markets, we have made it more competitive. Also it has started a radical decentralization of the public machine, guided by the knowledge that federalism can become destructive if not accompanied by a full assumption of responsibilities at local level. This is a first, clear difference between us and our opponents. But not, of course, the only one.
We are just as important as the collective growth potential and individual responsibilities, which should emerge from a framework of shared rules to guarantee social equity and equal opportunities for every citizen. Today many traditional conflicts, such as between the north and south of the country, public and private, between employment and self-employment, can be overcome - and we think it should be. Also moved by this conviction, our governments have dismantled its most pervasive and overwhelming the public apparatus. Redraw the borders of the state and the market does not mean, however, hoped that the dissolution of the former into the latter the right is often threatened. On the other hand, consider the market the miracle solution to all problems means repeat a recipe decayed long in any advanced country. Instead, we intend to work in a state slightly, but always and ever better able to guarantee everyone the right to security, justice, health, school, health - and effectively promote innovation. And in a secular state, which defends the values ​​shared by welcoming, on the inside, each difference.
To these assumptions inspired our idea of ​​welfare reform, we do not want either break down or privatized, but more and more customize, enhancing social solidarity and focusing on supporting the family responsibility. This can be done with a new social compromise between generations, making it universal and leveling up services, primarily health services, and increasing the freedom of choice of the citizens even within the public structure. Social spending will be directed primarily looking for work, and supported by projects such as the extension of the training cycle at all stages of life and the award of job placement for young people and for women who decide to return after maternity. Although the granting of a refundable tax credit to poor families, that is, net disbursement by the State to ensure the assistance, adequate income and access to employment in the same direction.
In welfare reform the link with education is fundamental. The future of a country depends today, first of all, by the preparation and training of its citizens, starting with young people. This is, for us, a strategic choice: to education intend to allocate unprecedented resources, to organize a special plan for upgrading of school facilities, staff training, promotion and monitoring of innovation in institutions.
We believe that the advent of new technologies and the development of the new economy are a great opportunity: to support and direct - to prevent investments, savings and jobs will dissolve in a few hours - and to put within the reach of all. This is why we insist on a much closer relationship between universities, research and business, and the need for continuing education - something substantially different from the traditional school cursus. Something that makes available to the worker, but also of those who has lost a job, it seeks, or wants a different one, the primary assets of companies in the XXI century: information and knowledge.
In the near future we will change the way we live, share, communicate, and above all to work. In a less rigid social order, the idea of ​​a permanent job you resize, while the young, as well as by many seniors still active, get a strong demand for mobility and individualization. At the same time, those who work in the most innovative - and therefore less regulated - wants guarantees that mitigate risk margins in some cases intolerable. We are therefore faced with a compound question, and the need to ensure a balance between new incentives and protection. This requires an active role, and in some ways unprecedented, the workers' union. For answers we intend to move in three directions: to offer to those entering the market a dowry for higher education or specialist, or start a business; create links with the world of work for those who are already in retirement age; recompose, in terms of rights and duties, the fragmentation increasingly evident in the world of work.
New technologies and immigration. This dual phenomenon is articulated as the crucial step of our other advanced societies. These are two inevitable aspects of our future, but also of two causes of the "uncertain certainty" which created many large contemporary fears. The Italian right uses it to shake the ghost of globalization threatening the identity, national or local level it is. It is an approach that we reject, because we are convinced that a mature society can not be closed in the face of changes and does not demonize the problems, confronts them.
Today science and its applications very quickly come into contact with daily life. The influence, the turn, the hatch prospects until recently unthinkable. It is certain that in the coming years we will face a number of popular revolutions - the media, medicine, genetics - we will put questions of all kinds. Scientific research must remain free. The ruler must encourage, and will do so increasingly. Asking in return, even for the role
significant due to private investment, more rigor and transparency. And more precaution in the dissemination and use of results.
Even immigration, if approached in the right way, can turn into an enrichment of the economic and social fabric. In naming Italy conjures phenomena related to illegal immigration and organized crime, that in recent years our governments have also fought with increasing commitment. But the 120 million migrants who live and work in the world are in the first place, for the countries that host them, a resource. A resource that is increasingly necessary today to meet the manpower needs of our businesses, tomorrow - a tomorrow very close - to fill our deficit of specialists in all areas related to new economies, recently estimated at 215,000 units for the next two years.
As to the issue of security, the first place in the concerns of the Italians, the state must ensure the physical safety and property of its citizens, and we are committed to do so firmly. We intend to counter so inflexible illegal immigration, and especially the new mafias that organize and manage. We want a tighter control and widespread local and justice more efficient, with trial times halved compared to today and a real certainty of punishment. But do not forget that, above all in security, a political project can not be limited to the repression of crime. On the contrary, it must first identify, and aim to eliminate their root causes.

Insecurity disturbs the south as the north, where the fear of crime is associated more often than that caused by illegal immigration. The issue of the North occurs in a discomfort due to the profound and rapid changes that have affected the company, the culture, the identity of entire areas, and raises a crucial question: how to combine global and local development and social integration? The
so-called "evil North" can not deal with transforming communities into fortresses and homes in prisons. Instead, we must rebuild the foundations of security, reporting institutions and figures involved in public policy close to the people - in the streets, neighborhoods, countries - and encouraging at the same time, the growth of networks of solidarity, places participation and communication in the area. Where society has undergone in recent years, the most dramatic decline, in short, must rebuild by focusing on the human factor.
In the south to the issue of security is added the problem of organized crime and the aftermath of a late socioeconomic but can no longer be treated using categories born with the unification of Italy. The Southern question, in 2001, has changed, and entire areas of the south know economic development surprising. In spite of conditions that remain difficult, it is now clear that to move a country, or even one region, is above all faith. Between 1996 and 2000 were born in the south 130,000 new businesses, most of which in the last year. In the same period we were created 363,000 new jobs, and tens of thousands more will be born, according to forecasts, in 2001.
These data are not random. On the contrary, they are the result of effective policies and demonstrate, for the first time in a long time clearly, that the gap between some regions and the rest of the country can be bridged by pointing to local development, with greater confidence in the territorial autonomies. Not tomorrow, today. Nationally, the south can be helped by acting on the emergence of undeclared work, training, safety, modernizing infrastructure and transport, and promoting better access to credit. But, before that, well those spending 150 trillion already made available by the Italian State and the European Union for the next five years represent a unique opportunity, the last before enlargement to the east. For the north, which open concrete possibilities for investment, and for all the
country, thanks to the recovery of the south will finally play in the Mediterranean, the role that the geopolitics of the awards.
Of course to the south, like the rest of the country, we have to provide an economic environment more flexible and competitive, continuing the progress of income policy. The decrease in the tax burden, that in five years we intend to go below the 40%, will be a boost to the development of the country, and the first step of the new pact between the government and social partners for the growth of the south and the achievement of full and good jobs that we consider the main goal of our project. A pact which we want to give a factual basis, and we have already verified the feasibility.
Our proposals for containment of government current expenditure and reducing the burden of interest on the public debt will lead to the Treasury about 70 trillion of additional resources, which add up to 30,000 recovered from tax evasion. It is 100 trillion, a huge figure, we know how to spend. The greater part will be devoted to families, pensioners, to a reduction in the levy on low incomes and low to medium, the support of citizens in difficult conditions, the extension of social services and of the voluntary sector and the third sector. The rest will be used to reduce labor costs and the tax burden for companies in all fields of research, innovation and environmental protection. In other words, to raise the quality of the production system.
Increase the competitiveness of companies, especially the medium and small that form the backbone of our economic system, ensuring uniqueness and quality, is one of our big goals. To achieve it we are committed to achieve a 30% Irap. Even more urgent, however, the public administration reform. That we have already taken, the self-certification and the Bassanini laws, but we need to accomplish, encouraging multi-level simplification and restorative justice. And encouraging wherever possible the mobi
ity, to offer through the study and the job opportunities to those who today is a disadvantage. But must also overcome the barriers that still limit anachronistic and hinder the ability to undertake, because of the obstacles corporate, professional services. And we must eliminate obstacles to free trade as the registration tax in the transfer of ownership, we intend to abolish in order to make it easier for everyone to buy a car, sell a house or land, detect and boost activity.
At the beginning of the legislature we have passed, at the cost of heavy sacrifices, a difficult passage, bringing Italy into the group of most industrialized countries. In 1996, he argued that the center-right government would mean a dramatic setback in the development of the country. Things did not go well. In contrast, Italy is a stalemate of the eighties, and now we know we can win the challenge of innovation. Of course, the task would be easier if the opposition had demonstrated a credible orientation, or at least some interest, for those institutional reforms that Italy needs to get out of the permanent transition of which seems, at times, a prisoner. On this point we want to, at least us be clear: the bipolar helps governability, but above all the political clarity of the offer. Armed with this conviction, the Olive Tree is presented in the elections more compact, with fewer lists than in the past. For we know that politics must adapt to a more dynamic, choosing transparent participation mechanisms that engage and restore trust in civil society.
An authoritative democracy must rely on a government that operates in quiet for a legislature, and that voters should be able to judge from the facts. Stability, greater strength and autonomy of the President of the Council, whether related to consensus and a clear popular mandate, mean greater responsibility. In this sense, the reforms must go, starting with the election law, but also for a new form of state. A great success goes
certainly considered the approval of the draft constitutional law on federalism, incomprehensibly not voted by the opposition. It now provides, with the help of all, a change of the second part of the constitution that, also, surpassing the current bicameral system, a Federal Chamber.
Institutional reforms are not only to land, finally, in an advanced democracy. They are required to have weight in Europe. That Europe we stepped out of choice, but that today, tomorrow and forever more, will give EU countries the possibility to have a greater impact globally. That of a Europe enlarged and united Europe is for us an irreversible reality. Why the Olive Tree is the party of the European Constitution, in which the federal institutions and citizens' rights are one.
Europe - and the world - expect a lot from our most authentic traditions. Thus, we intend to invest as no government has ever done before in an environment, a story, an artistic heritage unique in the world. Are the traits of the Italian identity, which is a really good town. At the same time, we want to address with the utmost rigor those that are, or are becoming, dramatic global emergencies: food safety, waste disposal, the warming of the atmosphere.
Citizens of 2006 we want to deliver a new landscape, to build together. A landscape not only by us but also by the words, the ideas and concrete gestures of all, because all are part. Something very different, therefore, from the cliché dear to the right. We know that ours is an ambitious program. But to support our ambitions are the results achieved so far, and the same qualities that ask voters to prove with their vote: commitment, confidence, passion.

FRANCESCO RUTELLI
The big challenges
The European Constitution
In a modern state
Southern Europe
Regular and integrated immigration
The new equity
A plural society
The future government will reduce the ministries from the current twenty-four to twelve, halving. With the reform, the prime minister becomes program manager, the one who plays the leading ideas and great challenges, becoming the guarantor to the electorate, its implementation and providing direction and unity of government. The program that we present has so behind this drastic, but fair, reorganization.
Each time has its own challenges. Before we open the great opportunities of the global economy: a choice that multiply, new markets opened up for companies, new forms of communication and information that affect our way of being with others, to learn. Alongside and together with these possibilities, new cultures face in the country, new social models are affirmed, with more speed in the passages between generations and new risks of exclusion, in a competition that is and will always be tougher. The exclusion of which would make the cost of the weakest first.

The European context with determination reached by the Prodi government thanks to the sacrifices made by all Italians, in itself reduces these risks. Now it needs government action that gives breath to the need for renewal of public services, stimulate investment, to return confidence and quality to the production system and offer new opportunities to young people as the elderly, so that everyone can aspire to a decent future. Our goal is an integrated company, which looks towards Europe and its strategic role in the Mediterranean. To achieve it are necessary, firstly, efficient institutions. Able to identify the lines of development of the country, to articulate a policy to pursue them, ensure their implementation. From this point of view, the reform started in recent years has already yielded great results, profoundly modifying the relationship between citizen and government, and laying the foundations for genuine cooperation between public and private.

But the full modernization of the country also involves reducing inequalities within it. Passes in the first luo
go, for the reduction of the gap between the different regions. It is a challenge that we launched in the years of our government. And already the noon has changed, with the most active local governments, industrial companies in the world connected with universities, major infrastructure in the process of being implemented. It can really become the generation that has solved the issue of the South.

From the south, at least physically, also passes the challenge of immigration. The results show that we can win it - acting more forcefully. Integrating those who come regularly, dealing with the strongest terms the illegal and offenders. Italy does not have to be a popular destination for the cracks of its control systems, but for the opportunities it offers to those who present themselves with the necessary requirements.

Our project looks at the fairness of the system as a whole. Be reformers modern means pursuing the reduction of diversity, drawing a society that excludes exclusion: race, age, sex. It means fighting for a country that recognizes and defends the rights of children, young and old. A country that guarantees women the opportunity to be active in society and in the family, which recognizes the work done in the home, that would eliminate the remaining obstacles to a full statement of its citizens in political, economic, civil.

Last but not least, the new social figures: consumers and volunteering, the real protagonists of a complex society in which the boundaries between public and private are discoloring and where you need to fight with all the means, possible abuses of those in economic power. In a right that proposes a model of society identified with the market, we oppose a balanced system, attentive to the rights, open to non-profit company and the voluntary sector, particularly in the area of ​​social services.

These are the challenges of innovation and tradition, between the roots and the future, a culture that has always plural must be able to deal with. A culture, and a policy, they must go back to be everyone.
The European Constitution
During the previous legislature Europe has been the reference point of our action. It was the bond and the stimulus to change the economic policy, modernizing the state, balance the books, to regain national pride, in a collective effort unprecedented. Joining the single currency is the great promise kept of the center. That in the coming years is to ensure, Italians, much more: a full European citizenship.
Italy in Europe will continue to assume all the responsibilities that, since 1957, place it firmly in the leading group of the Union. The national interest has, today, new missions. Participate with a leading role in the decisions of monetary policy and the ten-year program launched in Lisbon in 2000 to make Europe the world's most competitive multi-state region. Contribute to the realization of the body of European defense, operating since 2003. Cooperate to major project of the progressive expansion of a continent finally returned to its historical boundaries.
European cohesion policy should be strengthened by increasing the role of parliament and the executive committee; adopting a more generalized qualified majority voting; making use of enhanced cooperation between the countries of the head, if they intend to take action more effective, provided they are part of the Community, and remain open to new members.
With Prodi and Ciampi, and policies rigorously pursued by D'Alema, Amato and Visco, we entered in the Eurogroup. We defended well the lira and its purchasing power and, above all, the value of wages, salaries and pensions. It was not by monetarist policy, then, but of social policy. And the Stability Pact should continue to be our economic constitution, and in relations with the Union, both in relations between the state, regions, provinces, municipalities. Any project of fiscal federalism must therefore be compatible with this fundamental constraint European.
In view of the revision of the Constitution of 2004, Italy needs to commit to a federative process in which the national statehood will coexist with the new regional and municipal leadership. The European institutions should be strengthened and modernized, with a process of democratization from below that will involve parliaments and regional councils and municipalities, without conflict between a local and a global scale.
Everywhere in Europe, the right tries to resurrect an extremist nationalism devoid of real content. In Italy, the attacks of the League, but also of Forza Italy and An to the Charter of Fundamental Rights, approved in Nice unanimously by all member states, including Austria, are the local version, fragmented as it is disturbing, to this trend. But in his over-zealous anti-European, the Italian right has gone further, coming to lash out at constitutional principles in force for decades in our as in other jurisdictions, the principle of direct effect of the Community rules in the national system and the principle of prevalence Community rules on internal norms conflicting with them.
These are attitudes that do not question only this or that, but the same legal structure on which the community is based. In these attitudes - which, if put into practice, would bring Italy outside the - fortunately there is an antidote, the proposed new European constitution. Of which the Olive Tree is promoting as a large, one-party democratic Europe.
In a modern state.
Institutions, public administration,
federalism
Staying in Europe need an efficient state. From this awareness we rethought the whole general government. The ministries have been reduced to twelve. Making federalism field were transferred to regions and local authorities important functions. He conducted the biggest process of privatization and liberalization ever undertaken in the history of the country. The state budget has been reformed. It was computerized public administration, in which, even with the introduction of the evaluation of the results, has changed the employment relationship.
The public machine is ready for the scenario introduced by the constitutional law on federalism. Already, the state apparatus is lighter and, thanks to the one-stop shops and self-certification, the reduction of procedures and decentralization, closer to citizens. This has resulted, and will result, in significant savings - more than 3,000 billion a year just to self-certification. Now simplification should be extended so widespread, to the benefit of businesses, economic operators and families. It should be also completed the process of institutional innovation, in particular by acting on the second part of the Constitution to align the Italian legal system to that of many European countries.
The basis of citizenship:
quality public services

The first goal is to radically improve the quality of services provided by public administrations, a decisive factor for the implementation of the rights of citizenship and the development of the country. The second is an equally strong simplification of bureaucratic procedures. The dismantling of the public system, its reduction to a minimum, would be solved in the denial of citizenship rights. We need, on the contrary, significant investments, which make available satisfactory services for all. To this end we intend to define quality parameters and prepare, in collaboration with other European countries, a system of evaluation and monitoring that verifies compliance.
The public system must be open to private initiative. If some functions, such as security and justice can only be public spaces important for the action of individuals, and especially of the private non-profit, open in the field of personal services and the community. For large services like health and education they are not yet imaginable a role prevailing market and a parallel decrease in the public system, which unlike the Constitution requires to provide, at all, the fundamental performance. Private participation is also possible here, but in the respect of rules and parameters defined.
The work of the next five years will follow, then, three lines: the completion of the modernization of the administrative system, improve the quality of service and user protection, the impulse to sustainable economic development.
A few simple laws

For the reorganization of the legal sources are used at least 100 unique texts that accorpino standards for organic sectors, and the elimination of at least 12,000 500 laws and procedures. On another level, are deleted permissions and licenses superfluous, drastically reduced red tape, suppressed certificates. We also need to realize the integration of information systems of all public administrations, the first step towards that and e-government that can become, in a few years, a reality.
The access of citizens and businesses at the counter only closer, regardless of the constraints of administrative competence and residence, must be guaranteed. But modernization also requires the start up and run through the Internet to all the practices from home, from work or from terminals located in offices and public places; providing, by 2003, of all public services payable on line; the spread of the electronic ID card as a key to access to services offered by the public administration; the introduction of formulas of electronic commerce ("reverse auction" and market place) in the public sector, the completion of the national computer to connect to the best central government and local administrations.
Public employees

Modern administration must enhance its human resources. It requires training programs alternating and public employees - especially as regards computer literacy at all levels, especially urgent - with Italian and European investments not less than 2% of the total salary. Professionalism and motivation are then encouraged through new forms of recognition of merit, and appropriate touch-up of salaries.
From citizens to users

The transition from citizens to users, especially in the relationship with the government, is one of the small cultural revolutions of our time. Public intervention must ensure, first, quality, and for this reason must be submitted - especially in large facilities such as security, education, health and justice - in a strict verification of the results, good through certification procedures and implementation the principle of automatic compensation in case of untimely performance or of lower quality than expected. On the quality of public services and the abuses we will monitor the new minister without portfolio for consumer protection.
Administration for economic development

Privatization and liberalization are linked to a reform of local public services, which will allow a wider private participation. The system of independent regulatory authorities must be rationalized. As regards support for productive activities, you need to install the one-stop shop in all municipalities, with the state funding of the projects. They are guaranteed deadlines for the design and construction of major public works, the establishment of a single authority responsible for the management and implementation of major projects and the strengthening of project finance.
Our federalism: subsidiarity and solidarity

The principles of our federalism are the same that inspired the best European experiences. The first principle of subsidiarity, in its vertical double meaning - that values ​​the autonomy of local governments than the central - and horizontal - that recognizes the contribution of
society and private social the performance of public services. And the principles of integration and solidarity, through which the federal system respects and strengthens national unity. Our idea of ​​subsidiarity in the distribution of powers between various local authorities, marks a profound difference in the conception and practice of the right. In regions where the ruler, in fact, the right acts as a high new local centralism, which suffocates the autonomy and slows the process of decentralization to municipalities and provinces. A shift that conjure our assumptions, as well as prevent harmful policies such as the indiscriminate privatization of services.
The system of regional autonomy

Our model of autonomy is a multi-speed, that allows the regions, when preparing their statutes, to link up with the state and with local authorities taking into account the needs of the different territories and the maturation of the federalist process.
Fiscal federalism

The principles of subsidiarity and solidarity is also inspired our conception of fiscal federalism. The fiscal autonomy of regions and local authorities can express itself not only in sharing the duties of the State, but also in forms of self-taxation. The general principle is that the regions must be able to fully finance their functions, without recourse to traditional government transfers.
The concrete contents of fiscal autonomy can not be fixed once and for all, but must be defined in agreement between Regions and State, in a fiscal pact that will be taken in the budget laws and financial equalization approved by parliament. It must however ensure forms and
instruments of solidarity the state and / or inter-enable the less prosperous regions of guaranteeing adequate services and promote the development of their communities. To settle the needs of different actors - a task that now falls to the State-Regions-local governments - will be in the future, the Federal Chamber.
The allocation of fiscal resources will enable the development of all regions, not only of the richest. Here too, we reject the proposals of the right of the north, who wants to attribute up to 70% to the territories of origin, leaving the State and to the equalization fund the remaining shares. It is ideas that denounce once again the distance between our conception of a modern federalism and solidarity and decentralization meant, beyond the declarations, as overall defense of privilege that threatens to tear apart the national unity.
Towards new institutions

In the last parliament, the opposition has prevented it from achieving the objectives we set ourselves. The failure to reform the constitution, electoral laws, the role of the Prime Minister and the government, the current bicameral system have blocked the process of transformation of the Italian system started with the direct election of mayors, and later with that of presidents Region. It is a path we want to take.
It should provide stability to governments, by tying the fates of the executive with those of the legislature. With an electoral law that entrusts the voting choice of a majority government and the Prime Minister. The Italian legal system is in line with that of the European countries of consolidated democracy, studying forms of participation of parliament and regions in community decisions, and defining mode of connection between state and regions for the implementation of laws and decisions of the European Union. Our new international role requires us also quick decisions and timely when Italy
It is called to assume particular responsibility for the defense and consolidation of peace and civil coexistence. The next Parliament must then complete, with the concurrence of the majority and the opposition, the institutional modernization of the country, in harmony with the building of a political Europe.
We therefore aim to ensure the transformation of the Senate into a federal chamber in line with the law on federalism and corresponding to the traditions of our country. In a reformed parliament, in his authoritative role of guidance and control, numerically reduced in number (the Federal Chamber should not exceed 100 parts), it calls for a government with greater responsibility and autonomy with the Prime Minister at the center, capable of carrying a role of coordination and integration between the central government, European Union and the system of regions and autonomies. The President of the Council must be able to propose to the Head of State the appointment and dismissal of ministers and the decree for the early dissolution of Parliament, if it no longer has the confidence of the majority - unless it was put forward a motion of no confidence, consistent with the electoral mandate, and signed by at least one third of members of the Assembly.
Given more autonomy and responsibility of the head of government becomes even more urgent to ensure full respect of an essential principle for any modern democratic system: that there can be no ambiguity or conflict between the personal interest, direct or indirect, of those who govern and the 'general interest of the country. Do not fill this gap would put our system out of tune than the big Western countries. The Senate has already approved a bill on the matter. From there you have to start to approve quickly a law effective.
Southern Europe
Speaking today to the south is to talk about Europe. By a good use of the substantial Community resources should in fact starting any project for the south. And the European scenario looks at a very different reality from its traditional iconography, where areas still lagging coexist with industrial districts now at the forefront. The figures speak for themselves. The gross domestic product of the south is growing more than the north. Between April 1996 and January 2001, employment has increased by 363,000 units and 130,000 businesses are born.
Yet these are not points of arrival but of departure. As mentioned, the map of the South is unequal. Backwardness, degradation, inefficiency continue to weigh on the territory, cities, institutions of many parts of the south. But it is the fractures and discontinuities, in an economic and social scene has always been considered identical to itself, to indicate that something is moving, and that the policy of recent years is paying off. The assistance, subsidies, extraordinary interventions of the past. Of this we are building are instead part control of the territory, the consolidation of government, the promotion of a development model based on local autonomy. It is that "new programming" that the center has experienced in recent years, and that must now become the routine, good administration midday.
Local development

The intervention that we have designed focuses on those who remain five points discovered South: institutions, infrastructure, businesses, cities, natural resources.
Local governments have shown they can create the conditions necessary for the recovery, or at birth, economic activity. Are naturally accountable and help - and here, on local development we decided to stake everything - but we now know that the new ruling class is able to provide southern citizens and businesses what they need most, and that is a system of efficient and fast in support of free enterprise - on which the blackmail of organized crime weighs lesser extent than in the recent past.
The networks of the south remain insufficient. This is still one of the most serious limitations to the development of the area. It must be taken immediately on infrastructure. For roads, the priorities are the modernization of the Salerno-Reggio Calabria and the strengthening of the Adriatic coast and the Ionian. The southern ports must be integrated into the project Motorways of the Sea, while the airports must ensure the best connections with the rest of the country and Europe. Significant investment - starting with the extension of the high capacity and the strengthening of the connections between the Tyrrhenian and Adriatic - require the railways, and the water supply is adequate to the national one. The wiring of the city is to be taken. A special mention deserves the main, and most controversial, public work planned for the south, the bridge over the Strait. The feasibility study has had a positive opinion of the group of international consultants, and can be achieved. The intervention, however, will have to meet two main conditions: its inclusion in an ecologically sustainable project that retrain the whole of southern and an appropriate private financial participation.
The cities of the south have become more livable and safe, and adopt social services acceptable. Our proposal
thus provides a plan for school construction that starts the recovery of the most degraded, the modernization of hospitals - from those high specialization - the construction of urban transport infrastructure functional, ensuring the system of commercial distribution fast access to supplies. We also plan to transfer prisons outside urban centers, reusing the buildings to make museums and schools. We will encourage mayors to launch large urban redevelopment, also referring to the most advanced European experiences, showing that next to a museum or a university may gradually replenish an entire social fabric.
The Southern Company grows, in terms of both quality and quantity. In the coming years this trend is transformed into a line of widespread development. To do that, you need to create areas for the production plants. It must be created close to the universities, to facilitate, even physically, the exchange with the research. Particular attention deserves then finance for the company. The cost of borrowing should be reduced by the same means that, in Europe, have given a good account of himself, micro-credits, guarantee funds and mixed funds of venture capital for new companies to reward high technological content.
Natural resources are, for the South, an extraordinary opportunity for development. Tourism projects around major archaeological sites launched in the last two years have paved the way for a broader plan of action, which includes, for various reasons, the reforestation of the southern Apennines, enhancing the capacity of reception and services reception, the increase in expenditure to museums - and the testing of new management formulas -, the strengthening of university faculties, especially if linked to the study and intervention on the Mediterranean.
These broad lines will be concentrated on which the Italian and European resources in the next five years. To the south
It will be more than 45% of capital expenditure in the country, and together with the regions you will be able to spend 100% of European structural funds for the period 2000/2006. Meanwhile, we are committed to negotiate with the EU a transitional phase that does not penalize the southern regions in the process of European enlargement.
All of these strategies will have as a result, long-term, satisfying employment even in the South. Today the North needs the South labor. But unlike those of the sixties, the emigrants of 2000 will have the real possibility to return home after accumulating experience in the north. They will be able to rely on the benefits already provided by the 2001 budget: the full deductibility from the corporate income tax burden for the rent of residential accommodation for employees from other regions; bags of work, already used by about 60,000 young southerners for training work in the north; the ability to use the tax credit for new employees who do not work at least two years with permanent contracts.
Much more important will be the "migration" of companies towards the south, encouraged by tax credits automatic, the revival of districts and industrial sites supported by local authorities, the administrative simplification, the commitment of the state to the security in the territory.
The Euro-Mediterranean area

The issue of the South, today, coincides with the question of the role of the Mediterranean in the scenarios in Europe and worldwide. In this sense, our project does not target engagement in the north, but the transformation of geographical centrality of the Mediterranean in strategic importance. In 2010 born the Euro-Mediterranean area of ​​free trade, a market of more than 600 million people which represents a truly unique opportunity. Thanks to the new constitutional law on the fe
deralismo, the southern regions can already start international relations with neighboring countries, the South Mediterranean and the Balkans. Therefore it opens new scenarios and new markets. It's up to the south come now to be part of it.
Migrants in the world are 120 million. Faced with numbers of this magnitude, the most sensible approach is to combining the fight against illegal immigration and support for integration. As shown by the cases of all the advanced democracies, developing methods of coexistence - within strict rules, and strictly applied - is possible, and the law in our country has adopted in 1998 is considered, throughout Europe, to 'vanguard. The rest belongs to that discrimination - ethnic or religious does not matter - against which a culture reformist, liberal and Catholic must continue to fight. But when it comes to immigration are not only democratic principles at stake. Labour immigrants we need. Our businesses need today a large proportion of unskilled labor, which already in the next two years will add an equally strong demand for qualified expertise, especially in areas related to the new economy.
Combating illegal immigration and racket

The Turkish-Napolitano law and 23 bilateral agreements with countries of origin and transit of illegal immigration have, in three years, more than 192,000 measures of expulsion or repatriation. On the Sicilian coast landings from Tunisia virtually ceased, while on the Apulian decreased arrivals from Albania. The past two years have been denounced for aiding illegal immigration or arrested more than 2,000 people, and more than 500 smugglers. As for the control of illegal immigration are three fundamental objectives: the further reduction of the illegal flow coming from Albania and Turkey; the control of new trafficking routes along the land border with Slovenia; the gradual emergence of the share of irregular migration in the country today.
To achieve them we must first fight, at the international level, the new mafias that organize and exploit illegal immigration and trafficking in women. It is a problem of means, which is why we expect that number of staff, wage incentives and special training for law enforcement officers responsible for border controls, in addition to the technological modernization of the control devices.
But it is also a problem of legal instruments, and in particular for closer cooperation with the countries of origin and transit of illegal immigration to the joint control of our borders and an extension of the agreements for the repatriation of foreigners expelled. The development of infrastructure to be strengthened and improved the national network of centers for foreigners awaiting deportation, and complete the online system for the registration of illegal immigrants.
Immigration programmed

All European countries are considering to adopt annual entry quotas for foreign workers. Italy is going
ta the first to make this choice. It should then continue on the path of careful programming of flows that allow you to align supply and demand, in parallel fighting illegal employment and undeclared major cause of the influx of illegal immigrants. In our scheme, the decrees on flows must distinguish the professional categories, while enterprises should be allowed to carry out training abroad. The programming inputs must be drawn up in cooperation with the social partners, regional and local authorities, and the computerized registry of foreign workers should be extended nationwide. Finally, it should be encouraged the voluntary return home of immigrants who have acquired professional skills and entrepreneurial capacity in our country.
Asylum

The migration motivated by economic requirements is obviously distinct from that of IDPs and refugees. In fact, Italy has given a good account of himself accepting 18,000 refugees from Kosovo during the conflict of 1999. Now, through new European legislation, it is necessary to prevent the distorted use of the right to asylum becomes an input channel alternative. This means essentially adopt a law on asylum in line with that of other European countries and of a national system of reception centers for refugees and refugees.
The rights and duties

The new immigration law has recognized a set of rights for immigrants that allows them a free and dignified life. For us, the foreign presence should help to create a new spirit of national unity and identity, and in perspective a plural society, where different cultures and religions coexist in respect of the principles and values ​​based
mental. The immigrant has the duty to observe the Constitution and laws of the host country. So we think in a national and regional level to promote the teaching of the Italian language and the adoption of an intercultural education, because school is the training place of citizenship. Consider, also, the granting of residence cards to all legal immigrants - a concession that, after five years, should result in the right to vote in local elections. All this needs to be complemented with a reform of the citizenship law to facilitate the naturalization of children born in Italy and shorten the waiting time, contrasting with greater severity marriages of convenience.
A common European policy

The Treaty of Amsterdam and Nice set deadlines and steps to equip the EU policy on immigration and asylum. Common rules are to govern in new ways visas and border controls, scheduling regular entries, rights for foreign residents for a long time in EU countries. In this context, Italy has to fight for a greater commitment to the common actions for the protection of human rights and conflict prevention, the establishment of a multinational force for the surveillance of the external borders of the Union - and, in our case from



At one time or another in our lives, we all have responsibilities to family members who are dependent on us: children, dependent persons, elderly. And mutual dependencies are revealed at once, suddenly. A good social policy must be able to predict and regulate them, as did the recent framework law on social services system, which defines the parameters for the whole country, open to the intervention of the private and non-profit and relies on regional resources necessary. Which of course are spending wisely, and organize the implementation of plan for social assistance - an integrated project which brings together family income support, service provision, legislative protection in the workplace, financial assistance for enterprises that allow a new balance between work and family.
Support for families
In the first two years of the next term family benefits it will be extended to all households and, thereafter, will be re-evaluated and merged to deductions for dependent family Irpef. In other words, it will cost less to have children. But, along with this, there will be a radical tax reduction of low-income and middle-low, accompanied by an expansion of the forms of social assistance. The minimum wage will be raised to 18/20 million free for the employee individual, and up to 40-45 million in the case of four or more family members. During the five years, through a more careful consideration of the composition and size of households, will increase the number of households exempt from personal income tax and the degree of integration of the income of the lower. Maternity allowances - or paternity - will be extended from three to six months, and gradually until the third year of age of the child.
Social services
A complex society needs a structured program of social services. In this regard our law framework, among the most advanced in Europe, allows us today to expand the range of care services offered by the public, private, and voluntary. But it is only a beginning. With the check services, in fact, we offer to the elderly and their families the opportunity to receive care at home by private companies or non-profit, choices in a list certified by the local authority. Who uses the allowance for social services accredited home is helped by the city up to 50% of the cost - and up to 100% in case of indigence clearly established. Finally, it should review the rules on temporary work, in order to allow the creation of temporary employment agencies of care by which to improve the quality and safety of services provided to households.
The balance between work and family
Families often live with suffering the difficult reconciliation between work and home life. It should be designed so a redistribution of roles, giving full effect to the law on parental leave. It is necessary to encourage the involvement of women with family responsibilities to the labor market, not only stimulating the supply of care services, but also using more resources to the contractual definition of flexible hours and conditions of employment friendly by businesses.
When the family breaks
In the field of separation and divorce are introduced new rules to assist the spouses to build a structure postmatrimoniale acceptable to all. The payment of alimony and custody of children often provoke an escalation of conflict between spouses. Therefore needed clearer rules and balanced, that place in the middle of the rights of children, stating rigorously parental responsibilities, ensuring compliance through sanctions. Equally important is enhancing the rapid decision processes of judges in cases of separation, divorce and custody of children. They are then set certain times - and short - for the submission of applications for the treatment of judgments and the enforcement of decisions connected. It will be taken off the so-called waiting widow.
The rights and protection
children
A country that does not invest on children is a country that has no future. Children have more rights than those granted to them today, even in Italy. So much remains to be done with
against the sexual exploitation of minors and child labor. The rules for the adoption, today sketchy, need to be rethought. Serve cooperation programs and distance support, and a new law on foster international. Legislation to protect children is to be completed through the establishment of the Children's Ombudsman and the reform of juvenile law.
Seniors
Throughout the West - and in Italy more than anywhere else - the birth rate decreases, while the average lifespan lengthens, and its quality improves. In the near future seniors will constitute more than one third of the population, with new rights and above expectations, which we must henceforth provide answers. Therefore it needs a new model of solidarity. It serves a social body careful about what he has to give to the elderly, but also to what they can get.
Who wants to work even after reaching retirement age should be able to do. The elderly need to feel useful for as long as possible. If not with the work, with the civil service for the elderly, we intend to set up alongside the local authorities in which the elderly already handle safety tasks, assistance, culture. For the elderly participating in the civil service there is a concrete recognition, in the form of vouchers: Culture (free access to theaters, cinemas, exhibitions, concerts, museums), for the use or purchase of computerized systems, for mobility (season tickets for bus, subway and taxi).
The elderly needy intend nonetheless ensure substantial increases in minimum pensions and the revaluation of the mechanisms to cope with the cost of living. Measures that should be covered with the resources made available by the process of fiscal consolidation.
Young people
Italy must fundamentally alter the relationship with the younger generation, drawing a society in which the economic conditions of the same class are no longer a constraint to emancipation. Again, the point is the need for a good education, but even more the real possibility of access to a labor market in many ways still too closed. This is an important node, to be solved by facilitating access to the professions through a reform of the state and introducing paid traineeship for practitioners. On a more general level, we must give each boy the age of 18 a capital base at a public financial institution, to spend on education, also abroad, for starting a business, or as a reward for 'job placement. At the same time, to be set up a guarantee fund, with state contribution, which facilitates access to bank loans. For young entrepreneurs in the South it is provided specific facilities, which enable the development of the franchise and the promotion of micro-enterprises.
To develop the knowledge economy need a computer for every high school student, computer literacy courses and retraining of young graduates in the field of information technology, the establishment of laboratories and university courses in economics and information technology and communication. Finally, adequate welfare policies are essential for the reunification of the contribution periods of those who worked with flexible contractual arrangements and, on occasion. Temporary workers will be paid to young people, in exchange for training programs, unemployment benefits.
The universe must be youthful voice and representation within organizations where young people are called to express themselves on the policies that affect them. Finally, create a Charter, which allows, between 15 and 29 years, ac
process granted to theaters, cinemas, museums, libraries, and facilitate the purchase of CDs, computers and other cultural services.
The Italian
With the creation of a special department at the Presidency of the Council and the appointment of a minister, the governments of the Olive took for the first time equal opportunities between men and women as a coordinating function that affects all policies and all ministries.
The equal opportunities policy is to combat the risks of marginalization and discrimination that still affects too many women, and together ensure the full use of the unique resources of the new skills and new knowledge female in a new form of social citizenship that allows reconciling work and family life, ensuring men and women the same starting conditions.
In this field Italy is still very much lagging behind its European partners. In fact, we continue to be one of the countries with the lowest female employment, with the lowest percentage of women in places of representation, with the weight of family and domestic work burden on women much more than men. And with the lowest birth rate, clearly demonstrating a feminine discomfort.
It is therefore necessary to rethink the patterns of life and the values ​​that they have so far inspired. In the coming years we aim to increase the employment of women through the full use of specific European resources available to the regions. It is substantial resources, representing an opportunity to support and qualify the work of women. Even the action in favor of women entrepreneurship should be strengthened with incentives and financial facilities. We will create favorable tax regimes for women employed with reduced hours and flexible labor relations, and extended the deduction
tion tax and social security costs for care and assistance to families.
No less important are the construction of new social services for the activities of treatment and care - such as kindergartens condominium - and the measures in support of the elderly and for the protection of minors. To the parity we are asked for greater control of discrimination in employment and careers, and the commitment to a greater presence of women in decision-making.
Violence against women is still one of the most odious forms of abuse. We must fight to eradicate it, with awareness campaigns and new regulatory models for those who work in law enforcement, justice, health care, schools and universities. Finally, we must be full implementation of the law on violence in family relationships has just been approved by parliament and support the network of anti-violence and help victims. Finally it should be resubmitted to the law on sexual harassment in the workplace.
A plural society.
Volunteering and consumers
Our political project, based on subsidiarity, promoting active citizenship and social pluralism, attaches to the social economy and non-profit organizations play a significant role in the reform of the European welfare state, national, and local levels. The last five years have been decisive for the third sector, we covered the tools and encouraged the action. The whole scenario has changed: the Decree Law on Non-profit to the law on banking foundations to the very recent reforms of social services, associations of social promotion, cooperation and social worker. For the next five years we intend to devote to volunteering, in addition to funding already provided, additional 1 trillion.
Company profit, an engine for employment
The non-profit business is a great creator of new employment opportunities, and plays an important role in the area of ​​employment integration of people with disabilities and to persons in situations of social distress. We want to promote the growth of social enterprises to reach at least 1.5 million of employed compared to the current 750,000, and entrench the territory volunteering, associations, cooperation, social enterprises, contributing to the construction of real districts that integrate social and consolidate those production. We also want to promote social transformation in holding the large membership organizations in the country.
The development of the third sector depends on the ability to combine forces spontaneous social and civil commitment and professionalism. We therefore need a quantum leap in training managers, in coordination with institutions of higher education and university.
To achieve these results, we have identified a number of areas of intervention, from the drafting of a single text of the third sector on its statutory and tax profiles, a reform of the first book of the Civil Code which creates in the new forms of enterprise and organization of work. Essential is the establishment of a regulatory authority and supervision to the non-profit, with powers of supervision and coordination with the regional authorities. We are committed to achieve it in the first hundred days in office.
We want third sector at the European level, which will help to define a new EU law, and that for this purpose establish representative offices and confrontation with the EU institutions. Equally important are the revision of the tax system for donations and other possible forms of support to private capital.
The third sector can develop in many different areas: the management of environmental and cultural heritage, services to individuals and families, social tourism, computer literacy - to ensure that the bands potentially at risk of exclusion are involved in innovative processes. Starting from the current role of ethical banks and banking foundations, finance can provide new forms of access to credit and new business opportunities for nonprofit organizations. Finally, international cooperation ensures non-governmental organizations play an important role in the politics of peacekeeping and to support growth and socio-economic development of the least privileged.
Consumer Protection
With the new Statute of consumers, trade associations become an institutional partner governments. Protect users in all fields of the rest means to promote sustainable development and ensure a better everyday life.
The next government will be part of a Minister for Consumer Protection at the Presidency of the Council. Responsibilities for will be allocated among various ministries - Productive Activities, Social Policy, Health and Labour, Agriculture and Environment - but the presence of a minister without portfolio, will ensure coordination and listening in the Council of Ministers.
To give continuity to the action of government will need to create, with the support of the associations, the National Institute for the consumer, who will join with tasks of technical-scientific support to the National Council of Consumers and Users and consumer associations. They are then reformed the independent regulatory authorities and the services of safeguarding competition, allowing them to better determine the parameters of quality and to ensure universality of the ser
vice and transparency of tariffs. The revenue from fines imposed by regulators of public services and the Antitrust Authority is allocated to projects for a better everyday life, from the financing of cleaner vehicles to fight all'elettromagnetico, contributions to the static of the buildings in social interventions.
You must allow a swift court resolution of disputes on the basis of cards and service contracts defining quality, costs, criteria for compensation for any shortcomings. In terms of food safety must be established a national agency network with the corresponding European agency.
Finally, some areas of emphasis: banks, insurance, advertising. On the first point we need to redefine the relationship between customer and bank, regulate the insurance market - especially the one for the RC car, containing the annual premiums paid by motorists and assigning fair compensation for claims. It should also be strengthened consumer protection against misleading advertising, providing the supervisory bodies of a power to intervene rapidly through the immediate and effective sanctions.
We renew Italy, together
European economy
Towards a new production system
A new Welfare State
A safe country
The new justice. Rapid, accessible, certain
An Italy of knowledge
Earth, water, air. Protect the roots of the future
Agriculture as a quality brand
A country in the network. Carry, move, communicate
Cultural property, place of modernity
Maastricht for a defense and security
Italy in Europe and worldwide
European economy
Since 1996, the share of the economic ministries has changed the face of the Italian economy, placing it in Europe and helping to transform the relationship between citizens and public administration. In 2000, the net borrowing of general government was 1.5% of GDP, and in 2001 will go to less than 1.0% against 7.6% - equivalent to 132 trillion lire - 1995. This correction is actually higher than these figures, because without intervention the deficit would have risen well beyond that percentage. The ratio of public debt to gross domestic product rose from 122.2% in 1996 to 110.3% in 2000 and in 2001 will be equal to 106.6%. They were not occurred since the early sixties.
For almost twenty years the country did not know such a favorable environment for investment. In April 1996, the level of interest rates in the short term stood at 9.75%, while rates in the medium and long term is attested to 9.99%. In December 2000, the rates were virtually halved: short ones, were equal to 4.64% and those in the medium and long to 5.13%. In 2000 the tax burden (gross income of games and capital gains) was 42.4%, compared to 44.5% in 1997, and in 2001 will decrease further. As a whole, the tax authorities have made an extraordinary leap. The use of digital technologies in tax compliance has made Italy a country avant-garde: the 68% of claims are already being transmitted online, compared with 27% Canadian, 20% US and 10% average other advanced countries. And, between 1998 and 2001, the recovery of revenue reached 70,000 billion
lire. Compensation for taxpayers doubled over the past five years, reaching 49,000 billion in 2000. The Italians have in fact found they can pay less and better, paying all.
The litigation with taxpayers was reduced and appeals increased from 3,500,000 to 1,500,000, thanks to a number of institutions that have favored non-confrontational settlement of disputes, the dialogue between tax authorities and taxpayers. They have changed the relationship between center and periphery. The financial autonomy of local governments was strengthened, as well as through its own taxes, through devolution or the sharing of tax revenues. Through fiscal federalism, regional and local authorities can now combine freedom and responsibility.
Between 1996 and 2000, the total value of the operations disposed of directly held by the Treasury or other placements and sales amounted to over 108,000 billion lire. In the same period, the group Iri sold controlling stakes or minority for further 27 trillion, while the capitalization of the Italian stock market has grown by about 300%.
Economic policy
In light of these data, our economic and financial policy will be based on some big goals.
The first is to consolidate the work of reform and European integration by delivering on its commitments and acting on the connection with equitable rehabilitation / development in equity. Since 2003, you can reset the ratio between net government net domestic product. By 2003, further accelerating the disposal of public shareholdings in all areas that still are affected, and in particular in the energy sector, the ratio of public debt to gross domestic product may fall below the 100% threshold.
Conducting expansionary macroeconomic policies must take place at European level, since it requires a strengthening of the political side of the process of economic and monetary unification, also to experience long-term plans for investment and remove bottlenecks in each country, to raise the quality of the environment, ensure higher employment, raise the systemic competitiveness.
It should then reach, during the term, a tax burden of less than 40% of gross domestic product. The reduction will be made possible by two conditions: reducing the burden of interest resulting from the decrease of the public debt and continued tight control of government current expenditure, not of a social nature. The growth of current expenditure should be planned in line with the inflation rate. Thus it would lose weight year by year, as the GDP grows in real terms. What we are then outline a path realistic and consistent with what has been achieved. At the same time, if we look at the experiences of economies much stronger than ours, first of all German, we set ourselves an ambitious goal. A goal, above all, accessible without dismantling or laugh
mensionare welfare, indeed, strengthening social cohesion and public investment in the fields - such as schools, research, modernization of services and infrastructure - where the greater the gap with Europe. These three points of GDP in less - equivalent to about 70 trillion - and the recovery of tax evasion - other 30 trillion - will be aimed at families, pensioners, workers and self-employed to a radical reduction in the levy on low incomes and medium-low, to support citizens in difficult conditions, the elderly, social services and volunteerism. One part will reduce labor costs and the tax burden for all businesses and, in particular, to smaller ones, which mean lower IRAP 30%. Detasseremo further research, innovation and environmental protection; we will increase resources for business services, training and work placement. All this in order to increase the competitiveness of the system.
A necessary condition for the success of this maneuver is effective modernization, which increases the efficiency of the equipment
• tool for government action. To enhance the functions of analysis, control, coordination and direction of spending are in fact guaranteed flow of information continues
• timely, while the structure of the state budget should make the political decision less fragmented and facilitate the analysis of the effectiveness of spending.
The economic policies of the nineties have hijacked our economy to a standstill through a great social exchange. On the one hand there was the consensual acceptance of a dynamic real incomes very low, on the other ensuring that wages of income required by the need to repay foreign debt
• heal the public would not be left to the anonymous market mechanisms. The policies outlined in the coming years require a similar mechanism. On the one hand, a greater willingness to share the risks associated with positions more flexible working and prolong the working life cycle. The other, a guarantee of universal protection
(And not discouraging) out of the workplace and in the case of difficult conditions, but also a guaranteed income when you get to the end of their working years and in case of non self-sufficiency. This is the general profile of economic policy to be completed in the coming years. Abandon it would not be without serious risk of social and economic backwardness.
A smart tax
Govern the new phase of development will require to complete the redesign of social spending and the protections in the labor market, with the aim of combining the targeted reduction in the tax burden greater availability for work and more safety in a context of mobility more high. The only way to exploit the potential of technological innovation to meet in a non-dramatic to the transition to a more old by birth. Our tax policy is therefore designed to encourage development and employment, encouraging the supply and demand for labor, birth and growth of companies, technological research, culture and vocational training.
For families we want to accentuate the taxation of low incomes and low to medium, accompanied by an expansion of the forms of social assistance. It is a reform also linked to the return of more revenue from the recovery of the tax base, and that in part must be done in stages, based on a strong contrast infidelity tax. Changing Irpef, initiated by the Finance Act for 2001 (which already provides for the abolition of the second income bracket) it will therefore be enhanced with further reductions in tax rates and / or in their numbers (in particular, bringing to three the number of the bracket).
And we come to the proposals of merit. The first is to bring the minimum income exempted 18/20 million for the single employee and up to 40-45 million in the case of four or more family members; as
gradually similar levels of exemption for self-employed to those of employees in accordance with progress in adapting to sector studies in connection with the occurrence of taxable.
The second is then a broad appeal to the refundable tax credit. Rather than proceed separately provision of social benefits, paid by INPS, and the withdrawal of withholding income tax, you can transform the performance in tax credits deducted Irpef due. The term refundable means that if the tax is less than the credit (that is incapiente), we proceed to disburse net. This will allow for: a more rational coordination of the various care interventions, a more careful analysis of the policies adopted, an overall assessment of the results, with a dual goal: to provide assistance in situations today not adequately covered and encourage job search and placement in the market. Considering more carefully the composition and size of the nuclei is then possible, as early as five years, increase the number of households exempt from personal income tax and supplement the lower income groups.
Finally, we must focus on reductions Irpef disposable income taxpayers with low and medium-low. It is useful to mention that the proposal of the right (which is not subject to recovery of tax base but is un'avventuristica promise of tax relief without coverage) would produce an opposite result: about 80% of the major resources - inevitably resulting from cuts in social spending or no coverage - should be 20% of better-off taxpayers.
For businesses, the first point of the program is to reduce the tax wedge between labor costs and net pay of at least 7.6 points. As for the actual withdrawal (IRPEG and IRAP) on business income by 2005 it may be raised to 35% for continuing the reduction of the corporate income tax, sending the Dit regime and establishing a ceiling for taking actual profits. In agreement with the Regions, it is then reviewed the business tax structure, in order to simplify the calculation of the 30% and reduce the impact on small businesses and on intensive activities
employment. It must also be de-tax investments in disadvantaged areas, strengthen tax incentives to expenditure for technological research, training, the environment and cultural heritage, and encourage further unofficial labor, even with measures that help companies to form a consortium and Maybe its own brands, and with more customs control to avoid illegal imports priced out of the market.
The mobility of people and goods should be encouraged progressively reducing registration fees and other similar taxes that today weigh on trades up to abolish them, or convert them to a symbolic value, in fixed sum, in reimbursement of services provided and not more than fee.
After the radical reforms implemented in this legislature, taxation does not require additional structural measures, but simple measures of consolidation and rationalization in line with the aspiration of the taxpayers in a "truce" and regulatory stability. The system needs, on the one hand, strict management of the reform of the tax and, secondly, to changes aimed at consolidating its interventions and to accelerate at full speed, even through the preparation of the consolidated acts. A need to improve relations with taxpayers. Procedures and formalities can be made even more streamlined, in particular as regards the retention of records and electronic billing. The accounting and tax formalities should be reduced, while the special arrangements should be improved for young new and marginal, expanding the direct assistance of the administration.
The evolution of the financial system
In recent years the Italian financial market has grown, renewing. The reforms of financial and privatization, with the subsequent placement of large amounts of shares, have favored the development. Now the system as a whole needs a sorting efficient and competitive. Much has been done, especially in the septum

The presence of Italian banks on the European and international level is still inadequate to the size of our economy. Only a financial system fully integrated in the global environment will allow investors to benefit fully from the advantages caused by economic and monetary union - and only a significant presence of Italian banks in other countries will support the international growth of our industrial companies. The Italian banking industry must continue to take advantage of its wealth dimensional, territorial and company, but must also be put in a position to better compete. For this to happen is used, in addition to the program of tax cuts already mentioned, the fulfillment of the planned reform of company law and the bankruptcy already advanced during the previous legislature. Also you need to complete the privatization, accelerating the processes of liberalization, by implementing the reform of local public services, prompting businesses to the former municipal market and aggregations, by launching reform of the severance pay and allocating its amount to the pension funds, in order to strengthen the financial market.
All major decisions will be discussed in the first hundred days of our government to the table of negotiation with the social partners: a dialogue in which each put their availability without vetoes and its proposals to define strategies and concrete objectives of the national economy. The government and the majority of them realize.
Towards a new production system
The Italian industry is now mature. In a few years a full production model, based on a distorted relationship between state and market, has been scrapped. There is no similar cases in the West, of a transition as complex occurred so much painless. And with success. Today in Italy the term free competition has sense again: entrepreneurs are more protected, more consumers guaranteed. It has initiated the liberalization of the energy market, which is (in Italy, but also in Europe) the premise of any modernization process. It was then rationalized the distribution network, and the twenty laws that previously governed the trade have been reduced to a single text. The world of trade and tourism has been extended the law on industrial incentives, which allowed the funding of 17,000 projects and the creation of 220,000 jobs. The tourism sector is increasingly integrated with those who, in Italy, to be considered its interfaces natural environment and cultural heritage.
As for communications, they deserve a special mention. It is in fact a sector from whose development depends, in misu
• ever closer, that of all the others. Here, too, the work undertaken by our governments is huge. In fixed telephony, the sole manager has been replaced by more than 200 different operators; in the cabinet, they were awarded two nuo
• GSM licenses, and five UMTS, which envisage, for the next few years, very significant investments. In pay TV it was introduced universal decoder, which regulates a market on the verge of anarchy. Of course, in this most likewise
that in other areas you can not stop the achievements.
The ten million Internet users, and one hundred thousand workers of the new economy appeared on the market since 1997, expect answers important. As well as they expected, in general, users of a broadcasting system still paralyzed by the duopoly, a dangerous anachronism.
To coordinate the networking of individuals and businesses, opening to all - even those who today suffered a "digital illiteracy" now discriminating - the information highway and ensuring the information sector as a whole will be a "eminister", which will act closely with the Council Presidency.
Businesses and new technologies
To meet the challenges of globalization, the Italian company as a whole has to grow and internationalize. This means that it must become more efficient, more modern, more competitive. The need therefore drastically cutting red tape, to be implemented mainly through the creation of one-stop shops, a gradual rationalization of the tax burden and constant monitoring of the incentive system reformed in this legislature that, through a single assessment of the investment plan, providing support technological innovation, training, the purchase of services.
The birth of new businesses should be promoted through a maneuver comprising several steps. Support for private investment funds for high-tech projects. The spread of formulas such as the business plan competition, allowing the marketing of the best ideas generated by university incubators. The promotion of venture capital and access to regulated markets. The construction of a public portal of technological innovations, facilitating the ultimate networking businesses. The upgrading of over 100 industrial districts through district managers, coordination of credit policies, training, new technologies, the marketing of products. The promotion of e-commerce, integrated in a new legal framework to guarantee the security of exchanges and the quality of purchases, which protects both the classical sector of business to consumer than that, growing, business to business. The expansion of exports and foreign direct investment. The opening of the circuit between research and business, making full use of the laws that today enable companies to access research results, and seeking to organize their work in business formations. The final liberalization of gas and electricity - in the second case, implementing a mechanism that provides for: the sale of power stations; the construction of new facilities; the issuance of new licenses; the operation of the power exchange; the rationalization of local distribution, through the aggregation of sog
existing projects, which will be stimulated by the reform of local public services; the increased use of renewable sources.


Tourism
Italy is one of the main destinations of world tourism, and tourism is one of our strongest economic sectors. In recent years the Olive Tree has supported business investment, improved taxation and approved a new law that strengthens the role of the regions, eliminates many bureaucratic requirements, it allows to develop new local systems. Now we have to invest in technology and new forms of cultural and environmental services, especially in the south.
The main points of the agenda are, in addition to the simplification of administrative procedures - authorizations, town planning and system of administrative controls - the start of infrastructure work ad hoc, such as the recovery of degraded areas, the construction of networks - especially water missing - , the modernization of existing ones. Necessary to adapt the transport system to the needs of tourism, tackling the facilities and the quality of services, starting with information for travelers. It must also work on the institutional framework and the legal framework; We must reform the ENIT, which will be adapted to modern objectives of the promotion; create a Charter of tourists' rights, to protect the safety and serenity of those who visit the country; provide for the grant of tax credits to those who open a new business tourism, or it restructures.
Communications and new economy
The communications industry is a strategic and very delicate, from several points of view. Developments of new technologies pose in fact, in a very obvious way, the problem of adaptation of the infrastructure
the whole country, and especially of its less privileged, distributed throughout the country. Citizens, families and businesses need to have short, short, guarantee access to networks effective and equal for all. At the same time, they must be able to choose with full transparency, on the basis solely of the criteria of quality and convenience, the operator which rely.
This raises a problem of equipment. We should be established immediately, with the participation of local organizations, a program for broadband, which should be guaranteed access to the lowest rates possible. In this way, companies and households can take advantage of existing public services and in construction - paperwork, telemedicine, distance learning, entertainment. Municipalities and Regions are then involved in the drafting of the plans of the digital programming of wiring and new services. They are then formed immediately, with special scholarships, the 200,000 workers of which areas related to information technology will need over the next three years.
Our intervention will be directed to the production, dissemination, preservation and access to cultural content and high-quality multimedia. A competitive country in telecommunications should in fact have, not least in this field, a precise industrial policy, and offer up to the international market. Today, this means imagine products suitable for use in different forms, on different media: pc, radio, TV and telephone. New, then, but also very old, if you think that, here too, our most valuable asset is the historical and artistic heritage, which we must promote in new forms. Through the sharing of risk capital it is already possible to diversify production and promote the digitization of broadcasting major events. With the use of private capital can create digital libraries run public in educational and cultural programs of municipalities, regions, schools and universities.
To liberalize the Italian telecommunications system must solve two problems: the regulation with
conflict of interest and the redefinition of the public service. Which it remains essential for two reasons, the pluralist representation of society - particularly for the benefit of the most vulnerable segments of cultural and social marginalization - and the enhancement of quality cultural and national identity. These are functions that can not be delegated to the market logic. The public service must be beyond the control of the parties and re-founded, and must operate with certain resources and without technological constraints that limit the function. This involves the review of the current mechanisms of direction, the transformation of the Rai in a modern enterprise, and privatization of networks financed by advertising.


Cooperatives
The achievement of full employment and good also requires the cooperatives, which are a key element of pluralism entrepreneurial and economic democracy, a valuable contribution. The new rules and new financial instruments available to them, the new law on social worker, represent some of the stages of a necessary process of modernization. Another important step will be the drafting of a single text on cooperatives that takes account of the new processes of capitalization and the need to strengthen the mutual principle and governance, extensive participation by members and the corporate democracy and increasing the efficiency of the organs administration.


For the small and medium enterprises
Italy's economic vitality depends on that of its network of small and medium-sized enterprises. This ganglion of our production system is a social good, the epitome of technical knowledge and organizational quality entrepre
rials and specialist in human relations and territorial which are an asset of the country to preserve and protect, the desire of maintaining profitable enterprise. Therefore, we propose the establishment of a co-ordinator of SMEs at the Presidency of the Council.
SMEs need a tax differential. We intend to reduce the IRAP tax of 30%, and to simplify the calculation. We also want to keep the deduction from the tax base that has already lightened the tax to more than 2,000,000 taxpayers, allowing almost 900,000 to not pay the tax. Even the personal income tax, through rates and deductions, can be lowered. The accounting and tax formalities should be greatly reduced and simplified.
Despite the efforts of recent years, companies still see public administration an interlocutor cumbersome. The administration should then become more transparent and accessible, to ensure wider use of self, the unification of the control procedures, and tools such as the notice to the entrepreneur, to enable the latter to heal without sanctions irregularities found during the first check.
Businesses must grow and join in new forms, adapting to the development of technologies and market developments. To this must be helped to find, even abroad, product technologies and process innovation. Quality, transparency and efficiency of network support must become the strong points of the system. The territory must come Brokerage technological centers and distribution of scientific, which act as a link between universities, research institutes and companies. Finally, the creation of a market for technology assessment encourage investor confidence and facilitate relations with the banking system.
To grow financially, companies must take advantage of the regional closed-end funds, the development of venture capital and substitute taxation of capital gains realized on the sale of investments. The costs for their quotazio
will the stock market should become less onerous, and the tax assessments faster and reliable. They are then enhanced consortia collective credit guarantee, that if able to capitalize should be able to merge, offering guarantees equivalent to those banks.
Legislation should provide businesses more flexible organization. Our project provides for a regulation of unlisted companies reformed in several places, with the elimination of rigid criteria for the establishment of Ltd., a broader statutory autonomy.
Even the business transfer must become more fluid, changing the company law, financial, tax, bankruptcy, inheritance laws and the Articles of the Civil Code that still make the whole process cumbersome. In the absence of family members, the employees are the natural heirs of the enterprise. It is therefore useful new legislation on succession in the ownership and management, including tax breaks on the transferor. In parallel, it should set up a meeting place between those seeking new business and those who, for various reasons, they must undo.
In legislation on corporate crisis we are introduced new procedures on crisis anticipation and that of insolvency. Censorship social bankruptcy should be eased by removing the heaviest consequences, most notably the prohibition of directors. For cases of bankruptcy, if the procedure ends with the total compensation, is enshrined in the non-punishment, favoring the intervention of a financial venture capital or merchant banking to assist members who acquire the business.
The new spin-off must be able to protect the value of their intellectual capital. Public research can greatly benefit from the commercial exploitation of part of its production. It must therefore be de-tax filing and maintenance of patents by 50% for the first five years; finance expenditure investigations of patenting in Europe; reimburse the costs of extending
mission outside Europe for patents sold under license; introduce tax benefits for committed to public research centers by new companies; introduce a tax substitute for reduced royalties resulting from research and patents.
A new Welfare State
Foremost in our program we are the achievement of a full and quality employment, offering equal opportunities to men and women. It is an achievable goal by 2006. Already, unemployment is below 10%. Over the next five years we can bring it back to its physiological limits, around 5-6%.
In the last five years the policy of our government is rotated around two cornerstones: the consolidation of public finances and entry into the euro. The next five will have as a goal the increase of active participation in the work. The Government's overall strategy must have as compass employment. This implies the need for specific policies to promote and support both the demand and the supply of labor.
Creating more jobs must be created in a large social compromise between generations, to redesign the welfare state by eliminating pockets and corporate privileges and stating a different social citizenship. The terms of trade are clear: on the one hand a guarantee of protection for universal fundamental performance (health care, pensions, education, unemployment, long-term care) for those without work, on the other hand, a greater willingness to share work more flexible and extend the work-life cycle.
The demand for labor
Provide jobs, for business, it should become cheaper. In this regard our proposals consist of direct aid to firms and artisan companies and trade - tax credits, tax-exempt investments, tax relief work by reducing the tax wedge. Mobility, particularly between the south and center of the north, where there is more need for labor, it should be favored by national and local powers mainly through policies of relocation of the plant in the southern regions, where unemployment is higher. And through policies to support territorial mobility, even transient and temporary, especially in relation to living accommodation, services and vocational training.


The incentive mechanisms
Also find work should be easier. This is why we gradual extension of minimum income (RMI), involving primarily the least protected, starting with the unemployed who have lost unemployment benefits reformed and young people who have never worked. In both cases, it should be a support subject to the frequency of training courses and duration of the course followed.
In the same direction is the proposal of an award of work placement. To all those (young people, but not just) beginning to work (that is, open a position INPS employee parasubordinata or standalone) is assigned a special tax credit equal to one year RMI for the first year of work . This credit will be used in the current payment of income taxes, either directly or through the employer. In the event of said sums being insufficient remaining credit will be used in the following year.
An appropriate capital for entry into adult life would provide young people means to initiate projects of life, encouraging the emancipation with measures such as the extension of the loan of honor, the resumption of aid to the geographical mobility, the formalization of the concession to eighteen of credit of 10 million for computer equipment and, finally, the development of a training check of 2,500,000, all tools to rearrange and integrate in a unique formula.
To encourage mothers, who left the job after a maternity, to take it back - and relieving at the same time, the impact of the return - we will be a special prize of reintegration, which will consist of a tax credit equal to the value Annual RMI, even if it is not a new INPS.
In the first two years of the next term the family allowances will be extended to all families, and then re-evaluated in order to bring them together to the income tax deductions for dependent family members and special allowances for families in difficult circumstances. This process will follow the modalities already indicated for the reform of direct taxation of personal income, or allowances and deductions will be merged so absorbed in the refundable tax credit.


The action on the labor market
On the current structure of the market we intend to impact with three measures. The first is a reform of social welfare which addresses the universal extension of unemployment benefit to 50% of the reference pay, with a duration and a profile of disbursement in time to allow for maximum encouragement to the job search. To facilitate the decision to accept a job in the short horizon, unemployment benefits should be commensurate with the duration of the contracts of fixed-term employment. And reform must provide specific tools for the resolution of corporate crises and the generalization of hedging
of temporary reduction in income during the employment relationship work.
The second measure concerns the establishment, for the workers actually quasi-employees, a mandatory insurance premium proportional to the compensation and pension combined to account for each account from which you can withdraw sums to deal with periods of unemployment. Particular attention will be paid to the rules that define and limit its use, and that will allow the sharing of risk, avoiding opportunistic behavior.
Finally, we intend to work on a reform employment incentives through reform of apprenticeships and job training and rationalization of tax relief for temporary employment of long-term unemployed. In this context it also includes contribution relief on the low paid to support the wages of low-skilled workers in areas of the country closer to full employment, and higher employment in the areas with the highest unemployment rate.


Flexibility
The new rules on flexibility and the labor market have allowed hundreds of thousands of young people to find employment which, in most cases, has turned into a stable. The ability to change jobs or work in different forms is therefore not a threat but an opportunity. The flexibility, however, must be accompanied by precise guarantees, in order to favor the continuity of the working relationship. Flexibility and mobility must therefore be complemented by a solid social safety net for those seeking or lose your job. As for flexibility in output - without prejudice to the current wording of the Workers on layoffs, confirmed by the outcome of the referendum - our intervention aims mainly to promote the autonomy
my contract of the social partners and the adoption of forms of conciliation and arbitration for the resolution of disputes and the indication of appropriate measures. With regard to the flexibility in the work will be implemented not restrictive EU directives on fixed-term contracts, as part of a redesign of the ways of access of young people to the world of work that gives central importance to training. The part-time working is an instrument of flexibility in labor, but more importantly, in the future, is the annualization of working time, the application of which could help businesses easier management time to time Partial and any seasonality of production, guaranteeing workers more freedom of choice.


Education and training
Young people must be placed in conditions before entering the labor market, and to continue training during periods of interruption or loss of job. In a context dominated by mobility, innovation and high professional specialization, education and training, otherwise distributed as today along the arc of life, should see immediately recognized its social value. The public employment centers must become places of gathering information on operational research work, but also on all training initiatives available. As for the companies, they should be able to deduct the tuition fees for university courses by young people aged 30 years employed in the company structure. To facilitate the absorption of aged workers in the labor market should be adopted a system of credits to spend on all stages of life. This credit should be greater for those who used less resources of the school in the age of basic education and be used for the deduction from their taxable income the expenses for training.
The pension system
Pension systems must be reformed to ensure their sustainability in the face of an aging population. While the right feeds purpose of dismantling the public welfare, the center, in Italy, has long ago a reform of the retirement benefits appreciated internationally. Its completion will be immediately subject to verification by the social partners and the new government. Parallel it will address the necessary revision of the severance indemnity, which in its new formulation will have to put the worker can choose any supplementary pension plans without this results in an increased load for businesses, especially small.
Our deep conviction is that it is better to provide jobs, instead of paying pensions. In a society in which old age begins later and later, the retirement age means little now. A count are rather the conditions in which it is reached, which can be the most varied. For this we offer different options to the citizens, so that each person can choose whether or not to prolong their working life. In this sense it has already moved the Finance Act 2001, reducing labor costs and increasing wages for workers despite having reached the retirement pension remain in business for at least two years. Now we need to work on some concrete targets: the increase of minimum pensions to those who actually need; the establishment of compulsory social insurance for dependent elderly people - whose currency hedge must be studied according to the availability of funds and the public contribution in support of the families and for the development of social services; the gradual rebalancing of the contribution rate for new job positions - coordinated and continuous and temporary workers - including through additional contributions proportional to the state, and the reunion of the periods of social security through the provision of the imputed contributions for periods of absence rap
working port; the recovery of compulsory contributions INPS, but paid insufficient pension rights, through the use of other social security funds.


Health:
the patient at the center of the system
Article 32 of the Italian Constitution defines health as a fundamental right of the citizen. In this spirit we intend to abide strictly by continuing to work for a health system based on universal solidarity, which take charge of the patient and assist him throughout the course of treatment and rehabilitation, not concentrate in the hospital all therapeutic opportunities or leave the patient alone with the disease. Even more, the city is at the center of the system. Must have full freedom of choice and informed, not only between the doctor and the doctor, but also between different locations and treatments. A choice based on an assessment of certain performance and community health facilities in each district. For this system for quality control and timeliness autonomous from local health we want to achieve, a prominent role will be given to representatives of associations for the protection of the rights of the citizen.
So far the guarantees of choices we are offering. But the health service and private structures contracted must still ensure, to those in need, diagnosis and therapies qualified, in certain times and in respect of priority and urgency. And this at no extra charge. Compared to the past, health care as a whole must change some habits, limiting the wasteful use of services and medicines, which are still relevant, and providing just what is needed. Not the least, not even enough, but it needs.
We think primarily in large investments for prevention - health education, protection of life and health at work, environmental protection, food protection - and the fight against the most common diseases: cardio and waxes
brovascolari, cancer, infectious diseases, occupational diseases, chronic degenerative diseases of the elderly. Most important is to achieve self-sufficiency of blood and blood products.
The basic health care in the district should be extended through the development of integrated home care and the interaction of the latter with social services. The mechanism will return a leading role to the family doctor, who is able to network with hospitals closely following the phases of convalescence and rehabilitation needs of the patient.
Hospitals must be humanized and custom, also based on a new design; and they must be strengthened, especially in the south.
For vulnerable people - the elderly, the disabled, addicts, chronically ill or mentally - to be built a network of support and care pathways outside the hospital institutions, with the development of family homes, home care, the partnership with the voluntary and third sector.



The extraordinary development of the sciences, especially in the biomedical field, opens wide horizons to knowledge and can contribute to the improvement of human life, environmental balance and economic progress. The first requirement is that Italy, in the framework of the European Union and the wider international collaborations, participate in this development with their own intellectual and production and original lines based on its traditions.
On an ethical level we must ensure respect for human dignity and individual freedom, in a society that wants to remain pluralist, but can not shatter into moral communities unrelated to each other. To this must contribute a "bioethics positive" based, rather than prohibitions on principles shared freely and on a general goal - the welfare of all. Its definition is already in place. The ratification of the European bioethics, voted with an overwhelming majority in parliament, may open in the next legislature a new phase, characterized, rather than by ideological conflicts, the search for common solutions on issues that concern both the frontiers of life that everyday reality.
Procreation must be a free and informed choice. The actual support to the procreative choice is realized through appropriate measures, economic and social. Reducing the number of abortions, which occurred in the last twenty years, it has not erased the personal drama and moral of too many women. The solution is to be found especially in the prevention, already recognized by the first article of the law, which foresees steps' to ensure that abortion is used for the purpose of limiting births ", while a little further on the text foreshadows the commitment" to efforts to overcome the causes that could lead the woman to pregnancy. " As for assisted procreation, it is subject to effective control - now absent - is acceptable only in case of infertility and must take into account the interests of those who should be born. Confidence in the ability and capacity of self-regulation of science, however, raise the policy and legislation from the requirement of a close watch on the manipulation of life, now technically within reach.
Recent decades have shown that universal health care, introduced in Italy in 1978, is the most effective, cheaper and more equitable health protection. However today that it requires three substantial corrections on bioethical: a selection not of the patients, as happens in systems based on private insurance, but of care, which must meet criteria of efficiency and economy, and be effectively made available to all; a culture of responsible participation of citizens in the therapeutic choices; a therapeutic alliance between doctor and patient based on autonomy, respect, enhancement of specialist work and at the same time sull'unitarietà person. Italy and Europe must also combat what the International Association of Bioethics has called the most contemporary bioethical problem: the growing gap, in terms of health, between rich areas and poor areas of the world. Health is in fact an indivisible good. Prevention and research on diseases common in depressed areas or underdeveloped, and access to drugs and therapies, should become the first step towards a global health policy.
The main aspiration of the people is not to give or lend him the death, as it might appear to some ongoing discussions, but win the right to live and die as late as possible, with minimum pain and maximum of dignity and serenity. And medicine must take care of the sick even when healing is not possible, especially in the final stages of life. The measures taken by the government for home care to the elderly and to make it more affordable medicines for pain and palliative care in this direction. Respect for the sanctity of life as a unique value of every human life, regardless of its alleged quality, requires the overcoming of all forms of aggressive medical treatment and recognition of the freely expressed will of the patient about the continuation of care. Instead it is unacceptable that the company decides, by delegating the act to the medical profession that was created to take care of and helping to live, to legalize euthanasia.
The mapping of the human genome is a great achievement of knowledge, which in the future may lead to the treatment of serious diseases and as yet incurable. Italy must actively participate in the phase of post-genome research. But the knowledge gained should not be used for discriminatory purposes, not to reduce individuals, as stated in the Universal Declaration on the genome prepared by UNESCO "to their genetic characteristics and to respect the uniqueness and diversity of each." Knowledge about the human genome, finally, should be made available without restrictions or charges to the entire scientific community, fighting the growing trend to privatize, through patents, information on DNA sequences. Genetic engineering has already brought benefits in the medical and food industries. Nevertheless, in recent years they have increased concerns about the possible reduction of biodiversity, for the predominance of narrow interests against the people and for the consequences of GMOs (genetically modified organisms) on human health. On this last point, the EU guidelines, based on the precautionary principle and the right of citizens to know and decide freely pro
pri foods, are moving in the right direction and should have universal application, through broader international agreements that may exist.


Discrimination against the disabled
Our commitment to people with disabilities comes from a great ethical awareness, civil and political, and is based on the agreement signed with associations and representatives of the three million Italian disabled and their families, based on the principles of non-discrimination and equal opportunities.
Our first aim is to minimize the causes of disability. We intend to take full advantage of the resources and capabilities of biomedical research, organizing prenatal diagnosis accessible to all. But the onset of disability be prevented even at the workplace, on the roads, in sport, at home. To do this it must support businesses and adapting plants to the safety regulations, increasing controls, promoting worker training and information to citizens, by rigorously implementing the new rules of the road.
Fought at its onset, disability is alleviated by strengthening the network of care. In each district will have to operate community health services based able to ensure the taking over and the rehabilitation of children and adults, the physical, mental and sensory. Must be available at least a day care center, home care and social care, housing communities. In addition, it will be required to reach the proportion of beds in rehabilitation provided by the National Health Plan - one bed per thousand inhabitants - and realize highly specialized rehabilitation centers. The next government will also have to reorder pensions, benefits, allowances for invalids, blind and deaf, and update the criteria for evaluation of disability according to the recommendations of the World Health. It will quin
to reorder the treatments, increasing the amounts for the severely disabled, increasing the allowance for partial blind and the deaf, protecting the most mentally retarded. It must also gradually harmonize the different treatments compensatory damages.
They have to grow the financial resources for the placement of the disabled. The school must be increased the number of operators in the sector, activated in-service training for teachers, strengthened the system of vocational training.
The biggest concern is the protection of the families of severely disabled adult in the latter part of his life. The so-called "after us" requires specific measures, stronger than existing ones. It should be enacted into law the administrator of support for the legal protection, economic and social life of the dependent person. We must strengthen the day services and home care. Finally, confirm and if possible increase, for the next five years, the allocation of five hundred billion for residential communities. The disabled have the right to mobility. It should then refinanced the law for the removal of architectural barriers and ensure access to stations, ports and airports, and local transport services. Immediate must be the adoption of rail cars with lifts for wheelchairs.


Combating drug addiction
In a few years the trafficking and consumption of drugs have changed. On the national and international market appeared new synthetic substances, often derived from psychiatric drugs, the same classification which appears, in some cases, problematic. The age of consumers has in many cases lowered, while drug abuse is of a now widespread, tied in a less obvious discomfort personal or social. It is therefore necessary to rethink an entire intervention model based on patterns partly overcome.
We attempt to unify the skills today scattered, creating a single department, or agency, that addresses the various syndromes of dependence greater concern. The immediate aim: large information campaigns in schools and places where young people; the criminalization of the sale of synthetic substances, although not included in the list of narcotic drugs; the extension of new drugs to consumers of administrative measures and rehabilitative opportunities now provided for those who use soft drugs; the strengthening of social and therapeutic responses, and more generally of the assistance, to heroin addicts, with stronger measures in favor of motherhood and fatherhood for addiction to addicts who have psychiatric disorders; the wider use possible for anyone detained on facts of drugs, alternative measures to prison, and if that is impossible to create, within the prison, the necessary treatment facilities; launching extensive, in places of drug use - marginal neighborhoods, stadiums, nightclubs - harm reduction strategies aimed at recovering and successfully tested, in recent years, in many Italian cities.
A safe country
Safety is the public good par excellence. In recent years we have been inflicted severe blows to organized crime. Thanks to strict regulation, illegal immigration is a serious problem, but is no longer an emergency. The crimes are decreasing, the less violent cities, the state has regained control of the territory. Yet our country still has a crime rate too high. Growing perception of widespread insecurity. It is a common phenomenon in all advanced societies, because globalization erodes the traditional models of cohabitation without apparently propose alternatives. Insecurity is a dangerous phenomenon, because it can cause an alteration of collective behavior, an increase of intolerance, fear of the different. To attack the first crime we need the police closer to the citizens, and equipped with the best technologies. But to give security is fundamental the participation of all, in an integrated approach that sees the involvement of social forces, associations, businesses.
Police latest
Our security project is based on the police most modern, more effective, better paid. This means collecting the service in the territory most of the forces currently allocated to activities of the office and provide them with cutting-edge technologies. The men and women in positions of police, especially when used on the front of the road, then must they be given an adequate compensation.
Against new mafias and new crime are essential for better coordination between the various law enforcement agencies and between them and the government, and an information network powerful and pervasive. Equally important, the safety of urban centers, are the new control systems: remote sensing, filtered access, reception by the warning panic and home systems intrusion.


Security, territory, community
Law enforcement must be increasingly linked to the communities they are intended to protect. Their presence in the territory is redefined according to the application for protection, and the experience of community policing, which has yielded good results, it should be extended as much as possible. The mobile emergency, which allow a flexible response to the needs of security, should be increased. The services we provide contact with citizens - green numbers, mailboxes, home collection of complaints, call centers, ability to send, thanks to the digital signature, complaints via the internet - must be strengthened.
Punishment of the crime as such, however, is only one component of security, to be integrated with a broader understanding of the phenomena and forms of intervention in the new. So we think the continuous monitoring
complaints from citizens - especially in large urban areas and for the crimes of the greatest social, such as muggings and burglary - and risk reduction programs based on the control of high turnout in districts or population density. But also to restorative justice and financial compensation for the victims.


The responsibilities of all
The enforcement efforts, alone, is not enough. Action is needed at the roots of crime, and to do that you need the involvement of the largest possible number of social actors. We need a policy to coordinate local authorities, police, social services, associations, business community, media, everyone called to contribute to define the field the security needs of the individual areas, setting priorities and suggesting strategies' intervention. A new approach, close to those experienced with success abroad, but also in many Italian towns, with the legality protocols signed between municipalities and prefectures. An approach that is structured by introducing instruments such as contracts for territorial security, programs of rapprochement between police and citizens, the stable involvement of social workers, the introduction of preventive measures specifically for individuals and groups most at risk of crime.
The new justice.
Rapid, accessible, certain
In recent years spending on justice has increased by 40%. The operation of the machine is improved. The area of ​​intervention of the courts has been reduced. The principle of due process, entered in the Constitution, we can now make defensive investigations, legal aid, a defense motion more effective, a more careful assessment of the evidence. The establishment of the single judge has allowed to suppress 568 between local courts and prosecutors minors. All seats for magistrate were put out to tender, and the administrative staff increased by 12%. The prison system has improved, and with it the conditions of all detainees, and sick mothers in particular. Also today who by the slowness of the process has suffered damage can be compensated, using the Italian courts and not the Court of Strasbourg.
But this does not yet guarantee the effective protection of the right - of all - to a trial within a reasonable time and reliable. By now, the efficiency of justice is perceived by citizens as a parameter for the more general evaluation of the efficiency of the state. On the other hand, at international level it has long been a criterion for assessing the reliability, and value, of a country. Justice must be seen as a community service, which must meet promptly and effectively three main demands: affordability, especially for citizens less protected; speed in investigating liability; certainty in the execution of decisions, starting with the sentence.
Organization and resources
They serve primarily more magistrates and more personnel, we intend to recruit accelerating the procedures for recruitment of new units, making the actual increase in staff of 1,000 judges, making the most of the honorary magistrates (justices of the peace, judges aggregates, judges of the court, viceprocuratori fees).
More rational organization of work can be achieved through decentralization of services, the completion of the computerization process, the introduction of control systems. As for the reform, to be implemented with the introduction of corrective to automatic career, new rules for the temporary nature of the management positions and selection of managers of the offices, the training of the magistracy, the feedback of professionalism and the distinction of functions of prosecutors and judges. Access advocacy must be based on exclusive merit criteria, and we need to study common training for lawyers and judges. Finally, it should be built a consistent system of disciplinary measures and secured a real monitoring compliance with the code of ethics.


Towards a community justice and international
With the Treaty of Amsterdam justice has become one of the pillars to build the European Union. The first steps towards its internalization are the creation of a coherent regulatory framework for all European Union countries and the launching of EU rules to facilitate the resolution of disputes between residents of different states. All Europeans should in fact provided protection independent of nationality and place of residence, especially in areas of common interest, such as family law and consumer protection.
The criminal laws of the Member States should be harmonized, and should be promoted the growth and development of organs
-organisms such as Eurojust - real embryo of a judicial European criminal. The candidate countries to join the EU must adapt its parameters in the protection of rights, independence of judges, border security than the Community.
In the international arena, it is necessary to operationalize the UN convention on transnational organized crime and promote the new conventions against corruption, terrorism, money laundering and cybercrime. The purpose is required much closer collaboration between the judiciary and police, and serve new bilateral agreements between States.


The civil justice and labor
The area of ​​intervention of the civil courts should be reduced through the development of alternative forms for the settlement of disputes. The process is streamlined, allowing the discussion focused. The Labour Court must be able to deal with disputes related to public employment. In addition to the destination to the employment of a share of new organic judiciary is expected recruitment of qualified personnel, in order to make productive to attempt settlement already required by law. As all'arretrato, you can eliminate appointing judges aggregates to settle any dispute relating to compensation issues, and part of the pension.


Criminal justice
The whole area of ​​criminal prosecution must be understood in a new and simpler code. They should be criminalized only the facts that really offend the fundamental interests of the person and of society. This means reducing the number of crimes and ensure for minor offenses for
me protection in administrative and extrajudicial, while ensuring the detention for certain serious crimes.
The right to defense must be guaranteed even to those who are not able to pay - and this must apply to defendants and plaintiffs, Italian and foreign citizens. Particular attention should be paid to ensure the speed of the process, in accordance with the provision of security by preventing all strategies obstructionist and dilatory, namely thinning obligations merely formal, reviewing the mechanism of nullity and significantly simplifying the notification system. In five years it should be reduced by half the average length of proceedings, giving back to the lower court a central role, both to guarantee the accused is the objectivity of the investigation. From there must come a change of mechanisms of custody and the time calculation of the prescription, which prevents scarcerazioni easy and fast requirements, and the review of the system of appeals, avoiding appeals or appeals to the Supreme Court with only dilatory intent - a practice today It poses to the Supreme Criminal Appeals 50,000 a year, with an inherent risk of a serious paralysis.


Juvenile Justice
The establishment of the Department for Juvenile Justice expressed the need for specific interventions to children at risk of delinquency and offenders. In our legal system should be introduced substantive and procedural rules that foster understanding of the acts committed, the damage caused and the sanctions imposed.
In particular appear a useful enhancement of resources for the entire national territory for the prevention of delinquency, the measure of suspension of the process and of probation, the mediation with the victim of the crime.
Worth

The types of offenses, the number and the economic and social conditions of our prison population lead us to reflect on the irrationality of a criminal justice system too often weak with the strong and strong with the weak. It should therefore redefined the system of penalties, and you allow the court to knowledge the possibility of imposing alternative sentences and determine the manner of performance. No more severe punishment, then, but more certain, and discounted in the best conditions. More effective control of the criminal proceedings pending and will prevent criminals Professional cumulino unduly conditional suspension of the sentence or should benefit from prison benefits in the execution phase. Ultimately, the prison sentence is to be reserved for aggressive violations of basic goods and dangerous for people. Those guilty are still offers real opportunities for recovery, especially in cases where the crime is caused by social unrest, while the parameters for the award of benefits, and in particular of suspended, shall be subjected to tighter control.
Too often, finally, the apparatus of justice forget those who should be the most protected, victims in favor of which we intend to enforce the rule of legal aid for the poor and create a system of information and assistance that facilitates contact with the administration of justice, surpassing the current system in which the victim, especially if not claimed damages (ie legal assistance which will assure it of the right to compensation) is almost always considered a kind of intruder not only in process, but in the same courts.
For victims of domestic violence and sexual offenses and, in general, of exploitation - especially children and women - are provided for specific forms of support.
The administrative justice
The new Organic Law on Administrative Procedure gives the court jurisdiction for damages resulting illegitimate exercise of public power, and in the process introduces administrative tools of immediate protection of their civil trial. To meet the old and the new requirements of administrative justice must make it easier and swifter through the increase in staff, the establishment of sections excerpt, the adoption of objective criteria for the allocation of disputes to individual judges, the endowment administrative courts and the Council of State of the necessary structures. Decisive is the realization of the program of computerization started, which will radically change the method of work.


The reform of the professions
The reform of the professions that we propose with the bill Fassino contemplates the creation of a dual system that legitimate, next to professional associations and boards, including the world of new professions based on free association recognized. Associations have to be certified by a third party to guarantee users.
The bill also provides for the full recognition of the professional practice through dedicated companies, and the management of minimum fees, the activities of public interest.
Both the three-year degree and specialist must allow immediate access by young people to the professions. In this framework the state examination be limited to verifying possession by candidates of the skills required, and the training - played freely in and out of college courses - will be paid equally.
Finally, there are the recognition of the professional as a public body is not cheap, and the requirement for insurance coverage for all professionals.
An Italy of knowledge
In modern societies, information, communication and knowledge are primary goods, which must be made available to everyone at all ages. From this depends on the competitiveness of our country and its role in the world, but also social cohesion and the ability of the generations to talk. Never before has education, information and social development appear related. And they are the foundation of a real policy of equality.
We have identified two main objectives: to create a circuit between schools, universities, and research open to the world of work; make available a training program for every citizen, extending it to the entire life span.
Schools and universities need to prepare at work, offer professionalism and competence, and to transmit a system of values ​​and knowledge around which to build the new national and European identity. Part of the work has already been done with the start of a reform that has touched the whole spectrum of education, from the reorganization of school cycles compulsory training up to 18 years, equality between state schools and non-state all ' institutional autonomy, the reform of the Ministry of Education to the university and vocational training. This testing should be implemented now providing it with all the necessary means and must be corrected if it is shown unsatisfactory. But stop it in favor of a crude solution which good school, as proposed by the right, would disrupt the complex mechanism of public schools, increasing disparities and injustices. Equally pe
DANGEROUS would fully devolve to the regions educational activities, deeply undermining the cultural unity of the nation. And it is unworthy of a civilized country attacking the principles of autonomy and academic freedom through control over the choice of textbooks.
A school student
At the center of the project that we are working there are the students, especially those for which the right to education is still an achievement. In their favor, the dispensations to cover the costs for education, starting from textbooks, will be extended to the whole system, public and private. Their training programs will be flexible, that is determined on the basis of personal aspirations is based on indications designated public employment assistance. A secondary objective is not a different relationship between users and the institution, which can be achieved by providing the first right to information, confidentiality, transparent and quick evaluation, and enabling the second, to a greater extent than is the case today, a rigorous evaluation of school performance.


Teaching today
The school asks much autonomy to teachers, that in view of the adoption of the new European models will open their own educational settings. In return, we must give them more than it has been possible, for budgetary reasons, in the previous legislature.
The methods and routes of qualification and access to the role should be reviewed, and integrated with a new system of in-service training. Teachers can take advantage of self-training sabbaticals, further experiments, linking their activities with the university acquiring credits, specialization, PhDs oriented teaching. Particular attention will also be devoted to the work environment, with new spaces for educational activities. In this, as well as to encourage the possession and use of new information technologies, will go a considerable investment.
Teachers deserve adequate remuneration. With progressive wage increases, wages will avvici
be forged with the European levels. The different joints of career and salary, through the establishment of a register of expertise and professionalism, will not be automatic. Will introduce mechanisms to reward those who decide to offer their services in disadvantaged schools, and programs that link financial incentives to achieve higher goals to set parameters.


The role of the family
Families and students must be able to choose education and training. Guarantee of this right is also equality between state and non-state school.





The reform of university autonomy has put universities in a position to respond more flexibly to the demands of the students, and the needs of society. But now the university system must be able to engage in a new way all those involved in academic life, getting a real integration between universities, territory and the labor market, public and private.
To approach the Italian expenditure per student and graduate to European requires a substantial increase in resources. Along with the means necessary to give universities more autonomy, not only in finance, but also in the 'institution of the master of the first and second level, as well as in the management of new forms of flexibility in the study, such as distance learning.
Also important are the recognition of post-secondary education and the generational change of the class teachers and researchers, periodic evaluation of the assets, the return of the "brains" that have left the country, and the full integration of the Italian faculties in international networks training and research.
We have to design universities increasingly integrated into their territory, with incentives for locating businesses near universities. There are very encouraging pilot cases, in the attempt.
The mobility of study
Students have two primary needs: choose the university where they study and approach to progressively
world of work, gaining the choice of their life plan consciously. In the college years, the needs of sociability, comparison, teaching are often frustrated by transfer fees and maintenance onerous by faculty too big or simply not able to provide the services you need.
Encouraging mobility study is an initial response. Only giving actual power of choice to students university autonomy will bear fruit. Therefore we expect a doubling of scholarships currently provided, flanked by support for a more widespread system of individual credit facilities and additional investment in real services: residence halls, cafeterias, libraries, orientation and relationship with the labor market, internships at companies and administrations.
The Italian research
The current competitiveness and potential of a country is measured by the quality of its scientific research. The need to bring the Italian research, in the shortest possible time, to levels of excellence is therefore undisputed. It remains to identify how best to meet it.
The first is undoubtedly adopt modern institutions and networked, fully integrated into the project of the European Research Area, and adequate funds. It needs a public system that rewards the best ideas and projects and to promote an ongoing dialogue between research and industry. A system in which the design choices they enroll in an overall strategic plan, with a clear definition of objectives and transparent criteria for evaluating results.
The Italian system is, in other words, transformed: sprovincializzato in its areas of greatest delay, promoted in its centers of excellence. Need a lot of work on infrastructure, communications, methods for selecting projects,
with the ultimate goal of attracting the most valuable asset: human capital. Our researchers no longer have to be forced to emigrate, and our centers are to attract the best foreign researchers.
These, today, are not unrealistic goals. There are, on the contrary, the conditions for achieving them, the mechanisms of movement of researchers that favor exchange between business and research, to new and more coordinated financing instruments. There is, finally, a general framework on two levels: the National Research Programme, which is our work plan for the coming years, and the European Research Area, a project aimed at making the EU competitive in the global market.
Sure must be corrected immediately anomalies Italian, as the insufficient number of researchers and the uneven geographical distribution of centers. And the search, especially if applied, should be funded by mixed capital, attracting the private share with favorable tax regimes and adequate protection of intellectual property - need this, especially felt by small and medium-sized enterprises, which will provide specific help to access in technologies to improve productivity and quality.
Our priority for the coming years is therefore the implementation of the national research program, which we intend to allocate 5,000 billion corresponding to 10% of the auction proceeds UMTS, attributing to research a budget share similar to that of advanced countries, with the target of 2 / 2.5% of GDP at the end of five years. To ensure transparency, we think of an administrative structure to ensure that the choice of projects funded, the monitoring of their implementation and the assessment of the effects are conducted based on criteria and European standards. Finally, the reform should be completed by Enea, the National Research Council and other research organizations, and encouraged cooperation between domestic and foreign institutions.
Earth, water, air.
Protect the roots of the future
Italy has a landscape and environmental heritage unique in the world, which is a constituent part of its national identity. Defend it and enhance it means to live, every day, the better, but also open up new prospects for development. This awareness has moved governments of the Olive, devoting unprecedented resources to the environment. With important results, such as reducing costs not bathing for excess pollution, the spread of selective collection of municipal waste, the natural protection of 10% of the national territory, the creation of new marine reserves, the fight to illegal.
The environment is an important resource that must guide the choices of government and public administration in all fields. For this the next legislature will be the sustainable development, and promote a more efficient use of energy - especially renewable energy from solar -, environmentally friendly infrastructure, the spread of entrepreneurship green, extent and the qualification of protected areas, the quality of agriculture - with an impact on employment of at least 150,000 units. The environment, however, is also a global problem. A dramatic problem, which requires Europe to implement with the utmost rigor, even unilaterally, the Kyoto Protocol.
A green country:
defense and control of the territory
Public works are also, for us, maintenance, repair, recovery, restoration and reforestation of the territory, protection of river beds and river banks, the prevention and the safety of the areas at risk of landslide and flood. For their implementation requires adequate financial and technical resources, and a more rational legislation. In this sense, they will operate the new Ministry for the Environment and the Protection of Natural Resources and the new national agency, which, together with the river basin authorities and the regions will allow to address more effectively the growing risks of hydrogeological and to proceed with the remediation and the recovery of many polluted sites.
New haven
After the success achieved with the creation of national parks and reserves land and sea, which put Italy at the top among the European nations for the protection of the environment, the next five years will be necessary to complete the construction of the parks already planned (Delta Padano , Gennargentu, Sila), supporting the park authorities in their action of incentives for the development and socio-economic nature, expanding protected areas and preventing scaling by local governments or unscrupulous.
Rivers and seas
Quantity and quality of drinking water are a treasure to be preserved. The sewage system of liquid waste must be adapted to the new and more stringent European standards in order to drastically reduce the pollution of all the rivers that flow into the sea. But with the
tenance and renewal of the water supply, but also with more efficient use and re-use of treated waste water, you can get a reduction of waste and withdrawals. All these actions should be combined with a plan for coastal protection and coastal erosion control. They are finally strengthened the prevention and reduction of risks associated with the transport of oil and other toxic substances, banning ships from our seas insecure and intensifying the monitoring of marine traffic.
Waste:
from slag resource
The continuous increase in the production of waste damages the environment and leads to a serious waste of valuable resources. This implies increasing recycling and spread so widespread the integrated waste management. Within the next five years, the hazardous waste will be reduced by at least 20%, and the collection will meet the target of 35% required by law. To encourage recycling initiatives may serve to support the activities and products made from recycled materials and the use of compost derived from the organic fraction.
City-cleaning of
The city - and many areas - ranging first decongestionate, favoring the survival and less polluting and extending pedestrian areas or limited traffic. Will be decisive, even here, the use of innovation, with the focus on research on hydrogen vehicles, the use of information technology and the organization of new professional support to the Government of sustainable mobility. The experience of the ecological Sundays is to be resumed. On another front, that of the fight against the degradation ur
bano, to lead into large programs of recovery and maintenance - making permanent the current tax incentives - and extensive ties to green urban areas.
Over the next five years we need to be conducted underground and tram networks financed and approved, and strengthen the railways in metropolitan use, simultaneously offering new services, enabling more and more use of private cars reduced. Very important is the improvement of the urban road safety, especially for those most exposed as children and the elderly. For this we need to work on seemingly minor issues, such as buoyancy road maintenance, street furniture and instrumentation technology for the prevention and suppression of uncivilized behavior - from the stop wild.
Energy and Environment
To implement the Kyoto Protocol which requires Italy to reduce by 6.5% the greenhouse gas emissions compared to 1990 levels should be undertaken a drastic energy conservation policy. By 2010 it is possible to double the share of renewable sources, starting with the solar, encouraging the spread both in public buildings and in private ones. They should also be completed the gasification of the country and the liberalization of the gas sector.
Protection of animals
For more effective protection of animals are provided for measures to improve farming conditions, and the revision of the articles of the Criminal Code on abuse. We will strive also for proper wildlife management and a positive application of the laws that affect them.
Agriculture
as a mark of quality
The globalization of markets, the reform of the Common Agricultural Policy, EU enlargement and the revision of the agreements on international trade mean, for Italian agriculture, the entrance into a scenario less secure and more competitive. Support policies generalized price, trade barriers, incentives for exports should be replaced with a new policy that rewards the quality and transparency of production processes, the protection of consumers. The world of agriculture is a great treasure that must be preserved by the serious emergencies in terms of food security, the lack of generational change and worrying phenomena of hydrogeological also due to the progressive abandonment of rural and mountain areas. Its future, its potential in terms of income and employment, thus appear linked to quality, conservation and enhancement of the territory and of our productions, and a government stronger player in European and international negotiations.
Trademarks
Quality is our real added value, known and sought after worldwide. We must therefore develop and disseminate, in a much greater extent than today, organic products, the PDO (Protected Designation of Origin) and PGI (Protected Geographical Indication). On a more general level, policies are needed to more aggressive and coordinated marketing, exploiting the priceless value of our deposits and gourmet food.
But the marks of traditional products must be strictly protected from imitations and counterfeits. Winning this battle, in the EU and WTO, will enable us to increase exports to the countries where consumers are willing to pay more in exchange for authenticity, quality, environmental friendliness, and safety guarantees. With the prospect of growing international trade and faster, an increasingly important is for cooperatives to product marketing and product associations, as well as to all facilities can reduce the steps brokerage and adopt forms highly competitive, from the sale direct the company to e-commerce.
Costs
Quality has a price that can not be shot down. However, it can significantly reduce the cost of factors of production and the system. To do this, you first need to expand the credit offer, with mortgage lending twenty years at a subsidized rate, engage in reform of the insurance system against the risk of natural disasters and introduce multi-risk policies. Serve then refinance former Cassa for the formation of peasant property - today absorbed by Ismea - and more tax breaks for the purchase of land and the growth of enterprises. Agriculture has finally need specific measures: tax cuts on oil products, incentives for the use of renewable ener
ergy resulting agriculture (biomass and biodiesel) and a determined simplification of administrative procedures. They also need new service centers agrozootecnici, the redevelopment of land reclamation and an investment plan for the procurement, maintenance, and a more rational use of water resources.
The environmental and food safety
The role of agriculture goes beyond its function merely productive. Farming practices, organic farming and integrated agriculture can indeed become effective forms of protection. On the other hand the maintenance of agriculture also in disadvantaged areas and less productive, such as those of the mountains, allows a good land management. For this purpose appear indispensable support for small municipalities and the recovery of the craft, the establishment of a civil service optional, provision of useful services in marginal areas: pharmaceutical garrisons, schools, postal services, food stores.
To ensure everyone a more and more valuable, food security, requires the establishment of national, independent and connected to its European equivalent. New standards are needed, more detailed labeling and certification of the product to plot a profile reliable company of first production.
Biotechnology should be oriented towards sustainable use and responsible. To do this, you must respect the precautionary principle and admit the testing of GMOs only on homogeneous kingdoms (vegetable of vegetable) excluding it in other cases (animal on plant), to ensure a dial, but not distorted. And research, with the participation and public scrutiny, must take place in venues specifically used for the experiment, constantly monitored and controlled.
Fishing
In a modern production system, fishing, as well as providing essential products for national food and agricultural policies, assumes new functions: tourism, the Government of the sea, in the markets of the industry. It is therefore important to harmonize the policies of the European Union, state and regions, supporting the creation of a regional Mediterranean policy based as much as possible on a decentralized management of marine areas. And, like agriculture, fisheries and aquaculture must also be central to the development of their food quality and environmental protection.
A country in the network.
Carry, move, communicate
Equipment, quality and time of creation and construction of infrastructure are among the first points of the agenda of the government. The failure of the Italian networks - transport, water, energy - results in inconvenience for citizens and businesses, inefficiency, waste, higher costs, and consequently less welfare, less work, less wealth. In the transport sector, our main goal is to multiply the alternatives. They need adequate and efficient roads and highways, and citizens should be offered a real choice. Decide how to get around, where to live and where they work is a right. And it is a duty to the future design works today compatible with the development of the next few decades.
The road itself does not hold anymore. But choosing the railroad, the plane, the ship must be affordable. Thus, we intend to achieve, over the next five years, the general transport plan which represents the largest system of upgrading infrastructure ever designed in Italy. A compliant program - based on respect for the environment, modal shift, logistics development - and far-reaching, that over a decade will require a financial commitment, between public and private resources, to almost 200 trillion. And that in addition to network cities and metropolitan areas, bringing them closer to Europe, will enable the country to rebuild a relationship with the landscape more harmonious.
Transport
In the next ten years, the transport system will therefore be redesigned. With consistency, using the best existing infrastructure and services, designing interventions only harmonics with the overall design, eliminating unwarranted intervention. No more unfinished projects for which our country is world famous. The networking infrastructure will be provided by an agency for integrated logistics.
The tracks represent the future of transport, and not only on a national scale. The "treatment of iron" should allow a better link with Europe, but also a profound transformation of urban transport. Are therefore crucial large investments in a network that, in large parts of Italy, remains below acceptable standards. The work on the Turin-Lyon, and on the Brenner, are urgent, as well as the construction of high capacity lines, especially on the southern lines - first of all, the Naples-Bari -, and the completion of the network of Sicily. But it is perhaps the city should focus, in partnership with municipalities and regions, the main effort, that in five years can lead to a doubling of the network of urban and metropolitan network of regional metropolitan railways.
To cope with the growth in freight traffic Italy has many alternatives. Water is one of the most convincing. Our country is a marine, and even the sea has to build its highways. Motorways of the Sea is called, not surprisingly, our project to transfer a significant part of freight transport from road to ship a system of interventions that will be achieved by supporting the three-year investment plans of the port authorities and the actions of private individuals, thus returning weight and the market in all major Italian ports.
The air transport has potential exploited only partially. The major national hubs - Fiumicino and Malpensa - should assume a leading role at the continental level,
while much needs to be done, including encouraging the involvement of private, for small airports, especially the south.
Our goal is to ensure the country an extensive road network and in good condition. Today it is again possible to realize all the arteries already underway or planned, especially those connecting north-south and east-west: the Salerno-Reggio Calabria, the variant of the pass, the Asti-Cuneo. Particular attention should be paid to metropolitan nodes - from Mestre to the connection with Malpensa -, essential parts of our project, and interventions on major industrial clusters and housing, which the foothills Veneta and pedegronda Lombarda.
Water, energy, gas
Water is a scarce resource, especially in the south. This requires the transition from management in economy management industry. It is therefore necessary to invest in water infrastructure and make the most of economies of scale, involving private and opening the sector to competition. The process can be accelerated by the action of the Authority for Water Resources recently established, and incentives already launched.
A similar story for the power grid. In the gas sector must instead fill the gaps of the local distribution networks, especially in the south, accelerating the gasification. It is also necessary to promote the creation of new infrastructure to allow diversification of supply sources and a higher throughput.
In the electricity sector must be developed interconnection with the pan-European system, and completed the reform started in 1999, the benefits begin to appear today for companies, and soon will be felt even by users. The full liberalization of the electricity passes through an efficient network of services, able to reach all consumers and ensure their freedom of choice.
Urban renewal
With the end of the urban expansion, Western cities are beginning to transform from within. Retrieving the slums and also heal the historic centers, rediscovering traditional vocations of the urban fabric and by searching for new ones. It is a widespread phenomenon of vast proportions, involving the private urban design. Even in Italy it is being tested, with success, new formulas.
The prospect is a new urban policy, which must be part of legislation that allows not only to restore, but also to break down and rebuild. The tax benefits currently provided for the renovation and maintenance of buildings should therefore be extended to the demolition and rebuilding, and should be rewarded by businesses or shops which carry out the renovation of the premises or the adaptation of the plant, extending the life of the leases and strengthening the institution of compensation for loss of goodwill commercial.
Too slow and complex, in some circumstances, it appears traditional tools of urban planning, first of all the plans. In the new scenario, they could be integrated with solutions more flexible, making it possible to commisurare interventions to real needs, and often emergency housing or infrastructure of cities and territories. Our cutoff point, in terms of the city, remains the fight to illegal construction.
The new public works
Public works should be decided in a democratic way, involving local authorities - with the conference services, and by a majority, but in certain times. Too many times Italians reading of great works that you do not do it because the service conferences are not closed. Although the environmental impact assessment, even decisive, must be
during the design, not on the construction. The management of public works can be entrusted to global managers who respond personally or to agencies that monitor the execution of the works from start to finish and ensure their timely delivery.
For public works is an essential resource. We need to increase and streamline forms of financing by increasing the share of GDP devoted to infrastructure, acting primarily on the areas of the country that there are gaps particularly serious. You need to activate the loans of international institutions and the contributions of the European Union, indicating the national priorities in the field of transport in order to obtain the inclusion in Community programs. Finally it should be simplified and made convenient the legislation on project financing to encourage greater participation of private capital.
The cultural,
place of modernity
Between 1996 and 1999 the Italian cultural employment increased by more than 100,000 units, with an increase rate of 23.8%. In 2000 the budget of the ministry has exceeded 4,000 billion. Between 2000 and 2006, for cultural heritage we will be used over 5,000 billion EU funds. In four years they have been opened or reopened more than 60 places of art, one a month. In 2000, visitors to state museums have exceeded for the first time a record $ 30,000,000. In 2001, the resources devoted to the show went from 910 billion in 1996 to the current 1,025.

These figures show that culture is not just a set of values ​​and the foundation of the national identity, but also an extraordinary factor in economic development. The Italian artistic heritage and landscapes, are an asset to be enhanced with new tools and a new approach to the production and consumption of knowledge, information and entertainment. Increased public and private spending in itself involve a strong managerial innovation and entrepreneurial. The task of government is to maintain a high tone of the question, on the one hand by extending the right to culture, the other supporting the production.
Culture as investment
Culture is currently devoted 1% of GDP - a significant share, which however must be increased. In our legal system it was introduced a rule providing for the full tax deductibility for donations to organizations and businesses cultural foundations: we need to extend the benefits to individuals, thus promoting the micromecenatismo. Also important is experience of managing mixed models for historical and artistic heritage of the State, through the instrument of cultural foundation, put the issue at the European extension of the reduced rate of VAT - already possible for books and newspapers - to products record and multimedia. Equally important it is to increase investment in production, encouraging both artistic creativity is innovation in business and management. Italy has become the place of modernity, and it needs new talent.
As for entertainment activities (music, theater, cinema, dance), it is kept constant the annual increase of the fund only the show. In addition, it must resubmit the laws of the sector for theater and music, and to strengthen support to the cinema, linking it with the actions at European level - in particular as regards production, co-production and distribution. Finally, great attention should be paid to the relationship between culture, entertainment and new multimedia.
For a better use of culture you can do a lot. First, create more cinemas and more spaces for theater and music, especially in the south, through the recovery of industrial sites or former military. Italian museums must enter the network of world culture, promoting education for international officials and creating the conditions for an autonomous management of resources.
Design and recover
Italy needs projects. For the management and enhancement of its artistic heritage, but also for the redevelopment of its cities. You have to begin to build, systematically rewarding quality. So we want the final approval of the law for the architecture, which provides for the establishment of awards for the design of public works and the introduction of supports and transparent rules for the conduct competitions.
In parallel, work should be undertaken of careful recovery of artistic heritage spread, wrongly considered minor. It is not only restoration, but also to promote tourism. Through the recovery of medieval villages, castles, villas, also in Italy should rise a network of tourist facilities on the model of the Spanish paradores or relays French chateaux. Encourage entrepreneurship linked reception - with increased attention to teaching and communication, the involvement of the social enterprises and young entrepreneurs for the management of archaeological sites and updating of standards that encourage the enterprise - will result in a significant boost employment in the sector.
Are completed major projects recovery of the Pinacoteca di Brera, the machine in the Royal Palace of Venaria Reale and the Egyptian Museum in Turin, and realized the doubling of the Gallerie dell'Accademia in Venice, the New Uffizi in Florence, the Centre for Contemporary Arts Museum and the Audiovisual in Rome. But it should be especially valued the Italian countryside, through full implementation of legislation to protect and approving the law against illegal. The demolitions of illegal buildings, - as the Fuenti on the Amalfi Coast, and the contrast to the systematic subdivisions outlaws - have become part of the national plan for the restoration of the landscape whose drafting is one of our big goals.
Finally, it completed the computerization of catalogs, collections, libraries and archives already in place, and van
not made the national bibliographic service online, the portal of the Library and the project Media 2000.
The right to sport
64.8% of Italians practice physical activities and sports. 26% assists regularly in sports shows. As well as being a very important piece of our culture, the sport is, with its 60,000 billion in annual revenue, an important item of our economy, and an important source of employment. Accompany its growth with appropriate legislation has been one of the commitments of the government in the legislature just ended. Reorganization of sports credit institution of the degree course in physical education, the fight against doping, authorization profit for professional clubs, tax relief for amateurism and reorganization of cones were our main projects, that in the next term will be entered in a design comprehensive reform based on the respect of some basic principles: recognition of the social value of sport, the right of all citizens to the sport, the system's autonomy, internal democracy, the balance between the various components, the certainty resources.
Sport must be short for everyone, and to become a cornerstone of the new welfare. To guarantee this right requires some important measures. It should be of creating an national fund, fed by state intervention and resources from the world of sport, with which the regions could finance the widespread practice and the association base, and allocate more resources to the new plant and the recovery of obsolete facilities . It should set up a body of consultation and programming industry. Ranging increased hours of physical education in physical and sports all school levels. It should be guaranteed a precise formal recognition to the work and sports professions, with contractual protections and benefits extended to workers, athletes and coaches. It should be launched the long-awaited law on companies, amateur sports clubs and sports promotion bodies. It is an essential mechanism of protecting the health of non-competitive sports activities.
For a defense of Maastricht
and safety
The end of the Cold War, and as a result of the need for a static defense of borders, has changed the role of the armed forces, which are on track to become an instrument of protection and stability of the international legality in a stable system of alliances and cooperation. Therefore, in the previous legislature it was initiated a major restructuring of our defense model. Military service has become a choice and is no longer a requirement, increasing efficiency and making the military profession option of life. The effective independence of the Carabinieri, in addition to modernizing an order that dates back to 1934, defined the new profile of a tool that today must protect democratic institutions also intervene in those border areas, often fall outside the control of the legitimate authorities where organized crime establishes its sanctuaries.
The new role of the Armed Forces Italian
Italy has now disputes with no state, and acting within the major international organizations (UN, OSCE, NATO, EU). The new legislature opens after the creation of the force projection Europe in the framework of the common foreign and security policy: important instrument, such as currency, to the new path of the European Union. A Union growing, it is true that in recent years the forces made available by member countries for possible peacekeeping missions have been added those of some 15 other nations, some belonging to what was once the Warsaw Pact .
The strengthening of NATO and the European Union has made it possible to control conflict and the start of a global policy of detente and arms reduction, while the dialogue with the countries of South Eastern Europe and the Mediterranean has resulted in important instruments, such as the Partnership for Peace.
In this scenario, Italy has played an important role by helping to overcome barriers that divided Europe and the updating of the transatlantic link, and at the same time working towards the revival of European integration and consolidation of the Euro-Atlantic space.
The EU has now become an important actor in the international scenario of multidimensional security. We must work in a Maastricht defense and security, which allows a rational use of resources in each country and the coordination with the device of the Atlantic Alliance and the process of creation of a European security and defense identity within NATO. The end result must be the management of a single trim forces, separable but not separate; a device that will gradually transfer more responsibility on Europe, reinforcing the transatlantic link.
The reorganization of the army
and the new civil service
Military spending should be brought up to European standards. The reorganization of the army and the establishment of the new civil service will require, initially, more investment, which will, however, savings and benefits in subsequent years. It must be revised resource allocation in favor of modernization, setting the ratio of operating expenses and investment respectively to 70 and 30%.
Reorganization of the logistic, operational and industrial Defence must continue. The forces on the territory ranging ridislocate according to the missions entrusted to them, and the old structures - from barracks and installations - abandoned and made available to the communities residing in the territory. Civilian staff should be enhanced and upgraded.
It must be used in a full and intelligent tools of law to encourage the recruitment of volunteers, that since 2007, after a transition period, will replace the entire actual leverage. Our defense needs and the imminent creation of a European military force require armed forces with training and living conditions far superior to the current ones. In this respect, it should complete the process of reform of the military to allow representation, as everywhere in Europe, better protection of the military.
Facilities and equipment are modernized, contributing to the growth of research in the field of technology in dual vocation, and thus consolidating the technological base and employment in the country. Even in the field of defense procurement must be emphasized international cooperation, so as to ensure better use of available resources and coordination between the forces. The defense industry will be further integrated at the European level, in particular in large
of military and civil aircraft programs, weapons systems and control. It will also require the creation of a European armaments agency for aggregation and standardization of the application.
The creation of a voluntary civil service for men and women is essential to not dissipate a wealth of valuable experience and to establish an actual connection and solidarity between the generations and the country. Then we will enable young people to engage in socially useful activities, offering them in exchange for small grants, credits and grants.
Italy in Europe and worldwide
Italy is a great country. Its geographical location give it a strategic role in a particularly delicate area. Its culture calls to defend civil rights, tolerance and peace. Of its civilization are part of humanitarian aid, and cooperation with countries in the developing world. In recent years, this awareness have helped the country to find a new location within the economic equilibrium and balance of power changed greatly, and to redefine the very concept of national interest, thus avoiding the exclusion from the main venues of multilateral decision.
Today the prestige and authority of the country at the international level have grown, thanks to tough decisions, which sanctioned a partial break with previous policies. Humanitarian interventions in Bosnia and Kosovo before then, and more recently the peacekeeping mission in East Timor, have shown and show that Italy is a reliable member of the international community, with a recognized ability to intervene in crisis situations.
The prevention and resolution of ethnic conflicts do not exhaust the task of our foreign policy. EU enlargement to twelve new members will put it relevant security issues and cohesion, while relations with the developing world require new forms of economic and technological cooperation. The preservation of the environmental balance of the planet requires, immediately, strong and consistent choices. Who wants to guide the global choices can not give up the responsibility towards future generations.
A new national interest
With the end of Cold War Italy he could have chosen to carve out a space for medium power in areas of limited influence. The alternative was to adopt a multilateral approach proportionate to the historical experience of the country and its place in the international arena. And it was the choice - very clear - governments of the Olive. Only active participation in global decision-making, in fact, guaranteed the democratic representation of our legitimate interests. This key will be wider then addressed all the new problems that foreign policy poses to the country.


Towards a common security policy
In terms of safety it was decided to transform the armed forces into an appropriate tool for the management of international crises. It is a choice that has had, and will have, profound implications. The quantitative reduction of the armed forces, their reform in a professional sense, the transformation of the army into a safety device for use in peacekeeping missions are all designed to transform mechanisms and vocations of the military.
Within the international community, NATO and the European Union must define flexible forms of operational integration. The friendship and alliance with the United States, and NATO as the cornerstone of the common defense, remain a key factor for progress and security between the two sides of the Atlantic. But today, NATO is a '' security alliance without enemy ", and must assume a role of prevention. In a Europe threatened by the resurgence of nationalism in some countries Central-East, and aggressive local policies, the enlargement of the Atlantic Alliance to the east appears a guarantee of stability possible. A stability that is part es
tial a different relationship with Russia, which as shown by the events of the war in Kosovo can not be isolated.
But next to our loyalty to NATO should be supported vigorously the development of the common foreign and security policy of the European Union and the role of its high representative. With a view to the gradual creation of a common European defense, our first objective is the creation of a rapid reaction force.
They must be confirmed and developed the responsibility of our country in the Mediterranean, especially with respect to the delicate situation in the Middle East.


Solidarity and cooperation
The question of international solidarity can not be circumvented. Economic globalization is in fact a complex phenomenon, whose government is essential for the same coexistence between rich and poor countries. Against the latter requires some major steps: the reduction and partial debt cancellation; the opening of our markets to their agricultural products and manufactured goods; the adoption of development policies compatible with the fundamental resources and environmental balance; the deepening of cooperation in solidarity that will help to promote economic development, social and civic respect and the extension of human rights; the establishment of European civilian peace bodies.
A special mention must be the risk of rearmament. Not a remote risk. After a long period, from 1989 to 1996, where armaments were reduced by a third over the past two years, military spending has increased by about 2%. The US initiative to create a new system of national defense - the missile shield - can undermine the international treaties that have made possible a
partial disarmament. There is, therefore, especially by the poor countries, the possibility of a new arms race that, in a world troubled by hunger, disease and terrible regional conflicts, would have dramatic consequences. A danger that Italy must undertake to avoid.


International institutions
Italy and the EU must be strengthened and made more representative, democratic and effective international organization, the United Nations bodies of government finance and trade as the WTO, the IMF, the World Bank, contributing to the reform of their composition and their addresses and purpose. In this spirit, the G8 must find ways to involve those most representative of the different continents. Finally, it is necessary that our country has adequate representation to its political and able to assert interests, viewpoints and values ​​in decision making.


Italians in the world
Our fellow citizens abroad are tens of millions. With an estimated one hundred twenty thousand induced billion, represent a great wealth for our economy and our culture. Their full exploitation means the opening of new markets and new opportunities for our companies. To them we owe the respect of commitments such as the granting of the right of vote on the spot, the revival and promotion of the Italian language and culture in the world, strengthening the network of consulates and cultural institutes, the transformation of the board General of Italians abroad.
Italians in the world feel today again proud of the country where they were born. To them we must deliver an Italy that counts more, is worth more, is more loved and respected.
Index
p. 5 2001/2006. A vote that lasts five years
GREAT CHALLENGES
The European Constitution in a modern state in Southern Europe The new immigration regular fairness A plural society
The European Constitution
In a modern state. Institutions, public administration, federalism
The basis of citizenship: quality public services A few simple laws
Public employees
From citizens to users
Administration for economic development Our federalism: subsidiarity and solidarity system of regional autonomy Fiscal federalism
Towards new institutions
28 Southern Europe
29 Local development
31 The Euro-Mediterranean area

33 regular and integrated immigration
34 Fighting illegal immigration and racket

p.
34
Immigration programmed

35
Asylum

35
The rights and duties

36
A common European policy

37
The new equity. The family, children, the elderly,

38
young people, women
Support for families

38
Social services

39
The balance between work and family

39
When the family breaks

39
The rights and the protection of minors

40
Seniors

41
Young people

42
The Italian

44
A plural society. Volunteering and consumers

45
Company profit, an engine for employment

46
Consumer Protection

We renew ITALY, TOGETHER
European economy
Towards a new production system A new Welfare State A safe country
The new justice
An Italy of knowledge Earth, water, air
Agriculture as a quality label in a country network
Cultural property, place of modernity
Maastricht for a defense and security in Europe and Italy in World

51 European economy
53 Economic policy 55 A smart tax

p.
57
The evolution of the financial system

59
Towards a new production system

61
Businesses and new technologies

62
Tourism

62
Communications and new economy

64
Cooperatives

64
For the small and medium enterprises

68
A new Welfare State

69
The demand for labor

69
The incentive mechanisms

70
The action on the labor market

71
Flexibility

72
Education and training

73
The pension system

74
Health: the patient at the center of the system

76
The new frontiers of biomedical science

79
Discrimination against the disabled

80
Combating drug addiction

82
A safe country

83
Police latest

83
Security, territory, community

84
The responsibilities of all

85
The new justice. Rapid, accessible, certain

86
Organization and resources

86
Towards a community justice and international

87
The civil justice and labor

87
Criminal justice

88
Juvenile Justice

89
Worth

90
The administrative justice

90
The reform of the professions

91
An Italy of knowledge

93
A school student


p.
93
Teaching today

94
The role of the family

94
Better schools

95
The universities and the territory

95
The mobility of study

96
The Italian research

98
Earth, water, air. Protect the roots of the future

99
A green country: defense and control of the territory

99
New haven

99
Rivers and seas

100
Waste: from slag resource

100
City-cleaning of

101
Energy and Environment

101
Protection of animals

102
Agriculture as a quality brand

103
Trademarks

103
Costs

104
The environmental and food safety

105
Fishing

106
A country in the network. Carry, move, com

107
cate
Transport

108
Water, energy, gas

109
Urban renewal

109
The new public works

111
Cultural property, place of modernity

112
Culture as investment

113
Design and recover

114
The right to sport

115
Maastricht for a defense and security

116
The new role of the Armed Forces Italian

117
The reorganization of the army and the new service


civil


p.
119
Italy in Europe and worldwide

120
A new national interest

120
Towards a common security policy

121
Solidarity and cooperation

122
International institutions

122
Italians in the world
