New Democracy


Manifestos 1991


New Democracy is an independent and newly formed political party whose ethos is to common sense, personal freedom and consideration for others will characterize the political decisions.
New Democracy believes that the powers society, socialism, demands machines and faceless bureaucracy can not be accepted by modern people.
Today, Swedes are very interested in politics, provided that it addresses issues to recognize and provided that there is clear and sensible motive for the political decisions.
Common sense, we want to get into politics by itself putting up candidates who have worked in the reality where only sensible measures can achieve success. That will thus not a purely political and / or trade union background. Sweden needs a new model, and when needed, including a new kind of politician. The politically possible must never be the practical ridiculous and sensible measures should not be ruled out that they are politically impossible.
Personal freedom is significantly larger by the changes we propose in the sections on constitution, internal security and the tax system.
Consideration for others must become a dimension in the education of children, at school, in youth activities, in the interior security in correctional facilities (consideration of victims - not criminals), U-Aid, in immigration, the environment etc.
We live in a world, and we live with each other. Consideration for others is a necessity if we are to improve the quality of life.
The Constitution
In a democracy, giving citizens instructions to their rulers about how the country is run. This takes place in the constitution. The Constitution describes the Swedish Constitution and provides rules and instructions for how Parliament, the Government, government agencies and other public powers must act. We believe that the Constitution must be amended and supplemented on several important points, and we join the proposal presented by the New Welfare, MOU 1988: 1, "a new Constitution".
Add on the personal qualities so that the selected will be directly responsible to those who elected her and not against those who put her on the list.
Take advantage of the possibility of referendums more often than hitherto. The technical conditions are met. The policy is also available if you want.
Because Legalised ownership and entrepreneurial freedom.
Give mil freedom for radio and television. So this is about the freedom of establishment as such. The same rules apply for radio and television as for newspapers.
Faced with separate selection:
Prime Minister who forms the government = the executive.
The Riksdag = the legislature. Reduce the number of MPs to 151 and give them considerably more resources.
The Constitutional Court which checks that the Constitution is complied with.
Faced with so-called "hearings" with government members and officials. This would improve transparency for citizens in the political process. People must be able to get answers to their questions
Because Legalised individual's right and ability to assert themselves against the government and authorities. This right shall include not only legal, but also, financially secured. A citizen must be able to afford to sue the government and authorities.
Remove limitations in ämbetsmannaansvaret and activate JO so, that responsibility really is exacted. It is necessary for the individual legal.
Freedom of association should not be forced association and union monopoly.
The unions are not here to make Parliament's work. A democracy should be guided by the people's elected representatives.
The corporatist society developed in Sweden must be broken up. Government agencies should obviously not be controlled by the LO, TCO, SAF, Tenants, PRO or any other special interest.

Politicians regime and the bureaucracy must be cut down significantly!

The tax burden
The overall tax burden in Sweden must be cut. In 1989 it was approximately 57% of GDP. Other OECD countries were on average 37%! A large reduction in the tax burden is thus demonstrably possible. Our goal is 47% in 6 years. Later, the marginal tax rate reduced to 40%. It is therefore important to reduce public spending. Some of the necessary steps in this program include:
Sales of government property to reduce public debt and interest thereon. Strong downsize and streamline the public sector. Elimination of steady monopoly.
Over the sake of an intervention shall be as small as possible, that is contrary to existing development. A sharp reduction of fiscal pressure increases motivation for working people so materially that it is realistic to expect large so-called dynamic effects. A low tax burden is also a prerequisite for independence and personal freedom.
Entrepreneurship must be encouraged because businesses - from the very small to the very large - is the backbone of Sweden. These generate prosperity.
It must pay to work. A reduction of fiscal pressure makes it more profitable to work.
We believe that the elderly should be given the financial means to live on his pension without social assistance.
VAT rate must be lowered. The first step to 9% for foodstuffs with multiple supplies, and 20% for other goods and services.
Tourism must VAT exempt.
Inheritance tax shall immediately be reduced to the average European level. It is essential for enterprise and entrepreneurship in Sweden.
Citizens should know how much tax they pay.
Thus:
Present open the taxes we pay on everything we buy.
Present payroll taxes, social expenses and tax on pay slips.
We see this as a part of society, trade and employers' duty of information.
DEFENCE - FOREIGN POLICY - EUROPE
Sweden should promptly seek full membership of the EC. We consider it self-evident that Sweden joins Europe while reconsidering the policy of neutrality. To act neutrally to what is happening in the world today is as unwarranted as incomprehensible. One can not be neutral between dictatorship and democracy, or between the Soviet dictatorship and Baltic freedom fighters. No democracies that face each other. Neutrality begins to increasingly resemble the opportunism and cowardice.
Sweden's future is part of Europe's future. Our defense and foreign policy should therefore as soon as possible adapted to the European safety system.
Our foreign policy must first and foremost address the relations with our neighbors. For safety's sake, perhaps we should mention that in reality are our neighbors. These are: Denmark, Finland, Norway, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Germany, Poland and the Soviet Union - or rather, its States.
Another obvious group are our trading partners in Europe and North America.
The world needs Sweden as his conscience, but we need a place in the outside world reality in order to contribute to a harmonious international development.
This reorientation of our foreign policy will also affect defense and defense costs. The cost will probably be lower when we are part of the European security. Before we got there defense must be given the resources to maintain at least the current level, with focus on quality and modern technology.
Convulsions and uncertainty about the Soviet Union's lending or settlement necessitates a strong defense.
Welcome and exempt from VAT the foreign tourists so that we get a chance to turn on tourist income (in 1990 about 20 billion back). Tourist Momsen is purely destructive for all parties. Although the State receives less tax than before.

INTERNAL SECURITY
One of the state's main functions is to provide citizens with physical security and safety.
We must therefore invest heavily in the fight against drug abuse and street violence and impose severe penalties for belonging to the gangster business.
Crime prevention, as well as the prison system, should focus on reducing the number of criminals and villains. Society's role is to protect the Smith family, not the villains that threaten Svensson.
Crimes against fellow-men integrity must be punished more severely than crimes against the state and violent crime must be punished extra hard. The most dangerous criminals must be kept away from society for good. Never take a chance with serious violent offenders, it is deliberately risking the lives of citizens. Have clear rules and make demands on the prison service.
As far as possible the inmates to work and pay back for his wrongdoing. The work also improved the possibilities for adapting all the free society. Prisons must be guided by the prison authorities and not by the prisoner collective, etc., which actually exists now.
The main element of crime prevention is to invest in the education of children, youth and their parents. Giving young people alternative! Prioritize the wild flora of the commune! Let the children learn what is right and wrong so that everyone realizes how important it is to show consideration for others. The school has an important role. Release the school monopoly and we get better schools! Let school money follow the pupil!
Replace lapplisorna against wardens, ie change the surveillance and harassment society to a society that cares about citizens' safety and security.
REFUGEE POLICY AND U-HELP
Redo immigration policy and face including temporary residence permits to refugees. Put refugees in work instead of camp. Provide loans instead of grants. It would strengthen the country's economy, combating racism and give the migrants themselves greater self-esteem. As it is today, it pays not for immigrants to work!
Foreign nationals who commit serious crimes should be deported.
Ensure that those who want and can stay in Sweden really comes into Swedish society. The so-called mother tongue teaching, should not be managed or financed by the Swedish authorities
It can be very difficult to distinguish between immigration policies and U-help since Sweden today is in the midst of the dramatic reality. Events across the Baltic Sea will be much greater extent than in the past to influence our actions. Emergency activities on one or the other side of the border ... U-help or refugee policy ..... boundaries between concepts can be erased.
Assistance needs are insatiable, and we will not have to look in distant lands to find them. They are already among our neighbors across the Baltic Sea,
U-aid needs to be added on, among other things, entailed a top priority for our neighbors.
We also need better control over the aid reaches the right recipients, ie the population.
The money must be invested where they will benefit.
Sida's activities, priorities and organization must obviously be questioned. Today is the greater part of Sweden's bilateral aid to socialist dictatorships. There must be an end of the U-help and other support to oppressive regimes. Ironing then promptly direct or indirect support to countries such as Cuba and Vietnam. Prioritize humanitarian and disaster relief. We will help people not governments. Rethink the whole international relief effort along these lines
In our view, environmental investments to be an important part of our international support activities. Here is an opportunity to invest our money wisely. The environment is certainly international.
If or when the Baltic States will be free, will combine actions in the areas of environmental / U-help / immigration become obvious. One way to provide help for self-help.

THE PUBLIC SECTOR
In order to reduce the tax and give citizens freedom of choice and freedom of movement, a series of measures taken ..
Privatize state, ie selling out state property that does not have to be the state. The New Welfare has in the MOU 1990: 1 'reduce government debt - sell assets' proved that with reasonably simple measures can reduce the tax burden by at least 15 billion / year. A good start for a development that can be much longer, for the sake of power (the state, often wrongly termed society), should be as small as possible and turn the room to citizens as much as possible.
Lay the county councils! This whole bureaucratic level can be removed from the Swedish system. Health care, ie the production of health care, given the other principals, namely local, state, and at a faster pace cooperatives and private companies.
Rationalize the municipalities! All large companies can be streamlined significantly, we know that. The largest employer in every municipality (perhaps there is no single exception) is the municipality itself. What possibilities!
Use knowledgeable individuals in municipal projects and investigations. It will then be qualified jobs which then form the basis of democratic decisions. People who otherwise care not to interfere in politics would probably gladly put up with such initiatives.
Actions of this kind require strong support from the citizens because they attack the entire political establishment. There are not only social democrats in the political state, myndighet-, county councils and municipal establishment!
Abolish all monopoly - state, municipal, cooperative, union and private. Abolish all except those that are absolutely necessary in a democracy.
We must also be very vigilant against cartels and oligopolies which Sweden occupies a leading position in the world. Cartels are not beneficial to consumers. This of course applies equally to the steel industry. Free competition must be protected by effective laws. NO should not be a paper tiger.
If people are expected to work and take care of themselves so want it to be state, municipal, and all sorts authorities do too. Therefore, we must clear the government bureaucracies. Delete, merge and / or slim down government agencies with point
What is needed today as it was not needed in 1960? '.
And as I said, reintroduction and apply - full official responsibility!
All the so-called social planning, research and statistics collection must be questioned. We are counted and the authorities know where we live. Community planning certainly has not created any quality of life.
Research in our private life to be banned!
ENERGY
The principle must be that the Swedes, the business community and society. get so cheap and safe energy as possible. This bar has a direct impact on employment, international competitiveness, foreign companies' willingness to invest in Sweden, as well as on everyone's quality of life.

The best way to achieve this goal is to deregulate and avmonopolisera including the energy sector. Energy is not a political product! The market, that is reality, will the EC adjust energy prices. Instead, we must politically ensure, through laws and regulations, the competitive energy production can be safe and cheap.
We believe that Sweden should make use of the nuclear power plants, improve safety and develop nuclear technology which is one of Sweden's cutting-edge technologies. Half of the electricity currently comes from nuclear power stations.
In a longer perspective and with known technology, it is nuclear and hydro that Sweden should invest in.
New technology in other industries are naturally energy efficient. Industry consumes besides, only 30% of the energy in Sweden.
Clearly, we all stand on energy savings
There is no year that set out the limits of a wise and logical energy policy.
Energy and environmental issues are intrinsically linked, which must be considered in investigations and actions.



ENVIRONMENT
New Democracy wants to develop the community so that the environment in the broad sense is maximized. Of course, the environmental requirements to be realistic, but good work environment, clean air, fresh water and a lush nature are obvious requirements.
These requests must be reconciled with economic reality. We must create the resources that are absolutely essential to be able to afford to improve the environment.
The major point sources in Sweden are, with very few exceptions, are already completed. The degree of cleaning is very high and a marginal increase extremely precious. Therefore, we shall focus our environmental funds in other countries in the Baltic Sea, where the need is pressing. At the same time, the effect for Sweden to become great. 88% of emissions in the Baltic Sea comes from our neighbors, and 89% of the sulfur deposition over Sweden come with air from the east, south and west.
Environmental measures can, as I said coordinated with U-help and immigration policy in a substantial international assistance.
International cooperation and standards for cleaner cars should also be a priority. Environmental issues are international, if not global. In that spirit should these issues be discussed.

HEALTH - CARE - SOLITUDE
When one considers the 80- and 90-century Sweden in a more historical perspective will likely be shocked by the poor health of the elderly as this basically rich countries offer their citizens. The care of the sick and elderly must become much better, and must be characterized by a genuine personal care and consideration. Therefore, the entire production of medical and other health care improved and avmonopoliseras! From the public side gets the municipal health care remain, but must be supplemented by private and cooperative approach. This makes health care better and cheaper. Do we have the resources? Yes, we always have the resources to provide very good care for our elderly and sick. How skull else can we talk about wealth?
Pensioners shall be given the financial means to live on his pension without social assistance. No payroll tax for pensioners who continue to work!
There is no shortage of hospitals. There is no shortage of equipment. There is no shortage of doctors. Medical care costs about 90 billion / year. We can get a lot better care for less money. Proper care should be organized to offer every Swedish citizen treatment / surgery within a few months. Such a goal should be enshrined in law and implemented as soon as possible.
Occupational and early retirement draws huge costs. Decisions costs in the present value of about 80 billion / year! This is not objectively necessary, nor desirable for many of the early retired. There is a hidden and costly unemployment. 370000, ie 7-8% of the workforce, Swedes are in early retirement. Thus, overall reconsideration and great savings in sight! Any decision early retirement costs about 2 million in present value. 200 decisions per day = 400 million per day, which is twice as much as the annual cost of medical research at the Karolinska Institute.
Loneliness is a major problem in our modern society. The authorities certainly can not command the away loneliness, but the rules, systems and taxes can be constantly adjusted so that it becomes easier for people to get out of their loneliness.
An active club is doing its. The price system on alcoholic beverages and restaurant VAT does his part and if we had the right to deduct for charitable in our declarations so would many private initiatives taken, among other things, to break the loneliness. We believe that we should see what is done and has been done in other countries.
The family's central and natural role for every person shall not discouraged or hampered by the authorities. Childcare must be characterized by freedom of choice, and among other things, prepare the economic opportunities for the children to grow up in their own homes.

HEALTH INSURANCE
Swedish labor market in the 90's:
165 days
145 days
55 days of absence
365 days

We work at least in the world! There we learn not ba afford. Anyway, one thing is clear:
Sick leave fraud must immediately be stopped! Fresh absence is an outrage! It does not affect the public, if anyone would believe it. It is a theft of Svensson's tax money. Money that could be used for the proper care of the sick, elderly, disabled and children.
A couple of qualifying days is a matter of course. Today it costs the health insurance system, almost half as much as the entire medical and elderly care.
Society does not provide us with a safety net if we happen to get the flu a few days. However, the protective net is when we really need it.
In this context it is very important that it pays to work, that there are substantial reasons to go to work instead of staying home. You have to earn more by working than if you are away from work because of illness or whatever it may be. Then performs Sweden more and then there is a greater wealth to distribute.
We are convinced that the great majority of Swedes think that such an approach by the health insurance and health care would be sensible and worth working for. There can not be many people who feel bad about we take from the healthy and give to the sick.



SK0LAN
The program costs a total of 7% of GDP (1980 9%). The costs are unevenly distributed, creating a bottleneck in the lower and higher university education.
Free schools and school types would yield better results at lower cost. It shows foreign experience.
The HT shall have full operational responsibility and be accountable to a board. (Not like it is today, that is responsible to 4-5 different companies, authorities, unions and councils!).
Let schoolchildren to learn more so that they perform better in life. Do not let the driving test to become the first sample can be run in! Rating is a given and it must be correct rating that shows how much the student can and know. Not the infernal relative rating that we have today.
Provide preschool from the age of 4 and relieve the unproductive child day care centers.
Give at least twice as great resources for education and research. We get back there many times over. Such initiatives provide growth and prosperity. Compare Japan, Korea and Germany.
By clarifying and teaching, even in ethical issues and by teachers by example, school children and youth to become motivated. One can quickly get into the successful development where one thing leads to another: Major motivation -better order in the class - higher knowledge - greater creativity. Quality of life!


A BETTER FUN AND CHEAPER LIFE
Bans and higher taxes make life dull and expensive. Therefore take away prohibitions and lower taxes. (We do not mean that everything will be permitted!).
We can not afford to hang out! In that direction lies a substantial cut in VAT on food, such as:

. to lower restaurant VAT and preferential taxation of free meals
. To completely change the alcohol policy (see separate chapter)
. not punishment taxing petrol
. allowing people themselves to decide what they should put their money on
An ordinary Swedish family be able to afford to eat family dinner at the restaurant at least once a week, which is possible in many other countries. All this we can achieve through the measures we propose in our program.
NOTE! It costs a penny to take away a lot of silly and annoying laws, regulations and ordinances.
We do not need guardians. We do not need to decide for us in our own lives. However, we need each other.
Alkoholpolitik

With EC connector, we are forced to open their eyes. Prohibition policy bursting. In Europe it is much easier to get hold of beer, wine and spirits, and prices are lower. We therefore propose substantial tax cuts as EC and the taxation of alcohol instead of other peculiar treasure up.
We also believe that food retailers must have distributing beer and wine as in other countries. It is also high time for a VAT exemption and wholesale discounts on restaurant 'purchases of alcoholic beverages so that we can afford to spend. Even over a glass! If it costs more to drink a beer at the pub than buying it over the system disk, it would be a lot nicer in our cities. Young people would wear better at and we would all have it both fun and enjoyable! Once again: The key is how and how much we drink, not that we drink.
Alcohol is a part of reality, which certainly does not mean it is harmless. Every human being shall without registering able to get help to cope with their personal problems and alcoholics need to get better care.
It has been estimated that 35-40% of all hospitalized are there - directly or indirectly - due to alcohol and existing alcohol policies. However, we need to hear from the doctors hold that alcohol can and must be used wisely and that people who do not are worse people than others. We must show respect to others, it is important, but there are more and better ways to show respect than to abstain from alcohol.
We should be able to socialize. Even with alcohol. We want to make it easier, nicer and cheaper for people to live their lives!
The current Swedish alcohol policy is to reduce total alcohol consumption by very high taxes, special regulations and administrative hassle. We believe that reality itself shows that the policy has failed, in any case, if it aimed at nothing more than to collect taxes.
We believe that the current control system is degrading to citizens.

We believe that the prices of alcoholic beverages must be low enough to fit in an average household.
We believe it is how to socialize with alcohol as it is crucial.
