Radical Civic Union
ELECTION PLATFORM 2011

Introduction

A cruel paradox insists humble millions of compatriots: Argentina, a
immensely rich country, is home to many poor families immensely. A country
Over the past nine years it has grown in its GDP in the average high growth
Latin America, there has been improved, and in many cases worsened, benefits
essential to ensure that a modern country that seeks to build a bright future:
did not grow up in health, we did not grow in education, did not grow in security, did not grow in
formal, stable job, do not improve the environment, we did not grow in possibilities
specific development for youth, not improve substantially in the
basic infrastructure so that our people can develop their
potentialities: highways, routes, roads, transport. He has not taken advantage of the
growth to solve the housing problem, nor the lack of drinking water,
or the lack of sewers. The rivers are more polluted, native forests
more predation, resources much more threatened drinking water.

Have not improved regional economies, not strengthened federalism, it is not guaranteed
the separation of powers and respect for provincial democracies. It worsened respect
legislative and judicial powers, and difficult debate, deliberation and dialogue. In the
Today the republican system of government is slow and daily diminished.

Productive structure is not improved, the economy is not modernized, no foundation was laid
solid materials to make the future better than the present. The control bodies
see, increasingly neglected their reports and their actions hampered.

Economic growth is a necessary ingredient but not sufficient to reduce
poverty. The company also needs equality, development and deploy the most of

Page 1

The Argentine restore democracy in 1983, seen from the 2011, frustrates us
Therefore we, the radicals, who believe in dialogue, agreement and search
the country's major strategic guidelines from the consensus, as all those
looked down living standards and quality of services that must access the
town. Without further ado, political democracy, and its beautiful electoral ritual, should
producing social democracy.

creative and productive men and women of our people potentialities. If not,
not be able to live in peace, security and optimism. OK poverty and exclusion
as normal is immoral. With radicalism and forces not join us
or leave behind an Argentine. If Argentina grows, since then: all grow. Y
even those who do not vote for us, even those who oppose our policies, they also
it shall progress, growth, and the certainty that they will be able to develop their
life in peace and without fear of intimidation. With us the claims will end
avasallantes hegemonic and those who are elected to govern. We do let
govern for the common good and progress of all. With us will end distortions
of public statistics and retreat and institutionalization of quality offices
State were examples on the continent. With us will end conflict
apparent false, the permanent state of belligerence, intolerance against thinking
different. With our government will not delay the Argentine government, not a minute more, your
transparency, modernization and effectiveness.

With our government will be dedicated union democracy, they are recognized to the central
democratic and representative workers and ensure transparency and
effective use of public funds.

With our government will begin to end the voracious and uncontrolled depredation
our natural resources, and relations with all countries of the world to improve
They seek the common good for all humanity, guaranteeing sovereignty and extending
political and economic, and also ensuring the future progress of this sovereignty.

Different regions within the country will be developed, and will seek to promote
strengthening intermediate cities.

We do not want to live in a permanent state of tension. With our government we will
have a much more friendly and peaceful everyday life. They will be punished with the proper firmness

Page 1

We want a regulated economy and whose main objective is the welfare and progress.
Social protection, defense of a high level of income of workers, social cohesion and
environmental care. Good and large public investments in education,
health, transport structure, and science, technology and innovation, and boost the
entrepreneurial skills, so that the conditions of prosperity are built
future. And we will defend and extend tolerance, respect for differences,
individual freedoms, new rights, solidarity and cooperation, and certainties
about the future.

the independent judiciary, the encroachments on the rights of all, and
corruption.

All this will be possible from our historical values ​​which lay at the center
scene Argentine man and woman, the people, and the pillars that make deployment
their potential and progress: liberty, equality, fraternity, solidarity, work,
education, justice, science and the development of an infrastructure of public policies
We carry forward the national government.

The people of this land requires us to recognize and promote the constructive genius of his men
and their wives. Let us therefore make the children of this country have, as a reward for
their effort and work, the fate of a better life.

The priority is education

It will seek to strengthen the school to make the school a better place for
learning and teaching. Full-time transformation of schools will seek more
vulnerable now have a turn or less. The additional time extension will be
intended to complete the training in skills that are now considered priority for
Basic training: mathematics, literacy, English and computer. Progress will be made in the
construction of new schools of basic education to 30% of students
access to full-time as established finance law
Education. Greater permanence of each teacher to promote a single institution,
as a way to deepen their membership with both the school project as the

Page 1

The current serious problem of Argentina education is the unevenness in the same
It is distributed among children and youth, according to the social sector to which they belong. This
due both to the process of emptying public school deepened over the years
90, as well as the segmentation of the educational system in all its aspects (including
jurisdictions within the public system, including public and private). This inequality is,
also, related to current technological advances. Education should be
again placed at the center of development of our country because of her quick and
steeply, inequality matrices are plotted in the world. In the era of
information, knowledge societies require citizens capable of articulating
shared knowledge and ability and skills to be at the forefront of the
research and scientific and technological innovation. Today as yesterday, the domain
knowledge is accompanied by a significant body of inequalities and exclusions,
linking cognitive gap with the digital gap.

learning outcomes of each student. Likewise, the promotion of reading will be a
national priority.

It will seek to narrow the digital divide to facilitate equal opportunities,
implementing an intensive teacher training program on mainstreaming
new technologies of information and communication technologies (ICTs) for education, and
effectively introducing integrated digital formats prototypes and processes
teaching and learning in all public schools.

instruments for permanent and transparent evaluation will be developed the
education, and promote and accompany the professional commitment of teachers. They
will seek to integrate the system to all those who could not finish their studies,
special secondary education for young people and adults age
economically active, which in turn meshes with a training program in
coordination with the unions and the productive sector, which has as its purpose the provision of
a grade, through educational opportunities in connection with the world of
work, including the accreditation of knowledge and skills, and offered by
semi-face educational formats.

It will seek to advance scientific and technological development of the country through design
more relevant to the competences of the various public offices related
science and technology on the one hand and innovation on the other. It will seek to strengthen
priority areas and vacancy. It will seek to provide more and better
equipment to institutions whose activities have dinner & T develop, and
will advance in an improvement in the federalization of spending on these activities. Progress will be made in
replace current funding of these activities by agencies
multilateral credit towards a genuine financing with equity, which
designs will result in more relevant instruments for our country, and less
conditioned by the standards of those international bodies.

Page 1

And a democratic university system will be built, with greater dynamism and autonomy
more virtuous. It will take at national universities as nodes of development,
incorporating national forums for discussion of goals and development objectives.
In addition, progress will be made in a National Plan of Development Planning and
Expanding the University System, establish criteria for the creation of new
strategically universities, and for the control of new universities created.
Furthermore, it will seek to at least double the number of full-time teachers,
leaving aside the simple dedication to those areas that require
primarily the contribution of professionals that develop in the production system or
services.

Policies for growth and development

The first step to sustain growth and ensure that development is becoming
re-equip their technicians INDEC, their appropriate methods, effectiveness, transparency
and prestige. The Argentine government, even for a second, will falsifying their
statistics.

Since our government will seek that Argentina reaches the level of an economy
developed under the premise of the use of productive and human resources
throughout the country, through investment to invigorate formation
productive links capable of generating quality jobs and get
a diversified productive matrix. This on the basis of further industrialization and
scaling in the production of goods and services with high added value, which may
inserted in an increasingly demanding, dynamic and globalized world, creating
corporate profitability, important gains for workers and resources for
Been.

From the hand of activities with greater comparative advantages, there is the opportunity to
joint integration of markets that support the sectors with better prospects.
Efforts will be made to create conditions for linking leading companies, suppliers
suppliers of production inputs and resources, in order to create conditions
harmonic linkage and cooperation between actors.

It will seek to substantially reduce inflation through: the credibility of statistics
public; coordination of an inflationary pattern between the executive and the Bank
Central; improving the institutions of the Central Bank and monetary policy;

Page 1

To capitalize on these opportunities and generate economic development should be counted as
based on a strong state from an institutional perspective; where public ethics, respect
by the Constitution and the Rules; the republic and federalism prove the foundation for all
political actions. It will also be necessary for the State to generate policy rules
macroeconomic stability and predictability; promotes public policies that drive
increased production, productivity and competitiveness; and regulate intelligently
markets, to prevailing conditions to ensure healthy competition and
the effective implementation of redistributive policies and social inclusion.

restore fiscal solvency and the budget as the main instrument of orientation
public expenditure; the increased supply; an agreement on price fixing.

Among the main objectives it is to restore fiscal solvency by
adequacy of spending growth to increase tax sources and sources
distorting financing; the gradual elimination of subsidies undue energy,
transport and others, ensuring both not impair the purchasing power and impact
negatively on inflation, as the contemplation of differentiated tariffs for
most vulnerable population, policies that favor less tax evasion and review
tax exemptions. It will also be necessary to gradually correcting
degradation of fiscal federalism, having fallen portion automatic resources
sharing, and discretionary funds have replaced distributions, which
They have often been targeted on the basis of political affinities with the Executive
National.

The high pace of currency appreciation will slow (by anti policies
inflation), and it will require coordination between fiscal policy and monetary policy,
in order that the Central Bank can continue with a policy of "managed floating"
enabling it to acquire reserves and partially sterilized at low cost, without the pressure
additional reserves having to turn you acquired the Treasury for spending plan.

It will seek to improve the competitiveness of the country and all its regions through
design production policies arising from planning activities by industry
economic, sparking an ongoing process of public-private interaction. It will prevent the
discretion and unpredictability that exists in the administrative framework and
normative. Reconverción in advance and unify the instruments to promote the
competitiveness, avoiding overlap efforts and functions.

Page 1

Policies that undermine production will be corrected through a reformulation
Global energy and hydrocarbon policy in order to encourage exploration and
production, protecting national interests and Argentine heritage for
current and future generations. It will seek to advance the elimination of deductions
exports of fruit chain, horticultural chain, chain olivícola, wine
drinks, coffee, tea and yerba mate, among others, which affect the profitability and production
numerous small and medium-sized production units without significant tax revenues.
In regard to wheat, corn and sunflower, it will seek to gradually reduce withholdings
exports. With regard to meat and dairy products, will seek to promote production
for the domestic market and the international meat industry, and possibly the
decreased until elimination of the deductions.

Micro, small and medium enterprises will be the main object of policies
incentive and development to production, innovation, entrepreneurship and employment. In
this direction, we will seek to gradually increase investment in science, technology and
innovation and development from 0.5% of GDP to 1%. Reduce logistics costs
focusing rail, road and port investments priority to the needs of
major exporters complex. In this direction, it will be held the "National Plan
Railway Industry "which includes tuning for optimum performance
Argentine railway system, through a multi-year framework that includes progress
set on rail for both cargo and passenger.

Telecommunications is a key factor for the social progress of a society
modern, consistent with the objectives and principles that make the new Society
Information (SI). It is therefore necessary to promote its development in a framework of broad
private sector and state regulation, to contribute to universal access to services and
knowledge flowing through networks, enabling the construction of an active
Argentine participation to facilitate their individual and collective development.

The reform of the media law should be considered basic principles of legal certainty
as well as a market share limit in order to avoid dominant positions
according to the characteristics of each locality, yet align with reality
technology on integration of services and networks, also contemplating
synergistic link between regulatory authorities and the media
Telecommunications (AFSCA and SECOM). freedom of expression will be guaranteed and the
right to information. Pluralism and functioning of different be encouraged
media, within a rational use of the radio spectrum and
a framework of healthy competition.

In housing, it will seek to reverse the current deficit, which amounts to approximately
3,500,000, including new housing, improvement and / or expansion of housing
existing. With current public plans, it builds on average 40,000 homes
per year and 20,000 housing solutions. To meet this demand requires about
60, regardless of population growth. That is why it is our
intention to initiate a dramatic change in the culture of access to housing in the

Page 1

Through a government advertising law that ensures both the limits of their content (for
which is not used in favor or official sense) and their distribution based on
objective criteria (avoiding favoritism but with incentives and smaller circulation newspapers
ensuring plurality of content and diversity of opinions), you must remove
perverse game between the regime of authorizations and associated advertising to capture
wills and indiscriminate concession state entities with alignment
government.

financing and reimbursement, with a legal framework that guarantees in time. They
will start advancing a state policy on housing, which in the next 20
Years eliminate the deficit and cover the population growth. State Policy will
see: increased, stable state and federally coparticipables Funds
access to land and public services, territorial and urban planning, mechanisms
guaranteed savings and effort, active participation of people, organizations and
companies, systems of public, private and mixed financing, soft loans for
expansion and renovation, regularization, supply policies and access to land
urbanized and served to low-income sectors which respond to
growing social demand for access to land and to prevent the phenomenon of occupation
illegal.

Regarding access to drinking water and sewage, the aim is to fulfill the commitments
It has taken our country to the UN Millennium Development Goals as it is achieving
potable water coverage to 90% of the population and sewer coverage of 75%.
Today, despite nine years of growth, 20% of the population access
potable water, and 50% of the population have no access to sewers.

Regarding environmental policy, it will seek to put at the service of environmental goods
meet the needs of the population, defending and taking into account the
needs of future generations. Therefore, the management of natural resources
be smart, using science and technology to give value to the comprehensive range of
each ecosystem, ensuring that their use is sustainable, thus intergenerational.

Moreover, priority will be Argentina biodiversity conservation and wise use.
Devices for full compliance with the law of native forests will be activated, and
take into account the needs of limiting the advance of the agricultural frontier and
Also the expansion of the National Plan to Combat Desertification and Drought
Poverty. In relation to climate change, we promote active adaptation policies

Page 1

In this direction, the priorities are basic sanitation and environmental management
in urban watersheds, under which it will seek to implement a Plan
Universal access to basic sanitation. In the case of the Riachuelo, will strengthen
ACUMAR, giving the government powers denied, so you can plan and
environmentally order the territory and implement policies and industrial conversion
eradicate open dumps. In relation to municipal solid waste,
They develop small municipal parks, of refuse, decline and waste disposal,
while we promote the eradication of open air dumps Cities
interior, finance discussing a nation provinces, -municipios provinces in the
COFEMA frame and sanction a law on Minimum packaging and
packaging.

big cities to climate change in particular to increase
rainfall, promote alternative energy, by 2020, will have passed the
current 1% to 10% of them in the energy mix and will implement a campaign
National Responsible Energy Use and Energy Efficiency. Refering to
mining, we sponsor the immediate implementation of the law and Glaciers
regulation.

Finally, we will seek to modify the Law of Public Prosecutions, to create Prosecutors
Environmental federal environmental authority or to give to all federal prosecutors.
Furthermore, it will implement a National Plan for Environmental Education and Information.

In relation to tourism, a State Policy will be promoted so that it does not fail in the
courses of action specific area of ​​government. It is planning a tourism drive in
all -municipal, provincial and national jurisdictions. Progress will be made in improved
transport system for tourism, and the development of an integrated system
and extreme boost the development potential of all possible tourist spots
different regions of the country. Facilitation measures and tourism development will be arranged in
MERCOSUR, contributing to multiply the conclusion of agreements
multinationals give impetus to new integrated tourism circuits in the region,
stimulating the articulation of common tourism products

For active job creation policies will be developed, especially first job
for young. Democratization of unions push, ensuring
participation of minorities in the respective lines, and give legal status
a large central representative, democratic and pluralistic workers.

Page 1

In the energy sector, our government will engage with the major objective of the
safe meeting demand for all citizens and responsible companies
rationally consume and pay reasonable rates for energy products
consume. The energy strategy will ensure the rational use of renewable resources and
not renewable, paying special attention to the need for improvement, conservation and
environmental care. It will result in a Long-Term Energy Plan
whose preparation is delegated task of the National State. The development of this will be a
transparent process, open to discussion and agreement between the Nation and the Provinces. The plan,
once developed, it will be submitted to Congress for approval by law of the nation. He
Plan will be updated every three years. It is a target of achieving planning matrix
diversified energy and safe in terms of the objectives set out above that
It will consider greater use of renewable energy, and greater nuclear energy
as used herein. Efforts will be made to create a National Hydrocarbons Agency and
Biofuels under the new law, with the mission to plan and implement
national policy for hydrocarbon exploration and production.

The friendly Argentina will join the world, with priority development and
cooperation with neighboring countries. Special emphasis will be given to progress in
institutional building of MERCOSUR, and the improvement in bilateral relations
all neighboring countries. It will be screened decisively relations with countries
North America, Europe and Asia, with the main objective of increasing the
national productive frameworks, and cooperation for economic improvement,
technological, and cultural exchange.

Active participation in international and regional organizations (OAS will seek,
UNASUR, ALADI, etc.) and universal (UN), whether general or global competition or
specialized competence (IMF, ILO, WHO, WTO, etc.), promoting the respective
Nominations to fill positions in their collegiate bodies contributing
according to their actual domestic capabilities, driving democratization of the system
making and efficient internal operation, reassessing their roles to generate
conditions of international peace and security and economic and social development
sustainable.

The insertion of Argentina in the world will take place according the strengthening of
international law, democratic form of government, respect for rights
humans, a balanced trade system and a better distribution of the benefits of
the globalization.

It will seek to strengthen strategic relations and influence of the region in the field of
international organizations, proposing its own initiatives in all forums
international, on economic, cultural, education policy, infrastructure,
energy and services. broad consensus will be sought in the multilateral fields
engage effectively in promoting socio-economic development and the fight
poverty, believing that thus acts in favor of peace and
justice. And existing means of peaceful settlement of disputes will be used and
participate in the development of new mechanisms of conflict resolution
international, condemning the use of force and to cooperate in operations
peace, with special priority for United Nations peacekeeping.

Page 1

Social equality policies

The growth in recent years has failed to solve the problem of poverty,
job insecurity and informality, keeping inequality
distribution of wealth and opportunities.

We will implement policies that will transform the social and political structures to
generate sustained way in which low-income sectors enjoy a set of
guaranteed by the state and the media opportunities to find a livelihood sectors
less vulnerable, ensuring the growth of both. The set of public policies
we will implement comprehensive and integrated that will emphasize the complementarity of the
economic policy and social policy to put at the service of the rights of all.

Our first proposal is to eradicate poverty and reduce inequalities. For that
we must transcend the fight against poverty and place in the center of the public agenda
combating inequalities. We propose to convene a "Social and Federal Agreement" as
institutional axis in building a political, social and economic consensus for
achieve those social objectives. It will be implemented through a formal agreement
between the nation, the provinces and municipalities. With this, we will seek to pursue the establishment
"National Integrated System of Social Protection" to organize and facilitate access
immediately to all social services of the National, Provincial and Municipal State.
We seek to pursue a "Reform of Social Security" to be
universal and backed by the right of citizenship and not only in the derivative
working conditions. If possible, ensure a basic income for children and
adolescents, pregnant women, the disabled, the elderly and people
unoccupied, which it will be financed with tax resources of social security, without
While recognizing, in the case of pensions and as a second step, performance
labor and tax capacity of each. And a "Basic Income and the transitional
unemployed person "with training and reemployment, replacing
gradually the current unemployment insurance and various outreach programs very
limited governing today.

Page 1

It is projected that the direct and universal policies will be complemented transfer
by: "Social Services territorial management" comprehensive and integrated policies
programs consist of specific care and exceptional aid; and "System
Food and Nutrition Security: Zero Hunger ", which will set common criteria to
Federal Councils through educational, health, social development and children and
adolescence to ensure power in the family and school environment. They will be developed,
Also, strategies for strengthening family agriculture and seek to promote the
regional economies.

They will point to care and strengthen the family unit, as all programs
government areas in the axis will strengthen the family unit democratizing
the roles of each and all its members.

We carry forward the "Parenting Plan", which is a National System of Care and
Childhood Education. All children from 0 to 3 years will have access to this
integrated care and education system that group, dedicated to optimize levels
growth and development, reducing inequalities, strengthen parenting democratize
family and improve relations substantively equal opportunities
men and women who choose to be parents while working and studying. He
system will provide national coverage and operate with criteria and standards that govern all
country respecting cultural realities.

Progress will be made in the child's right to have a family, to preserve the identity and links
affective, regardless of age. Parity between women and men is central to
the proposal in all fields of social life, politics, labor, family, economic,
education and employment. The Law on Prevention and Elimination of all be implemented
forms of violence against women and girls and to strengthen jurisdictions to
make appropriate care.

Efforts will be made to advance specific policies for youth, mainly through the
education, development of incentives for companies to include young people and encourage
service training with the terminalidad the education cycle. Also in the
strengthening young entrepreneurs through various instruments. Furthermore,
They will promote various strategies to enable young people to get less
difficulties their first home. Young people also will be subject to relevant
policy of prevention and treatment of addictions, which protect and prevent drug trafficking
their victimization focusing on social health services for the prevention and
early treatment.

Quality standards and technological innovation will be established in housing
religue with the social urbanism and the right to live the city. This will be
supplemented by a system of land management.

Page 1

System of Integral Protection of Rights of Persons will be developed with
Disabilities. In addition, progress will be made on the right to diversity. The National State
shall implement any measures that remove the obstacles to the full enjoyment of
civil and social rights of lesbian, gay, bisexual and trans. Moreover, it
will consolidate the rights of indigenous peoples.

With regard to health, the proposal is especially aimed at correcting the three
fundamental distortions that shows the country's health system: fragmentation,
Inequality and inefficiency. Our system, which has big differences between
resources and benefits it provides to the population according to characteristics
geographical, socio-economic, etarias, ethnic and results in unequal access to
health services and in response to the needs of different groups
populations and the quality of services that are accessible: These are problems
Key current health status and attention that the proposed repair UCR,
correct and overcome.

We seek to: reduce infant mortality rate in the country, which for 2009 is 12.1
per thousand; improve chronic nutritional deficit: more than 34% of children under 1 year,
and 30% of pregnant women have iron deficiency and anemia. Also improve
health checks: in 2007 only 38% of pregnant women made the first
Control your pregnancy. We seek to reduce maternal mortality; Today we find that
this rising rate: 4.5 per 10,000 live births in 2007. We more
efficient health spending, which is the highest in the region with the worst results.
We will fight strongly the inequality of getting sick and dying in: Formosa,
Chaco, Misiones when compared with C.A.B.A. We advance in equal distribution
medical resources, which is inadequate with high concentration, concentrated in
urban centers, guiding strategies towards accessibility, equity and
universal coverage. We invest in health infrastructure assigning an
rational geographical distribution. With all this, among many other things, not a single child
more will die from malnutrition and even one more disown his Chagas disease. These
objectives will be possible if we manage the continuity of social and health policies
long term, it is therefore necessary to achieve broader political or social consensus around them.
Therefore, we propose an "Agreement for Equity and Social Inclusion" and derivative
this an "Agreement for Equity and Inclusion Health".

It will equip the power that provides the state to CEDRONAR, and limited, so
absolute, production of chemical drug precursors. In the last 10 years, the
Argentina became the main South American producer of these precursors.

Page 1

On security, we advance the development of the National Security Plan. From
local execution. Each region has a different specificity should be taken into
account. It will be articulated from the national government and provincial authorities
various local security forces. In this framework, we will develop a policy of
zero tolerance for drug trafficking and criminal attack on all economies. In that direction,
It will ensure that the Federal Police have a greater role in coordination and preparation
for coping with complex crimes.

Progress will be made in deepening the National Plan for voluntary surrender of weapons
Fire forcefully, with greater coordination with municipal governments and
civil society organizations.
A plan for improvement of the security forces will be developed, which among other initiatives
It will consider civilian control of all security forces. Also, a high and
increasing training of security forces. Ongoing assessments
physical and academic ability, as a starting point so that, based on merit, is
make promotions, election and appointment of destinations and commitment
responsibility for planning public safety. Also policy
escalafonamiento wage and restructuring in all national forces and agreements
that encourage provincial governments to move forward on similar measures. They
will advance in the design of comfortable workplaces, modernization
marked improvement in technology and equipment, mobility and communications of
security forces.

An overhaul of prisons will be sought, and construction of new prisons
for compliance with the remand and sentence is given in dignity
and suitable for the rehabilitation of the convicted person, and does not contribute as up to now
reproduction and aggravation of the critical problems of violence, injustice and crime
which aims to solve. In this context, special programs will be developed
job training and integration into the education system of the prisoners, the return to
means not conflict and to re insertion possibilities are reduced.

Page 1

implementation will be sought throughout the country of a National Security and Integral Plan
Vial. Traffic accidents are a leading cause of preventable deaths in
our country and denote the absence of the State to address a problem against which
there are quick impact concrete solutions.
