Electoral Platform Front for Victory 2011

1

Electoral Platform Front for Victory
The Front for Victory is a political force that aims at shaping a democratic,society
pluralisticwith social justice. In his view, the policy is the fundamental tool for
social transformation. Under it, the state confers an inalienable responsibility on the
coordination of social order to reconcile economic growth and equilibria
social equity,with a diversified productive matrixin which decent work constitutes theelement
keyof a comprehensive human development .
The basis of the production model and social inclusion, and deepening
the May 25, 2003 in our country begins a period of majorchange,
structural  both economically and in the political, social and cultural. Overall,
the policies implemented since then mean the reversal ofheavy legacy
neoliberaland give rise to a new development model, summarized in three
key
• •

•

areas:.The policy as an instrument of social change
The relationship between economic growth and inclusion.
The integration into the world from multilateralism, and Latin American integration.

To lay the structural foundations of the new model meant years of efforts and willingness of
different sectors involved in the transformation of the social reality of our country. It was
necessary to undertake reconstruction in a context of deindustrialization, unemployment, misery and
impoverishment. But above all, it was necessary to change the cultural norms
of our society. Fear, apathy, lack of interest in politics, the breakdown of the
minimum and indispensable social bonds, were the indelible traces that neoliberalism was
printed in the Argentina society.
The fundamentals of the project established in 2003 shut themselves for itsdensity,
conceptual  challenges and goals of the next four years. Indeed, 8 years
haveinvolved structural changes: re-do this to a State which had
renounced intervening in economic and social matters; reindustrialise country after years ofopening;
indiscriminate  create jobs and give dignity to millions of people who had lost all
hope; bet in practice and not as mere discourse on education and science as pillars
of an innovative and inclusive society; rebuild our presence in the world from our
own sovereignty and through regional integration.
The course consists rest move forward without losing the proceeds. That is, dig a
model that has proven successful not only in economic terms but also social, political
and cultural, incorporating new essential to consolidate,policies.
improve and extend this way of national development

I. Politics as an instrument of social change.
2

social explosion in December 2001 marked not only the collapse of a model ofaccumulation
economically unproductive and socially unfair(neoliberalism), but to
aconception of politics as the simple execution of the will of the privileged layers of
society. Under the rule of the market, and with financial asphyxiation caused thedebt,
foreign  impossibilism was outgoing slogan of successive powerless governments to
corporationsand financial institutions credit.
The new era began in 2003 it means the rebirth of politics, revalued asinstrument
a fundamentalof social change for the satisfaction and fulfillment of interests anddemands.
popular  To do this it was necessary to reconstitute the capabilities and functions of a state that
in recent decades had been reduced to a minimum. Effectively and intelligence,
the state should return to his role as coordinator of delegated social equilibrium,
promoting synergy between the different actors and sectors that benefit from the
social whole. This reconstruction of state capacities gives us for the future
with the tools to address the deepening of the changes initiated.
Then the announced withdrawal of the state by neoliberalism, in recent years have shown
that the presence of state not only is not a obstacle to development, but is a
mobilizing tool and catalyst of social, economic and political energies. In the
next government of the Front for Victory, the state will remain the space according to the
various social interests, taking into account the common life of each and all Argentines and
Argentine.This guidance will always shared in the State to container demands
and the institution able to mediate conflicts between different interests in any
society, always defending the most humble.
The role of politics is essential for the democratization of different spheres of society.
In the coming years we will continue committed to this objective.implement
Fullyfundamental laws as the Audiovisual Communication Services and the
Democratizationof the Political Representation, which have been the result of  sharedeffort.
ourpolitical force and mobilized many groups in civil society  So we can
ensure plurality of voices in the public sphere and equity in political competition,
cornerstonesof a robust and substantive conception of democracy, such as holding the
Front for Victory.
This will encourage the involvement of the whole society . Deepening the
course requires not only the commitment of a government but the active participation and
protagonist of citizenship. In this regard, we will continue encouraging the emergence of new
channels of communication alternative to large concentrated media, workingtandem
inwith universities and trade unions and civil society to
developtheir own communication channels. We will intensify access to new
technologies, so that all Argentines and Argentine might be introduced in thesociety.
knowledge  We will continue to strengthen the organization and training of  enhancing
communities,their identities and popular self-management capabilities. We want apeople.
future star of his  The policy can only bring about social change when it is supported
by active citizenship.
3

For this reason, only a strong political will to change and can break the apathy and
disinterest. During this period it has been shown that young people are interested in the
social reality and seek to influence it when they view that politics is truly an
instrument of change. In this next phase, we will promote the emergence of new channels and
effective spaces for youth participation, so that the future generation is she who
takes the post of national and popular project.
For years, the impotence of politics revealed in the inability to judge those who
had broken democracy and committed heinous crimes from the state apparatus. The
Front for Victory has an unwavering commitment to memory and justice, which
hasbeen expressed since 2003 and that we will hold our next mandate. We will
consolidatea definite respect for human rights in Argentina, addressing new
realities and policies against trafficking in persons; combating drug trafficking andcontrol;
border  detection and closing of spaces for slave labor in both urban sites;
andrural  and respect for the expressions of all social groups living in the country, with
special attention to the demands of indigenous peoples. Continue to work with
the provinces to strengthen democratic policies, comprehensive andpublic
effective, to articulate a set of actions in different areas of public policysecurity.
All this is possible because we have reconstructed state capacities and because we have held
the conviction that the delegated state has a role in building a moresociety.
just  This has allowed us to extend the exercise of rights of millions of compatriots,
thus strengthening the democratic system itself. The active political participation depends on
socialconditions that favor, and therefore it is essential to have a state that promotes
economic growth with social justice.
II. The link between economic growth and inclusion.
The current model of accumulation since 2003 has as its hallmark the capacity to articulate
economic growth with social inclusion. The trickle-down theory, hegemonic during the
last 90 years in our country, has been accompanied by the deterioration of all social indicators poverty,
(poverty,extreme  inequality, marginalization). His reversal required to build a model on a new basis:
growth could not continue indefinitely relegating the equitable distribution of
wealth;would end the indiscriminate opening to the expense of theindustry foreign
domesticinterests;public resources, finally, should be channeled to the development of society
as a whole and not for the benefit of a privileged minority.
The state has deployed over the last eight years a series of measures that havemet
more thanthe objectives set. The renegotiation of the public debt, the maintenance of a rate,
competitiveexchange  the implementation of policies of income, recovery of the
pensionbenefits and regulation of key sectors of the economy are the pillars of themodel.
economic  The results speak for themselves: unprecedented rates of growth in (anArgentina
annual average of almost 8% between 2003-2010)history;strengthening the internal market; generating
more than 5 million of jobs; a strong deleveraging (debt rose
fromearly in the century more than 150% of GDP, fell to 36% today); fiscal surplus and
4

commercial; reserve accumulation; more and better public expenditure; Public investment in
infrastructure to promote territorial development and mitigate regional disparities; and
significant improvement in all social indicators, turning to Argentina in the mostcountry
egalitarianin Latin America.
The potential of the new model of accumulation is also measured by their level of robustness toin
changes  the international arena. Unlike recent history, the global crisis of 2008
could be successfully sobrellevada thanks to an active and intelligent response from the
nationalgovernment, which boosted anti-cyclical policies that allowed preserve jobs,
mitigating the fall cimbronazo in international demand for our exports.
Given the reprimarization Argentina's economy had suffered from the '70s, and the
growing importance of financial and speculative interests, the economic model launched in 2003
has the fundamental foundation production and employment . The reindustrialization up with
a clear bias national production represents an ideal to incorporatevaluemechanism.
addedto our products and to break with the traditional reliance of our economy on
incomefrom primary exports  Also, work has become
thekey feature of public policy, to be the link between economic and social sphere, as a
fundamental and constitutive attribute of citizenship. Gone are the days when the pockets
of workers was the adjustment variable par excellence. Today, after eight years of the implementation
of this model, the purchasing power of employees, through collective bargaining,
hasincreased steadily, making workers involved in almost 50% of
gross domestic product, as in the presidency of Juan Domingo Peron.
This synthetic hindsight to suggest that, with political will and the efforts of
societyas a whole has undertaken a structural change, a profound change that
does not support reverse. The bet for what lies ahead is the deepening of this path of
development, with policies that provide the fine tuning needed to optimize the performance of
a model that replaced the social justice as its priority.
The deepening of the model for all above, is not a
meaningless slogan,abstract. Background supports our conviction that in the next four
years may deepen redistributive policies and generate more and better
jobs.Our goal is to restore a society of full employment. We are going to
deepen the diversification of the production structure, adding more value to
our products in order to invigorate not only the domestic market but also our abilities
and insert mode in a competitive world like today.
We believe in the continuity of a project through state policies that allow us
to double the industrial GDP in 2020, increasing export capacity, expand the areas of
research and technological innovation, improve strategic infrastructure, generate the
skills needed by regions and industries, and create industrial clusters in order to achieve
efficiency in logistics and operations. The State, through effective public policies, must
reconcile and articulate the benefits derived from large companies (economies of scale,
among others) which together generate medium and small business sectors. So
redouble policies aimed at developing SMEs and micro-enterprises,
in May

especiallyfavoring access to credit for small and medium producers and
innovators.
In an international context marked by rising prices of raw materials, which
Argentina is comparative advantage, a window of opportunity to opens,
exportthem in the global market  and in that sense the agricultural sector
is an area of high potential and dynamism. But the integral use of these
natural conditions and advantages requires the development of an active policy to diversify the
productive matrix, adding value and technological content to primary goods. We continue to
support the growth of agribusiness generating jobs, with a strong stimulus to
genetics,biotechnology and information technology in production. Also, the search forprofitability
farmmust be reconciled with the need to preserve the environment, bio-diversity
andsustainable development. And in the same vein, the State will guard the country's wealth, guided
by a vision to preserve the national heritage and oriented towards anproduction
inclusivesystem.
Neuralgic part of state action during this period has been promoting, throughinvestment,
public  the development of basic infrastructure to integrate the various links in
the production chain and connect regional economies. Therefore, the Argentina had another
flag carrier, generate corridors, we rebuild devastated part of thesystem.
rail  All these actions have a positive impact on joint chains
tradeand productionin the country, and must be deepened and multiplied. For the country to keep
growing, we need to further expand the energy infrastructure, bet on the
exploration of new hydrocarbon reserves, motorized nuclear energy and encourage
renewableenergy. All this provides the conditions forthat our production
their deploymentpotential in the years to come.
The strengthening of the industry (to improve competitiveness, diversify its offer, increasing its
export potential), in turn, can envision a future with more and better
jobs.As the key work to consolidate a comprehensive, sustainablehuman development
and inclusiveand in creating decent employment has become the most important social policy in
this period. With a current unemployment rate of one digit, the old dream that seemed lost
for a society of full employment becomes a realistic and achievable goal perfectly. In
these eight years we have created more than 5 million jobs. Is achievable then full
employment, but in future will also be important qualitative goals: that is, to create better
working conditions and more skilled jobs. The battle has been against  work
blackby the State involves not only the task of monitoring and penalties, but also the most
difficult responsibility of a cultural change.
The reduction in unemployment has been accompanied in recent years by a series social policies
that have greatly reduced poverty and marginalization, including theAllowance stands.
Universal Child  The next management Front for Victory sustain and expand these
redistributive measures because we understand that are critical to building a society with
opportunities for all and all, understanding people as holders ofrights.
fundamental  We will also intensify the construction of social housing, because this
policy has proved capable of eliminating one of the main causes of poverty, and
6

strengthen the family unit and also encourage the creation of jobs.
In the same vein, the final eradication of povertyinvolves
necessarilythe implementation by the state of an active health policy.
In these years we have made ​​enormous progress, from reducing child mortality to
extending health coverage to millions of older adults. Our vision for the future,
consistent with the structural lines of the model is comprehensive and is designed to increase
thecapacities of public health systems (national, provincial and municipal); to reduce
risk factors and strengthen mechanisms of prevention, community participation and
socialinclusion, with reference to the family as the fundamental core ofpolicies.
health  Also, the challenges for the next period are to deepen the fight against
endemicdiseases; strengthen health planning processes; better
positioning of health priorities in the community; extend primary health network,
promote research on diseases with high impact and strengthen the links betweencenters
research  and executing unitsjustice..
In our view, the state must be the guarantor of social  To achieve this
requires, above all, a strong political will to create the conditions for a just andsociety.
egalitarian  But it must be emphasized that, for such a view is expressed specifically in
active policies, public accounts must demonstrate a solid and sustainable balance in
time.So in our next government will maintain apolicy of public
responsiblespending,to ensure fiscal soundness while underpin economic growth and
socialinclusion. Just because we believe in this state, to implementpolicies
socialto reverse the poverty niches structural legacies of neoliberalism is that the
state must maintain strong and healthy public accounts.
Along employment, the knot linking economic growth with inclusion social is education,
science and innovation. In these years we have made ​​a historic investment in this field,
building more than 1,000 schools, teacher salaries multiplied by reconstructing theeducation
betting technicaland science as an engine of national development. These are facts, not
rhetorical speeches. And in the next administration we will continue to demonstrate this commitment to new
measures, extending the Connect Equality Plan that all students have access to new
technologies; increasing the number of educational establishment according to the needs of each
area; strengthening teacher training and producing different content (print, online,
television) to support its work; promoting access to higher education with new
universities and scholarships for underprivileged youth; orienting scientific innovations
towards a production model and social inclusion, improving the competitiveness of theeconomy
nationaland ensure the autonomous development of the country. We believe in democratizing the processes of
creation, distribution and access to knowledge, because we believe that social justice  applies
alsoto this key area of the contemporary world.

III. Integration into the world from multilateralism, and Latin American integration.
The paradigm of international relations has undergone a shift in the last decade. From a
purely economistic insertion in the world and the speech entry into the first world
seven

(via "carnal relations"), we have awakened throughout the region to a new way of relating and
build together. This has been the consolidation of Mercosur, both economic
and political, social and cultural. Unasur building and leadership of Argentina in this
regional bloc, with its first Secretary General Nestor Kirchner, have already allowed the search for
solutions to the problems of our countries from the region itself, avoidinginterference
outsidein the past. Therefore, our next government will intensify the process
of regional construction, with the aim of strengthening the independence and national sovereignty in the
international context and reposition South American nations on the global stage.
The need for integration not only responsible for our values ​​and common origins with
theneighboring countries of the Great Latin American Homeland. Due also to the strategic challenge of
expanding our infrastructure, to defend our natural resources, to continue to make the
region an area of peace and democracy, to cooperate on defense, to negotiate  strongly
morein international bodies. In other words, integration is imperative.
akey to strengthen the growth of our countries
Also, through the exercise of the Presidency of the G-77 and our presence in the G-20
Argentina continue exposing the voice in all international forums. There will promote the
transformation of the international financial institutions, which are largely responsible
for the crisis that many countries in the world live. We understand that the new dynamics of the
world economy requires a more democratic and inclusive institutions, reflected in
a new conception of the role and functioning of the International Monetary Fund,  Bank
Worldand World Trade Organization, where the core countries respect interests
of developing countries and contribute to their industrial and technological development.
Our concept is essentially multilateralist in intentional affairs. This is
critical for our country to diversify its network of relationships globally and tothis
expandcooperation and South-South exchange with African, Arab and Asian nations that
share our interests and values. These linkages have, in recent years, a
growing our claim over the Falkland Islands back, because we know that this is the
way to achieve, always by peaceful means, fulfilling our legitimate and
imprescriptible sovereignty over the islands. This also includes the rejection of the claim to
unilaterally exploit hydrocarbons in the Islands, which implies an ecological risk and
plundering of natural resources in Argentina.
Therefore we aim at a new balance in international relations to reflect the
changes occurred in recent decades and the challenges of today. We will promote
reformof the Security Council of the UN to strengthen its representativeness andequity,
geographic  expanding the number of members comprising it and generating a greater role for
regionalorganizations in the selection of its members. But as we aspire to a greater role
in international decision-making, we know that this entails more responsibility,to
we are willing  assume. Argentina is a global leader in nuclear technology, and
defend their use safely and peacefully. Also, as a country that has been
a victim of international terrorism, we will continue working hard in thelevels,
regional and multilateral  to prevent and eradicate this global scourge. Here too we have a
total commitment to truth, justice and memory.
8

The same goes for strategies to combat climate change and global warming.
We believe that the world must act decisively in environmental matters, and it
will propose just and equitable solutions that do not involve emerging countries to an
obstacle in its path to development. We understand that the redefinition ofinstitutional
globalarchitecture,and the international system of decision-making, should be also reflected in this
issue that concerns us all nations.
The foreign policy guidelines of the Front for Victory pose continue and improve
counselingdeveloped by Argentina since 2003. The actions will promote
ournext government aimed at consolidating a more democratic,international environment
peacefulthat respects the interests of developing nations and contribute to theadvancement
economic and socialof all peoples. We have rejected and continue to rejectprescriptions.
unilaterally imposed  The integration with neighboring countries is theplatform to
successfulpromote these values ​​and strength internationally, and toconsolidate
definitivelyour region as a zone of peace, democracy and respect for
human rights.

9



