HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Living better is possible!
Living better is possible! It is our belief and the basis of our commitment to the next
legislature. Our social project has a name: human development. It seeks growth
quality of life through education, employment, housing, health, safety. It is based on a
Obviously. To live better, we did not need to do so "more": more goods, more
money, more speed, but also more stress, more pollution, more inequality ... We
especially need to "better".
Today, over 80% of the population feels that their children will have a longer life
difficult than theirs. This is unacceptable. We reject the choice of the gloom. Belgium is a country
rich, rich of talents and skills, strategically situated in the center of Europe.
We have our fate in the hands. We can be a future engine and offer
future generations a better life.

Building the future
The next election is not an election like no other. It will be decisive for the future of our country.
Regional and community parliaments, the federal parliament, the European Parliament, all
will be renewed. More importantly, we will experience the longest period without elections
since the Second World War: four and a half before the next local elections!
What a contrast to the eight election years we have experienced in twelve years. What
contrast to the legislature that ends.
Since 2007, our country was crossed by a double unprecedented crisis: a crisis
institutional, which has mortgaged the future of our country and a global financial crisis that
switch all of our economies and caused a social and fiscal crisis: growth
sluggish economy, rising unemployment, the euro crisis and sovereign debt, austerity plans
and austerity measures ... The current Government has made front. He managed to calm the conflict
Community through the sixth state reform. He also handed over Belgium on track
financial balance. He had to work in an emergency. He countered with the most urgent. But he did not have enough
the ability to project into the future. We are now at the crossroads of possibilities. During
the next five years we can not be content to manage this. We have to
build the future.

1

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Five levers for action
This ambition to build the future facilitated the remarkable work that has been carried out with
all party activists and many people from civil society since the Congress
of Louvain-la-Neuve in April 2013. At this congress, we decided to make development
Human our political project. The IDéesH operation, in the months that followed, have emerged
hundreds of innovative concrete proposals. They form the basis for a new alternative and
strong and the future that we draw, especially for young people.
It is all of these proposals, it is this exciting alternative, which is our
new political program. It is divided into five areas corresponding to five action levers
priority to build a human development company.
Axis 1: "Encouraging the best in everyone through education and culture"
The first lever is education because it is primarily through investment in people,
enabling people to be realized, it will be possible to improve the quality of life for all. Our first
proposals concern support for parents. Education, compulsory and higher, is
the second dimension at the center of this axis. It is through quality education that each
will open to culture and the skills necessary to meet the challenges of our
century.
Axis 2: "Putting the economy to human service"
The economy is the second lever. It is the engine of the activity, the heart of collective prosperity.
By redirecting our economy, it is the entire society that we transform. It must at once
allow the creation of goods and services necessary for our quality of life and provide opportunities for
everyone access to employment. But economics is only a means for us to live
better. It must therefore remain respectful of people and of nature.
Axis 3: "Conclude a new social contract"
The third lever is our tax and benefit system. We must enter into a new contract
company that establishes a new balance between the contributions of different income and strengthens
social participation. Taxation should better reflect our objectives: making work as well as
useful products and services for our environment and promoting human ties. Our model
social protection should also be reformed to strengthen the participation of all in life
the community and to better reflect the new requirements.
Axis 4: "" Gathering the territory "
Spatial planning is a fourth essential lever. The configuration of our territories, the
where we live and our habitat shapes our social relations and solidarity. Access to
equipped bedrooms and open to the external environment, the proliferation of green space or
user-friendly and shared hangouts nourish the quality of social bonds. By
the development of our territory, we can regain control of our time:
replace the time forced by selected time. This includes requires more mobility
fluid and better use of technology.
Axis 5: "Building togetherness"
The last lever, the fifth, is the synthesis of the political stakes: living together. This live
together, we must build it together. This request to allow each person
to play their role as citizens and participate fully in society. But this requires to ensure
respect for everyone by ensuring respect for collective rules. Finally, we must overcome withdrawal
and foster dialogue between people and cultures to allow the emergence of values
shared.

2

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Quantified targets
To regain confidence in the future and change our development model, we must
change the way we measure it. Today, the constant reference to GDP (Product
GDP) itself symbolizes a development model focused on growth
quantity of goods and products. If we want to prioritize human development, we
need more human development indicators to GDP and to give us
specific objectives in relation to these. This is the meaning of the table that we present below.

Human development indicators (not exhaustive)
Indicators

Data
current

Goal
2025

Childhood and Education
1. welcomes Places
percentage
from
population 0-2.5 years

in
There

2. Percentage of students
their second end
Secondary to 14 years

40%

60%

80%

Employment and Economy

67.20%

4. Percentage of GDP
devoted to research

2.24%

75%

3%

Partnership Agreement

5. Life expectancy in
healthy

63.4

Data
current

Goal
2025

Partnership Agreement

28.30%

3. Employment rate

Indicators

6. Sense of Satisfaction
life

8

Environment and living environment

7. Percentage
using every day
transport or
carpooling

33%

50%

8. Percentage of households
satisfied with their housing

55%

80%

17%

22%

75%

85%

Live together

9. Percentage of population
dedicated to volunteering
70

7.4

10.
Percentage
from
population satisfied
Belgian democracy

There
There

Instead of getting lost in endless institutional conflicts, future governments
must make the choice of cooperation. We hope that they hear around indicators
complementary. Taken together they define a strategy for the development Interfederal
spread over 10 years human.
This strategy will ensure convergence between the initiatives of all authorities
public around guidelines and common targets to be achieved by 2025.
It will guide public policy towards a common goal, that we want
share with all citizens and that gives meaning to our political commitment: Living
better!

3

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Axis 1
Encourage the best in everyone
through education and culture
Education is the foundation of human development. She is on a personal level, it is
because it helps to improve our society. Education is essential to building our
knowledge, our skills and our values. It helps to draw our own future and
our collective destiny. It determines the share of freedom and creativity we can make it
Once in service to our fulfillment and the common good. It is the lever
large on which we can play if we want to live better.

1. At the heart of education: families
Education begins at birth within each family. The family is the
first reference for personal development, learning about group life, respect
life rules, the discovery of the other in their differences ... The role of parents is essential. They
are the primary stakeholders in education. They are present throughout the child's learning
and its development into adulthood. To fully assume their role, parents must be able to
combine work and family life. For CDH, a reflection is needed on both the
flexibility of working time and access to family leave that theme on improving
Daily them-school, mobility, etc.
The SPEs are the first place for socialization of children outside their families.
They must be good quality while also corresponding to the realities of the labor market to
to allow all parents to access employment that is in line with their degree, their
experience and wishes. The "demographic boom" requires new spaces in
Home Environments 0-3 years and schools. Providing early childhood quality of reception is
therefore a priority in the educational process and the fight against educational inequality. By
Furthermore, the extra-school care (before and after school and during the holidays) and schools
duties will also be strengthened. Finally, support for young people with severe
difficulties (family situation, delinquency ...) include a strong educational component. Services
of youth assistance and youth protection are major players in the education system:
everything must be done to give these young people a horizon.

2. A school open to service excellence
Gateway to the world, the school, in particular, offers parents the opportunity to provide their
children education they consider consistent with the design they have the destiny of Being
human in the fundamental values ​​of society and the State, and involve them in the
school education task.
The school's mission is to give a taste for learning and to bring each student to its maximum
capacity valuing his personal qualities, by deploying the Multiple Intelligence
cognitive, social, emotional and practical help to understand the world, to express themselves
and develop a rich and balanced personality. The school may well get everyone to the best,
4

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
teach him the taste of the effort and strive for excellence for all "collective excellence." In this
optical, technical and vocational streams should be revalued and constitute a
real choice for students, as well as general education.
For maximizing the talents of each child, it is articulate individual approach
learning and community life. The school does not address a hypothetical median student but
each student personally, to enhance its quality and take into account his difficulties.
For this, independent schools must be strengthened: to enable schools
free resources and time to meet everyone's needs, develop
teaching methods appropriate to prioritize remediation or relegation
repetition. The school must articulate personalization of learning and collaborative approaches
between students, and between parents and teachers.
The school must give priority to basic skills and ensure control, leaving
anyone leaving school without a common core of skills and knowledge. However,
all types of intelligence - artistic, sports, technical, manual, cognitive - must find
in our education, allowing each student to discover the pleasure of learning,
requisite for the success of a school, and a revaluation of technical fields and
Professional. The school will thus enable students to acquire the ability to find their full
place in the construction of society, caring for the development of all dimensions
of the human being.
The school, through educational projects she chooses to wear, can raise from an early age the
creativity and innovation. Instead reproduce, copy or repeat it asks citizens
to invent, create, innovate. The school is the ideal place to awaken in him all the forces
will ensure his personal construction and adapt to a world in constant
mutation. Stimulating creativity of each student, it is an essential mission of the school. It
also pass through the fight against stereotypes that confine girls and boys in some
sectors.
The creativity and commitment of the teaching staff (principals, teachers, educators, CPMS ...)
the wealth of ideas and energy that makes the richness and quality of actions day after
day by thousands of teachers and principals must be recognized. For this, the autonomy and
the professionalism of the teaching staff will be valued. This means giving them the
opportunity to decide their own teaching methods to implement, since the
development of new pedagogical practices can be achieved with the teachers.
It also means providing them with educational tools, training,
procedures for analysis and evaluation of the results of their action and thus to introduce more
great culture of accountability in the education system.
The valuation of each of the sectors of our education must be strengthened. Each,
Transition education or qualification, will have a strong project and an outlook.
This recognition of the contribution of different sectors involve economic actors and
working world. She will also participate in the fight against school divide and the dualisation of our
educational system.
The school's strength is its teachers: it is the human factor that makes the difference. The
teachers are the guarantors of the quality of the educational process and knowledge transfer.
Today, too many teachers are left to themselves. We propose that each teacher
be accompanied and supported the early years and throughout his career, including
organizing the sharing of best educational tools that have been proven elsewhere and tutoring
for the transmission of knowledge. The government, rather than being mere controllers downstream
upstream will support the work of the school and its teachers. The teacher must be able to
benefit from an evolution of a career flexibility. More generally, the initial training and

5

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
continued teacher will be overhauled in order to strengthen the skills of the latter in
benefit of all students.

3. Strengthen the quality of higher education
Access to higher education should be possible for all those who aspire to it. Increase
number of graduates is desirable to build the knowledge society. It is still necessary
develop pathways that respond most to community needs. Higher Education
and research are fundamental levers of a unit of a society based on production,
dissemination and exploitation of knowledge, on the other hand, economic, social,
environmental and cultural development of our regions. To this end, the cost can be a barrier to follow
higher education.
However, our higher education can train more students while maintaining
its high quality without the benefit of refinancing. After seeing its entire organization to be
changed during the current legislature, higher education must receive the necessary resources
to its development. This will include the recognition and appreciation of the role
essentially played by basic research.

6

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Chapter 1. Supporting the development
staff of each child and each
young
The education of toddlers is the subject of increasing attention in our government
countries. The number of childcare places for young children (0-3 years) in the territory of the Federation
Wallonia-Brussels is increasing (although it remains generally insufficient and that
does not evolve in the same way in all provinces) and we have a coverage rate
enviable compared to other OECD countries.
Public and voluntary sector welcome more and more children from 3 to 12 years in
good conditions during their free time before and after school and during holidays
school. The number of homework schools has increased significantly in recent years.
Almost 110,000 young people are received in youth movements Federation WallonieBruxelles in 90% of municipalities.
Actors and cultural venues, places of creation and cultural consumption are numerous and
very active on our territory. They contribute to the development of intangible dimension and / or
spiritual children and youth. The offer of sports activities is also relatively
generous.
All these positive developments should not make us forget that significant challenges remain
address: child poverty remains high, social and educational inequality is increasing, the
parents have more and more difficulties in combining family life and work. More and more
children and young people must be supported by the youth assistance services.
The supply of childcare places for young children (0-3 years) is still insufficient despite the progress
harvested. Several sections of the population are excluded childcare networks
because traditional admission criteria or rigidity of certain schedules.

Welcoming children from 3 to 12 years during their free time before and after school and during
school holidays (and quality) remains difficult to deploy, to democratize, to strengthen in
quality for various reasons (fragmented and complex legal framework, status of insecurity and significant "turn
over "professionals working in this sector). In this context also, it must rethink
organizing the noon time.
Sports education, cultural, artistic is not accessible for many children.

7

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Action 1. Develop skills and parenting resources
children's education
The education of a child is (initially) conditioned by the well-being of its parents1 and
ability to exercise their educational responsibilities.
For the CDH, the government should take more initiatives to support parents and
educational services around them.
The CDH also considers it necessary to support families financially. The proposals
to family and support for single parents allowance is detailed proposals
210 (family allowances to a right of the child) and 211 (financially support families
parent).

Proposal 1: Give time to the birth and help parents be more
available
The pressure of work within families has significantly increased with the economic crisis
financial and repeated and frequent and ongoing organizational changes (and
functions) in companies that discourage employees to take time for their families by
fear of losing their jobs.
The CDH wants to help parents raise their skills and resources to
exercise their educational responsibilities and, as a priority, to help them be more available to their
children.
The CDH offers so:
-

immunize leave days taken before the birth Medical (up to one month)
and gradually extend the maternity and birth of 15-18 weeks (the
Most European countries provide 20 weeks), provided that both parents
take at least 3 weeks;

-

fight against discriminatory behavior towards pregnant workers, in
improving information thereof about their rights.2;

-

afford to take maternity leave in the form of half-time for medical
allow a return to work smoothly;

-

adjust the length of paternity and maternity leave in case of multiple pregnancy
consultation with the social partners;

-

improve information for self-employed on the aid they can
receive for maternity via the Register of Substitutes and via service vouchers and expand
the right to these securities services to their spouses in case of death after childbirth;

-

allow parents to take parental leave a tenth time in 30 months
to devote half a day a week (or one day every two weeks) to children
(currently on parental leave can be taken full-time for four months, part time
for 8 months or fifth time in 20 months) and revise upwards the amount of
the allocation to 800 euros;

1

The Family League, La Libre Belgique on August 4, 2013
Institute for Equality of Women and Men, working in Pregnancy - Moving and obstacles faced by workers
pregnant, quantitative and qualitative study, in 2010.

2

8

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
-

develop, with the social partners, flexibility in working hours for reasons
Family in innovative formulas such as telework, "floating zones", the
"Individualized schedules", leave related to school calendars ... 3;

-

globalize time credit and parental leave policies (excluding maternity leave) in
a "time savings accounts" personalized, digitized per person applicable on
career. The time savings account would consist of two pillars: the collective pillar
including all paid leave according to specific conditions and the pillar
Staff to enable workers to save under conditions determined between
social partners that add personal leave once in the 'Account
savings time. "

Proposal lighthouse 2: Move more fathers to get involved in the life
daily children
According to a 2009 survey by the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men, a father
5 does not take 10 days of paternity leave to which he is entitled and that is in the category of
workers that problems arise most often. The employer's attitude influences
important in the decision to take paternity leave and how it unfolds.
More and more voices are being raised, including within the ranks patronaux4, to make the leave
compulsory paternity in order to "clear the young fathers of the need to justify a choice
Today marginal personal "and" gradually change habits and
representations "5.
Specifically, the CDH offers:
-

make paternity leave mandatory 10 days (for employees and function
public) to promote parental equality and prevent fathers' depend on the
want their employer and, secondly, gradually expand the amount of leave
paternity to 15 days;

-

ultimately enabling mothers and fathers to share some of the maternity leave and
Additional paternity;

-

continue raising awareness of employers to parenthood male workers (broadcast
a guide on parenting and illustrate good practice to encourage businesses
parenting, and especially fatherhood);

-

grant the self-employed and assisting spouses insurance paternity
Like what exists for salariés6.

3

In some countries, employed parents have the right to ask their employer for flexible working hours and they must
justify any refusal (Netherlands, UK). The OECD encourages this practice in "Baby Employers: reconciling family and
professional life ", The OECD Observer, July 2008
4
Laurence Parisot, President of MEDEF, www.lexpress.fr, published Mar. 7, 2011.
5
Monique Boutrand, National Secretary of the CFDT Cadres, Le Monde, June 7, 2011
6
Bill tabled by Christian Brotcorne (CDH) to be granted to self-employed and assisting spouses a
paternity insurance (Doc. 52K0536).

9

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Proposition 3: Allow each parent to be accompanied at the
birth of a child
For every parent is accompanied at birth of a child, the CDH offers:
-

increase the number of medical and social workers (the "TMS") ONE who visit
young parents and their children in their homes during the birth, to equip them in terms
IT and financial incentives for physicians to work within the ONE;

-

provide an offer of "children for consultations" NEB meeting the needs related to
demographic boom; renovate their premises; train volunteers who work there, value
and certify their experience;

-

provide for a mandatory annual medical examination (either by the ONE or by a physician) for
Children 0 to 5 years in order not to leave children totally unknown services
Assistance infancy.

Proposition 4: Supporting vulnerable parents (and their children) of
Suitably
The accompaniment of vulnerable relatives requires initiatives tailored to their situation. The cdH
thus proposes:
-

develop a transversal strategy between all levels of government to strengthen support
and services in respect of single parents and low income in particular
mainly in social service vouchers, access to housing, to LEA checks
child care at home, scheduling flexibility when working, access to nurseries, etc.

-

financially support specialized reception early childhood services ("SASPE") that
welcome / collect children in danger and in difficulty (100% finance standards
mentoring that these services must comply; better cover their
operation) and increase the number of places for children;

-

provide social support (and coordination between different social stakeholders)
parents begging on the street with their children (socio-professional integration,
access to housing, school integration of children with possible assistance of mediators ...);

-

finance projects (including community projects) supporting mothers in prison and to
maintain the child-parent relationship in prison;

-

reinforce the social interpreting services and intercultural mediators active in
"Child consultations" ONE to support parents who do not speak French;

-

strengthen friendly sponsorship services for disadvantaged children on weekends and
vacation, or that commit to, and help fund the education of the child.

10

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Proposal 5: To fight against child poverty and socio-educational inequalities
Nearly one in 5 children growing up in poverty in Belgium. 50% of people experiencing
Wallonia poverty are single parents.
Child poverty is a reflection of the poverty of families. It particularly affects
their development, their health, their education, psycho-social well-being, their schooling.
The CDH offers:
-

increase the allocation for CPAS for individual aid (case by case) and
collective (through a youth service) for children in poverty (school support, help
purchase of teaching materials, funding of activities such as snow classes,
refund of membership in a sports club ...) organize an exchange of good practice
between CPAS7;

-

coordinate networking, multi-sectoral and multidisciplinary, to better support
precarious families before and around the birth (over local partnerships between
ONE consultations, health centers, family support services, medical homes, CPAS ...) 8;

-

financially support projects (associations) to help parents stimulate home
language acquisition; provide in the "health-parenting projects" for consultations
children and educational projects in kindergartens and other small places of welcome
childhood where the indicators are the worst, human resources trained to follow
and advancing late children in language learning;

-

multiply "places of parent-child encounters" and "drop-ins", which help
particularly single parents and / or disadvantaged socio-professionally fit;

-

improve the training of professionals of childhood experiences of families living in the
poverty, and improve communication with parents and make their services more
accessible;

-

add a new category to the Law on the social integration income (RIS) for the parent
hosting a child under joint custody (single parent) 9.

Proposal 6: To support parents in their educational role
Often parents support each other in educational matters. Sometimes assistance
comes from the extended family. But often this support is not available or more. It's the case
especially for many single parents.
It became necessary to deal with issues of education in kindergartens, childcare facilities
children and adolescents in schools, the media and offer opportunities for parents
sharing on educational issues and be thus aware and strengthened in their role
child's educators (if the school wishes to remain effective, it can not replace parents
in education at all levels).
The CDH offers:
-

deploy and support an educational service network to parenthood through the associative fabric;

7

Defined in the national plan against child poverty by 2013.
The King Baudouin Foundation launched a call for projects in this direction.
9
National plan against child poverty tabled in Federal in June 2013
8

11

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

-

-

strengthen the partnership between parents and the school; involve wider associations
active parents in schools to develop parenting resources (evenings
thematic ...);

-

support, particularly through schools homework, parents who wish to monitor
daily schooling of their children;

-

reinforce learning of the language of education among parents; develop tools
specific for some parents experiencing language difficulties adapting
messages and communication media;

-

mobilize education professionals (welcoming of children, educators ...) to
inform and support parents in their questions;

-

support groups of words and exchanges between relatives;

-

offer a range of services to families in special need: support services
Family at home, educational assistance provided in the context of youth assistance, capacity
of post-adoption support for parents and host families through
First existing online services (PES, PMS, ...);

-

support the efforts of parents in education to the health of their children better
organize and pay better screening and early treatment of child obesity;
improve the provision of mental health care for children (increased and
ability of specialized service and better distribution on the territory); continue
efforts in the fight against addictions (video games, tobacco, drugs and alcohol) and
educate youth about the dangers of "binge drinking";

-

educate parents about the dangers of the Internet, the cyber-hate, the "hyper"
children, the rise of religious radicalism in our society ...;

-

create on the part of television / radio public service obligation to treat
education issues via short capsules and a prime time and restart the
familles.be portal which should address all issues affecting families;

-

develop locally places (the "childhood homes and families") where
bring together different services: pre and post-natal support, ONE consultations,
nursery, drop-in, parenting support, places of parent-child meetings, schools
homework, intergenerational projects ... to offer locally answers to parents'
their comprehensive and cross-cutting requirements;

-

promote among parents with information about the environment and healthy living spaces
in which the child can develop in a balanced way in its home environment;
increase prevention and education policies and healthy eating
rational use of media for young children.

Proposition 7: Ensure that in case of separation, each parent has his
contributory share for education and maintenance of children
For CDH, it is essential that in case of separation, each parent continues to contribute to
education and maintenance of children. The Act of 19 March 2010 requires the judge to objectify shares
contributory each parent for the education and care of their children, allowing
contributor to better accept the amount payable. Also, a "debt of Service
food "was created to grant advances on maintenance payments for children
where food-paying parent is not fulfilling its debt.

12

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
These two devices can be improved. The CDH offers so:
-

-

meet the income limits allowed to qualify for advances on pensions
food provided by the Department of maintenance claims (SECAL) access to which is
become ultimately completely free for people to receive a pension;
raise the amount of the SECAL intervention for these advances and incorporate load
financial of a disabled child;
implement the "food contributions Commission" charged by law to establish
clear recommendations for objective calculation of child support.

Proposition 8: Supporting parents in their adopted projects
The adoption process can be further improved. The CDH offers:
-

review the adoption process to invite the judge to rule on the ability to adopt
parents in a reasonable time (1 month from the time it has social inquiry);

-

extend the validity of the judgment of suitability to 5 years (for internal adoption and
international) and allow the judgment of suitability to be used for one or more
adoption procedures regarding one or more children;

-

extend the adoption leave to 15 weeks to take in the two months following the effective Home
the child in the family (2 additional weeks in case of adoption of more children and
leave doubled if the child is disabled);

-

afford to take the adoption leave before the reception staff of the child, including
traveling abroad and being protected against dismissal;

-

allow the tax deductibility of expenses related to the adoption at the tax return.

Proposal 9: fully recognize the educational role of foster parents
Foster parents provide children under the youth welfare a lifestyle, emotional and
stable and secure education while avoiding the breaking of ties with their original parents. These
foster parents do educational work. But they know, in their daily lives, the
practical problems. They must obtain the consent of parents to child's home for
many steps and decisions (choice of school, opening a bank account, leave the
Belgium, medical, stay with another person). Without questioning the place and
responsibilities of parents of origin, it would be desirable to agree certain situations
which it would not be necessary to require permits and signatures of the original parents.
The CDH offers:
-

fully recognize the status of foster parents, notably by granting them the right to
parental leave. They currently only entitled to six days leave to perform
investment-related procedures;

-

give foster parents the ability to make practical decisions in life
daily child without infringing on the fundamental rights of the parents of origin;

-

shorten payment of daily fee and reimbursement of special expenses
(medical expenses…) ;

-

wide communication and organize awareness campaigns to increase the number
foster parents.

13

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Proposition 10: Recognizing Social kinship
Social kinship would apply to various types of family situations where a child without
biologically and legally the child of a person, that person is raised by cohabiting
with its parent (married or not) and contracted in respect of an educational commitment.
This new legal concept would, without touching the parentage of the child, assign this
person limited rights and duties.
The CDH offers:
-

consider giving the step-parent of a child under certain strict conditions,
limited rights and duties towards the child of his partner (married or cohabiting)
where there is special emotional bond, provided emotional cohabitation has lasted
at least five years.
In all cases, social relationship must be requested from the family court by
Both the child's parents or the single parent of the child (the other being the biological parent
deceased or deprived of parental authority).
Social kinship can not be recognized by the court if there is an emotional connection
especially between the child and the partner of the parent and the attribution of kinship
Social corresponds to the best interests of that child.
The court will reject the application if it is detrimental to the child or to the exercise by the
father or mother of the child of his own parenting.
In any case, social relationship can not prejudice the rights and obligations of the / of
Parent (s) biologiques10.

10

Doc 53, No. 819/001 Christian Brotcorne

14

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Action 2. Invest heavily in early childhood Home
The reception of young children in childcare facilities (crèches, welcoming children ...) responds
certainly an economic need (parental work). More importantly, due to their
educational function, integration and socialization, the media that host early childhood
stimulate their physical, mental and social development, facilitate their entry to school and
schooling.
However, if the number of childcare places for young children (0-3 years) in the territory of the Federation
Wallonia-Brussels is increasing, it remains generally insufficient and does not move
the same in all provinces.
The shortage of childcare places exacerbates social inequalities (the organization of waiting lists
nurseries are social selection effects of those registered). It particularly affects children
socio-economically disadvantaged families (with low level of education or who have experienced
migration background) who need to enjoy the educational benefits of childcare
(see OECD studies on the subject).

Proposal flagship 11: 10,000 Create quality care places for
children under 3 years by 2018
Considerable efforts have been made in the recent years to create spaces
Home. Between 2004 and late 2012, 11 396 places were created. The FWB currently has 39 974
places (December 2012 figure) without counting the 8,000 Flemish seats in the Brussels Region.
However, important challenges remain. Population projections, diversification
family types, the reduced availability of grandparents (in particular because of the
Economic pressure) casualization of employment contracts, etc. are all evidence
the need to develop an Early Childhood ambitious policy of welcome and give them
means necessary. The lack of childcare places affects the lives of families
obliging a parent or single parent to give up work or reduce their working time.
The CDH offers:
-

give new impetus to the multiannual programming to create childcare places
(called the Stork Plan III) to create 10,000 places by 2018 (against 8400 which are
already planned); These seats should be distributed on the territory of the Federation WallonieBruxelles according to regional socio-economic, demographic boom
announced in some municipalities, the current coverage areas, demand
real, ...;

-

better cover the operating costs of subsidized home environments;

-

ensure greater solidarity among host communities that receive large
parental financial contribution (PFP) and those who perceive low PFP;

-

support collective unsubsidized childcare (in equipment and
accompaniment); provide opportunities for non-subsidized childcare facilities to practice
financial participation of parents with income in exchange for aid or premiums
public authorities; simplify administrative acts;

-

include the creation of childcare places in the Social Responsibility (CSR) at
through fiscal devices (or premiums) and a partnership (or sponsorship) with circles
Home within which they could benefit from a priority for their seats

15

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
employees while ensuring the opening of the SPE to other children in a
concern for social mix;
-

forcing major real estate projects to provide a specific infrastructure to the home of
Children in urban development charges; integrate early childhood needs in Home
on construction projects of new school buildings; encourage
development of pilot projects on creation of childcare places including
train stations ;

-

review the supervisory standards for different types of early childhood home to
possible to increase the capacity in an objective quality of care and sustainability
financial accueil11 of all backgrounds; pay particular attention to media
Home and welcoming (s) in Brussels that, following the Community's new regulations
Flemish in the matière12, search of a Kind & Gezin to ONE (keeping in mind the
particularly difficult situation of host communities "enkel gemeld" which have only previously
end of 2014 to comply with the new rules).

Lighthouse Proposal 12: Valuing Children of welcoming
The hosting service (s) now account for 25% of childcare places for 0-3 years
Wallonia-Brussels Federation. Despite the growing demand of the small home places
childhood, the number of welcoming (s) under agreement (s) is decreasing. The precariousness of the status of
welcoming (s) explains this decline.
The welcoming (s) under agreement (s) do not receive a salary but defray per day per
child (17.08 euros and 10.25 euros per day per half day hosted by child). Their income varies
thus greatly from one month to another depending on the presence of children. The lack of security
financial (right to unemployment benefits, fixed income ...) and social security, the low level of
income, work schedules, requirements and responsibilities of the profession grow
so many of welcoming (s) to leave the profession and discourage others to become one.
To support children with welcoming, CDH offers:
-

pay each hosting (e) under agreement (e) a guaranteed monthly minimum income and
holiday pay ;

-

grant to welcoming (s) under agreement (s) who want a complete status
employed, similar to the homeworker upon conclusion of a contract
Working with their framing service;

-

lay down specific arrangements for reducing social security contributions for Services
of welcoming (s) of children who use them;

-

if necessary create new hosting services (s) under agreement (s); strengthen these
Services revising standards on minimum staff required to ensure their
quality;

-

offer welcoming children a priority to integrate services when ONE
instead it becomes vacant and if the welcoming of qualifications are matched with
the criteria for the post to be filled it;

11

As part of a broader reflection on the MILAC decree (Decree of the Government of the French Community concerning
General regulation of childcare).

12

Flemish Decree of 20 April 2012 on the organization of the reception of toddlers and babies.

16

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
-

develop co-inviting projects for which two or more welcoming
children get together in a place for which they receive a bonus share
costs and can accommodate a reasonable number of children;

-

ensure support of local authorities in welcoming (s) of children, independent or
under agreement (s) through such a communal premium equipment
cover expenses relating to the security and development of the placement or
purchase of teaching materials and their integration in local networks of home
childcare to enable particular to ensure local coordination hosting
Early Childhood and communicate to parents the available places;

-

improve supervision of welcoming (s) and independent candidate (s) by agents
tips ONE;

-

provide a welcoming alternative service in welcoming disease
Flying through local early childhood networks (see proposal 14).

Proposition 13: Diversify Early Childhood Home Types
The host communities "classic" no longer sufficient to meet the needs of parents. The
Requests for flexible home, drop-in centers, emergency home are increasing. And the
Fund transfer of equipment and utilities (CSCF) to the Communities will be
opportunity to reflect on how to be assigned to the diversification of childcare.
The CDH offers in this regard:
-

develop and financially support the drop-in centers and emergency shelters to
meet the occasional needs of parents (attend training, attend an interview
hiring, rest for illness ...);

-

develop a flexible home to meet, for example, the needs of parents
work unconventional hours or those who take courses in formations
evening;

-

structure and subsidize the hospitality industry for sick children with the host community
themselves, employers and health insurance funds as part of integrated partnerships;

-

take into account the transfer means in the CSCF to the development of these
supported with special needs shooting modes.

Proposal 14: Create mobile teams of welcoming (s)
It is necessary to develop innovative formulas to meet the child care needs
sick at home or in hospital, to replace welcoming (s) or ill
training to strengthen the staff of host environments integrating children needs
... These specific welcoming (s) flying must also be able to intervene to ensure
replacement of welcoming (e) s on sick leave.
The CDH therefore proposes:
-

create or strengthen mobile teams of welcoming (s) "flying" in each Committee
subregional ONE.

17

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Proposal 15: Make more accessible childcare places
15% of parents do not find a home solution for financial reasons. The cost of home
and this remains an obstacle, even in subsidized host environment practicing participation
parental financial (PFP) based on parental income. Accessibility must thus not be
thought that in financial terms, it must also be reflected in terms of geography and
cultural. Furthermore, many parents are lost in the maze that represents research
docking site.
The CDH offers:
-

create more subsidized spaces in host environments that ask
parental financial participation (PFP) as income (according to a scale);

-

improve the progressivity of the scale of the PFP to facilitate the access of low families
middle income; delete the "Home Intervention" for parents with low incomes
and the budgetary margins found and to revise the "PFP";

-

review the criteria of priority access to childcare facilities to meet the needs
Home resulting from particular situations: of a child whose parents face
social, psychological or significant physical problems, on the proposal of a service
SOS-Children or judicial decision ...;

-

educate families who, for reasons including cultural, refuse to entrust
their children in childcare facilities at ONE consultations;

-

simplifying for parents looking for childcare places by a centralized information
supply and availability.

Proposition 16: Better integrate children with a disability in
Home environments
Efforts have been made to assist host communities called "ordinary" to accommodate children
holders of disability in good conditions. We must pursue this goal.
The CDH offers:
-

continue to support host communities who welcome a child with Disabilities
(reinforcing cell and support system); strengthen training of professional
Early childhood on the subject; further collaborations between ONE and institutions
referent on disability (AWIPH Lighthouse).

Proposal 17: To professionalize the home of childhood
The NEB did analyze staff training devices working in different modes
childcare from 0-12 years. It appears that the level of initial training in the field
of childhood are "insufficient" 13.
The CDH offers:
-

improve the training of welcoming, build "business standards, skills
and training "for the child host functions, supervision and management
0-12 home environments;

13

Cesar A., ​​A. Dethier, N.François, A. Legrand, F. Pirard, in collaboration with P. Camus, P. Humblet and F. Parent, edited
Scientific Florence Pirard, "Initial training in the hospitality field of childhood (0-12 years)," Liege, in July 2012.

18

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
-

develop skills validation systems for childhood occupations;

-

develop a training path "professionalizing" particularly via IFAPME;

-

study, drawing on foreign experience, the creation of training on the
trades higher level of childhood;

-

develop devices to search for complementarity and non-competition
welcoming between professionals and volunteers welcoming;

-

gradually attain the alignment of scales of nursing functions, assistants
social and nurses with those of the hospital sector; revalue the functions
administrative, logistical involved in the successful implementation of socio-educational missions
entrusted to a host environment.

19

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

3. Action Plan for each child a warm welcome before, during and
after school
Welcoming children from 3 to 12 years during their free time before and after school and during
school holidays (and quality) has become a crucial question in the organization of time
parents.
Did you know that 226 of 272 common today have a host project "ATL" 14?
This represents 89.5% of the municipalities in the province of Namur, 85.2% of the municipalities in the BW,
93.2% of communes in Luxembourg, 81.2% of the municipalities in Hainaut, 78.9% of
Brussels communes and 76% of communes in Liège15.
The Home Leisure, is over 1,600 operators (associative or communal services) Home
school funded by the Wallonia-Brussels.
Many devices exist, but outside school host application and during holidays
School remains glaring in Wallonia and Brussels. The offer of activities must continue to deploy to
democratize, to enhance quality. This offer is currently suffers from underfunding
initiatives, a fragmented and complex legal framework, the precarious status and the large "turn
over "professionals working in this sector. Schools are, themselves, often
to offer a poor quality school time. And the responsibility for these activities can not
their lie: they are already facing many problems in the organization without power
have to bear this additional element.
The host offers is still inadequate on Wednesday afternoon, days of educational conferences,
during the Easter holidays and Toussaint at the beginning and end of summer vacation. Some efforts
are to do for locals. The affordability of activities organized by associations
cultural and sporting activities is problematic and lacking for children in rural areas. The
mobility problems between host communities remain relevant in certain areas. The role of
Coordinator (-teur) ATL is not sufficiently recognized in the field. Playgrounds for
school holidays are saturated. It has become difficult to find competent staff and
suffisant16 number.
The school is increasingly asked to complete educational tasks that families, subject to
various pressures, no longer able to fulfill. She is invited to respond to new
requests from families concerned to reconcile professional hours and school hours and offer
children quality extracurricular activities (cultural, artistic, sporting, awareness
science, computer science and languages).
The school can not meet alone, all these solicitations. It should focus on its
business: teaching. However, it may call upon external partnerships, be
initiated collaborations or be at the heart of new intersectoral collaborations.
This is what the Dutch call "open schools". These "open schools" to their
environment, local sports clubs, music academies, the various associations
welcomes children during their free time, to youth assistance services, to offer ...
from the local network, activities for children who develop both their intellectual capital, as
Manual, artistic, cultural, physical, social, and human and so support their education.
There is no single model of open school. These are the local actors of the municipality or
neighborhood, school and para / after school, their expertise, partnerships they create them,
common socio-educational objectives they give themselves, their degree of involvement in the network
14

Sales at December 31, 2012.
2012 Annual Report of ONE, p. 92.
16
OEAJ, 2012
15

20

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
they weave, especially, joint actions they perform together, that embody
the "open school".
A number of conditions must be fulfilled for successful project: each partner
education must retain its particularity, its business while dropping some of its autonomy
to enter a single real organization; a coordinator should be entrusted with the mission
networking partners; all children must have access to all financial
projects that would be proposed.

Lighthouse Proposal 18: Create schools open
More than 470,000 children in the French Community take every day way to school
nursery and primary and demographic change, they will be even more tomorrow.
More than 20% of them attend daily school care before and / or after
school. These figures tend to increase year by year.
The investigations, including that of the League of Families 17 well reveal the difficulty of reconciling
school stresses and constraints of professional parents, both in their needs
Home day care in school during the school holidays.
The CDH offers:
-

organize "States General of the Children's Home" leading to the conclusion of a
"Pact for extra-school care" to make non-formal home a real
right of the child and bringing together all the subsidizing authorities to collectively define
multiannual targets and the investment required (and the part of everyone whose
municipalities and provinces) to finance a home outside school quality for all
Children and accountability of each level of power. Currently, funding
extra-curricular activities is scattered between municipalities, provinces, regions, the
Wallonia Brussels Federation, the federal, the Europe18.

The aim of the States General must also organize closer cooperation both
between-school care services, but also between them and teaching through advice
participation of schools, "advisory committees of the Home" (MAT) 19, coordinators
communaux20, to find ways to strengthen the emancipatory dimension of time and creative
emphasizing extracurricular school / school time time complementarity; integrate
extracurricular activities of academies of music, sports, cultural activities, activities
science awareness, information technology and languages ​​... in the school grounds, to imagine
of infrastructure sharing formulas ...
Following these general states on non-formal welcome, a consensus, as a "Pact
for extra-school care "should be reached on a set of initiatives to
17

The League of families, the survey results "Who keeps your child under 12 years today? "The parents Ligueur, March 14
2012, No. 7.
Fed intervenes in the system via the 60 FTE available to public school structures in the framework of the plan "emploisjeunes" via tax deductibility, the allocation of social contributions CSCF. The Region intervenes via ALE jobs, EPA, ACS, of
grants to municipalities funded by the Home Affairs for the realization of investments, development works,
renovation, construction, equipment purchasing, also via financial support to social tourism for young people. Europe comes via
European Social Fund (ESF) ...
19
The CCA is composed of local partners: representatives of operators active home in the town as well as representatives
fundamental schools (all networks), associations of parents, continuing education organizations (such as the League
Families) and representatives of various services such as those active in the field of youth welfare, sports clubs .... CCA
must define the objectives to be pursued in the territory of the municipality and coordinate existing and new initiatives to meet
to-school care needs.
20
According to the League of Families in "The results of the investigation of the League of Families on the needs of parents in foster Services
children 3 to 12 years ", published March 14, 2012, 50% of surveyed parents want to home-school their children
place in the school.
18

21

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
collectively find ways to fund lunch time in schools and activities
proposed for white days; to organize childcare during the Toussaint holidays
and Carnival; cover equipment costs and school premises for extracurricular activities; also to get agreement on cross-training policies and employment
friendly (professionalize the profession ...).
Other proposals should be put on the table, for example, those designed to:
-

increase by 4% per year of operation of the means of school care operators via the Wallonia-Brussels Federation (effectively, host operators are
funded to the extent of € 0.60 per day per child. This is largely insufficient) and
ensure adequate compensation of Supervisors schools;

-

ensure cooperation of all initiatives taken in the field of school care through the schools of the participating councils, ATL coordinators, the "Commission
Advisory of Home "-" CCA "composed of local partners, to foster
collaborations with music academies and sports clubs including within
schools, define the objectives to be pursued in the territory of a locality and
coordinate existing and new initiatives to meet the needs Home
outside school ;

-

organize lunch time at school by this time a moment of conviviality and the
making it financially accessible to all;

-

maintaining and developing jobs with EPA and ACS of school care operators;

-

ensure locally based if necessary on the CPAS, access to activities
artistic, cultural, sports, community (youth movements) to children from ...
less affluent backgrounds, socially or culturally different, children from families
single parent, face difficulties of geographical access, children in situations
... disability. ;

-

review the "free time Home" regulation that allows to grant subsidies
positive differentiation to structures hosting children from disadvantaged backgrounds on
socioeconomic (review the procedure and criteria) to make it applicable or
deleted (as too stigmatizing for families) and substitute mechanisms
differentiated financing of reception centers located in municipalities to wealth index
low 21;

-

secure funding for extracurricular childcare facilities supported by the Fund
Facilities and Services Collective (CSCF) in the transfer of budgetary resources from this fund
the federated entities;

-

consider, ultimately, a new articulation between school time, after school time
and holiday periods and work with voluntary pilot schools to rethink
the organization of school time.

This new articulation of time can only be considered once the childcare offers
reinforced after school in quantity, quality and integrated into daily life (para) School of
children.
A portion of the school day should be devoted to activities undertaken by
external partners in education at school (sports associations, artistic, cultural,
professional and NGOs) to be rebalanced between cognitive activity, physical, artistic,
Social and enabling the discovery of professional or societal realities.
21

This is a recommendation of the OEAJ.

22

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
The change in the organization of school time must seek improved rhythms
lives of children and adolescents to facilitate their learning. Any draft
redevelopment of school time must consider the necessary connection between the three time
Forecast: the year, the day and the week. This is the cutting of the three time depends
quality of school work.
The overhaul of the organization of working time of teachers, which would result from the reform of the
school time, do not assume that teachers work more, but otherwise.

Proposition 19: Extend service vouchers to childcare after school
The CDH proposes to extend the system of service vouchers to childcare sector in the end
day. These "parental-checks" would address the needs of families for a
home after school in the parental home for children from 3 to 12 years.
This scheme would initially organized structures active in welcoming children to ensure
the quality of service rendered. These activities are carried out under stringent conditions:
-

these activities would be limited outside of school hours;

-

only the active structures in the home of the child and approved by the NEB and Child and Family
could benefit from the scheme;

-

quality standards of employment, training and qualification would be required. Thus, the
such committed staff should have a nursery nurse training or
training outside school reception. Staff should benefit from an employment contract
Minimum third time;

-

a proportion - to be defined - of workers should be outcome of vulnerable groups on the market
employment;

-

an adaptation of the legislation to "people houses" and the legislation relating to girls
Pair in order to open additional possibilities guard (for children of the house)
via reductions in social contributions.

Proposal 20: Invest more in schools homework
Schools homework (ESD) recognized by the NEB hosting some 20,000 children in the Federation
Wallonia-Brussels. Often they do not master the French language. 60% of these children are
lower socio-economic backgrounds. If in principle EDD aim tranche 6-15, analyzes
show that 12% of ESD welcome children under 6 years and 22% welcome
Children over 15 years.
These schools homework (ESD) fulfill educational missions quite essential to the
children. They provide support to learning, schooling and homework help. Their role
hanging in the school is reconnu22. The EDD also offer children creative activities,
arts, culture, openness to multiculturalism, sports, learning citizenship
and solidarity, participation ... They are an essential tool for social emancipation, equality
chances23 of and support for parenting. These actors should be favored for all
students and are a better alternative than the use of private tutoring to

22

For the Brussels Forum against poverty, Nicolas De Kuyssche and Occo Vitali, "The role of homework schools in hanging
school for poor children, "January 2011.
23
On the subject, The League of Education Research, led by Valérie and Antoine Bazantay Silberg, "Schools duties: beyond the support
school ", December 2011.

23

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
often prohibitively expensive for parents. The duties of schools should not supplant
the school must remain the first-line player in remediation.
The CDH offers:
-

increase the budget for school homework 4% from 201 524; provide for a minimum subsidy
operation and development of cooperation agreements between the various authorities
subsidizing allowing better articulation of co-financing sources and the creation
synergies (provision of premises, jobs);

-

consider the number of children over 15 years and even 18 years in the calculation
subsidizing schools and the duty to provide the necessary budget via contract
management of the NEB;

-

better articulate the school work and teachers with the duty of schools by
direct contact by actively promoting the participation of the duty of schools to boards
participation of schools, creating a communication book, organizing the
participation of schools have parent meetings;

-

provide in the context of educational alliances, a clearer division of tasks and
tasks between the school and the duty of schools to empower the first on the missions
immediate remediation and the second refocus on learning of work methods
and the solution of problems or learning more complex failure;

-

provide training for teachers in the implementation of internships in schools
homework ;

-

duty to integrate schools in the extra-school network to develop activities
in or near schools;

-

encourage homework schools to work with associations likely to encounter
parental needs particularly in terms of mastery of the language of instruction.

Proposal 21: Organise activities and affordable
fulfilling during school holidays
Holiday centers (playgrounds, youth movements camps ...) that frame
children during the holidays provide a great contribution to their education and
fulfillment by organizing activities supervised by qualified personnel.
In 2012, more than 197,700 children attended at least one day holiday centers, either
youth movements of the camps organized trip or vacation plains (known
playgrounds) and municipal associations. Their attendance is growing steadily.
The CDH offers:
-

residential support shorter periods during school holidays (except summer)
as the "hike" for example (3 days and 2 nights);

-

ensure the implementation of the decree on holiday centers including 100% in the pane
for subsidizing of volunteer facilitators;

-

ensure that the government does not impose a ceiling for the contribution to the costs of
facilitators training given their multiple realities;

24

The Management Agreement provides for a 3% increase in 2016, 2017 and 2018

24

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
-

maintain and make the multi-year agreement between the NEB and the Ministry of Tourism for
allocate an additional grant to the camps and travel dates Region
Walloon;

-

allow full implementation of the decree on financial and notably to the effective
point value to 1.25 euros as stipulated in the order;

-

support the development of internships within ADEPS during holiday periods;

-

provide better information to parents on all courses available to their
children;

-

promote voluntary engagement of young people as facilitator / coordinator center
holiday in the length of their waiting period (unemployment);

-

establish a system of "training check" for young animators so
limit their individual intervention in pursuit of this training.

Proposition 22: Funding inclusive projects for children carrying
handicap (s)
25% of municipal and associative plains, 33% of associations and 15% of trips and camps
youth movements welcome children carrying light or heavy handicap.
The decree on holiday centers contains a special provision for disabled children
together with a modulated financing based on several criteria. Grants can, this
way reach triple subsidies to centers that do not welcome children
disabled.
The CDH proposes to go further and to:
-

better inform parents of the holders of a disability existing services
after-school: SAI, SAC, SAJA, Transition 15-25 years ...

-

apply different subsidies increases as they relate to the Home
Disabled children of light or receipt of severely disabled children in all centers
welcome holiday when children with disabilities and not only in the centers of
Specialized vacation;

-

think-of-school welcome and the reception free time of children and adolescents (thus beyond
12 years) with disabilities in parallel with school transportation.

25

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Action 4: Strengthening the support to youth at risk and in trouble
More and more young people are in difficulty or danger25 and issues to support
are constantly heavier and more complex to manage. Greater instability of families,
addictions, homelessness, family relationships, the lives of some of our young
can be an ordeal. It is our duty to offer them a future of hope and backgrounds.
Before any other priority, it should focus on preventive work quality, which
requires time and resources. This is the best way to prevent risk situations
worse. It's also the best way of having to multiply taken heavy load, which
can currently, far from it, all be met.
Despite this prevention work, youth support capabilities should be
increased in a targeted manner in the least "served" in districts and
specific themes.
In parallel, in response to lack of space (and thus elements), a part of the response
the company can bring through interpersonal solidarity, the one offering families
host whose role must be enhanced and strengthened.

Proposition 23: Detect and act quickly to children and
troubled youth
It is necessary to do more prevention for children, youth and families. There
Prevention involves work on the causes of poverty and exclusion, by working on the
domestic violence ... It requires a rapid diagnosis with the help of front-line services.
It requires complementarity between sectors (those in the education, youth,
health, social assistance, assistance to youth ...) and a networking and, especially, more
collaboration between support services in an open environment (AMO) and structures that work
preventively with young people and their families.
The CDH offers:
-

multiply parenting support initiatives (construction of ONE-reference on the AJ
parenting support, for example) [see proposal 6];

-

prevent (and support) heavy conflicts between separated parents and violence
marital order to reduce their impact on children;

-

ensure timely detection of pupils or school leavers by
strengthening and increased accountability of PMS centers and organize the relays with
specialized actors;

-

strengthen school attachment structures ("SAS") made available to young people
dropping by registering their funding in the long term (workers' seniority
triennial subsidy);

-

ensure the implementation of the decree of October 24, 2013 which provides for the development of
joint policies between compulsory education and support to youth and give very
specifically for schools and services of the youth welfare means that
increased collaboration;

25

40,234 young people were supported by at least one day the services of youth welfare in 2011 (4% of young people under 18 years
French Community) - 95% of them were in trouble or in danger.

26

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
-

providing ways of socio-educational support for young people supported by services
assistance to youth and housed in boarding schools and extend the offer of boarding
for an audience that it is necessary to invest in education and qualification through
some distance from the original environment and surroundings;

-

support support services in an open environment (AMO) which act in the living environment
youth and their families;

-

create domes of prevention through community or school basin that combine actors
school (and especially PMS), the actors of the youth assistance, service
Prevention of the resort, including the police, to coordinate the action to be taken when
problematic situations are identified;

-

develop tailored taken into charges and structures for young people who are at the
border areas of disability, mental health and youth assistance (young
called "incasables" due to lack of appropriate structures for their needs);

-

better articulate and strengthen the actions of the youth assistance during the transition to majority
young people, to support young people who, having been supported by the aid sector to
youth, have reached their majority and still need to be supported to access their
autonomy (access to housing, support CPAS ...);

-

include increased staff of Advisors and Directors of youth welfare and
as delegates in individual assistance;

-

reclarifier after consultation with stakeholders, the roles of the different support services
youth according to the new needs detected.

Proposal 24: Strengthen support for children, young people and
their family
Support youth today lack coherence and continuity. There is a
large "institutional nomadic youth." This is due to lack of space and
support capacity in certain services and therefore a perversion of the logic of seats
emergency. This also results from a hyper educational projects services
approved the Youth Assistance resulting in a fragmentation of the industry and too much diversity
practices and training. This results in a race to the space available and a multiplication
taken of inadequate load.
This general lack of care in residential structures. Some districts
the Wallonia-Brussels Federation are particularly underserved. It is in these priority
areas that creating spaces will be required.
The CDH offers:
-

conclude an agreement with the ONE to reserve for emergency care places in crèches
(co-funded ONE-AJ) for young children literally "parked" in today
hospitals and increase Spaces SASPE;

-

objectify offer needs services, by geographical area and by
issues;

-

increase the resources of institutional care of children and youth at risk
or in difficulty and adapt supported their real needs;

-

simplify the institutional landscape of the youth assistance sector (simplifying the tools and
Appellations of services);

27

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
-

increase the allocation of the young autonomy to make towards the overall aim
amount of the social integration income;

-

set a standard for the coaching staff SAJ and SPJ services;

-

adapt subsidization of operating costs when the packages do
longer correspond to the ground truth;

-

maintain the link between the foster child and his family.

Lighthouse Proposal 25: Encourage foster care children and youth
difficulty or danger
3,400 young people living in foster care. This represents almost 30% of supported by
accommodation. If all young people in difficulty can be in foster care for
many of them, the warmth and richness of a "family" environment represent an excellent
supported. There are fewer foster parents (both parents work,
heavy issues, fear of the implications of such a commitment ...) while needs
stop growing. For the CDH, the use of foster parents remains, despite all its difficulties,
often the best solution to allow the reintegration of the young in a normal social life.
The CDH offers:
-

supporting foster parents (extended family or volunteer) of children and adolescents
danger or difficulty recognizing them the right to take certain practical decisions
in everyday life, by compensating them time and time expenses related to home, in
providing, for each of them better support (administrative assistance,
training, psychological and educational support);

-

to foster families recognize a right to parental leave;

-

develop a specific support for the child in case of separation in the family
Home;

-

mobilize more families through information campaigns;

-

establish a recruitment unit specifically tasked to inform and educate
potential candidates to be foster families;

-

do action research the possible professionalization of home home
children / adolescents with serious problems that would make it possible to
educators benefiting from extensive experience in the sector to Help Youth
get involved in this form of hospitality through an employment contract;

-

develop support by "sponsoring families" which welcome children
occasionally, one weekend a month for example.

28

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Proposal 26: Strengthen the management of young people who have committed
offenses
For CDH, it is essential that all offenses should be accompanied by an adequate response. The penalty
an educational component if it is understood as the determined but open response of society to the
commission of an act by a young. To do this, the response must be quick, consistent and tailored
youth. It requires work with the young, but also with his family.
Federal Competency transfer to the Federation Wallonia-Brussels support
Youth who have committed a fact qualified infringement is an opportunity to recall the draft
company that Francophones want to develop. It is essential to reaffirm the character
"Protectionnel" of the care of these minors, meaning that any intervention
court against a minor offender must have an educational objective that goes along with a reminder
clear and firm standards and social values, a clear management of the sanction that gives meaning and
priority to the (re) construction of the youth.
The CDH offers:
-

widely develop services of general interest services which involves
strengthening the financing and offers both benefits and services in boxes
in all local structures;

-

develop mediation services that ensure the link with parents;

-

develop restorative group consultations aimed at repairing the damage at once
to the victim and society but also a personal commitment of the young to do
change and avoid recidivism;

-

develop break stays as support for youth who have committed
offenses;

-

SAMIO consolidate the project to provide intensive mediation in their living environment
minors who have committed acts categorized as an offense; provide a SAMIO project SPJ;

-

adequately educate youth IPPJ and organize collaboration "school- IPPJ";

-

provide young people with their output IPPJ supervision and quality support in the
duration.

29

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Action 5. Build on youth as a full part in society actors
Children and young people are likely to get involved in community life and to be an actor
company. Youth associations in which they pledge to encourage them to participate
collective, social cohesion project. Without this commitment, many activities could not
achieve.
For CDH, it is time to recognize that young people are often the most creative players,
most innovative in our society. If we want to give them a full place they should take
an active part in society in general and in political decisions in particular.

Lighthouse Proposal 27: Start with a young "Generation operation
2025 "
The CDH hope that we fully involve youth in the development of a real vision
prospective changes in society, taking account of the great challenges of this century and
new methods of organization, production and consumption, participation ...
Young people today are represented by various organizations. For example through the
youth sections within trade unions or political parties. But their ability
to effectively influence the public debate is still limited and needs to be strengthened.
CDH offers from the case of:
-

Establish a large consultation process of young "Generation 2025" in
national level to this generation directly involved in coming to decisions
build tomorrow's society will be mainly theirs. This operation will be built around
Citizens panels, internet and consultations on social networks and involve all
young people between 16 and 30 years across all youth movements and services, schools,
colleges and universities ... It must enable the emergence of new proposals
decisions to transform and to accompany changes of society
the coming decades (solidarity, economy, education, employment, organizing
cities, ...). A steering committee composed of a majority of representatives of youth structures
present in the country will be responsible;

-

Allow the emergence of a real youth council at national, regional and local level: on
Using the results of this operation and in its aftermath. This structure would have a role-partisan
Official and would be consulted and heard every time young people will be involved in a project
law or decree in order to decide on major societal choice options (policies
economic, social, environmental, tax, employment, housing, mobility, pension ...) which
the outcome has implications for the future of youth. Its purpose will be to support and encourage
youth participation in the political debate;

-

Rethinking and reforming the Council of Francophone youth on the basis of the results of
this operation to insert it in this dynamic while 1) providing fashion
more democratic designation; 2) enhancing its readability and 3) encouraging many young people to
participate in the life of the Council (communication campaigns in places where they meet);

-

Organize regular dialogue meetings on specific topics between Councils
young and federal and regional parliaments of the federation;

-

Systematically adapting the communication of various institutions to language and modes
youth communication.

30

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Proposition 28: Securing infrastructure welcoming children and
young people
Most of the buildings of youth organizations and youth centers are far from
meet the standards of safety and hygiene.
The CDH offers:
-

a decree to ensure that the subsidies are structural and infrastructure
increased;

-

implement a collaboration between the Ministry of Education and the Youth for
the provision of schools at discounted rates during off time
School (weekly welcome, holiday center and organization
training); develop tax incentives for homeowners by providing their
infrastructure.

Proposition 29: Ensuring children and youth camps locations
quality
In French-speaking Belgium, just in youth movements, more than 100,000 children and

youth (10% of the young population) are supported by 20,000 volunteers facilitators
each give (e) 600 hours of their time per year and organize camps26 3000.
The CDH offers:
-

improve the quality of camp sites by delivering labels to buildings meeting
quality criteria, supporting the activity of the association Assets camps, approved body responsible
to promote (and to issue the label) quality places camps. This requires
including a structural and multi-year financial support enabling the association of
effectively fulfill its tasks;

-

strengthen support to owners in their efforts up to standard; accelerate
procedure for obtaining a fire safety certificate and accompanying
More homeowners in their infrastructure security efforts;

-

implement a collaboration between the Ministry of Education and the Youth for
the provision of schools at reduced prices during school holidays
(organization of holiday centers and training).

Proposal 30: Encourage the voluntary engagement of young
While a previous governmental agreement provided financial support to organizations
training of 31 euros per hour per group from 2010, the current hourly rate is always
27 euros. Associations can not assume alone the costs of organizing these
formations. Result, leaders are often forced to pay them the same formations
allow them to exercise their volunteer commitment.
The CDH offers:
-

refinance support for the training of volunteer facilitators (31 euros per hour);

-

value the time spent by volunteer facilitators in non-formal education
young people and the skills they have acquired particularly through the granting of

26

Mathieu B., O. Servais, eds., Scouts, Guides, Patros. On the sidelines or running?, Editions Luc Pire, Brussels, 2007.

31

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
"Training check" allowing young volunteers to access training
holiday centers facilitators;
-

youth lend material and, for this purpose, refinance the loan center equipment
Naninne.

Proposal 31: Give more resources to youth organizations and
youth centers
90 youth organizations (youth organizations, ...) and 204 youth centers (houses
young ...) welcome and bring together thousands of young people every day.
The CDH offers:
-

support youth organizations and youth centers that meet criteria
approvals but are not funded for lack of resources while allowing
other associations already authorized to see their financing adapted to their changing
activities;

-

provide new teaching positions detached youth organizations (in
less a detached youth organization by preserving the existing framework of distribution);

-

simplify administrative procedures and reduce youth associations for their
Grant applications (consider the realities of some volunteer youth groups)
and provide adequate support for the drafting of requests (forms
simplifying for better accessibility of all the associative structures
subsidies). This proposal must be broken for any project including a call
young group can be beneficial;

-

assess the decrees relating to youth organizations and youth centers (check
all the guarantees provided in the decrees are implemented in full and
focusing on the needs faced by associations and youth they
welcome).

32

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Action 6. Educating through sport
Sport educates health, gives a taste of the effort. It teaches perseverance, overcoming
se discipline. It develops competitive spirit, team spirit. It helps us to discover ourselves
skills and accept our limitations. Sport is a school of life. It provides values,
(ethics, fair play, work, respect for hierarchy, rules). We learn respect for the other, the
solidarity and excellence. It is a powerful vector of social integration and meetings
intercultural. It allows decompartmentalize usual social cleavages.
The CDH meant the emergence of a culture of physical activity and sport with
children and young people for educational purposes.

Proposition 32: Increase and diversify the sports activities in middle
school
The school can become the preferred gateway to sport thanks to the proliferation of
interactions with sports clubs and an optimization of sports facilities
school.
The CDH offers:
-

ensure equitable funding for sports facilities among all schools
next to the school population; conditioned aid to the sports facilities
partnerships between schools by region;

-

ensure administrative simplification for sports clubs;

-

allow to make available in the school population of a city or a region, the
sports facilities for all schools regardless of their networks, according to
cooperation modalities to be defined;

-

enable schools to develop a program on an annual basis
sports activities organized within them Wednesday afternoon "sports Wednesdays."
The framework could be provided by instructors or professors of education
Physical whose schedule is not complete. The budget would be granted
pay staff framing and make the free operation for young people;

-

hold the end of June, during "white days" sports days mixing and initiation
competition. This program would aim to bring together all the actors of the same sports
Town: schools, clubs, various associations around a large sports day;

-

continue to encourage clubs and local sports associations to propose activities
in schools on lunch time and after school, as part of "my club operation
my school "and expand this operation which currently applies only to students 8-14 years of age;

-

generalize partnerships between schools and sports associations to put their
sports facilities available, through specific agreements (FTAs, PTP)
to ensure janitors positions;

-

encourage institutions to organize friendly sports competitions intra- and inter-school;

-

labelliser schools "School on the move" for schools that meet a
precise specification incorporating the achievement of sporting activities (the "Wednesdays
sports, "sports competitions, ...);

33

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
-

continuously evaluate the physical condition of young people (in addition to the visit
Medical) for the long term-the Federation Wallonia-Brussels has the tools to act
effectively on the welfare of children;

-

review the core skills in physical education and insert the security content
and citizenship (road safety, first aid and rescue).

Proposal 33: Support sports clubs to ensure support
adequate youth
It is important that clubs continue a path towards professionalization of their structure.
The overall improvement in the quality aspect of the sport inevitably requires greater
"Schooling" of the sports movement.
The CDH offers:
-

encourage youth trainers have the appropriate patents;

-

promote and support the training of club officers (administrative and financial management);

-

labelliser sports clubs that set goals via a specification, both in
Sports at the level of infrastructure. This label would notably provide a
guarantee of quality, empower the clubs, clarify vis-à-vis their ambitions
members, classifying clubs (leisure clubs, trainings clubs and top clubs
level) and respond to competition that can deliver clubs and / or disciplines;

-

enhance the skills learned in sport (of skills training
coaches, referees or managers) as part of working life;

-

encourage volunteering by raising the annual ceiling of volunteering to 3,000 euros per year
by establishing a voluntary type of contract for the sports movement to combat
"Black";

-

create a sport agency (by merging the ADEPS and SPW infrasports and Service
Socio-Cultural Affairs, Sport and Sport Sector In the Cocof) to offer
better logistics, administrative support, marketing, ... clubs and associations.

Proposition 34: Increase opportunities for youth to play sports
The CDH offers:
-

increase supply in terms of the number of sports facilities (construction and
renovation) and in terms of accessibility (widening of time slots does not engulf
an infrastructure for one or more clubs, ...);

-

further open and free sports facilities for children and youth
including youth movements (athletics track, football field public, basins
of swimming…) ;

-

multiply the practice of sports gatherings with family / group (ATVs in villages,
Operation "I run to my form" ...);

-

give teens the opportunity to practice their favorite sport by answering
locally at their request skate tracks, rollers, dance halls, jogging ...;
increase the number of land and infrastructure that allow to practice street sport;

-

secure public spaces (cycle tracks, paths and trails);

34

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
-

encourage the development of sports sports clubs to improve the (re) orientation sports,
and thereby avoid the renunciation of physical activity. This is only possible in
bringing together the different local sport stakeholders (clubs, schools, local authorities
Leisure Centres and Local) within the same structure. This platform would be several
Benefits: encourage and strengthen interaction clubs / schools / facilities; inform
on available aid; achieve economies of scale (equipment purchase, transportation, management
Common Administrative ...); improve the communal support and prioritize policy
communal; partially solve the problems of volunteering and expand the supply (age,
physics, time available).

Proposal 35: Make sports financially available to all children
The CDH offers:
-

reintroduce sport certificate ensuring its equitable provision allowing for all
precarious families to enroll children in free sports clubs;

-

better inform parents of existing financial aid (CPAS, mutual,
... tax incentives) to encourage children and youth to engage in an activity
physical or sports;

-

maintaining aid to ADEPS centers, which are targeted to specific audiences;

-

provide the means to develop the sport area and / or street sport;

-

provide grants to sports associations positive differentiation hosting
Children from disadvantaged backgrounds socio-economically.

Proposition 36: Fight against inappropriate behavior in sport
The CDH offers:
-

to live the new code of ethics called "Let's live sport! "Developed in collaboration
with federations, BOIC and the Centre for equal opportunities and encourage
clubs, federations to develop specific projects related to ethics and fair play.

Proposal 37: Create conditions for a high-level sport
Wallonia-Brussels Federation
The top-level sport must be seen as a lever to encourage young people and
so young in regular physical activity. Beyond this aspect, it should be
strengthen this pole to allow our athletes to perform. Athletes in the firmament of sport
World provide exceptional visibility to their community of origin. They act
ambassadors.
The CDH offers:
-

strengthen support for sports federations;

-

help athletic performance:
o

by increasing the number of athletes in subsidized contract (EPA, or ACS
Rosetta);

o

improving conciliation sports / studies;

35

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
o

continuing the Ariane cell (cell accompanying the conversion of
sports after his career);

o

by amplifying the Help Center to sporting performance - CAPS - which is a ASBL
bringing together sports experts (specialists of all kinds: psychologists,
motor specialists, ...) of the ULB, UCL & ULG to accompany the athlete to
he performs.

-

support the organization of major international events on Belgian soil;

-

set up the high-level sports center (Louvain-La-Neuve). The purpose of this division is, a
hand, bring together in one place sports expertise and scientific expertise in sport and
secondly, to provide access to high levels of infrastructure. Once the
infrastructure related to athletics and judo installed will need to be open to all
other sports federations;

-

create a sport agency (by merging the ADEPS and infrasports SPW) to:
o

establish a true school of managers;

o

ensure better reallocation of top sports skills;

o

provide logistical support, administrative, marketing, ... in order to benefit from
unique approach and economies of scale;

o

provide greater organizational flexibility in order to stick to the needs and fashion
operation of associations.

36

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Chapter 2. For an open school
serving creative excellence
individual and collective
2009-2014: five years of renewed confidence through a political and ambitious Steering
harmonious school, teacher support and directions to decrease
inequality, recruiting 1,500 teachers and improve teaching
calling.
1. An ambitious and harmonious driving school based on respect for actors
The CDH has assumed responsibility for compulsory education and social promotion in the
last Parliament. From 2009 to 2014, the CDH has introduced a new system control method
education. The CDH when taking office, discovered indeed weakened by school actors
the speeches about the results of the external evaluation, national and international, and
the succession of decrees to which they were not adequately prepared and associates. Our
first choice was to give them confidence, valuing their expertise and mobilizing their
innovation capabilities.
The CDH, in the exercise of jurisdiction of compulsory education and social promotion, has
therefore supported the emergence of local innovation, and multiplied pilot projects involving
all the actors of the school system to build all practices
more effective professional. These experiences have helped restore confidence and
free speech on the critical issues of our school system, including the fight against
school failure, school dropout and cons against inequality and improving
quality. They were allowed to emerge and gradually build landmarks
common, shared objectives, collective dynamics, coherent and comprehensive approaches.
More specifically, they have promoted the exchange of practices, dissemination of educational tools and
their appropriation by the lifelong learning through the involvement of educational advisors and
the development of collegial working methods, favor self-regulation by teams
their actions.
2. A reduction of inequalities
The differentiated political leadership and the strong increase in the budgets allocated to schools
inviting disadvantaged groups also contributed to the overall objective of further reducing
inequalities, while taking into account local specificities of institutions.
3. A teacher recruitment 1500
4. Reform of qualifying education

2014-2018: A collective agreement excellence for each school and each student adapted
the changing needs of 21st century knowledge and methods based on building
autonomy and a new educational alliance between school actors.
After five years of stabilization, we can now help address the second
page of the evolution of our teaching and conclude for the next 10 years a new
Excellence collective pact to every school and every student.

37

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
A "pact" because the pact concept includes:
-

a general mobilization in the service of education and knowledge for youth
investment in knowledge and skills of young people is the condition not
only their harmonious development but also that of reviving and
deployment of tomorrow's society, our economy, competitiveness and innovation,
our citizenship, solidarity and values ​​of the future;

-

a collective commitment by all levels of government and all sectors which
the world of business and employment to invest and cooperate with the world
teaching and create a real dynamic of "educational alliance" in the whole
Wallonia-Brussels but also within each catchment area;

-

greater accountability of all school stakeholders, teachers and direction,
via a new pact between public authorities and stakeholders in education, restating
While the authorities' side the core skills to achieve in a logical
collective excellence and school purposes but leaving more autonomy for both
manage schools but also choose teaching methods to achieve it;

-

modernization of expectations and commitments of each school actor adapting them to
needs of society in the 21st century.

This pact should allow:
-

to offer excellent teaching for each, and methods adapted to the needs of the 21st
century;

-

based on a new educational alliance between the different actors of education and
between them and the business and labor;

-

based on strengthening leadership responsible autonomy of teams and players
school and teaching practices focused on student while restating so
the ambitious goals and collective assessments to implement.

During learning the life and throughout life, the school with family and
socio-cultural organizations, an important and indispensable partner: it helps children,
adolescents, young adults to become responsible, active, critical, supportive,
passionate, curious, knowledgeable, open. With these qualities, they can fully assume their
responsibilities in building our society. It's allowing each learner, young
or adult to understand the world around him, to speak and to reason that we train
both citizens and tomorrow's workers. Creativity and innovation will be the fruit
our company can reap educational value our high schools and universities.
With this pact so we want:
-

a school of excellence for all: schools must offer each student the best
learning, tailored to the new needs of an internationalized society demanding,
innovative, a company of intelligence, technology and communication;

-

a school that relies on the autonomy of the actors. We want to place the redefinition
Specific objectives in the context of greater autonomy of actors based on creativity
learners and teaching staff, educational innovation and the
empowerment of teachers as learning professionals and
Possible explorers to accompany all different students;

-

an inclusive school: know and recognize individual differences; ensure
progress of each learner; aim for the success of all without dumbing down; rise
everyone up, recognize each other's strengths and develop them; propose in
class and in the school, the remediation / differentiation tailored to the specific needs of

38

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
each learner; develop and build on own abilities each child in the
respect for difference and disability; use of peer cooperative pedagogies;
promote cultural exchanges;
-

-

an open-plan school and partner; We want to open the school to the new partnerships,
a real educational alliance:
o

between schools first to reinforce the coherence, diversity and efficiency
school provision;

o

higher education institutions to increase access to
diplomas of higher education;

o

with businesses and the labor to build courses, adequacy
the needs of the working world, deploy the alternation in education;

o

with the world of youth and families, the social and cultural environment.

a school of structuring values: set limits based on respect for self and other;
develop a common set of standards, codes, references ... while respecting diversity
Personal stories and cultural traditions, we want to promote
learning of citizenship, the functioning of society and tolerance;
fight the social, racial and gender stereotypes, give a sense of values ​​and
generosity.

To move in this direction and allow each school to conduct a strong educational project
structured and that meets its guidance, it is essential that school stakeholders have
all necessary autonomy. They can set up their own team and decide, with
her choice of the allocation of their resources, with a field of autonomy clarified and framed
a clear and unbureaucratic regulation. Regulate, is to give a framework, support
mutually agree on objectives, and evaluate.

39

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Action 1. Preparing young people to knowledge and skills
for the 21st century
The school should aim to strengthen basic skills, to build together a society that
gives a place to each one: mastery of French, written and oral expression; tool
mathematical ; techno-scientific culture; digital skills; knowledge of
modern languages; the working group and critical process information.
All types of intelligences -artistique, sports, technical, manual, cognitive ... - must find
in our education, allowing each student to discover the pleasure and taste
learning, indispensable conditions for the success of a school, and a revaluation of courses
technical and professional.

Proposal flagship 38: Lowering the age gradually compulsory education
3 years
Compulsory education is now set at 6 years. The issue of schooling at the earliest, from the
nursery classes, it is both learning to live together and internalization by the child
School codes, particularly the language school French.
The lowering of the age of compulsory education has become an important issue which concerns all
children, particularly those from disadvantaged socioeconomic backgrounds, which
experiencing or have experienced a migration background, those with special needs
education or have disabilities.
Schooling before age 6, when the kindergarten classes, has become necessary to acquaint
children early enough in the school culture, to work on the differences between culture
Family and school culture and to advance children in language proficiency
education.
Also, the CDH offers:
-

gradually lowering the age of compulsory schooling to 3 years during the next
legislature, encouraging school attendance from 3 years old, in the following order:

5 years in 2016, 4 years in 2017 and 3 years in 2018.

-

strengthen the initial training of actors nursery education (teacher (s),
nurses, psychomotor (ne) s) and equip educational teams of teaching
breast to best develop this first stage of the child's journey;

-

strengthening ties with families, PMS Centres and the associative fabric to increase
school attendance by as many children from 3 years;

-

create spaces in sufficient number, especially by matching the granting of building permits
creating constraints of housing of crèches and kindergartens.

The CDH also proposes to increase the rate of supervision in nursery education
(the current method of calculating jobs in nursery education from 1998 and modalities
Devolution jobs "by many students threshold to reach" that induce students
not count in this framework).

40

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Lighthouse Proposal 39: Building a learning trajectory of excellence
for each student until the end of the first stage of secondary education and to
Place a core reinforcing the learning of basic skills
If one wants to ensure control by the largest possible number of students of basic knowledge, that is to say the knowledge and skills essential for any training course but
also, in the longer term, for the professional integration of each young person, it is appropriate that
programs guarantee, in each discipline, progressive and repetitive place
Fundamentals (clearly marked) and specific exercises that allow them to
Own.
For CDH, it is unacceptable that some students move through the school system, or even
leave without mastering skills that are essential both to facilitate insertion
that as the young professional and above all to enable him to understand the world
surrounding it and to take part actively. This is particularly the following skills:
Fluency in French, written and oral expression; mathematical language; the techno culture digital skills; mastery of concepts and historical landmarks and
geographic, knowledge of modern languages; the working group and the critical treatment
information.
It is therefore a learning trajectory is set upon entry into the system
school until the end of the first stage of secondary education (beyond which the student chooses his
orientation) to ensure mastery of these essential skills.
A "real" core?
The CDH supports the strengthening of a common core. But still have to agree on what
means by that. For some, strengthen the core is the last until 15 or 16 years,
require all students up to 15 or 16 a perfectly identical training. This is not the
vision of CDH.
For CDH, a true common and inclusive trunk should:
-

-

lead all students to master basic skills;
recognize and value the different rhythms, modes and learning channels;
take greater account of the specific needs of each student, without avoiding the role
determining motivations and emotions in learning, allowing him well
access to the best level;
allow each student to observe and be observed in technical skills,
artistic, intellectual, physical, civic, psychosocial ...;
help each student get in the project in relation to learning and school;
articulate collective pedagogical practices and differentiation practices, where one
combines teamwork and individual responsibility of each teacher;

The CDH offers:
-

define a learning path upon entry into the school system until the end of the first
secondary degree (beyond which the student chooses its orientation) to ensure
the mastery of essential skills ie fluency in French, writing
and oral; mathematical language; techno-scientific culture; skills
digital; mastery of historical and geographical concepts and benchmarks, knowledge
modern languages; the working group and the critical processing of information;

-

create a culture of valuing acquired support for difficulties and remediation
immediate from the cycle 5-8.

41

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
-

install a true and inclusive common trunk that values ​​multiple intelligences and leads
all pupils to real mastery of these basic skills and that recognizes and
values ​​the different rhythms, modes and channels of learning, reflects more
the specific needs of each student and does not evade the crucial role of motivations and
emotions in learning; that allows each student to observe and be
observed in technical, artistic, intellectual, physical, civic,
... psychosocial and helps each student to develop the project to the learning
and at school;

-

pay particular attention to the transition between primary school and the first degree of
Secondary ensuring consistency and escalation of learning; in
allowing teachers to clearly identify what has been learned before and what will be learned
after delivering their statements; strengthening the joint service training of teachers and
Teacher 1st degree and ensuring greater consistency between the level of
mastery required to 12 years (when placing CEB) and 14 years (when placing the CE1D).
For the CDH, the link between these two events can be queried openly
without this implying the deletion of the CEB.

-

evaluate the system self degrees observation for the purpose of generalization.

-

rebalance the learning and skills assessments "know-how" and "know"
in favor of "knowledge" within the core curriculum.

Proposal 40: Organise sitting on the challenges and goals of
learning and assessment in the 21st century
We describe our societies as "knowledge societies". This shows how masters and
the processing of information and knowledge will be an added value for each person
for each community (local, regional, national, European ...). Facing handling
data, training of critical thinking is becoming increasingly indispensable for the exercise of
lucid and active citizenship. Education in the research process, the spirit of learning and
undertake, personal creativity is as necessary for lifelong learning
of life.
Now the compilation of existing knowledge and information flow are phenomenal.
It is therefore the ability to sort, synthesize, connect ... that must be acquired under
compulsory education: electronic machines can store knowledge
countless; only human brains can process the service of emancipation
individual and collective future.
For CDH, this development requires comprehensive way to revisit our ways of learning
to project them in the new realities of the 21st century and to anticipate future developments.
Therefore, the CDH offers:
-

initiate a collective reflection on the new societal expectations of the school,
new missions, the challenges and goals of learning that combine
teachers, inspectors, educational leaders networks, but also the
parents, academia and stakeholders and economic actors, artists, etc.

-

guide thinking towards finding ways of learning that promote creativity,
taking initiative and curiosity of students;

-

integrate priority reflection on new technologies and how to use the
better to them to promote the learning of all.

42

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Proposal 41: Establish a late secondary tray
The logic of empowerment of school actors (transversal program
election) goes hand in hand with the strengthening of steering and external evaluations.
The last Parliament was an opportunity to develop the upper secondary Test
(TESS). The CDH has ensured extend it and make it mandatory in regard to the French.
The CDH therefore proposes:
-

to increase the frequency and the number of assessments organized by levels of education;

-

to generalize a summative external examination at the end of secondary organized at a time
specific with the same questions at the same time for all students. This
test allow each student to be prepared effectively with the quality requirements
identical to apprehend his career or his transition to teaching
superior ;

-

this external examination should prioritize the French, mathematics, science and
modern languages;

-

this external event must be broken down into different levels depending on the options;

-

the external examination must be based on new standards recently adopted by the
Wallonia-Brussels Federation (math, science, French, ...).

Proposal 42: To better articulate the various educational levels
facilitate transitions
The CDH offers via the logic of educational alliance and formation of knowledge clusters,
of:
-

coherently articulate the programs of different levels and each teacher
a certain level be better informed of what was acquired before and what still needs
after being;

-

inform teachers of higher education for they know and
consider repositories of skills and knowledge used in teaching
Secondary;

-

organize observation-immersion courses for teachers in other levels, pathways,
forms of education; allow teachers to attend classes and schools
other levels, sectors, forms of education such as: the primary to
secondary and vice versa; the transition from teaching to learning
qualification; regular education to the specialist and vice versa.

Proposal 43: To improve the learning of French language
schooling
There are two profiles of students who do not master the French language: firstly, of allophone students
who have recently arrived in Belgium without knowing French; on the other hand, students
vulnerable Francophones were born in Belgium or are installed for some time, but
whose poor command of French academic learning slows.
The CDH offers:

43

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
-

empower teachers so that they can develop better learning of
Basic French;

-

implement innovative approaches in initial training modules or
continued and involve educational advisors, trainers for local dynamics
schools and exchange platforms;

-

strengthen collaborations between teachers, direction, CPMS team, but also with
families and external actors in school (school referents in the Fedasil and Red Cross centers, homework schools, AMO, alpha antennas, social promotion institutions for
parents ...);

-

use all the resources of social advancement education and associations
literacy to give parents who do not speak French, opportunities
improve their knowledge and practice of the language, to assist the dialogue between these
Parents and schools; facilitate meetings between schools and families, especially those with
known or experiencing a migration history (these family-school encounters are likely to
avoid in students the loyalty conflicts between culture (language) family and culture (language)
school);

-

strengthen, evaluate reception arrangements and schooling of newly arrived pupils
(DASPA) (evaluation of geographical distribution, allocation and use of
resources, the effectiveness of educational and pedagogical processes implemented, results
achieved in terms of education and socio-cultural integration ...) and ensure better distribution
Geographic of these devices to avoid certain areas or cities are not
sufficiently covered;

-

strengthen the use of reading from an early age;

-

identify additional means secondary (1st degree) for adaptation to the language
education.

Proposition 44: Bring more students to the actual knowledge of a
modern language
Did you know that a European survey showed that among the countries of Romance language,
Wallonia-Brussels Federation is one that students master the English better at age 15?
Functional knowledge of at least one modern language is an asset in most places
and trades, for access to quality employment. Also, know the language of the other facilitates
meeting and develops respect for one who grew up in another culture, in
especially in our country where learning Dutch gives meaning allowing
more open relationship with the other.
Under the 2009-2014 term, the CDH has taken steps to develop the practice
functional at least one modern language in qualifying education, including
increasing the number of hours of modern languages ​​in common training.
Furthermore, attendance and immersion teaching projects are in full
increase. It should support this development and evaluate it.
The CDH offers:
-

make learning a modern language compulsory from the first primary year
2:00 introducing of modern language courses in the timetable by adapting
by providing the necessary guidance periods autographed for this purpose. In this regard,

44

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
also appropriate to align the supervision of Brussels schools and that of schools
municipalities with language facilities to allow them to meet part without
"Inflate" the number of students per class;
-

evaluate the different educational streams languages ​​(early immersion or not, Neues
Lernen, ...) to adapt the initial training of language teachers, and adopt best
methods;

-

train future school teachers to waking technical language and equip
Teachers media tools and technologies that allow
confrontation of students with native speakers and further reflection on the way
whose languages ​​are taught;

-

learn languages ​​for purposes of communication and, in qualifying, focusing on
language-oriented "trade" (work placements, use Wallangues and Brulingua, ...) to
through a functional learning;

-

train, assist and equip teachers specifically dies in
immersion (immersion to teach, teachers must be able to integrate in
training sequences in both the language skills of the target language and
discipline-specific skills taught in immersion. This double qualification
requires training, exchanges between practitioners and dissemination of appropriate tools. Such
devices are now in short supply. It should develop and the
articulate);

-

promote bilingualism of students by encouraging them to develop Organizers Powers
immersion teaching through harmonization of supply both primary as
secondary in each area of ​​education, particularly in the regions
Brussels;

-

studying at the federal level, the feasibility of the creation of bilingual schools in Brussels;

-

define the competencies to be expected in the disciplines set immersion in the language
Target immersion;

-

mention in the Diploma CESS training followed by immersion;

-

update the content grammatical language courses (especially the Dutch) to
making our education in conformity with today's reality.

Proposal 45: Strengthen the science awareness
We live today in a world profoundly shaped by science and technology. Gold,
a significant defection for sectors and occupations in mathematics and science is dominant
currently results in shortages, both in the professional sectors concerned
(engineers, computer scientists, engineers, physicists, chemists ...), as trainers at all
levels of education. We must make teaching more attractive sciences.
Repositories and programs have recently been revised to improve the teaching of
Science. We must continue in this direction and encourage their appropriation by the school actors.
The CDH proposes to organize a quality science education for all and from this teaching
primary and, for this purpose, of:
-

organize education of science where one awakens the curiosity of students, their taste for
research capacity to conduct rigorous investigations; where they give meaning to
theoretical learning by establishing links between the notions, concepts, models
science and the real world; where it restores the historical context of discovery and
45

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
scientific theories; which, by providing equipment and facilities suitable premises,
Call it done with relevance to experimental practices and resources
technology;
-

encourage all school actors to examine and adapt their practices (the
initial and further training and resources available for teachers should
enable them to evolve their practices);

-

allow teachers to adjust their pedagogical and methodological practices
fostering close contacts with the scientific world and the formation of the latter within;

-

strengthen the fight against gender stereotypes and social stereotypes trades
techno;

-

developed in each region or even in each educational area, a center of
techno reference grouping associations, educational and material resources,
spaces for experimentation, various expertises ... to equip the work of teams
teachers.

Lighthouse Proposal 46: List of compulsory education in the era
digital
The CDH wants to continue the development of the digital school. He wants to allow access
online and free to a variety of resources for both students and teachers. He wants
establishment of collective forms of learning, for both students and teachers,
Remote exchanges between teachers and students, between teachers networked, agents
PMS, researchers, trainers, professionals from different sectors and new organizations ...
for distance education.
To register teaching in the digital era, the CDH offers:
-

encourage the installation of wifi in all schools and allow the acquisition of equipment
IT in schools (tablets, spreadsheets, MP3 players ...);

-

equipping teachers of educational materials adapted to the IT tools
represent a real added value for learning. For this, it must meet
companies active in the high technology sector, textbook publishers
schools and teachers to develop products that can easily be
appropriate within schools. It is necessary for this that educators can
contribute to the work so that digital tools in place is really suitable for
working methods developed;

-

provide, through a data bank, free access to resources for teachers
audiovisual;

-

write a competency framework that the student should acquire, over training
mandatory in the field of IT in constant interaction with the skills
to acquire basic and more specific disciplines;

-

develop a digital platform for school actors to have the
the latest digital tools, including those developed by textbook publishers
school that would be thus subjected to a single standard promoting access of teachers and
students to all available resources;

-

educate students to new uses related to digital culture; favor an approach
creative and critical media supports;
46

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
-

adapt initial and continued, so that teachers can appropriate
pedagogies and tools from the digital education.

-

develop equipment in the Brussels Region plan schools based projects
Learning about the call for proposals model "Digital School" launched in Region
Walloon.

Proposal 47: Develop a sense of effort, entrepreneurship and
initiative among students
The spirit of entrepreneurship and its values ​​(initiative, creativity, ...) are now
key to the future prosperity of our society. The school, through educational projects it
chooses to wear, this must arouse entrepreneurial spirit, creativity and sense of effort from the
younger age.
The CDH offers:
-

develop students, from basic education, skills like
creativity, sense of effort, risk taking and the ability to take initiatives in the
learning situations and by methods that recognize the legitimacy and
participation of each (institutional pedagogy, cooperative learning, the
participatory approaches ...)

-

support, at all levels and in all forms of education, the pedagogies
project, interdisciplinary approaches, artistic, creative projects
mini-companies, company visits and project meetings with entrepreneurs,
business mini-courses;

-

support various initiatives within schools by students (social, cultural,
animation ...) by giving them the ability to carry them out (training,
accompaniment, institutional development and, if necessary, logistical support ...) and study
the application of participative management style of some aspects of the school organization;

-

promote the dissemination of innovative practices in creating environments and
cultural conditions in which they can spread;

-

launch, in secondary education, inspired by foreign examples of projects to test
different models and allow a gradual acculturation entrepreneurship.

Proposal 48: Support citizenship education, promoting interculturalism, respect for each other
The school plays an important role in learning to live together in education for
citizenship, in promoting interculturalism and the fight against racism and
discrimination, that is to say, learn respect for others. This is an important place to learn
young to recognize their own culture, to be open to that of the other, communicate with each other and
build together a common core of values.
The CDH offers:
-

further integrating intercultural dialogue as well as the "relational communication and nonviolent" as transversal and interdisciplinary approach at the heart of the school plan
school;

47

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
-

equip and focus of teacher training on the management of interculturalism and education
citizenship;

-

extend the opening program languages ​​and cultures (OLC), which develops activities
education in cultural diversity, using the privileged witness of the teacher OLC
about his culture of origin (this is also a way to create a bridge between the middle
school and the family environment);

-

further integrate diversity in educational courses and existing programs: the history
colonization and independence, migration routes and hospitality policies,
that the history of ethnic, cultural and / or religious present in Belgium, linked
with the history of our country to raise awareness in the fight against racism and
discrimination and promote intercultural dialogue;

-

raise awareness among school stakeholders to the importance of a healthy balanced diet;

Proposal 49: To develop a core curriculum for all courses
philosophical
The CDH does not enclose the debate on values ​​in the private sphere and authorize folds
identity. It considers that any educational project aims to promote simultaneously
ownership by each of his philosophical or religious identity, the encounter with others
convictional universe, acquiring an independent judgment and practice of free thought.
Therefore, the CDH offers:
-

provide a common core to all philosophical courses (religion and morality
nondenominational) to enhance the knowledge of the other and facilitate dialogue
interconvictional; allow trade in the common core between holders of other
price;

-

associate the non-denominational ethics course to that of openness that contributes to
avoid radical thoughts and encourage mutual respect.

-

define the qualifications required for teaching philosophy courses nevertheless holding to
Acquired current situation of staff members appointed or required under the wearer.

48

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Action 2: Bringing the business school
The modernization of qualifying education is well underway. The school has approached
the company. Numerous measures have been taken (CPU, compulsory internships, languages, agreement
Cooperation "Alternation, new schedules ...). There still remain, however, challenges
up to make calling a respected teaching, positively selected, emancipatory,
contributing to the socio-economic development and prosperity of WallonieBruxelles Federation.
More broadly, we need:
-

open the school to the company (see Action 3) and strengthen the internship offers, partnerships,
Teaching alternates and adequacy of training for socio-economic needs;

-

strengthen cooperation between schools in the same catchment area, whatever their
networks to have an organized diversity of supply in the same basin, a strategy
collaborative teaching with common objectives (number of failing students
increase over the number of graduate students, etc.);

-

strengthen cooperation between schools of compulsory education and
higher education institutions to strengthen in particular the continuum
teaching.

It is therefore interesting to work in 4 concentric circles:
-

Circle 1: Representatives of institutions of compulsory education: in order to
an analysis of the educational challenges, deploying joint strategies on objective
priority, strengthen collaboration, to ensure an organized and diversification
consensual different opinions and teaching offers.

-

Second circle: the representatives of higher education: to develop among themselves
same tasks as those set out in point a)

-

Third circle consists of the representatives of the first circle and representatives of institutions
higher education (second circle) to address the necessary partnerships between
the two levels of education, the teaching staff to ensure the continuum
teaching and attract a maximum number of students to higher education.

-

4th circle: to bring together stakeholders in the socio-economic world,
employers and all representatives of the first two circles to address
issues of collaboration, internships, the deployment of alternate education and
calling etc.

49

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Lighthouse Proposal 50: Pass the synergy between school and poles
the company
The CDH considers it essential that the relationship between teacher and companies are
strengthened. Indeed, concerted action between education, vocational training and
allows companies to promote trades and technical fields, modernize supply
training and liaise with local needs and further improve the quality of
training offered to young people.
To strengthen ties between the school and the company, CDH offers:
-

making it easier for professionals from different sectors, including entry into teaching
for a few hours of classes;

-

designate each school pelvis and / or in each facility of calling a
"Corresponding Business-Education-Training" in charge of establishing contacts with the
socio-professional environment at large;

-

identify, in living areas, new partnerships involving means
human and financial to support local actions in the form of "clusters
synergies ";
These clusters will bring together corporate stakeholders, teaching general and
qualifying, public employment services and vocational training, the training institute
the middle classes, instances of higher education (colleges and universities).
They will be organized by catchment area and tailored to each professional sector. They
particularly deploy their action in the following areas:

-

o

the orientation of pupils and students;

o

partnerships for risk groups

o

joint management of training places or alternatively with an obligation of the sectors,
through a Social Pact to training, to ensure a number of training places
available for trainees (including the end of die students
qualifying)

o

the encounter between supply and demand for internships by providing a centralization of these
applications on the same computer site,

o

the pooling of infrastructure or equipment between different operators,

o

development and joint management of information and awareness actions
industry, occupational sector or profession in question,

o

the fight against school dropout and non-qualification,

o

continuing training of teachers and trainers of qualifying via internships,

o

the training of company staff,

o

Thread the offer specializations and training content and options;

Sustaining and translated into concrete actions, the framework cooperation agreements signed in
the 2009-2014 parliamentary term between education and business sectors.

The CDH is convinced that the most fruitful collaborations are those that make
Teachers meet with business leaders to build trust and
to generate positive momentum both for training young people for recruitment
future workers.

50

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Proposition 51: Increase awareness by calling the students and
institutional actors
Qualifying education continues to suffer many clichés, notably because of its
significant misunderstanding on the part of a significant number of users in the education system. The
Many sectors of qualifying, especially those that lead to high business
employability, are sometimes poorly understood superficially and lead to
sometimes carrying little guidance for young people.
The CDH offers:
-

encourage techniques, manual activities from an early age in schools and
outside school ;

-

each student can, in the course of its first cycle of secondary education, to
experience qualifying education for two weeks. This experience could
enroll in the education courses currently provided by the technology. It
could build on the technical centers identified in living areas, where
Cycle 1 students could try to technical professions;

-

to disseminate to all stakeholders and systematic information
updated on technical courses based on the skills and gain the true
opportunities, and beyond the social and gender stereotypes. This information should reach
all prescribers: teachers, principals and teachers of teaching
Transition officials CPMS ...

Lighthouse Proposal 52: Create a technological process
The CDH proposes to review the courses the student in secondary education, distinguishing a
general track, a technological process and qualifying sector and redefining the conditions
Access every step of the curriculum, in order to promote a positive choice for the qualifying education.
There are trades that are between the master's level of higher education and the level
professional secondary education and that meet many current jobs:
those who meet certain bachelor "professionalizing" (three years of study) or
patents of higher education (two years of study in Social Promotion).
Young people from general education lack practical knowledge, while those
out technical qualification have a best practice approach but lack basics
theoretical.
The CPU, a valuation of learning outcomes
The system known as certification of units of learning outcomes is to cut the
training programs consistent and could be evaluated units, comprising a
set of learning outcomes based on a specific purpose. This approach values ​​the
acquired, rather than punishing shortcomings, and promotes the mobility of learners.
Such cutting allows the learner to gradually build a portfolio of
valuable skills from each training provider, according to a course
progressive and thorough qualification throughout life as recommended by the authorities
European.

51

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
Specifically, the CDH offers:
-

create a "technological" sector leading to higher qualifications, including related
many trades shortage by bringing together the Transitional technical and options
Non-qualifying technical qualification. This technological process would
better prepare students for careers that require the technical type of training
BA, as in the developmental services sector, industry ... where
technical and vocational education is not really adapted;

-

meet the technical and vocational education in one chain "qualifying"
organized over 3 years, in 4th - 5th-6th years, including periods of immersion in business
as professionalizing courses, immersion in business or alternately;

-

make the third year of secondary school a year of confirmation of study choices made by
the student;

-

Certification by rapidly expand Units (CPU) for new jobs.
The system known as certification of units of learning outcomes is to cut the
training programs consistent and could be evaluated units, comprising a
set of learning outcomes based on a specific purpose. This approach
values ​​acquired, rather than punishing shortcomings, and promotes mobility
learners. This new system allows the learner to gradually establish a
Portfolio valuable skills from each training provider, according to a
progressive and thorough qualification courses throughout life;

-

improve pedagogical tools in the technical and vocational education taking
account of new technologies;

-

provide the Francophone Service Trades and Skills additional resources
to improve productivity.

Lighthouse Proposal 53: Deploy teaching and immerse alternately
youth enterprise for easier access to a profession
Important initiatives have been taken in the legislature that ends: a new decree
"Internship" to gradually generalize internships throughout qualifying education,
ordinary and specialized forms 3 and 4; a new experimental project, called "immersion
enterprise, "the firm launched Audi (Brussels) and an association of Liège specialized SMEs
in machining (AIHE) and since expanded to other companies; an amendment adopted Agreement
Cooperation "Alternation" to allow the development of a single contract of alternation and
creation of the Office of Francophone Training Alternation (OFFA).
In the future, the CDH offers:
-

making them mandatory standard courses and decide whether to extend their duration in
all training and for this purpose: mobilizing institutional players and partners
social to open a growing number of company training places, improving their
visibility; and systematize certain procedures ensuring good quality training;

-

adopt a decree confirming the formula of immersion up to now organized
far as teaching experiences;

-

develop alternating education in all living areas by doubling futures
alternating supply and develop it in more sectors. Currently, the die
learning is limited to certain sectors or certain types of qualification; develop

52

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
alternating forms from public operators and their training partners and within
higher education (see also proposal 119);
-

condition some aid (financial and other) to enterprises collaborations
they develop with schools and how they put in
the reception and training of trainees.

The CDH also proposes to:
-

facilitate the matching of supply and demand for internships by providing a centralization of these
requests on the same website;

-

forcing sectors, through a Social Pact to training, to ensure a number of places
courses available for trainees;

-

integrated in public procurement to social clauses by which businesses
the company is committed to taking the trainee (s) or youth alternately in his business
if it wins the contract;

-

train people in business supervising learners alternately (training
guardians), to give the best chance of success in alternating or validate
work experience tutor through a credential;

-

recognize in the qualifying schools the internship coordinator.

Proposal 54: organize training courses in relation with
promising trades in each educational area
The educational offer is the historical product of decisions essentially taken by the networks
education. The offer, however, is sometimes unbalanced in a single local entity: too
options of the same type, not enough options of another kind. A supply management has become
necessary for purely economic reasons (shortages in certain trades, unemployment
youth ...) but also to put young people in better learning conditions
possible (successful educational teams, advanced equipment ...).
Institutions organizing options "industry" and "construction" should be
particularly strong because these businesses determine the capabilities of our company
continue its development, without depending on outside labor. Examples
Germany and Switzerland show the importance of having a sufficiently educated population for
support the growth of companies active in Wallonia-Brussels.
To limit the dispersion of options while allowing young people to move towards the
promising trades, CDH offers:
-

ensure within compulsory education actors and relations enseignemententreprise, complementary options organized by region and according
economic needs, based on analyzes of priorities within the life basins
together all stakeholders in employment, education and training at local level;

-

enable schools 'strategic' sectors to regroup in
associations with additional resources. These "schools sector associations"
must enable them to overcome their competitive logic and work together on
a cooperative model, likely to increase the attractiveness of industries. An association would
responsible for reorganizing training supply of the institutions concerned and benefit
of various incentives to do so. The aim is to offer young people more opportunities
choice in connection with the possibilities of socio-professional integration;

53

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
-

allow "specialization" of members of the PMS Centres to have information
updated on trades. The co-construction with the school actors (and more
specifically PMS Centres) the necessary tools for an updated documentation
businesses (carriers) allow these actors to appropriate the necessary information for a
quality guidance and disseminate to students and parents.

Action 3. Give each student a place in school
A democratic society must offer each student each age group access to a
quality education, open to the outside world and ensuring cultural integration,
professional and citizen in an environment constantly changing. It must offer
place in school each student and aim the emancipation of each one according to its range of talents.
It must be a material intake capacity of all. And it must ensure equal access
each in an education system that is neither unifying nor focused on individualistic competition.

Proposal flagship 55: Achieving the goal of 50,000 new places in
2020
An increase in the school population of around 12% is presaged by 2020. Thus,
school population would increase by 10% in breast, 15% in primary and 11% in the
secondary.
In order to respond to demographic changes, the CDH proposes to create 22,000 places yet
necessary to achieve the target set by the data on the demographics of
50,000 school places by 2020 and in this goal:
-

tune for each teaching area a multiannual plan for the establishment of schools and / or
increase availability, at all levels of education (nursery, primary,
secondary, social promotion, special education), to meet the needs of
all.
An instance of consultation and planning, bringing together all networks must be set
Place in each educational area to anticipate demographic changes
and economic, and by adopting a register of existing spaces, statistical indicators
to identify potentially voltage zones, school opening criteria,
a work methodology. The definition of school pools based on areas
the current instruction is likely to stick to such a regulatory authority with the
given territorial specificities;

-

fund all identically networks, to support the creation of new spaces
and renovation of school buildings in the demographic voltage areas on base
planning proposed by the catchment area concerned.
The subsidized education (official, free) does not manage its educational infrastructure by
the same conditions as the official teaching (former state) organized by the Federation
Wallonia-Brussels. For example, subsidized education at the secondary level
Usually gets to date 67% of operating grants awarded to teaching
Official organized by the Federation. Similarly, when constructing a school building,
free subsidized education must finance all the necessary capital (with
government guarantees to credit level) while the official subsidized education perceives
the early work 60% of the required capital and education organized by the
Federation 100%. We must give ourselves the goal of full realization of the agreements

54

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
St. Boniface who planned to reduce the gap between the networks, in terms of
Construction financing conditions and renovating schools to achieve in 2010
a ratio of 75% between the endowments of education organized and those teaching
subsidized. This catching-up process was slowed down by budgetary difficulties caused
by the crisis of 2008. In the next term, we must reactivate it to enable all
networks create the necessary spaces and reach the same funding per network.
Furthermore, in areas in demographic pressure, we must continue to allow all
Powers Organizers subsidized education (free and official) to develop
contingency plans in creating spaces benefiting from funding arrangements
similar constructions to those of education organized by the Federation. In
building on the agreement reached in December 2013 not only on the modalities of
financing but also by providing that, legally, infrastructure developed with
public funding can not be dedicated to activities other than those under
education, training, culture, youth;
-

assimilate in areas demographic pressure, the development of new spaces
existing schools to emergency work.
Allocate part of the funds earmarked for emergency work to the development of
new places in undeveloped areas where population pressure justifies,
enable a number of Powers Organizers, including the free subsidized
increase the number of places in existing buildings. Such a measure would
to have a budget of around € 17 million per year, for a fixed term,
to fund the early works up to 60% of the necessary work;

-

encourage the involvement of Regions in the funding of school infrastructure.
The financing of school buildings, based entirely on far budgets
Wallonia-Brussels Federation, should benefit from the involvement of Regions, entities
Federated featuring a higher investment capacity. The Federation WallonieBruxelles remain the main operator and the guarantor of balance between the needs and supply.

Proposition 56: Adapt the registration decree
To ensure optimal free parental choice of school children, we must support the
space creation by the organizing authorities of the various networks (organized by the Official
Wallonia-Brussels Federation, grant-aided, self funded non-denominational, free
subsidized denominational). The abolition of the decree "enrollment" in a context of scarcity
spaces will have serious consequences: files, pass rights, chaos ...
If the registration decree is to be maintained, it nevertheless improved.
The school is a project, not an address. This is why the CDH wants to develop the registration decree
enhancing the educational dimension, and by making the following four proposals:
1. Better than anyone, parents know the school climate likely to respond to
better to their child profile. We must therefore strengthen the coefficient given the choice expressed by
parents, and thus restore the balance between the educational criterion and the criterion of proximity.
2. In the same vein, the past should take precedence on the future, we must reduce the weight of
proximity criterion home / primary school compared to local home / school
Secondary; or even delete it.
3. Encourage the effective educational partnership between schools and basic schools
secondary. It was hardly met by the historical backing. It allows for children
who benefit and more broadly for teacher teams to ensure continuity
55

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
teaching in favor of meetings and synergies between teaching teams. For
enhance the partnership, we must strengthen the coefficient given to that criterion.
4. Take into account the socio-economic index of the student rather than the school of origin.
To ensure social diversity within the various institutions and reverse the trend
dualisation of schools according to neighborhoods where they are installed, the 2010 decree
plans to allocate 20.4% of priority seats declared available to students from a
primary school less favored (assigned a low socioeconomic index), provided
that such a request exists. This is to avoid ghettoization schoolchildren
based urban neighborhoods. It allows any family that wishes to benefit from a
push to access a school of choice without encountering discrimination or without
remain locked in a sociological determinism. The CDH considers that such an objective,
consistent with the recommendations of the OECD, would be even better ensured if the index-socioeconomic considered was that of the student (linked to domiciliation neighborhood) and not the
school (average annual socio-economic indices of the students who attend).
Moreover, in the eyes of CDH, it is important to support the process to achieve
each school implementing the objective of social diversity, cultural and academic through
Students carrying a complement of a higher socio-economic index.
Finally, it should also provide for a new flexibility solutions with the managers concerned to
the balance of students without seats from 20 August.

Proposal 57: Ensure free education


-

set up in each school or each authority organizing a fund
Social support for the neediest families.

56

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Proposal 58: Strengthen collaboration between special education
and regular education
The CDH offers:
-

increase the resources devoted to additional periods granted under
the temporary total integration and give additional means to classes
pedagogies adapted to meet the needs of these managerial structures (these
to better accommodate students with aphasia, dysphasia, autism and multiple disabilities);

-

strengthen educational support in special education by allowing the granting of
quarter charge per 20 students started. In basic education and
secondary type 3: double current standards (half load per educator
complete 20 students);

-

strengthen, in the initial and continuing training, skills to
recognition and early detection of disorders, diseases or disabilities;

-

limit in time the orientation Type 8 education; organize education
type of specialized secondary 8 Form 4 and Form 3 only integration
Permanent Total for students attending compulsory primary education
specialized type 8 for at least two years (integration or not);

-

ensure that pupils with special needs and / or with a / multiple disability (s)
attending special education are transported in the best conditions
possible from their home to the school chosen (shorter routes and reduced transport time).

57

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Action 4. Orient, accompany and support each student in his career
The school does not address a hypothetical median individual but each learner,
personally, to enhance its quality and take into account his difficulties. It is necessary
allow schools to provide resources, time, appropriate teaching methods,
to meet these individual situations and focus on close support in relation to the
relegation or repetition.
But the school must also articulate personalization of learning and collaborative approaches for
build with the whole school community a common project, dynamics
class and school, a climate conducive to "living together" and learning.
In this context, the CDH wants to strengthen the alliance between parents and school. Indeed, thanks to
team work (teachers, directions, CPMS team, external actors in school) with
families that students can progress and take their training hands. Success and
school attachment, especially disadvantaged students on socio-educational, depend
basically the capacity of the school and parents to work in partnership and trust
mutual.

Lighthouse Proposal 59: Linking the collective framework of the class with a
personalized support for each student to build
gradually orientation
The skills allowing the student to move vest gradually throughout the
schooling (of life). They involve at once every young individual (liability
personal) and all the communities (family, school, friendly, cultural, ...) which he
belongs.
The CDH recommends:
-

make, from basic education, the student about his orientation, taking into account
to age-related capacity; learn, individually and collectively, to students
orient themselves and be present with them (accompanying) at times when they
are encouraged to make choices and develop orientation by "peers";

-

create a book of guidance setting out the different useful information to all
players in the school environment;

-

enhance the role of parents in the orientation process, develop their skills and
strengthen "educational school-family alliances" in the matter;

-

train "collegially" all school actors (directions, educational teams,
Team PMS centers, ...) in career education throughout schooling (of life)
and using choice;

-

clarify and strengthen the role of orientation of PMS centers by creating a truly Service
specific compound to recruit people, directly linked with teachers and management
from school. PMS can be grouped among some schools to provide this service;

-

strengthen the continuity of the Intersectoral decree "Education - Youth Assistance"
synergies between school actors and partners of other relevant sectors in
orientation;

-

educate more teachers to emotional and relational dimensions
learning; support devices in the class with an emotional climate, emotional
and conducive to learning relational; the development of education for life

58

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
relational, emotional and sexual in school; the gradual creation of "welfare cells"
in each school.

Proposition 60: Organize in each school remediation teams
Immediate
To provide an answer as soon as we identify difficulties on the part of students, cdH
proposes:
-

Promote immediate remediation in the class by equipping the teacher for him
allow to establish concrete mechanisms for close and continuous support of students
difficulty and giving it a period of remediation linked during which he is holder;

-

Promote immediate remediation in school by organizing in every school or
partnership between schools, or by releasing the necessary pooling NTPP, teams of
immediate remediation on targeted topics (learning disorder, control of
language learning, work method, ...);

-

fight against repetition by the development among teachers of the ability to bind
diagnostic assessment and pedagogical action, to reflect the pace and
specificities of each student in the overall class organization;

-

invest in real devices continued support and close struggling students,
primarily in the class group and additionally through a period of
remediation preferably provided by the course holder himself;

-

allow schools to release capital period within them or in partnership between schools
to enable teachers to work in pairs in the class group to
to provide support to students;

-

diversify the learning methods in school space-time;

-

strengthen the work in multidisciplinary teams.

Proposal 61: Strengthen guidance as a continuous process support
people throughout their lives
Today, the concept of "job for life" has been shattered and replaced by routes
professionals increasingly complex. Opportunities rarely come of themselves. This
are the individuals who have to go into these opportunities without always knowing the rules of the game.
question is therefore more know "what to do? " But how to do it ? ". Beyond the
transmission of information, which remains necessary, guidance therefore puts more emphasis on the
approach than content. Faced with the current changes, our society needs to develop
a culture of anticipation. It is the same orientation that is not just to
help select the face of a given situation (targeted), but to accompany the individual in
progressive construction of his life journey, through successive decisions and actions.
The orientation is not to refer the person to help but move and to choose from.
The career education and guidance targeted at key moments not only can
but must coexist and complement each other.
Finally, one of the challenges of the orientation process is the necessary path of individualisation. Beyond the customized support it implies, this also means individualization
the organization of collective life enriching slices. The career education is here in
through situations lived with others, the development of trade, social ties, the
59

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
skills development and the discovery of opportunities that participants
could not have imagined staying isolated.
For this, all partners will be working together culture of guidance,
cooperate on the occasion of concrete actions aimed at both the sharing of experiences and access to
individualized pathways.
Therefore, the CDH offers:
-

create an umbrella organization for guidance pool of life by respecting and involving
various players already present in the field of guidance. This intersectoral structure
priority will be to avoid duplication "amplify synergies and
strengthening coherence between stakeholders. The implementation of this system will
articulate, in a common, two inseparable axes of orientation:
educational guidance, orientation basis for taking into account the diversity and
complexity, opening the range of possibilities and developing throughout life; and
Targeted orientation, focused on the key moments of the educational and professional background
(life course) and focused on decision making related to a choice.
This structure could be consulted by families, CPMS, schools charge
advise parents, youth and CPMS, it could form the school teams and
CPMS guidance, organize awareness raising with schools and establish by
living area, a land registry compulsory and higher education and employment offers
and future jobs.

-

strengthen the legal framework placing educational guidance under the joint responsibility of
direction of the school and the PMS Centre. This legal framework would provide
school partners (school / CPMS) the desirability of co-construction project
orientation "local" and agreed common objectives and where the devices would be defined
to achieve, together, if appropriate, with external operators;

-

reinforce staff resources granted to PMS centers as part of their missions
orientation;

-

equip these centers validated tools and efficient help to self-knowledge and
trades and adequate computer equipment to the orientation process
long term maturative, accessible to all, through orienteering and devices
diversified;

-

dedicate a school time in group activities (agreed in the partnership
School / CPMS) contributing to the development of skills to move (integrating
personal development of the student);

-

promote the discovery of the working life, including through internships;

-

redeploy qualifying education and improve knowledge of technical professions;

-

involve parents through parents' associations of students in the fight against stereotypes
gender and social stereotypes linked to techno-business to change the
family culture with respect to the qualifying education.

60

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Lighthouse Proposal 62: To help teachers address the needs
specific for each student
The CDH, throughout the 2009-2014 parliamentary term, raised and supported devices that support
account the specific needs of each student, which promote continuous support in the classroom and
that avoid the use of repetition or the default orientation: training "Nobody
Dyslexia-relay "and" Work collectively for the benefit of the pupil ", disseminating
brochures awareness of school actors ("Teaching students with disabilities
learning "," Teaching students with high potential to "methodology" Pass Inclusion "...
The CDH offers:
-

adjust the creation of standards of PMS centers to the reality of demographic change and
the performance of new missions of their agents;

-

equip teaching staff as well as to identify future teachers at the
kindergarten, school dropout to identify pupils with special needs (dyslexia,
ADD / ADHD, high potential, ...) and to offer them the necessary educational facilities,
in an inclusive school approach;

-

strengthen tri-disciplinary teams of PMS centers in their ability to mobilize
resources necessary for the establishment of a diagnostic quality and the implementation of
concerted support and encourage the spread of Pass Inclusion in schools;

-

enhance collaboration between the family, the educational team and specialists through the role
Centres of PMS interface and equip players (methodological guide and training) to
promote collegial dialogue for the benefit of the student;

-

encourage the involvement of paramedical staff (therapists, ...) in the collegial consultation
the benefit of the student;

-

provide for the reimbursement by the INAMI of 30 minutes logopédies sessions but also
60 minutes (currently only 30 minute sessions are reimbursed) for
Children under 10 years when it is necessary for the treatment of certain
learning disabilities and provide for the reimbursement by the INAMI speech therapy sessions
that must continue to follow the children with learning disorders persist
beyond two years.

Proposal 63: Fostering general school attachment
The CDH offers, to meet the motivation process, loss of confidence in
school or in the future to:
-

first of all improve the image of education in our society, in and outside
school;

-

act jointly on all the factors (fight against school failure, the fight against
precariousness, upgrading of technical trades, upgrading of the teaching profession, ...);

-

give meaning to learning through collective reflection on the contents (revised
programs) and the methods (educational training) and to strengthen the school as a place
in which to live and learn together.

-

help in human resources zonal or central committees help enrollment and
re-registration of excluded pupils.

61

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Proposal 64: Create a school climate serene, secure, favorable to
learning and living together
Inside the school, as in social life, various voltages can disrupt the cohesion
the group, compared to learning, personal development. The fight against these tensions
means creating (or strengthening) within each institution, a positive climate crossing
daily awareness, promising projects and adequate responses
to incidents.
To this end, the CDH offers:
-

-

fight against antisocial behavior, harassment and other forms of school violence (sometimes
amplified by social networks), and to that end:
o

strengthen partnerships with prevention services and youth assistance via
educational dome and educational pole and open the school to the intervention of these services,
create / strengthen active synergies and joint projects with partners
(associative) other sectors (health, youth, youth welfare, sport, culture);

o

to involve local school prevention dome;

o

educating for violence control, respect and tolerance;

o

create word places and listening in schools for both students
and teachers;

o

enhance the role of educators in the educational dimension of their function in the
releasing administrative tasks;

o

enhance student participation in school structures (training delegation
of students);

o

train students in mediation "peer" and thus strengthen their capacity to manage
conflicts.
strengthen the skills of school stakeholders in education to health and well-being for a global approach to these thematic throughout the student's schooling.
For this purpose, register as promotion and education for health and well-being that education
citizenship in the initial and further training of teachers; create / strengthen
synergies with partners (associations) other sectors (health, youth, aid
youth, sport, culture); organize exchange days of practice and reflection
shared between schools with educational actors and actors from other sectors; develop
a website presenting, in a comprehensive approach, available resources; allow
school players to attend other educational areas (health education,
citizenship, social life, emotional and sexual, sustainable development, ...).

Proposition 65: To strengthen the alliance between the parents and the school
It is through team work (teachers, direction, CPMS team, external actors in school)
with families that students can progress and take their training in hand. Success and
school attachment, especially disadvantaged students on socio-educational, depend
basically the capacity of the school and parents to work in partnership.
The CDH offers:
-

provide for the Council to participate in each school and enforce the missions it
entrusted by decrees and circulars; will encourage the active participation of each actor;

62

to

êByè

recognize the representative organizations of parents' associations as
Members with consultative vote of the General Council of basic education and
LMOÉOral TÉ2P of secondary education;
recognition of the representative organizations of parents' associations of such
É0PVLT 10P1V 1NVR2 P2 NT1vT V2TVM SUMMER 2 0P1V2o
offer parents who do not speak French opportunities to améliorPV LP1V
knowledge and practice of the language, to assist the dialogue between parents and the school.
P2 P2 N VP22T1V VAT 2 SL TÉÉ1P2 2TÉ0 2NTÉ LP2 P0NT1VV PÉ0G0VP S 2P2
2NT2 TÉ 0 N V
1EP SP LLP1VP TLL TV 0 TEE PÉ0VP LP2 LP2 O TLP2a VO2P first 22T 0 A2 P P0 LP2 PÉ0VP2
VP22T1V P2 t
involve parents through the Parents' Associations of students in the fight against stereotypes
MPÉVP P0 LP2 20OVOT0mNP2 2T The first O2 S O0 first PV2 0P EET2 Pe0 A, A VP OvTL1PV 1P2 NT1V L
1L01VP ASL LP with respect to the calling instruction;
closely involve parents in supporting pupils with special needs
(pupils with learning disabilities, high-potential students, students with disorders
behavior ...) and the P2 Lans Elaborat TEE t Individual Learning
22T PV LP2 O 0P1V2 1, 1
P2 0P1V2 2 TL VP2 t

BPON I c oeb Npr b pr

221S Pe0 VI LP LP P 010P1V2 TS SP É0PVLT 10P1V2

oN p N

ef

N V0 Pe0 PVR

b ert t o 't pr

RW PSTL 2PV 1 S LP2 P1e skills and goals of each school for the benefit of actor
OLRvP2aP0 E2 1E P2NV0 P É TÉA PALP
NVTNT2P, 1P.
E, E0 2T 1P pE2P EM TS 0 N MÉOP02T10PÉ1 R2 LP2 NVPS RVP2 ÉÉOP2 P00T10 1 LTÉM P
2
VVRVPa EO TVM SUMMER 2 LP E0 V0 N LLP1V2 T10 SP MP P2 L2 NO MTM 1P2, 1 TE0 A 0 LP1V
NVP1vP LLP1V2 P0LP 010TV 0NT1VL 0V E2S 22 TEE February 1 vT Vt
school leaders are supported and valued in their leadership role
NO MTM, t 1P
LP2 NT1vT V2 N1 L 2 2T Pe0 VP PÉ0VO2 21r their regulatory role of education and
come upstream support the action of the school and its teachers by strengthening
ET0 SS PÉ0LP2 2PVv P2 P P TÉ2P LP0 2Q10 GOE NO MTM, t 1P2
LP2 PÉ0VP2
SO 0P1V2a has LP2 LP2 LP2 O 1 0P1V2a N2m ETS T0V PÉnÉP 2 P0 P2 LP2 LTMTNR
actively participate in the development of a working increasingly collegial interface
vP LP2 OLRvP2 P0LP1V2 N VPÉ02o

v rovotpbpoN! BB r q Empowering
principals of eb p N t Nt Nbt

t b "PTT:

Nbt t o "ty pr

The quality of a school system depends on the quality and motivation of the teaching staff
, 1 a 21V LP 0PVV Ea T vPÉ0G0VP T10 LLOP2a v LTV2OP2a TE2 OVOP2 E2 LP2 2NO A 0O2 LP1V P 22 S TEE
P0 P P LP1V TÉ0Pe0P v 0V Lo
For the CDH, the important thing is to ensure a clear and stable regulatory framework for actors
TY P 2 S TL VP: set targets and evaluate the achievement, leaving teams
with the preparation of teaching techniques they souhaiten010 L 2PVNT1VmN VvPÉ Vo

Zi

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
The objectives should therefore be specified clearly and systematically evaluated via
including the greater frequency of assessments and the development of a generalized bac (cfr.
Proposal 41). Correspondingly, the autonomy of all stakeholders in education must be
strengthened and we must therefore move towards a greater convergence of different modes of
school governance.
From the analysis of indicators, teams must be supported in defining their
project of establishment, in the choice of priority actions for improving achievement and
welfare of students in the establishment of training programs in the use of
adapted practices and ownership of tools.
For the same degree of autonomy is also granted in the Community network
French, administration of the Community's education needs to refocus on its mission
regulation of teaching: defining the general lines of educational policy,
knowledge and skills to acquire and promote the quality of the education system as a
together (the Steering Committee and the inspectors have a key task in this context,
aimed mainly support rather than control the teaching staff in the field).

The CDH offers:
-

give more autonomy to the directions (and their educational teams) in use
means for organizing creative and optimal learning. A bigger
flexibility in the use of resources will enable educational teams to create
innovative teaching methods based on their local context and in cooperation with
actors outside the school (voluntary sector, educational consultants ...)

-

ensure that OPs are the direct beneficiaries of funds collected
from the French Community. Greater flexibility in the allocation of these
means could be sought to encourage the development of teaching methods
innovative in the local context or school specialties;

-

give each network the levers needed to support the responsible autonomy
institutions;

-

distinguish between the regulator and operator task and create autonomous and decentralized PO
in the French Community (see proposal 67.)

-

allow school officials, in consultation with the educational team to
design and implement a pilot project that incorporates a flexible management of all
supervision and operation of the means appropriate to their specific situation. This one
could take the form of a management contract for a fixed period between the team
educational, organizing power and authority;

-

promote collaboration between schools to encourage more management
efficient of the educational offer, including the offer of course options to ensure the
complementarity of these and infrastructure related to it. This greater
Collaboration would also ensure easier sharing of infrastructure
and equipment.
The organization of consultations between schools and between school actors
actors and other sectors must also allow, for example, to develop an offer
coherent and articulated after school to school realities, co-build tools
common and shared approaches to citizenship education or health, to cross
looks and mutually enriching practices ... A compensation mechanism could
also be provided between the different sectors of schools so as not to penalize a
facility that elects to his students to a different educational sector.
64

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Lighthouse Proposal 67: Delete the jurisdiction of the organizing body
Network of Wallonia-Brussels Federation and equalize funding
subsidized networks
In 2014, each child said to have the same right to public investment in its power
education, its place in the school, free teaching. Alas, this is still not the
case.
Moreover, the Federation does not have a vocation to be a central organizing authority, far from
ground realities and the autonomy of the actors. It must be a power regulator
visionary and not operator.
More than 50 years after the conclusion of a school pact part outdated societal realities, it
Time to simplify the landscape of teaching and modernize our governance without
undermine the principles of academic freedom and free choice of parents and
consider teaching as a bid to be equal for every child, regardless of the
network to which it belongs.
For this reason, the CDH proposes to modernize, simplify and equalize school governance
concluding an ambitious new pact to each student:
-

eliminating the role of PO of the Federation and creating decentralized as PO
realities and local agreements upon the budgets required to harmonize gradually.
OP must be created by academic area, incorporating representatives of different
establishments in the area and a composition according to define. The community
could be represented through a commissioner;

-

therefore now organize education as part of a single subsidized network,
divided into a public grant-aided education (communes, provinces, other public authority)
a free educational, religious or not, the financing must therefore
gradually align a multi-year plan for 10 years (except in respect of the
financing objective differences such as religion courses and moral nonconfessionnelle in public education).

This is in particular to achieve this dual objective that the CDH offers the conclusion of a pact
ambitious for school the next 25 years based on the needs of children.

Lighthouse Proposal 68: Strengthen teacher training and support
early career
The overhaul of initial training is not a question of elongation. It must meet the
needs of the business of teaching and those of future teachers. In this context, it
should prepare future teachers to adopt a reflexive posture on its practices and to build
a dynamic collaboration with peers and with partners. This consolidation concerns
therefore not only the training but also in High School aggregation University
or teaching skills certificate issued Social Promotion. It should also continue to
invest in continuing education and training of trainers.
The CDH also wants to support early career. Already in the 2009-2014 term, the CDH has
set about redefining the scope and functions of the securities giving access to the various trades
education in order to harmonize practices between different educational networks,

65

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
but also to allow beginning teachers to clearly identify what capacity is needed
for any function.
The CDH offers:
-

make initial and continued as a priority in the next Parliament.
The findings are known. It is now time to implement them by a decree founding
taking into account the various issues that the new expectations that weigh on the function
teacher, different challenges they face (learning disabilities,
heterogeneous classes, remediation, etc.) and the gradual entry and accompanied
in the trade;

-

strengthen initial teacher training by linking theory and practice, time
Immersion school environments and peer exchange times.
Initial training must include:
o

two training components, one of the foundations for school up to 14 years, the other for
the masters of the 2nd and 3rd degrees of transition and qualification;

o

the articulation between initial training and entry into the profession. This will be achieved through
internship year in which prospective teachers discover reality
institutional school will give classes, will have a tutor, will participate in
moments of intervision with peers and return in order to receive training
Additional tools

o

the definition of a competency profile and the establishment of appropriate training for
teachers serving as tutors and mentors;

o

additions to the initial training for those who will be exercised in
special education, in the framework differentiated instruction, in
multicultural institutions;

-

strengthen the training of trainers;

-

establish a competency profile for each profession of teaching (teacher,
educator, director, PMS officer, school counselor, inspectors) as is the case
already in many other trades and professions;

-

support teachers (and agents of CPMS) beginners through a range of actions
such as monitoring by relay professors of initial training, mentoring, intervision between
peers, supervising teams of PMS centers;

-

ensure continued payment of unpaid teachers during school holidays
(liaising with the NEO on behalf of teachers so that their
Unemployment compensation is paid in due time) and when it is granted
be a full schedule for teachers who wish within the same
establishment.

66

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Proposal 69: To support and enhance the teacher in his career and
the exercise of his profession
Valuing the teaching profession, it is above all give meaning and visibility to the social pact
that links the school and society and enhance the role played by each business of teaching. In
making it possible and attractive the exercise of this complex function, we recognize the place
essential in this business and those who exercise in the development of our society.
The CDH offers:
-

further clarification and flexibility of careers careers in teaching,
mobility between networks (eg the portability of seniority and around
priority in respect of the freedom of recruitment of educational institutions). There
diversity of professional experience should also be recognized and valued in
the calculation of seniority;

-

provide concrete logistic support to sustain the lives of teachers (eg
by making available offices "plug in" to enable teachers to work
in the school before or after school hours or during their hours of fork, or
feeding a "participatory budget" whose assignment would be decided so
college by teaching teams);

-

support the exchange of practices and experience among school stakeholders and open to
other sectors and in this goal:
o

create, at the level of basic education, an organic part of staff
education who will share with the educational team support of students (no frame
education is currently in basic education). This should allow
teachers, without neglecting their educational tasks, to focus on their tasks
teaching, to identify the necessary space-time, in the timeframe of
teachers, policy dialogue and practical exchanges, to rethink the organization of
the day in the care of the students, to ease the current system "a
Teacher-class group ";

o

identify, in the timeframe of teachers at the secondary level,
the spaces of time necessary for consultation and exchange of practices.

Lighthouse Proposal 70: Support school principals
The best school systems invest in the key role of management. We must allow
directions the exercise of shared leadership, supported by and supporting the collective work of the team
they animate in all the tasks entrusted to them by their founder. It is necessary
to refocus principals to their educational role and leadership of a team and
continue the effort to reduce administrative burden on them.
The CDH offers:
-

attract to the steering function of schools and PMS centers (to provide training
human resources management in quality, educational leadership, administration and
financial and upgrade salaries);

-

support managers so they can focus more on "leadership
educational ", pursuing administrative simplification, developing within
administration for their management tools to facilitate the performance of their missions and
assisting in the management of material resources of the institution (central purchasing ...);

67

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
-

ensure that all the fundamental principals receive administrative support
and / or ad hoc education;

-

support directions by providing support for educational counselors,
trainers and inspectors and giving them space-time (including virtual) to
exchange their practices and enhance their reflexivity.

Proposal 71: Invest in intermediate actors, structures and
intermediate tools to improve the quality of education
The analyzes relating to the operation of school systems highlight the positive role
actors (educational consultants networks, members of the inspection services, training
mid-career, teams of PMS centers, mediators, resource persons from
other sectors ...), structures and intermediate tools in quality development in
the most efficient systems, but on condition that it is in a supportive posture,
accompaniment, quality listener that allows to stimulate creativity rather than stress
what is wrong.
We must therefore invest in training of these actors and the strengthening of these structures and tools
essential for qualitative development of our educational system.
The CDH offers:
-

intensify the training of educational advisers in networks to support
directions in the development of continuing education plans and school actors in a
instructional leadership favorable to creativity and collaboration;

-

Inspectors trained in the evaluation of the quality of professional development each
School actor and evaluation of projects. In order to accompany teams
self-assessment of the quality of their institution (crossing with the indicators observed
system level), special attention will be paid to the formation of a culture
audit quality among members of the General Inspection Service;

-

make possible the "space-time" of meeting between local actors (through advice
class, guidance counseling, consultation), intermediate between actors (through
Practice exchange days, thematic meetings, intervisions) and between
actors at the Federation Wallonia-Brussels (via the general councils, boards
above, the steering committee);
At each of these levels, these "space-time" benefit to open up to actors from
other sectors (as health, youth, the youth assistance, early childhood,
culture, sports ...);

-

develop statistical resources (global or specific indicators to each school through its
Dashboard (TABOR)), the results of external evaluations (learning paths) and
research results in national and international education (research synthesis,
products and tools).
School actors should be supported in their appropriation of our indicators
school system or their own institution and scientific knowledge
produced by educational research, to develop their creativity and reflexivity
professional. The "translation" of the whole of these resources must be a
special attention to promote their availability and give them meaning in
daily practices;

68

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
-

train the trainers with the requirements of different businesses School and conditions
favorable to creativity and team collaboration. Is a teacher trainer
craft that can not be improvised and requires theoretical skills rooted in
scientific research and in-depth knowledge of field practices.

69

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Chapter 3. Build quality
Higher Education
In 2010, 42% of young people 25-34 years of the French Community were graduates
Higher Education. This rate is increasing, especially among women.27.
This strong positive assessment can make us forget that in the Higher Education Community
French (FWB) is facing major challenges: its "massification" that is a challenge
significant educationally; youth unemployment need to combat by developing
links between the world of education and that of work and enterprise; the environment
international and highly competitive European that puts universities compete to attract
academic researchers and top; budget constraints that make government
dialogue between actors difficult ...
In this context, the CDH defend institutional autonomy and freedom of association. He
also defend a refinancing of higher education.

Action 1. Ensure better funding for higher education
ensuring excellence
Successive increases in the numbers of students in higher education have resulted
a depreciation of funding per student in both Universities Colleges. Whereas
we spent 100 euros in 2001 for higher education, we no longer spends 85
today. The financing of higher education system, for closed envelope
in a context of increased student population actually reached its limites28
Certainly, steps can be taken to limit the overall cost of higher education
(reduce the dropout rate of students repeating or ...). But they will not do. The
refinancing must be a political and budgetary priority of the next Parliament.

Lighthouse Proposal 72: Refinance Higher Education
The principle of the closed envelope, introduced for budgetary reasons is revealed
problematic for the development of our higher education. If opt for an envelope
fully opened constitutes a considerable risk to public budgets (risk of "slippage
budget ") in light of current demographic trends and the pursuit of
democratization of higher education, it is essential to allow for injection
Automatic additional financial resources on basic parameters to consult with the
Sector (number of students and evolution, number of fellows, graduates importance of
research activities, scientific, number of doctorates ...). This system would have to
Once the advantage of ensuring control of expenditure for the Wallonia-Brussels Federation while

27

According to the Labour-University Foundation, the proportion of women with tertiary education increased by 6% between 2001 and
2011 (1.6% for men)! Belga of January 25, 2014.
Universities and Colleges are funded in closed envelopes. These are adapted annually according to the evolution
the health index. Added to the High Schools taking into account the effects of the wage scale drift (current impact of 0.2% per year).
Universities also benefit from a gradual refinancing of 30 million euros, from 2010 to 2027 which induces a 5% impact
over the period.
28

70

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
infusing the oxygen necessary if the situation became untenable adventures for institutions
education. It should also encourage voluntary mergers between institutions.
The CDH offers:
exit the closed envelope system and program a gradual refinancing
coordinated with the higher education sector stakeholders;
-

regularly evaluate the real cost of supérieures29 different formations;

-

take account of research missions and services to society in the way
funding of higher education institutions;

-

increase funding to cover the costs of major maintenance and
infrastructure in higher education institutions by ensuring a
improved energy efficiency (see proposal 2 axis 152) to ensure capacity
reception and quality supervision;

-

developing public-private partnerships in respect of the academic independence and
ethical rules by extending the deduction for investment in human capital (to
include them gifts and bequests for educational institutions, Chairs, foundations and other forms
spending by private companies for higher education;

-

record the mergers in the previous legislative framework by granting funding
announced and financially encourage the processes of mergers / collaborations
institutions by creating specific incentives for all kinds of teachings (HEUNIF-ESA) in respect of freedom of association and institutional autonomy.

Proposal 73: Establish a student mobility compensation fund
intra-European
The Wallonia-Brussels Federation is confronted with a massive influx of European students
non-residents can apply for a specific school fees, which has led it to adopt
specific arrangements to preserve its model.
The creation of a European compensation fund covering intra-European student mobility
aims to reduce the fiscal burden that the Wallonia-Brussels Federation supports while preserving
a decent capacity and quality.
The CDH offers:
-

29

create a student mobility compensation fund which would be financed by all
European states. Given the internal statistics specific to each state, the state
could tap into the fund in order to receive compensation if the number
foreign students on its territory is greater than the number of students achieving
their studies abroad.

Proposal of the Royal Academy -2011-

71

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Proposal 74: To inform students and families of the real cost of education
Graduate
Too often, the student and his family are not aware of the real cost of education for
community. Fees paid by the student and / or his family did indeed constitute a very small
Part of the cost is greater than one year of study for the Federation Wallonia-Brussels
(between 5,500 and 8,000 euros per year). Accurate information would promote accountability.
The CDH offers:
-

deliver to the student information on the real cost of training to which it is registered and
on the possible intervention of the community to sustain its status of modest
or stock.

Proposal 75: To review the financing of operating costs in the ES
artistic
Funding for artistic High schools is distinct from the rest of teaching
superior. In addition, the operating costs of these schools are funded differently depending on
network to which they belong. Thus the financing of operating costs of the
subsidized network is 60% lower than that of the French Community organized by network.
These differences are not justifiable.
The CDH offers:
-

review on an equal basis the financing of operating costs in education
art.

72

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Action 2. Improve the quality of training
The excellence of our higher education depends, of course, foremost quality
training it offers. As such, the link between teaching and research must be privileged,
as well as with business. It is also important to foster links with
foreign operations and promote openness to new education initiatives.
Furthermore, discussions are underway to improve in certain formations
higher education (teacher training, teachers in teaching
upper secondary, physiotherapists, nurses ...). They must be completed.

Lighthouse Proposal 76: Invest in research and staff
scientific
In higher education, links between research and teaching promote quality
teaching. Better funding of research is crucial to ensure
advanced education. It is also a preferred source to strengthen staff
scientific and academic and student support services.
The CDH offers:
-

increase the number of research positions increasing by 80-85% rate
partial exemption from the advance payment of chercheur30;

-

gradually extend the exemption from withholding tax to the academic staff
with research activities in the amount, term, 40% withholding tax in the overall 31
return for allocating amounts to increasing the academic framework
universities;

-

consolidate the FNRS, the LILE, concerted research actions (CRA) and increase priority
means special research fund (FSR) of at least 50% 32;

-

increase the employability of doctors by strengthening skills
Cross-called "soft skills" (project management skills, management, law
intellectual property ...) during the doctoral training;

-

supporting inter-university scientific research teams and maintaining the means
PAI (Interuniversity Attraction Poles) through the transfer of skills to
communities and collaboration between Communities, supported by the Federal;

-

continue the promotion of research in Universities and High schools
Companies relying on the network PLACE;

-

promote synergies between universities, Colleges and businesses through "Poles
competitiveness "in Wallonia, the poles" business education "and Centres
Search Chartered (CRA); create a research funding agency for applied
coordinated management programs (together the many existing branches in a
stop shop, complementary to FNRS);

-

make it easier for researchers, including their participation in projects
International and European (aid for project development through scientific liaison officers
and NCPs (National Contact Points);

30

This is provided in the Marshall Plan in 2022.
The academic staff at full-time schedule is fully involved in research activities and it is estimated that participation in
50% of all of their activities.
32
This is a priority of the CREF (tbc)
31

73

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
-

ensure funding for university development cooperation to ensure
global reach of the research;

-

enhance administrative support to researchers who are abroad;

-

see the proposal 141 2 axis.

Proposal 77: Create teaching support functions
The quality of teaching also depends on the working conditions of those involved in education and
training. To improve these conditions, the CDH considers it useful to create a new status
people who find themselves imperfectly in traditional trades University
(academic, scientific and administrative and technical) and who perform support tasks
education and training as a very diversified educational consultant, tutor ...
This new status, which could be called "educational logistician" could also
tools target the IT specialists in training, such as creating online courses.
The CDH offers:
-

create, in universities, a function of "teaching logistics" for staff
supporting players in education and training.

Proposal 78: To improve collaborations between higher education
and businesses
Collaborations between Universities and Colleges on the one hand and the other companies
must be strengthened, while avoiding instrumentalisation of higher education for the benefit
of the market ".
In this objective, CDH offers under the poles of synergy "enterprise education"
of:
-

strengthen the companies offer internships in the curricula;

-

Scholarship support systems available to students by private firms
and financing of the proposed program Explort AWEX offering youth
graduates of higher education (universities or Hautes Ecoles) and Master's students
internships in international trade in cooperation with the Walloon companies;

-

involve higher education institutions in cooperation with the local
Competence centers and partnerships with training providers
professional ;

-

involve higher education institutions to "training centers"
newly created to respond more effectively to local socio-economic needs;

-

develop collaboration business-universities / institutions of education
or higher in the training of PhD students: partially achieved doctorates
firms or companies involved in the doctorate, either through training
continued in business for the teachings of the superior;

-

provide work and training packages for those who follow a master
specialization or a doctorate;

74

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
-

improve technology transfer between higher education institutions and
companies relying on Knowledge Transfer Offices (ktoś) created by
Universities and Colleges and VENUE Network that combines ensuring
co-financing of the regions in the framework of European projects in this area.

Proposal 79: To strengthen the position of our higher education on the
European and international level
The positioning of our major institutions of higher education today
considered an important criterion for assessing the quality of their training. It should
therefore that public authorities are in support of institutions to support the
Once a mobility policy towards the outside and active and increased attractiveness of our policy
expanded higher education. This goal is supported by a multi-axis approach,
both budgetary and organizational. They also go through a strategy towards key countries
more aggressive on the part of political authorities, ARES and institutions to attract
foreign students of second and third cycle in Francophone Belgium.
The CDH offers:
-

ensure an intelligent and comprehensive representation of our different types of institutions
in all missions abroad;

-

establish a European system of support to the joint between the graduation of several institutions
Member States, as provided in the Decree landscape of higher education;

-

regardless of the number of foreign students at home in the allocation of numbers
INAMI.

Proposal 80: Strengthen the learning of languages ​​in education
superior
The teaching of foreign languages ​​is a need to strengthen the cohesion of the country,
that our Francophone graduates access to high-level positions that often escape them by
lack of knowledge in language and finally to position ourselves in a meaningful way on stage
International. To achieve this goal, it would put language teaching flat and,
bringing together all actors in the field, recreating a coherent system across our
educational system.
The CDH offers, in terms of higher education, to:
-

strengthen language up in the various courses, including strengthening courses
Immersion in English and Dutch;

-

leaving the possibility to choose an optional language course followed whatever the curriculum;

-

strengthen the BRIC scholarships devices (language courses in companies abroad)
Erasmus BEGICA and make the Erasmus program set up at European level available
the more so that by 2020, 20% of our graduate students to participate in
a study period abroad;

-

sustain and promote learning platforms E-learning (as Wallangues ...)
among young people;

75

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
-

do more to circulate knowledge in the field of language learning.

Proposal 81: Support of new forms of learning
In order to promote support for educational innovation (participatory pedagogies, tutoring
Masters in students, reversed classes, use of podcasting, alternating training ...)
for exceeding the scope of ex cathedra teaching and experimenting with new
learning modalities, CDH offers:
-

create a "support fund for educational innovation" that would encourage, through call for proposals,
pedagogical innovations in institutions experience new forms
learning;

-

support the development of e-learning as a teaching aid for lectures.
It will also develop opportunities in continuing education.

Proposal 82: Support libraries
Support for the quality of the studies followed in higher education also depends on the quality of
library services available to students and faculty. It is clear
today the documentation goes by more and more expensive electronics to
institutions. VAT is 21% instead of 6% for monographs and paper subscriptions.
The CDH offers:
-

concretely help libraries and all database forms associated
higher education by funding a refund of VAT in order to neutralize these
costs in higher education.

Action 3. Better support students in their journey
Our higher education is freely accessible and financially available under the
European and world average. Its quality attracts much foreign students
wishing to attend institutions whose reputation is well established.
In crisis contexts which follow, given the financial difficulties of families
(jobistes33 many students or CPAS) but also because European objectives (rates
graduates of higher education to achieve) and especially for the future of our regions and their
especially economic future, we must preserve the accessibility but also support
the student in his career to promote its success.
Access to higher education is good. Out graduate is obviously better.

33
According to figures from the Social Security transmitted by the ETF (in the memorandum), student work increased by 16% in 2012 but the new
rules on student work are not foreign (ie the ability to work throughout the year with social contributions
reduced).

76

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Proposal 83: To facilitate the transition of students to teaching
superior
Few high school students make a connection between the courses of study followed in teaching
secondary and their chances of success in the various areas of training provided to
University or High school. This information students and their parents must be disseminated
in secondary schools to help students move out and facilitate their entry into the
superior.
The CDH offers:
-

significantly improve information for high school students (and their parents) on
different streams of possible studies in secondary education and their impact on
likely to become students student success in various training areas
taught at the University or High School;

-

ensure non-stereotyped educational choices (eg boosting operations
professional immersion to promote professional equality between women and
men, while preventing shortage phenomena in occupations that are chosen
by one sex;

-

strengthen exchanges / educational dialogue between secondary and higher education
to improve the educational continuum through the compulsory and higher education pole;

-

organize research and treatment activities of information from the fifth year
secondary to facilitate them in the upper;

-

ensure implementation of the legislation on advertising practiced by institutions
higher education in order to prevent circumventions practiced by certain powers
organizers.

Proposal 84: Strengthen action to help the success available to
students
The organizing authorities show a form of motivation of stakeholders involved in
the success in support of actions available to students without formal obligation
and that arouses little response.
The CDH offers:
-

initiate a roundtable with local stakeholders on the question of the effectiveness of aid
the success to assess all measures imposed decrees on the matter;
analyze the opportunity to make aid to the compulsory success if needed;

-

circulate know-how on aid to success, through the Committee on aid
success of ARES, and create a network of good practice in all
higher education institutions (the exams at the end of first term
for first bachelor's students are an example of good practice that should be
generalize);

-

gather success in aid budgets in one position for readability while the
integrating into the new financing system;

-

increase the total aid budget to success in order to be able to hire 20 FTE;

77

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
-

reattach the percentage of the overall allocation to spend on aid to success. This percentage
could fluctuate depending on specific success rate in the establishment;

-

finance aid to success in the Colleges of Arts.

Proposal 85: Support access to higher education
Our higher education is relatively democratic. The tuition is low in
Compared with other countries européenne34 Union. And many aids allow
support training in higher education of students of modest means (grants or
study grants, middle school fees, social subsidies ...).
Indirect subsidies are also available (cafeteria practicing democratic rates available
students, for example). The CDH intends to preserve and expand these social measures which are
the forces of the higher education in Wallonia-Brussels.
Some improvements can be considered.
The CDH offers:
-

increase the school year premium (annual age supplement) for students
regularly enrolled in higher education. The CDH proposes to increase the amount
the annual age supplement (school year premium) of 80 to 110 euros.

-

improve the allocation of study grants (scholarships) by:
o

strengthening the administration personnel during the months of "rush" so that treatment
folders is thereby accelerated and pursuing the computerization of the system of granting
allowances and scholarships to further accelerate the information and arrival of
Scholarship on the accounts of students and their families;

o

organizing an effective cooperation within the framework of Federal making provisions
tax data of individuals;

-

Student evaluate the status of "modest means" and expand the access conditions to
status so that more students can benefit;

-

review the rules concerning the amount of subsidy paid by student social institutions
higher education and increase the social budget given to each establishment;

-
systematize, the High Schools and Colleges of Arts, the presence
a (e) or more assistant (s) within social Social Council all
higher education institutions according to the student population (within
major higher education institutions already qualified social workers addresses
social subsidies, demand an exchange, the search for housing ...
This staff is not present in all establishments);

-

create a central social work students Wallonia-Brussels managing all alone
the means of financial assistance to students, allowing administrative simplification and
more efficient support to everyone;

34
Considerable effort has been made to ensure that the level of tuition fees is capped and, in many cases, reduced.
Students must now pay school fees Capped 835 euros from 374 euros or if they are "modest." The
minerval is free for the stock. Some exceptions exist for specific categories and for higher education
art. But the situation is "under control" and very clear from a legal point of view.

78

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
-

gradually tighten a
proportional to income).

system

from

Scholarships

proportional

(conversely

Proposition 86: Count more precisely the Student Work hours
The student work increases (+ 12% in 2012). This is explained by the new legislation
the Student Work which came into force on 1 January 2012 and which relaxes the rules
force. It provides that students can work 50 days per calendar year
paying less social security contributions as a normal worker.
However, to calculate the 50 days, one hour of work prestée per day equivalent to a
full working day. If a student only works a few hours a day will be every time
removed from its remaining days.
The CDH proposes to review the counting system and:
-

establish in favor of workers or students jobistes a counting system in 1/2 days
PRESTE of the day rather than work.

Proposal 87: Set up the conditions for higher education
inclusive for students with disabilities
The CDH wants each higher education institution should implement without delay
the new decree on inclusive higher education.
The CDH implies that appropriate responses to all disabled students are
made by all higher education institutions in collaboration with the AWIPH,
Phare and accompanying services or educational support: accessibility of places
education, libraries, research laboratories, administrative services, but
also development of appropriate teaching practices, specific arrangements for
... These examinations are to be financed by a special endowment and does not preempt
spending on social services.
In addition, the CDH offers:
-

ensure the implementation in the higher education institutions of the Decree on
inclusive education and to make the assessment;

-

expand the development of an individualized support plan provided for in the Decree
inclusive higher education for students with disabilities for students
with a temporary disability (a cancer ...)

-

sensitize teachers, as part of their training, disability-related difficulties
or learning disabilities;

-

provision in the amount of study grants, a supplement for students koteurs
who are disabled to help them organize their housing;

-

support all initiatives the participation of students with disabilities
cultural, sporting and leisure organized by or on the site
higher education institutions.

79

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Proposal 88: Strengthen the transition between Universities and Colleges
The new decree defining the higher education landscape replaces the years
bridges between High Schools and Universities by the possibility of adding up to 60 ECTS prerequisite courses at masters program.
The CDH offers:
-

assess the implementation of this system after one year of operation (September
2015);

-

enable mobility on the basis of acquired skills;

-

inform students of this possibility of transition, still too little known.

Proposition 89: Provide housing supply and student-accessible
quality
The housing supply is an important component of higher education accessibility. Now we
finds a significant shortage of quality housing at an affordable price.
So that the situation improves and the supply of housing / affordable kots
increases, the CDH offers:
-

make a cadastre of the supply of public and private housing-students;

-

provide a "housing plan students' specific to each city with a high population
students;

-

increase the amount of the portion of income subject to taxation 3,000 euros for each
children pursuing studies in higher education, provided that
the educational institution is located at a distance of 30 km from home and
increase the amount of the tax credit of 450 euros per child pursuing studies in
Higher Education in the above conditions provided that it does not benefit
not a scholarship including housing costs in the calculation of the amount of
Exchange;

-

supporting initiatives "intergenerational kots" via subsidies favoring adaptation
dwellings;

-

encourage owners to provide quality student housing by granting a label
"Kot quality" subject to compliance with safety standards, quality of infrastructure,
insulation, space ...

-

Social invite Estate Agents (ISA) to promote among the private owners
renting out student accommodation at reasonable prices;

-

encourage the creation by the Housing Companies Public Services social housing
for students and through the anchor program;

-

create appropriate legislation to regulate the rental-housing students (rentals
ten months, allowing the involvement of a guarantor means of compliance with a code of good
conduct signed by owners and tenants students ...);

-

Students create a real estate agency to consolidate the supply of kots, ensure
payment of rent and the quality of locations, thus inducing rents downwards.

80

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Proposal 90: To increase student mobility
The number of international students, both financed by European funds and ERASMUS
the aid funds for student mobility (FAME) increases in Wallonia-Brussels Federation but
remains insufficient to the objectives for 2020: 20% of students should receive
European mobility.
For many students who have difficult to make ends meet every day in Belgium,
make a stay abroad is often a particularly elusive dream.
It is therefore appropriate that the public authorities are in support of the institutions in support to
both mobility policy towards the outside and active and increased attractiveness policy
our expanded higher education. This goal requires an approach relied on several
axes, both budgetary and organizational.
It also requires a more aggressive strategy towards the key countries on the part of authorities
policies, ARES and institutions to attract foreign students and second
graduate in francophone Belgium.
The CDH offers:
-

increase budgets for student mobility assistance funds (FAME) to expand the number
students can benefit from the opportunity of a mobility grant;

-

to ensure that our students are actually part of the Erasmus + program
boosts exchanges between young Europeans and brings together all European programs
current in the field of education, training and youth and which spans the
2014-2020.

Proposal 91: Create flexible teaching forms encouraging
resumption of studies
Higher education is not just about young people from 18-25 years. Trajectories
life can lead many people to wish to resume studies during their
professional career.
To facilitate the resumption of studies, cdH proposes to support:
-

e-learning, ongoing initiatives online or distance learning, the MOOC (Massive
Open Online Courses - Online courses open and massive) of our educational institutions
superior ;

-

projects of "Open University";

-

the training offer continued to shift work proposed by institutions
higher education and meeting the need for training / re-orientation throughout
life ;

-

adult work and training in times of study;

-

the "Valuation of acquired experience '(VAE) allowing people who do
not have a higher education qualification can return to a path
valuing academic or professional experience and personnelle35 ensure

35

The valuation of acquired experience is a device based on the recognition of acquired allowing a candidate to be admitted to
a course of study (in this case the Master for the Federation Wallonia-Brussels) for which it does not have the required access title

81

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
VAE device as an integral part of the courses offered by Education
superior. Specifically, the CDH proposes to harmonize procedures for the introduction of
Applications by developing a 'pass APL "in all High schools
Universities, granting a label to the holders of establishments that pass to a VAE
financial support from the start of the candidate's training and enhance information on the
VAE device to give it greater visibility.

Action 4. Promote good governance institutions
The current legislature has been marked by a major reform of the organization of teaching
superior. Its impact on good governance institutions remains to be assessed.
But it is essential to the quality of education. Better administrative support and
simplification of regulations also contribute.

Proposal 92: To evaluate the implementation of the decree and stabilize landscape
Higher Education
In 10 years, higher education has changed the face twice: once in 2004 with the
implementation of the Treaty of Bologna unifying European higher education; a second
time in 2014 with the landscape Decree.
This recent decree on higher education landscape has created new places of
consultations between the higher education institutions (ARES, Poles). This decree will be
particularly complex to implement and the text will definitely diseases
youth. For CDH, it is imperative to take the time to implement the reform, to
evaluate the effects and monitor its implementation. Indeed, it is necessary to take into
account the work that must be provided to implement these reforms and respect the work and
projects carried out by people who live higher education daily.
The CDH offers:
-

ensure proper implementation of the reform, monitor its implementation and
conduct a rigorous assessment of the landscape and its effect decree;

-

adapt the control of the Commissioners and representatives of the Government to the new landscape
Higher Education ;

-

create an interface to quickly establish reliable and complete statistics
all of higher education;

-

Stabilize the landscape of higher education and limit future reforms.

Proposition 93: Fight against administrative overhead and improve
Services Administration
The daily management of higher education institutions is increasing
more complex and now suffers from administrative burdens requiring expertise
still more pointed and reinforced teams specialized personnel. It is time to relieve
operation of the administrations of different institutions.
and / or obtain waivers to reduce the duration of studies followed. The academic board identifies and evaluates to do this,
gained experience of the candidate.

82

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
The CDH offers:
-

conduct a "test Kafka" generalized for the entire higher education
consultation with the administration and the ARES to examine how the requirements
administration of the French Community could be reduced or eliminated;

-

conduct an audit of the different channels of communications between existing information
administration, ARES and higher education institutions.

Proposal 94: Strengthen the management of the High Schools
In the Colleges of Arts, the deputy director position exists and allows both
to ease the work, allowing the daily operation duo and ensure presence
all sensitivities related to different types of training classes. This is a help
crucial that should be generalized to all High of at least 1,000 students schools.
Furthermore, the creation of a post of Director General would commit
management professionals and overseeing the administrative and logistic service in a world
Administrative increasingly complex.
The CDH offers:
-

create a deputy director position and deputy head high in high schools
size.

83

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Axis 2
Put the economy at the service
of the human
Our economic system is in crisis. More than a financial crisis - which led to a crisis
economic and social - there is a deeper crisis, marked by the glorification of everyone for
itself and the success of each against the loss of others. This system is based on the idea that happiness
through the unrestrained and uncontrolled consumption. The possession of material goods helps
welfare, but can be confused with happiness. This system underlies the excesses of
production models which are measured impasses today. This absolute valuation of the
Consumption distracts us from what has real importance to the quality of life of everyone,
excludes part of the population and leads us to an unsustainable lifestyle for
planet.
This economic system, we need to change it, transform it. So that the relationship
are the economic engine of a renewed live together, not crystallization relations
empty or tense social. For every woman and every man can, through its business and
his work, finding his share of happiness. For social integration relies less on the
consumption on the job, while it promotes personal development is limited
not to be a source of income. For the price of a good reflects its true cost to society and
the environment. For us to live better.
1. Work for yourself and for others
The future economy must first be a carrier saving jobs. That is why we
advocate the development of carrier business job by greatly reducing the cost of
work, in particular for the lowest wages and young people without work experience.
CDH also wants better support the people who wish to undertake and create
new companies in their life easier administratively and by facilitating access to credit.
What a paradox: while there has never spared so, this capital does not reach up
entrepreneurs! By supporting innovation, creativity, entrepreneurship, and making
provision of qualified and motivated our businesses, particularly SMEs,
will thrive and be at the forefront technologically, today essential
to survive and grow in an increasingly international and competitive environment. It is necessary
give each youth a place on the labor market and in society in general.
A human economy must also be respectful of the people working economy or
wishing to do so. This is why the CDH wants to strengthen the personal support of
job applicants to support their participation in the labor market, including
groups whose employment rate is particularly low, such as youth, seniors and
persons of foreign origin. Youth unemployment in particular is a scourge which must be
address with the greatest firmness. But unemployment is not inevitable. If these young people are
trained, they will then represent an incredible opportunity for companies who see to it
84

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
Brussels and Wallonia tremendous reserve young workforce, dynamic and productive.
The CDH has already widely launched to achieve this goal, including the plan put Sesam
implements which aims to provide work experience to remote job seekers
labor market. We must persevere in this effort.
The CDH also proposes to invest in continuing education. The level of qualification being the
main wealth of our economy, to form throughout life should be a right for
each worker. Companies can not develop only qualified personnel
motivated. It is through the development of scientific, technical and training
practice, directly linked to the quality of the land, that companies will find
qualified personnel. Not only companies can develop more easily, but
the balance between supply and demand for labor will also be improved, which will help
directly to the reduction of unemployment.
The level of qualification is an essential asset to access a job
fulfilling. The work is not a means to earn a living, it can also be a place of
personal achievement as far as quality of working conditions are guaranteed.
2. Create and innovate
The current changes in society, especially in terms of technology and
demographic, needed to identify economic sectors that are currently
to emerge. We need a strong industrial activity in Wallonia and Brussels. It
Application priority industries offering high value added products. Setting
networks of innovative companies, as permitted by the competitiveness clusters set up
as part of the Marshall Plans, promotes the development of a fabric of innovative and
creative, and developing synergies between them and with the research centers. He
must continue on this path in Wallonia and be inspired more by adopting Brussels
ambitious economic Deployment Pact unfolding over ten years.
Belgium is characterized by road, rail and river network among the best performers at
world, and, in the center of Western Europe. The access to Germany via the industrial area
Ruhr to France via the Lille region and Luxembourg are in a strategic point for
companies that want to export. The port of Antwerp is also a major asset to the
rest of the world, especially in America. Aim for industrial innovation policy
such as that worn by the Brussels and Walloon clusters clusters represents
a particularly effective way of taking advantage of these undeniable logistical advantages. In the
same time, we must also strengthen our digital network that takes today
as important as transport networks.
The ongoing demographic change carries a second economic sector
in which we must invest primarily: personal services. Nurses, aidessoignants, aids to daily living, etc. are examples of services that will be more and more
requested during the coming years. The development is essential to enable
elderly to stay at home even when their level of autonomy begins to decrease.
This is crucial given the desire of many older people to remain at home. Services for
People also avoid a supported in a medium to heavy residential
all these people. And then, and this is what is really essential for CDH, services
participate in an "economy connection." They directly increase the quality of life and well-being
population.
The sectors of energy efficiency and renewable energy are also sources
jobs and prosperity. For the CDH, the fight against climate change must be seen
as an extraordinary opportunity to reorient our ways of production and consumption.
It is particularly important to launch an investment plan in energy efficiency
85

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
buildings, creates jobs and energy independence. Finally, we also pay
Special attention to agriculture. Agriculture is fundamental both in its livestock component
a culture: it conditions access to quality food for all human beings
present and future and at all levels of the food chain.
Support for short circuits is exemplary of the policy we want to lead. In
the producer closer to the consumer, short circuits allow to recreate a relationship
personal and trust. It is a guarantee of quality of goods produced. In addition, by limiting
the number of intermediaries, short circuits ensure a decent income for
producers while preserving an acceptable price for consumers. Finally, short circuits
typically have a positive environmental impact since they reduce the distance
products before reaching the consumer.
3. Respect people and nature
An economy at the human service is respectful of people and economy
of nature. We must focus on consumption and production of quality goods, that is to say respectful of the quality of life of those who produce them as those who consume them.
For this, we must emphasize the rules of fair competition that strengthens rather than
deconstructs our social and environmental gains. Having a consistent and clear, lively
by healthy competition is a prerequisite to foster the vitality of our
businesses.
The European Union must show the way to more harmonious development at the service of
human and not a single market centered on himself. Thus, the levying of a tax
import based on respect for human criteria, social, health and environmental benefits to
borders of Europe will promote competition on a sound footing and
regulation of world trade. We also need to systematically integrate the actual price
consumer goods taking into account the impact of their production conditions and
distribution. We want to turn free trade into fair trade.

86

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Chapter 1. Working for oneself and for
other
By working every citizen actively contributes to the common welfare, while wages
and won the job are essential to quality of life. The work is also a key
forms of socialization and self-realization means. Fight against unemployment and support
access to more employment is a key axis of a humanistic policy. TO
this end, the CDH intends to act both on the job and on demand as part of a
discussion with the social partners.
The CDH offers firstly reduce the cost of labor, particularly on low wages but
Also on young people without work experience to facilitate their entry into the market
work. It also wants to support entrepreneurship and self-employment. By daring to start
its business, a citizen creates its own jobs, but often many other jobs.
Finally, CDH wants to strengthen the training of workers and support for applicants
Job.

Action 1. Creating jobs
According to the calculations of the Central Council of the Economy, the Belgian wages in the market economy have
increased faster than our three main neighboring countries since 1996. The gap was
4.8% in 2012, but would be reduced to 3.8% in 2014 due to labor cost reduction measures
taken by the government. The CDH wants to go further in order to promote job creation and
devote, in the next Parliament, a budget of 2.6 billion reduction in labor costs
(by shifts in taxation).
Meanwhile, the CDH wants to strengthen the measures of temporary hiring subsidies. By
definition limited in time, this aid is intended to encourage employers to hire. He
particularly important to simplify.

Proposal flagship 95: Reduce to 0% social security contributions on wages
minimum
The labor market in Belgium has a barrier to job creation: the high cost of labor
employee. This hinders the hiring and hurts our economic competitiveness.
Between 1996 and 2012, the evolution of labor costs was 4.8% faster in Belgium than in
neighboring countries: Germany, France and the Netherlands. This is mainly since 2006 that the costs
Wage strongly augmenté1.
To remedy this, the Belgian government has greatly reduced labor costs through reductions
structural and temporary patronales2 social contributions.



1



3

2

87




















LL





P A
AU ERMUDS GRR U M
The URA DS ML LHRCG CSRUG MM Uqês U i L
Employment on this installment of wages is particularly sensitive to LH T RG8 S Coel HG G RDS
UL GC NU SHEC MN ML GUPH UUE RGUL UK UUSHG U UU G G HR UG UCGSU GT U8
CHECEU EM i m
ELRU LREMU EU R G U S S S U G MRT RH A RMRA SA
IAQ q1du SHEU HSLU
A MUS GU8
p
1CHRM RC G A ML
SM ML SA CH SUG LREM AI RH RA SA EA GG SDS UUESU Me A CG UG ML HR UL
E NHWM 8 U UU CGRS RMUR qdav1a SHEU HSLU CHA CHA ERU ur ii SHEU ERU8 MCS GR
R H CESHH MCGSUG
LL
EM M R R M A S EA CG ML m
G RU M o C ML UU H
A SHEU8 LL OEH LREM S A ML EML EH RL RC RH C HLR
LH T he for all employees 4
ec
EMU DS M

SHEU naa q H S H O MTR ani ui sb
HR ML G H L A S S LREM Eel
tqai q1du

HR L

SHEUp M

IF A USH U U U RL Re UUSU8

These measures must be implemented by respecting the
and be subjected to
offsets within the state budget (see proposals Qer ui Ep L RG EMTR ensure SM ML
RM M C U S H RGRU HG
L G U R G SHRL EU
The FSAU LLH UDS ULREMU G EM HL LREMUE RG RML HCHE UUREMM GG 8

dn p

ec

It is not uncommon for young people entering the job market find themselves clueless is e
vis the requirements of potential employers. Professional experience one1 TERH
CGSUR SHU MM U1est indeed required for most G UL offers emplER8 UGEHU RG RR CSHS
a young gain the required experience if employers do not allow their luck.
To facilitate the integration of young people on the labor market, the CDH wants to reduce the 0%
ELRU LREMU EU R G U G U C MHWM
LESU GUO SM U DSR ML ML G A SH CH ARHIC HR M
dd

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
professional. By reducing the cost of youth work, companies will be much more
inclined to engage them and offer them a first experience.
After a year exempt from employer social contributions, a transitional period of two years
see contributions rise gradually to reach their effective rate "normal" from the 4
beginning of the fourth year of employment. The interest of such a gradual recovery is to avoid
threshold or rotational effects.
This proposal will facilitate the inclusion of all young people, skilled and unskilled labor market.
The CDH offers:
-

reduce to 0% the rate of social security contributions for young people starting their first
professional experience. This exemption makes employers' social contributions will
effective for twelve months in employment;

-

at 24 months (second and third years of the young worker employment), the
contributions date back gradually, to reach their normal rate at the beginning of
fourth-year employment;

-

if the employment period of the young worker is interrupted when his employer benefits
always complete or partial reduction, the reduction will continue when the worker
find a new job by taking into account the time already worked.

This measure must be implemented respecting budgetary neutrality and be subject to
offsets within the state budget (see our proposals on taxation).

Proposition 97: Simplifying the employment aid measures
The sixth state reform provides for the transfer of large budgets related to employment support measures
the Regions. This aid is intended to reduce the cost of hiring for certain categories of workers.
For CDH, it is essential to take advantage of this transfer of skills to overhaul the
different layers of aid that currently exist to simplify and consolidate the different
existing aid by adapting to regional realities and limit thrift effects.
It is appropriate in this context to systematically include an assessment of the various measures
help identify and also between the resources allocated to aid for employment on the one hand and
accompanying policies and on the other training, assignment that allows the most impact
important about sustainable inclusion in the labor market for the beneficiaries.
The CDH offers:
-

consolidate employment subsidies that cover the same objectives and the same public (young people,
unskilled, from the labor market, older workers). The grouping of different
aid must enable employers to have a clear picture on the overall amounts of
reduction (activation and reduction of assessment and make one approach by
worker for the granting of such aid (single window);

-

inform all stakeholders (employers and job seekers) aid which they
can access via the internet platform "autravail.be" and a personalized guide;

-

Wallonia and Brussels, we must guide priority assistance measures towards young little
qualified to give them a springboard for access to employment. It is to group
various existing aid intended that audience and to include including provisions aimed
beneficiaries of social integration income (see proposal 95);

4

When soon mean effective rate "normal" the effective rate presented in Chart 2 of Proposition 1.

89

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
-

reducing contributions for older workers to be more focused on workers
for which the impact of aid on employability is the largest, targeting wages
below (see Proposal 100) and thus avoiding windfall for salaries more
high;

-

give aid directly to the employer. The CDH proposes to simplify the activation device
to grant the benefit directly to the employer (which is also the main
beneficiary), nevertheless maintaining a direct link between the aid and
worker characteristics;

-

limit the windfall. The repeated use and systematic aid to temporary employment by
some employers must be more box;

-

foster a progressive reduction in aid rather than a brutal suppression of benefits
for the employer to better match the progressive acquisition of skills and
thereby enabling to form a real springboard to employment for beneficiaries;

-

access to employment aid should be maintained for people excluded from unemployment. He
should indeed not penalized twice.

Proposal 98: Create a strong activation measures for young little
Qualified
As part of the Reform of the State, the Regions are now fully competent to
determine the employment support measures best suited to their regional realities. For the
CDH, it is necessary to strengthen support measures that affect especially young
low-skilled, for which the entry into the labor market is particularly difficult.
We must provide for a uniform policy for the Walloon region and the Brussels region, more
simple, readable and effective for business.
Furthermore, it is important to emphasize the benefits of activation measures for these audiences,
insofar as they are granted based on the worker's home. Mobility
Inter may well be promoted (eg to allow young or Brussels
Walloon find employment in Flanders).
Therefore, the CDH offers:
-

create an activation measure strengthened to unskilled young people (who have to
Maximum CESS5) from 700 euros to 1,000 euros per month for 24 months and then decreasing
during the following 24 months;

-

ensure portability of this assistance on a "backpack" in case of change
employer;

-

this measure provide a springboard effect the coupling to a training plan and acquisition
skills (cfr. Proposition 99).

This measure, coupled with the reduction of contributions on job seekers who do not have
of professional experience, is likely to actually create a differential in favor of the public.

5

Certificate of higher secondary education.

90

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Proposition 99: Pairing a training plan for temporary aids
Employment
For CDH, access to temporary help employment (type ACTIVA, FPI / PFI, SESAM, etc.) must
necessarily result in the acquisition of skills and valuable experiences on the
job market. Therefore, the CDH proposes to integrate the aids in emploiformation course.
A plan of competence should therefore be established at the beginning of the period of employment. A
certification of skills must also be established at the end of the assisted period to
ensure that this experience will result in additional skills
may be valued in the labor market.

100 flagship proposal: Increase the employment rate of older workers
Increased participation of older workers in the labor market is not a necessity
only for their own well-being (income, integration into society ...) but also for
businesses through leveraging skills and for the whole society.
Did you know that the employment rate of 55-64 years was 39.5% in Belgium in 2012? This figure remains
quite far from the target of 50% for 2020.6
Indeed, we know a significant demographic change: in 2060, there will be two
active people for a pensioner, against three for actuellement.7 In this
context, if we want to improve our social security system, it is necessary that more
people contribute. However, this will only be possible if working conditions are suitable
the needs and aspirations of older workers.
Understand
Various measures have been put in place by the Government to keep more workers
long time to work, while maintaining the legal retirement age to 65 years:
- Early retirement is now called "unemployment scheme with additional business and
access conditions (age and number of years of career) were found gradually. The
Beneficiaries are now under the control of availability on the job market;
- The age of early retirement has been raised;
- Control the availability of job seekers was extended (55 in 2013);
- The tax rate of the pension of the second pillar was increased when seen before age 65.
Moreover, it is not enough to invest only in recent years to maintain
Seniors employment. We must pursue long-term policies in crucial areas such as
training throughout the life, well-being at work, the balance between work and life
Category ...
The CDH offers:
1. targeted reductions in social contributions for older workers on low wages instead
that on all over 50 years workers by adapting the compensation ceiling
to strengthen the impact of this measure on employment.

6
7

2013 National Reform Programme
Key figures for Social Security, FPS Social Security, 2013

91

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
2. strengthen support for job seekers for older unemployed and reinforce
means of regional employment services to perform this task;
3. provide for the mandatory introduction of a biennial review meeting with officials
the company to take stock of his career prospects from the age of 40 years.
From the age of 50, this would be supplemented by the right to a biennial external advice
Following on from the quarry, for example with the public employment service;
4. support work arrangements at retirement: adaptation of workstations thanks
Fund of professional experience, reduction of working time ...;
5. strengthen the passage of a heavy premium business a slight business to support adaptation
tasks to perform according to the age;
6. increase awareness of the existing measures to promote employment of older workers: pension bonus,
premium for the passage of a heavy job to a light job, payroll tax reduction
for older workers, additional return to work ...;
7. inform the assets on their future pension rights by giving a globalized information
between different schemes and different pension pillars;
8. strengthen intergenerational coaching within the company (see proposal 128);
9. develop part-time work for over 55 years. ;
10. allow a job seeker over 55 years of working with a 1/5 time
lump social contribution, but without reduction of his rights related to unemployment, and without the
cumulation of allocation and additional income exceeds the minimum wage.

Proposition 101: Developing social workshops for people very
distant from the labor market
The search behavior of the control device manual proved he had an effect on
the intensity of job search and finding employment for the greatest number.
Nevertheless, they are not necessarily the most suitable for certain public response.
Indeed, some job seekers had the opportunity several times to demonstrate
actively seeking work but can not find.
More broadly, a number of people receiving unemployment or were excluded
(which does not necessarily receive support from the CPAS) are far removed from market
employment. The CDH also considers it necessary to provide assistance to these people to their
allow to be part of society.
Therefore, the CDH offers:
-

develop a network of social workshops in Wallonia and Brussels. On the basis of what exists
Flanders, social workshops allow people who have a long period of inactivity
the labor market and who encounter various problems (mental, physical, health,)
to perform an activity;

-

financing these social workshops would be provided to 50% from public funds and 50% by
the means related to their economic activity;

-

a grant to the enhanced employment (dependent activation taking 70% of wage costs) would
granted to such persons for the duration of their participation in the social workshop;

-

intensive daily support for beneficiaries and workers would be provided to
deploy their skills, both technical and social.
92

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Proposition 102: Strengthen support for the social economy
The social economy is now seen as an essential partner in meeting the
future challenges in terms of personal services, integration and professional integration
of insecure public, maintaining local and innovative economic activities, the environment,
etc.
To support its development, CDH offers:
-

promote access to credit via various regional and private tools;

-

encourage the development of support structures for people via structures within
the social economy by granting subsidized jobs (PTP, ACS, APE, art 60);

-

ensure that a maximum of economic expansion aid are available to the sector;

-

systematize the incorporation of social clauses in public procurement wherever possible;

-

support the development of training courses oriented social entrepreneurship in
higher and university cycles;

-

encourage municipalities to create social economy initiatives rather than resort to
private sector for basic services such as catering in schools and hospitals, the
Ironing for hospitals and rest homes, cleaning ...;

-

encourage dialogue between certain players in the social economy sector (LFS) and the sector
of classical economics in a goal of mutual reinforcement and complementarity.

Proposition 103: Developing employer groups
The device group of employers allows companies to group together to hire
workforce that they then share in successive periods. This system creates
employment advantageously for all parties. On the one hand, workers are engaged
under a contract of indefinite duration. Moreover, enterprises but,
employ workers according to their needs.
The CDH offers:
-

easing the conditions of use of the device group of employers and more
frame this device-level social dialogue mechanisms;

-

remove the conditions attached to the target audience (currently only for applicants
distant from the labor market employment) and allow all workers to integrate
device;

-

allow the use of this device in the public sector;

-

clarify the rules of social dialogue (trade union representation, joint committee ...). This
device must also allow associations that unite other associations
"Mutualise" subsidized employment in the service of the past and their community projects.
This includes taking into account the specific reality of this type of structure (CDI time
full, pooling points ACS / EPA emergency regime to the "making available"
heard at the federal level, social secretarial costs ...);

-

encourage the use of economic interest groups (GIE) or Interest Groups
Economic Europeans (EEIG) to support this initiative.

93

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Proposition 104: Promote local employment in fragile areas
Unemployment is generally concentrated in certain parts of the territory of large cities. The
conventional tools of economic support does not always manage to reverse this trend.
A vicious circle of unemployment, low incomes, a general lack of training and finally
social exclusion. In these districts, there are not only held to sensitize and train
unemployed, but also to encourage companies to hire people who live there.
The CDH offers:
-

develop specific areas of financial and tax aid to businesses
these zones which employ persons who are domiciled (eg ZEUS areas
free ...).

2. Undertake Action
In Brussels and Wallonia, SMEs and TPE are the main source of economic growth
and job creation. However, entrepreneurship and self-employment rates remain
low in Belgium8.
Did you know that over 65% of Belgians prefer to wage entreprenariat9?
To remedy this, we must ensure to that the desire to undertake a motivating environment
promotes the implementation and development of its project. One who is willing to take risks
must also be able to count on the support of the authorities when it has trouble,
perhaps temporary, or to restart after failure. It is also important to raise
vocations raising awareness of entrepreneurship in schools, universities, schools

Professional and universities but also among job seekers and employees
who would like to run as independents.

Proposition 105: Fostering entrepreneurship
While it is growing, the entrepreneurship rate in Belgium is still lower than the
European average: 7% against 12%. Stimulation from an early age is important
to help create a business. Initiatives in this direction exist. They must be
encouraged and developed but also assessed to verify its effectiveness.
The CDH offers:
-

strengthening partnership (led by the regional agencies of the business and innovation)
between the business world and that of education;

-

create scholarships for internships "entrepreneurship" abroad;

-

strengthening entrepreneurship education in compulsory and higher education;

-

establish a national entrepreneurship that present day success stories
contractors carrying value added to the community.

8
Study Global Entrepreneurship Monitor, and January 17, 2013 Study of the European Commission of 4 June 2010, "Entrepreneurship
Belgian behind ", June 4, 2010.
9
Panorama of the Belgian economy in 2012, FPS Economy

94

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Proposition 106: Supporting female entrepreneurship and women returning
In Belgium, only 2.9% of women are in a business creation process. The part
of women among the self-employed amounts to 31.3% in Belgium (27.6% in Region
Brussels, 31% in Flanders, 31.5% in Wallonia) and the share of women among employers is
respectively 19% in RBC, 24% in Flanders and 22% in RW.
The CDH offers:
-

support women entrepreneurs by the perpetuation of regional support platforms
women's entrepreneurship and women returning;
facilitate access to finance for women entrepreneurs through the creation of a support fund
for female entrepreneurship and the creation of a "crowdfunding F" (that is to say, a
platform for linking project creative and loans to contributors
support projects initiated by women: a public system could complement the
financing projects deemed realistic).

Proposition 107: Strengthening the plane "Air Bag"
In the Walloon region, the "Air Bag" plan will encourage, through financial incentives 12,500
EUR complementary basis independents and those who, through their professional experience or
their degree / qualification, demonstrate their willingness to pass the course of self-employment as
principal. More than 300 independent have already settled in 2013, one year after the entry into force of
measurement, representing future potential employers.
Given this success, the CDH offers:
-

establish an Air Bag plane in Brussels and Wallonia strengthen;

-

develop synergies between the mechanism "Air Bag" and the financial tools of micro-credit
existing;

-

immunize installation aids as an independent granted by the Regions (such as
aids "Air Bag" or ISA aid for farmers) in the calculation of social contributions
independent and the tax level, as well as occupational discount premiums and
premium professional transition.

Proposition 108: Supporting job seekers who are starting a business
Independent
Under the leadership of CDH, an unemployed person who wants to start an activity as self-employed may
retain unemployment benefit when part of a cooperative activity. The
under cooperative activity does not suit everyone. The CDH wants therefore
enable people who wish to start an independent activity to keep
for a specified period allocation including outside of business cooperatives.
Similarly, an unemployed over 50 years or an unemployed person who was independent as
Further just before émarger unemployed may register as independent as
and realize additional benefits. For CDH, it is appropriate to extend this possibility to
unemployed youth who require or benefit from an integration allowance. The young applicant
User can then decide, based on this actual experience, to move as
independent principal or to move towards paid employment.
95

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
The CDH offers:
-

enable unemployed people who start as an independent to keep their allocations
unemployed for a year degressively;

-

enable young job seekers to realize additional benefits;

-

enhance the personalized support of candidates in the preparation of entrepreneurs
their business plan (local economy windows);

-

strengthen links between cooperative activities and micro-credit platforms.

Proposition 109: Improving the social status of self
If we want to guarantee a strong entrepreneurial sector, it is essential to make the status
entrepreneurial and more attractive independent. However, in Belgium, are still independent
a group at risk. If many of them are experiencing a favorable route, many also
fall without a safety net, in a precarious situation: 16% of independent living under
Belgique10 in the poverty line. The social status of self, including leaders
businesses, should be improved and the various constraints related to independent living
should be removed.
Significant progress was made during this parliamentary term, such as harmonization of
family or the calculation of social contributions allocations on the basis of professional income
year. For CDH, it will consider launching an ambitious reform that ensures
mobility between independent statutes, employees and officials. Further improvements can
already be implemented immediately, including:
-

the alignment of the amount of the minimum pension (pension at the single rate to be increased from 1060.94
euros to 1123.34 euros per month) (see proposal 223);

-

the creation of additional insurance of non-compulsory solidarity income;

-

the increase in aid during maternity leave and the introduction of insurance
paternity for independent workers and aidants11 spouses;

-

the creation of a Fund for occupational diseases and make it effective the independent
Service contractors substitutes to allow independent not lose their
customer in case of incapacity for work;

-

a more accurate perception of social contributions by a total exemption of contributions
Social up to a ceiling to facilitate the launch of activities but also a calculation
of proportional contributions based on income and not as currently declining;

-

taking into account in the calculation of the pension contributions paid by self as
complementary;

-

improving the functioning of the dues waiver fee, including
creating local offices and providing a strict deadline for decisions
provides a precise reasons for decisions, procedure reopening the possibility
introducing an effective and prompt recourse;

10
Neutral Union for independent analysis, conducted on the occasion of the World Day of Fight against Poverty, based on
Data INASTI, October 2013
11
Bill tabled by Christian Brotcorne (CDH) to be granted to self-employed and assisting spouses a
paternity insurance (Doc. 52K0536).

96

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
-

the reward of social insurance funds not only in terms of quantity but also
the quality of services performed on behalf of their members.

110 flagship proposal: Facilitate the creation, expansion and transmission
Business
The life of a business is never easy, either when launching a new activity or
taking over an existing society, in everyday life the day, the day when the
transmission. Steps must be taken to make life easier for entrepreneurs to each
stage of their business. It is imperative to establish a climate conducive to the creation, expansion and
the transfer of businesses.
The CDH offers:
-

provide opportunities for entrepreneurs willing to embark to realize a complementary test
knowledge to offer personalized support by coaches with
entrepreneurial experience;

-

encourage associations of "Business Angels" to support the development of small
innovative companies;

-

better information on aid offered by the state, including through the Walloon and Agencies
Brussels of the business;

-

allow companies to deduct from their taxable pro fi ts investments
capital as well as support for business creation in the form of sponsorship;

-

develop a platform for matching between buyers and sellers to trade
detail, like what has been set up for SMEs;

-

reduce estate taxes and registration apply to inheritances and gifts
family businesses.

Proposition 111: Facilitate access to financing for SMEs, SOHO and
project leaders
In Brussels and Wallonia, companies and ideas carriers often face difficulties
to finance their projects and that, because of the reluctance of banks. This is an important brake on
growth, creativity, and is a cause of closure, or transfer to investors
foreigners. Therefore, various laws have recently been modified to improve
SME financing by banks. For CDH, complete information measures for SMEs,
especially in cases of denial of credit, and the requirement for bankers to make credit
adapted, were more qu'indispensables. It remains crucial today to monitor and
ensure that the code of conduct that determines the banks' future obligations will
in place real measures to ensure adequate supply of credit to businesses.
The CDH offers:
-

amplify the communication of one-stop financing VSE / SMEs from banks
but also the companies themselves and support structures for SMEs (UCM network
incubators, development of inter ...);
97

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
-

assess and improve where necessary the new law on the financing by banks
SMEs and the associated code of conduct;

-

extend the practice to facilitate the granting of bank loans on the basis of a preliminary agreement
financial tools of some Regions appropriations requested;

-

promote and develop the mechanisms of access to microcredit;

-

promote private equity by connecting growing companies and investors
Invests via networks and encourage risk capital;

-

develop a new savings plan to redirect to the local economy;

-

expand and strengthen the role of Invests to companies, including SMEs and TPE.

112 Lighthouse Proposal: Strengthen access to credit by businesses
participatory financing (crowdfunding)
Did you know that according to National Bank of Belgium, the Belgians had placed a total of 247.4
billion on regulated savings accounts (December 2013)?
Companies are struggling to obtain the necessary financing for their development.
Additionally to bank financing and financing tools developed by
government, participatory financing (crowdfunding) would mobilize easily
private savings special attention to businesses and carriers of ideas.
Participatory financing is to raise funds from general public, usually via
an internet platform, to finance various projects. The basic idea is that many
Consumers invest a small amount and the sum of these small investments
allow fund the project. The possibility is thus given to particularly affect
their savings (through grants, loans or equity investments) directly to projects that
chooses and he believes a consideration of the project leader. The counterparty may
take many forms (compensation, services, benefits ...).
The most famous example is the first crowdfunding campaign of Barack Obama in the US,
funded by the general public to the tune of $ 150 million, hundreds of thousands of people
have, on average, gave 80 dollars on Internet12.
If the number of initiatives in the field of crowdfunding is up, the rules governing the
remain unclear, disparate and not always appropriate. For CDH, it is essential to clarify.
Project leaders should benefit from individual support from
professionals who can help them build a solid business plan, mature and realistic. It should
to raise the maximum amount that an entrepreneur can reap (maximum 100,000 euros
now) without having to publish a prospectus. The role of intermediaries should be platforms
professionalized to provide certain guarantees to lenders and project sponsors, to avoid
unfair competition with existing financial intermediaries (venture capital funds, funds
Boot government, business angel groups, ...) and encourage the sector. Finally,
Lenders must, for their part, benefit from a "financial protection". The system "Aunt
Agathe "implemented in the Netherlands is an interesting source of inspiration. It guarantees
12

Source: KissKissBankBank, crowdfunding platform.

98

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
the investor the opportunity to recover, by way of tax, part of the loss if
the contractor is unable to repay the loan.
The system "Aunt Agathe" the Netherlands to encourage private investors to support SMEs
Introduced in 1996 to encourage private investors to invest in SMEs while minimizing the part
risks that may constitute support for incipient activity, the system called "Aunt Agatha" has
enjoyed considerable success in the Netherlands. This system has the advantage, firstly, to exempt
tax on income interest received under the loan granted to the novice entrepreneur
for a period of eight years following the granting of the loan and, secondly, to allow the deduction in
the head of the private saver amount invested when starting entrepreneur fails and sees
unable to repay the amount emprunté13.
The CDH offers:
-

encourage and professionalize the crowdfunding;

-

together in a single text the rights and obligations of actors crowdfunding;

-

ensure individual support project holders;

-

up to 500,000 euros the maximum amount that an entrepreneur can reap (maximum
Currently 100,000 euros) without having to publish a prospectus;

-

professionalize the intermediate platforms;

-

encourage and protect lenders, incorporating the possibility of tax deduction in case
project failure and improving the information related to the risks incurred;

-

establish a tax deduction on the amount invested in crowdfunding, for the year
investment.

113 flagship proposal: Reduce the time for payment of invoices in
particularly those in charge of the State
Besides funding problems, companies and independent often have
liquidity problems. Of long payment weaken cash for many
companies and especially SMEs. Unpaid bills represent 9.15 billion euros
in Belgium14. These payment delays can have serious consequences and lead to
bankruptcies and layoffs. One in four SMEs is bankrupt because their bills are paid
late.
Did you know that consumers pay their bills within 36 days, the companies in the
54 days and authorities only in 73 jours15?
Companies must be able more easily enforce payment of bills by customers
indelicate. The legislation has also be revised to make them more strict payment deadlines,
increase opportunities for companies to seek recovery after late payment
and impose rules / tougher sanctions for governments that do not respect
always legal payment deadlines. Payment delays can now exceed
sixty days. This legislation will, however, be assessed to ensure a significant reduction
payment deadlines.
13

Source: Horizon 2022, into perspective and proposals, Roland Berger.
Study Graydon, 2013
15
European Payment Index (EPI), an annual survey conducted by Intrum Justitia; http://www.intrum.com/be
14

99

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
The authorities are also important customers for SMEs and must show
Example. The state and local authorities must respect the same rules imposed on other
actors in society. Moreover, as the financial flows between companies and authorities will
in both directions, it should provide for a compensation between the sums due from one company
the state (VAT or ISOC, for example) and unfinished bills paid by the state.
The CDH offers:
-

ensure compensation mechanism by level of power in the claims and debts
a company to various state agencies;

-

fight against delays in payment deadlines including assessing the impact of
recent change in legislation that reduced time and pursuing them further
payers;

-

establish a precise quarterly monitoring of justified and unjustified delays in the payment of
bills of public authorities, public make these results and define a plan by paying
of concrete action.

Proposal flagship 114: Assign one person to each company
Reference in the administration
Administrative burdens on entrepreneurs and the self are too
Important: respectively 5.13 billion euros in 2012, 1.36% of GDP and 1.23 billion,
or 0.33% of PIB16. These charges obviously influence corporate life. An independent
spends annually on average 3170 euros to take the administrative steps.
For a Belgian in six, are also red tape that discourage
to undertake. It is therefore essential that each new provision is also assessed
depending on the additional load would incur for businesses and especially
for SMEs and TPE.
Moreover, aid and existing subsidies currently are not sufficiently known, while
multiple legislative and administrative changes complicate their understanding and
opportunity for companies to benefit from the tools offered by the state. These aids must be
streamlined. It should also simplify and ensure good information on what to
take to benefit.
Moreover, entrepreneurs are often faced with similar requests from several
administrations. They also complain of the maze of administration that require them to remember
their situation several times to different interlocutors. The administrations also suffer from this
lack of close contact with companies and the lack of cooperation between different
services.
It is therefore essential to reduce administrative demands of public services. For this, it
need to strengthen cooperation between the authorities and the transfer of information between them. The
principle of Only-ounce can request a single time to a certain company
elements must be generalized and all data should be available on the
easily by all jurisdictions.

16

Planning Bureau, Belgium Administrative expenses for the year 2012, October 2013

100

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
Establish a single reference for every company within the corporate partner instance,
the Walloon Agency for Enterprise or Impulse in Brussels, would strengthen confidence and
proximity between the administration and the contractor. By learning about records,
the Directors may offer a personalized service to SMEs or independent and possibly pull the alarm bell quickly in case of problems. They must be supported, not
only in their creation, but also throughout their expansion and allowing them to
overcome possible failures.
This reference may in particular allow the contractor to provide accurate information on
followed its files and direct it to the right people, including subsidies,
hiring subsidies or export.
The CDH offers:
-

establish a single reference for each SME in the Walloon Agency for Enterprise or
of the Brussels Enterprise Agency (Impulse)

-

use a single form "Only Once" for all administrative formalities;

-

strengthen crossroads banks like the ECB and the BCEDs for companies to allow
public administrations and organizations to access all the information on
enterprises as well as coordinates of the single reference;

-

provide access to his "personal space" of the database for all users,
24/24 and 7/7;

-

promote transmission of internal and external administrative documents, in particular by
electronically;

-

generalize tests on administrative simplification as the federal AIR sheets
Légisa and in the Walloon region;

-

strengthen and generalize a true 'SME test / TPE "to take into account the effects and
burdens for SMEs / TPE legal texts to measure, by defining precise targets,
including their impact on competitiveness;

-

continue the action plan deletion of obsolete or excess regulations;

-

ensure comprehensive and easily understandable information for businesses on
grants and subsidies available, including online sites like www.infosentreprises.be and information via forms within administrations.

115 flagship proposal: To support companies in difficulty and to encourage
management of second chance
Each company disappearance erodes a little more our economic fabric, delays its
development and causes job destruction, know-how, not to mention all
other harmful cascading effects. We must fight against bankruptcy by strengthening
the support offered to companies in difficulty. There is also little devices which
encourage a contractor failed to restart economic activity. We need to offer
an approach that is déculpabilisante for all those who have experienced bankruptcy as
a failure and not an experience to bounce back again without stumbling over the same
Pierre.
The CDH offers:
-

strengthen the capacities of regional centers to companies in difficulty;
101

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
-

better anticipate the difficulties of companies or economic sectors by providing a role
anticipation of economic and social difficulties for social conciliators and allow them
for an announcement of a difficulty to be able to suggest ways including economic or
commercial;

-

facilitate access to bank loans guaranteed by regional or granting of loans to public
businesses threatened in their existence but with a recovery potential;

-

facilitate the granting of micro-credit stimulus to entrepreneurs;

-

placed on an equal footing entrepreneurs retentent their luck after a failure, with
applicants for a first start, including assistance, legal and financial;

-

facilitate and accelerate the procedure of termination of business or bankruptcy, to allow
the contractor to rebound and begin again;

-

protect the company from creditors during the period of arrangement (like Chapter 11
to USA).

Action 3. more people access to employment
After analyzing the way in which we want to boost job creation, we
present here our proposals to bring more people and more particularly the target groups
vulnerable to employment or accompanying better and more personalized way, either
forming better, either by having even more effective investment services or fighting against
the unemployment traps or by reinforcing mobility. Faced with the difficulty of finding a job, the
payment of unemployment benefits to replace lost income has emerged to
avoid a major loss of well-being for individuals and families involved.
However, in recent years, has become the idea that this alone is not enough. He is
necessary to provide support to lead to employment and, even more, to ensure
that this support is customized to the needs and challenges of each
job seeker. The CDH wants to continue efforts to offer an integrated course, which
coordinates the activities of all operators serving job seekers.
Did you know that in recent years, many efforts have been made by the Ministers
the CDH to strengthen employment support measures and to customize? Thus, the Region
Wallonia has set up an individualized support system since 2010. It bears
fruit, as more than 350,000 job seekers were thus accompanied and that taking
responsible for jobseekers takes place in the month of their registration for the youth and in
six months for others. Regarding the Brussels Region, the project construction has professionnel17
enabled 70,000 newly registered job seekers receive personalized coaching.

Proposition 116: Fight against unemployment traps
An employment trap appears when an unemployed person, a beneficiary of a social integration income or,
more broadly, a social beneficiary, do not earn enough by working. To fight
more against the pitfalls to employment, CDH wants to reduce the difference between the gross and
home pay in order to increase the attractiveness of accepting a job. This is also to avoid
its various advantages including social benefit recipients are lost soon
acceptance of a job.
17

Construction of a professional project replaced in June 2010 the professional project contract. Initially only addressed to
young, he gradually extended to all the public.

102

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
At the tax schedule, it appears that those who work are much faster
taxed as individuals receiving unemployment benefits or an integration income
social. Indeed, the taxable minimum is too low on labor income.
Therefore, the CDH offers:
-

greatly increase the tax exempt portion until 11,000 euros a year. Thus, level
equal, a professional activity income will not be taxed more than an allocation
full unemployment. This proposal amounts to increasing the gap (minimum 20%) between
actual professional income and income compensation, to make work more attractive
(see proposal 196);

-

review the various support mechanisms that benefit recipients have to link these
income benefits and not the status (municipal taxes, health care, telephone cards,
TV license, energy meter, ...);

-

avoid employment support measures that require enrollment time as plaintiff
employment, with the exception of measures aimed unemployed very long and / or very
from the labor market;

-

strengthen the support efforts and monitoring of the unemployed and beneficiaries of a
Revenue of social integration (cf. proposal. 117);

-

reserve the FTA mechanism unemployed far removed from the labor market (cfr. proposal
212);

-

strengthen measures of socio-professional integration, including the fight against traps
employment in the system of socio-professional exemption (cf. proposal. 246);

-

remove the "price of labor" in the disability allowance (proposal
242);

-

maintaining the tax benefits for people on disability following a program
Vocational Rehabilitation (cfr. 215 proposal).

117 Lighthouse Proposal: Strengthen the rapid and customized support
jobseekers
Control of job seekers does not intend to penalize them. Its purpose is to
make more effective personalized support and promote the development of their
skills and employment development. As part of the 6th state reform, this control is
now transferred to the Regions. For CDH, it is essential to design a future organization
that allows the support and control of mutually reinforcing.
The system put in place must therefore meet the following objectives:
1. ensure better readability for the user: the job seeker must
understand the organization and the division of roles to achieve greater efficiency
actions taken;
2. develop accountability for jobseekers: the job seeker must be
empowered in their job search behavior and put into position
means obligations (not profit) from its search behavior
of employment18;
18

Given the situation on the labor market and the current standard with the NEO a job search action
week.

103

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
3. enhance individual support: the job seeker must receive
individual contacts with the regional employment service and for suitable its
situation. For CDH, accountability of the jobseeker can not be done without
personalized intervention of regional public employment service to him.
To do this, we must give the tools to referring advisers to direct the best
job seekers in their professional insertion process, including through a
appropriate technological equipment and allowing a wide dissemination of information to
jobseekers. It is appropriate to guide job seekers to jobs,
training and internships that fit them best.
The CDH offers:
1. separating support and jobseeker control. Controlling behavior
job search should be performed by a separate management unit within the FOREM or
ACTIRIS. This makes it possible to make no confusion between support and control
the disponibilité19; but still take advantage of the combination of these skills in one
organization to:
-

better integrate control requirements in the mission of accompaniment;

-

take better account of the accompanying action in the actions requested by the
control;

-

maintaining the requirements currently imposed by the NEO to keep an application
Uniform rules on unemployment in the Country to prevent application
full regionalization of unemployment benefits.

The creation of a separate management department responsible for monitoring the unemployed in organizations
regional employment makes it possible to:
-

keep monitoring the implementation of the unemployed in a joint framework;

-

ensure that monitoring is carried out within the same body as the accompaniment, which
allows a better match between these two tasks, without mixing them;

-

facilitate the transfer of information both between monitoring missions and support
between federal and regional bodies;

-

differentiate the control missions on the one hand and on the other support;

-

organize work and Forem Actiris by sector.

2. adjust the accompaniment of the job seeker to his needs
In continuation of the efforts already developed, should continue efforts to ensure
personalized support for each job applicant and upon registration thereof.
When registering, each job seeker sees appoint a consultant who is referent
the guarantor of the continuity of employment pathways. Upon registration, the jobseeker is
informed of his rights and obligations by the regional body (and its payment agency
when the request for benefits). It is particularly informed of his obligation Search
active job, monitoring of this obligation by the regional body and the consequences of failure
compliance with this obligation. Every job applicant is responsible for its research efforts
Job. The regional service is there to help, but it is the job seeker is
truly an actor of his job search, and it is to him to make representations.

19

Recall in this regard that both ACTIRIS management contracts FOREM already provide the establishment of a management service
separate.

104

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
At the time of registration, taking into account various risk factors (experience
professional, educational level, type of education, social status, etc.) can develop over
job seeker an action plan. This action plan must enable several types of actions:
Looking for stand-alone or accompanied employment; professional training ; work placements;
referral to a specialized operator (EFT / AFT20, OISP, Mire or local Mission, literacy ...).
The autonomy of each job seeker in his job search and is promoted
sought.

Proposition 118: Developing the Youth Guarantee for liability
Shared
The vision of cdH of employment policy is based on responsibility. And responsibility must
be a global concept: the responsibility of the job seeker in active availability has
is meaningless if it is not accompanied by a corporate responsibility of governments to
implement the means for it to have a tangible positive impact on personal situation
unemployed:
-

firstly, by providing the tools to help everyone to walk the path that the
separates from employment;

-

secondly, by creating the conditions necessary to stimulate the job market.

This logic of rights and duties is already being implemented through the Guarantee
Youth: the obligation to actively seek employment is complemented by the commitment
mutual benefit within 4 months of work experience, training or internship.
This responsibility falls to regional services as well as job seekers,
social partners, employers and trade unions, who have the responsibility to create conditions
allowing employment to date. This offer therefore depends not only from government; it
should also be based on employers and all the social partners.
Moreover, for too long, vocational training operators have evolved
independently from the public employment services. For CDH, we must continue
Integration of training actions in employment pathways to make this the most routes
fluid possible. For this it is essential that the job seeker has a cooperation
enhanced upstream service training as well as downstream. After the training, the applicant
employment should receive personalized service to direct it to a job. This integration
of course must also be realized with partners of public services (especially
operators of socio-professional integration).
Therefore, the CDH offers:
-

allow access to transition stages from 4 months after registering as an applicant
employment (see proposal 125);

-

continue the implementation of an integrated training pathways - employment under
mutual commitments;

-

double training opportunities in Brussels and Wallonia continue to increase through a
regional agreement with companies must commit to quantified targets and increase
supervisors (see proposition 124).

This integrated course must ensure compliance with the commitments made under the
Youth Guarantee, namely offer within 4 months young job applicant a job,
20

Business and training workshops through work.

105

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
training or an internship. Compliance with this commitment in Wallonia and Brussels is a priority for
the CDH.
Meanwhile, it is necessary to maintain efforts to mobility for job seekers,
in particular by training in language and cooperation between public employment services.

Proposition 119: Continue to strengthen the effectiveness of Actiris and FOREM
Forem in Wallonia and Actiris in Brussels have pledged, under the leadership of CDH in the way of
major reforms to provide personalized support to each job seeker
and provide an efficient supply of services to employers. Ongoing reforms should be
continued.
The CDH offers:
-

continue to strengthen the efficiency and quality of service and Forem Actiris for both
employers and job seekers;

-

strengthening the matching of services to cross the offers of companies and profiles
jobseekers to offer soon a suitable job;

-

deploy an IT department to have a single folder, personalized and comprehensive
the job seeker (job profiles, training, offers accepted, rejected, etc.).

Proposition 120: Require all companies to submit their offers
jobs in the regional employment services
To ensure equal opportunities for all, fight against discrimination in hiring,
to improve the matching of supply and demand and strengthen employment commissioning, cdH
proposes:
-

require any public or private undertaking and any municipal, regional
to convey his or federal jobs to different regional employment offices
(FOREM, Actiris);

-

This obligation to inform should be as flexible as possible to the company. It
not imply any obligation to reserve the supply to regional employment offices or
preferentially use their services and their candidates;

-

the obligation will be on job vacancies and not only offers a subject
publication in order to meet the issue of market "hidden";

-

This obligation will be gradually introduced as from improved management
matching offers and by regional services (cf. proposal. 119);

106

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Proposal flagship 121: Creating centers of expertise in the sectors
holders
Some sectors (Horeca, construction, tourism, logistics, ICT, etc.) have potential
more important because of the existing demand, the number of companies and
employment opportunities that result. It should support businesses and workers
active in these sectors through the various existing aid measures and allow
job seekers to integrate them. To do this, it is necessary that those involved in employment and
training collaborate closely in achieving this goal.
A significant number of employment and training actors acting at different levels and times
in the course of professional integration of job seekers: competence centers or
professional reference, FOREM, Actiris, Bruxelles Formation, VDAB-RDB, partners, high
schools, universities, etc. Their multiplicity does not always make easy reading for both
businesses and job seekers.
The CDH offers:
-

create centers of expertise to consolidate in a single physical location operators
private and public employment and training in a given sector and equipping them with
advanced equipment and infrastructure meet the needs of companies (see also
proposal 50);

- set goals for competence center regarding the number of spaces
training, made internships, collaborations and business contributions, etc;

-

ensuring the application and introduce regulatory control procedures on
risk groups, which provides that employers must provide measures
support to employment especially for students and young asylum
Job. Benefit from the application of these regulations to boost implementation of
areas of expertise.

Proposition 122: Fight against shortages and anticipate the needs of
skills
Training of job seekers is a priority for the CDH. Nearly 65% ​​of
Job seekers from Brussels and 49% of Walloon have not completed secondary education. Gold
companies require their workers a high level of qualification. There are also
trades for which there is a significant shortage of workers. Building efforts
So vocational training must absolutely be prosecuted.
Furthermore, the action of employment services and training is often reactive, compared to
shortages observed on the labor market. The CDH is convinced that we must gradually
evolve a proactive role on the labor market, to better anticipate trades
and future skill requirements, rather than to act behind the needs of
job market.
For CDH, it is therefore essential to develop the training offer and ensuring consistency
of them with the reality of the labor market.
The CDH offers:
1. conduct a regular and systematic review of existing training courses for
adapt to demand and trades in demand, ensuring a constant adaptation of the
education;
107

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
2. strengthen preformations that can upgrade jobseekers
compared to the requirements for entry into vocational training;
3. anticipate the repository of trades and training activities in the light of market developments
employment and profiles to mobilize and ensure more active management of companies
difficulty order to guide the workers towards trades skills
close;
4. Region by creating with the help of a business register of new needs and new
trades prospectively to training operators and schools;
5. afford to have a continuous training path regardless of the level of education and
training and organizing links between the training program and ensure
complementarity between the different actors of the training;
6. continue the development and promotion of technical and manual skills so
coordinated, including promising businesses, and that both public and among men
female;
7. strengthen the training of teachers / trainers to enable them adapt
to changes in job;
8. harmonize and relax the conditions of availability of relief in regulation
Unemployment for the monitoring of a training course irrespective of the operator training or
education, including for the middle class;
9. strengthen cooperation between public services and professional training sectors
and involvement of sector funds;
10. Brussels, ensure that ACTIRIS recourse to the possibility of developing new projects
vocational training as originator as required reform
institutional and thus ensure greater consistency of training initiatives with the needs
the labor market and job paths - training.

Proposition 123: Recognize the acquired skills and experience
By his life experience and his career or non-professional, applicants
Job have often developed many skills. However, these skills are
often not recognized and are therefore not recoverable with an employer. To create a
knowledge society, it is essential to clearly develop these skills.
The CDH offers:
-

An accelerated procedure for recognizing diplomas obtained abroad;

-

strengthen the valuation of the professional experience and ensure equivalent certification
training and education;

-

expand trades and skills for which recognition procedure
skills can be organized and expand the number of centers recognized in this context,
especially through simplified repositories;

-

strengthen the skills tests for job seekers, including using
the teaching of social promotion when they register with the public employment service
to refine the assessment of skills and qualifications of the actual job seeker;

-

improve the recovery of previous professional experience in the public service.

108

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Proposal flagship 124: Making alternating the royal road to
Learning a trade
The alternation is a teaching method known to promote inclusion in employment. In
Wallonia-Brussels Federation, the alternating training sector has become a specialty
IFAPME, with great results. Indeed, IFAPME can boast an insertion rate
86% of professional learners for his learning, and 80% for its learners
training "business leader", up to 100% in some areas. This offer
alternation is also developing within the framework of Centres of Education and Training
Alternation (CEFA) in particular.
If there are multiple forms of sandwich courses, they are too numerous and do
not make it easier for employers, which ultimately results in their deterrence
use. They do not ensure equal treatment of apprentices who go through these
training, according to the agency that supplies them. The CDH has therefore a mission to harmonize
all these articles to increase the effectiveness of such training.
To massively develop alternation, the CDH offers:
1. harmonize and enhance the status of apprentices to ensure equal treatment of all
young people choosing alternation. Compensation must be sufficiently attractive to
youth and be the same in Brussels and Wallonia, in a CEFA or in a training center
professional. It is also simplifying the statutes as an "alternating contract"
one that will replace the learning agreement and employability Agreement
(ICSE). The Fed must also review the status of the young alternately, to create a base
Federal containing minimum conditions for social security and labor law to
all apprenticeship schemes;
2. providing bridges between operators in order to facilitate the transition to alternate
the full-time education or social advancement education, including
enabling young people who have followed a dual training to obtain the same certificate
obligatoire21 that qualification in education; also maintain the specificity of
training companies through work.
3. extend the alternation to new sectors and type ratings;
4. conclude an agreement with numerical targets by region with enterprises.

Proposition 125: Reach 30,000 placements per year
Alternately, alternating training, transition courses, PFI, ... so many mechanisms for internship
where the creation of company training places should be a priority for tomorrow's
the business world demands may coincide with the skills of the future worker.
We must therefore mobilize the institutional players and the social partners to open a number
crescent corporate training places and systematize certain procedures ensuring good
internship quality. The CDH wants greater investment in professional sectors
training and in the implementation of internships in companies, as well as their visibility.

21
Some progress has already occurred since the CQ6 (sixth grade qualification certificates) is now available to learners
IFAPME and business leaders can graduate under a pilot obtain the title of bachelor by promoting
social. This experience is currently in training in accounting. It is set to expand to other courses.

109

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
Parallel to the above actions, so should be developed for the general
internships to provide an experience of the workplace to job seekers and
trainees.
For this, it is necessary to:
1. ensure the widest possible promotion of transitional placements with employers and
check that the work placements meet the applicant's training objectives
employment;
2.

allow access to transition from 4 months internship registration as job seeker
(instead of six at present), to ensure greater consistency with the commitments
as part of the "Youth Guarantee" (offer every young jobseeker within 4
months employment, education or training). Also remove the qualification requirements.
Allowing the use of this formula without delay waiting for employers;

3. predict as in Germany an obligation for employers to host a number of
trainees equivalent to 3% of their employees calculated in full-time equivalents. This measure
would provide 30,000 training places in Wallonia and Brussels;
4. to require sectors, through a Social Pact training to ensure a number of places
courses available for people in training or education;
5. to include in public procurement for companies by social clauses
which the company is committed to taking a / several training intern in his
if he gets the business market;
6. training people in business supervising learners alternately (training
guardians), to give the best chance of success in alternating or validate
work experience tutor through a credential;
7. fight against the priority barriers to employment to access to professional life, either
a driving license, mastery of the mother tongue or the knowledge base of
second language. And family are sometimes constraints such as their real availability
is unsatisfactory to employers;
8. encourage social and professional integration of adults in difficulty of access to employment
for reasons both social and low level of education or, in prolonged absence
the labor market, in particular by providing training tailored to their needs.

126 Lighthouse Proposal: Make lifelong learning a worker's right
A training throughout life is needed for all workers in all occupations,
all (re) professional guidance, all sectors, all stages of life.
Learning and improving skills should allow everyone to accompany
economic changes and enable the participation of all in the labor market.
Continuing education is also an asset for companies that develop through
to workers' skills. For CDH, it is appropriate that the continuous training of workers
become a right of everyone, and that it is fully integrated into our protection device
social.
The CDH offers:
-

create an account continuous training for each worker. Early in his career,
each job seeker and each worker will automatically receive an "account
Continuing Education "including a number of training hours. Each year, this account
110

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
will be powered by additional hours. It will enable the worker, in accordance with its
employer to have some flexibility as to when to follow his training. This
Account-training accompany the worker throughout his career and will enable
to increase the participation rate of all workers to training, there
including the less qualified or those assets within a smaller company workers
size. Specific support measures for small and medium enterprises
should be adopted. This continuing education account replace existing devices
paid educational leave and training vouchers currently being developed;
-

increase companies' efforts for the training of workers. Since 1999,
companies have committed to the goal of devoting 1.9% of the payroll to
training efforts. This goal has been achieved only recently, provided that one does
disregard of less than 10 workers. For CDH, we must today
increase the percentage of effort to provide 1.9 to 2.5% of payroll on the horizon
2018 and verify the attainment of that percentage by sector and not for the whole economy.
These measures are offset in the capital of companies through a sharp reduction in
contributions on labor (see proposals 95 and 96).

Proposition 127: Encourage labor mobility
Geographical mobility of workers and job seekers is an important asset for
the fight against unemployment in some regions and fill labor shortages for
some functions in other regions.
There is an improvement in mobility. At European level, 7.5 million Europeans, or 3.1%
of the labor force, working in another Member State. Some 700,000 people
move each year to a different country because of their work.
In Belgium, more than 50,000 are employed Walloons in Flanders and Flemish 24,700 have jobs
Wallonia (IWEPS). Many Belgians also belgoluxembourgeoise and cross the Belgian-French border daily for employment.
The CDH offers:
-

increasing interregional and international mobility using more networks Synerjobs
and EURES and developing trans-regional and cross-border collaborations (purse
employment ...);

-

increase collaboration between regional employment services;

-

provide information and guidance specifically for Border belgoluxembourgeois and Belgo-French, possibly in synergy with the French authorities
and Luxembourg, to help in the issues raised by their situation
border (double taxation, supplementary pensions, health care ...).

Proposition 128: Foster transmission of experience
A large number of workers will reach the retirement age in the coming years. He is
essential to ensure transmission of their knowledge within companies. Some steps in
sense, as the "reduction target group for guardians" already exist, but must be
developed.
The transmission of knowledge between generations is essential to promote formation
young people and their integration into the labor market, be it in education, in
businesses, public functions or in social professions.
111

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
The CDH offers include:
-

encourage mentorship by experienced youth workers on a voluntary basis;

-

develop "intergenerational contract" that is to say to combine youth employment and
older workers through agreements with companies that would receive assistance in
hiring a young and would benefit from a cap on employer contributions for
hiring or continued employment of a "senior";

-

encourage the creation of an association of career counselors;

-

increase the added value internships and institutions through the establishment of a
status of "master training";

-

promote and improve the added value of qualifying education through the establishment of a status
"Tutor" and reduce social security contributions for a worker who performs the task
training or coaching courses.

Action 4. Observe the worker
Respect for workers is an essential element of social responsibility. In
Indeed, a company can claim to lead a responsible and ethical policy if it does
not first apply strict principles internally.
Each company must defend its members strong values ​​such as respect for standards
health and safety and the establishment of preventive measures, increasing the quality of
work, promoting gender equality, integration of the most vulnerable groups such as
disabled people and immigrants, the participation of workers through procedures
consultation and information, the development of professional skills, ...

Proposition 129: Promote the well-being at work
A policy of human employment is an employment policy that strengthens the health and safety
of workers and general well-being in their daily working lives.
Also, ensure quality jobs not only serves to protect workers. It
also represents a reduction in social security for costs and better
business development, without unfair competition.
The CDH offers:
-

take into account new occupational risks such as work stress, burnout
and musculoskeletal disorders;

-

strengthen controls on the ground and increase the number of inspectors;

-

extend the missions of the Occupational Diseases Fund;

-

implement the bill on psychosocial risks in order to grant them the same
importance that violence and moral or sexual harassment at work;

-

promote a dynamic and inclusive participatory management type conscious innovation
and efficiency of the company through the support of the largest number of workers to
its objectives and respect for the objective recognition of skills, capabilities, merits,
personality and well-being of everyone;

-

strengthen the fight against workplace accidents.

112

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

130 flagship proposal: Strengthening gender equality at work
The employment rate of women has experienced tremendous growth since the late 90s and up
2008 gaining some 11% in 10 years. In parallel male employment increased by only 1%
during the same period. With the crisis, the evolution has slowed considerably and in 2012 the rate
employment stood at 61.7% in women and 72.7% for men.
Did you know ? If we are to achieve the objectives of the 2020 Strategy for employment and
revive competitiveness, encourage women's employment is essential.
Today, back on track for economic growth necessarily involves increasing the
employment rate for women. Furthermore, women's access to the labor market also means allowing
companies to acquire the best talent and be more competitive. And if one considers the
Female participation rates of men joined in 2030, GDP per capita will increase
0.6% / year (OECD, (2012) gender inequality: it is time to act).
Further convergence of the intensity of participation in the labor market between men and
2030 Women should have the effect of increasing the total participation rate of 23.9% 22.
To meet the challenge of the employment of women must be reduced more effectively wage gap
men and women (from 10% today to equal function), fight against part-time
involuntary, facilitate family organization, etc.
The CDH offers:
1. fight against involuntary part-time including improved information
part-time workers the right to obtain priority a full-time contract if such
vacancy with their employer and limiting the breakdown of hard times
reconcile with family life;
2. improve the guaranteed income allowance to ensure a direct link between the number of hours
worked in labor and increasing net income from part-time worker;
3. fight against the pay gap in fully implementing the Act of April 22, 2012 that
imposes neutral classification systems functions in terms of genre and setting
free software available to employers to calculate the wage gap
within the company; to end the pay gap in three AIP;
4. fight against stereotypes and encouraging women to turn to promising sectors
jobs (technical subjects and mathematics ...);
5. made compulsory paternity leave, extended paternity leave to 15 days and awareness
employers in this issue (see Proposal 2);
6. make the home of early childhood, 0-3 years 3-6 years but also a political priority and a
lever to the employment of women (see proposal 11);
7. implement the Act of 12 January 2007 on gender mainstreaming and provides
the integration of the gender dimension in all federal policies. This strategy
aims to assess the impact of gender on politicians - women and adapt if
applicable;
8. form, each regional employment agency, specialized referees
in assisting women who left long in the labor market;

22

OECD (2012) Gender inequalities: it is time to act.

113

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
9. fight against horizontal and vertical job segregation, including the promotion
orientation and training for women in sectors such as chains
scientists where girls are still underrepresented;
10. develop accompanying measures to support enterprises as well as women
potential candidates in the implementation of the Law of 28 July 2011 which sets at least
third the proportion of each sex among the members of boards of directors
listed and public companies;
11. stimulate the adoption of plans to promote diversity and equality of women and
men in businesses, in particular, by rewarding those who are most
performance in the implementation of such measures (eg, through rankings
and / or price discounts);
12. encourage the recognition of knowledge and skills of the most precarious women
and / or from at-risk groups through, inter alia, enhanced training policy
quantitative and qualitative adapted.

Proposition 131: Promoting diversity in companies
Did you know that according to the statistical office of the European Commission, 36.2% of noneuropéens foreigners residing in Belgium and aged 15-64 were unemployed last year? No other
countries of the European Union does worse in terms of professional integration.
People of foreign origin have great difficulty in finding employment, including
because of discrimination in hiring. Given this situation, many initiatives including
Brussels, have emerged in order to promote their integration into the labor market, as well as
more generally that of all discriminated groups (because of their age,
sex, disability, etc.). These initiatives should be strengthened and systematized.
The CDH offers:
1. set up a rapid procedure for the recognition of diplomas and certification
skills for people of foreign origin in the course
integration or when they register as jobseekers. The number of applicants
Job that have a non-recognized qualification level is very high (35% in Brussels);
2. encourage businesses and professional sectors to include promoting diversity within
collective labor agreements, with clear objectives;
3. generalize Diversity Charter and generalize diversity plans in all companies;
4. create a monitoring body to assess the targets set in the plans of
diversity;
5. impose in the specifications for the award of a public contract a social clause
conditioning the granting of the contract at the signing of the Charter of diversity;
6. developing a policy of hiring incentive based on a neutral based recruitment
only on skills;
7. develop the diversity label, offer prize for diversity in companies and
communicate to disseminate good practices;
8. take the lead in the public service in particular by the mandatory implementation of
diversity plans and regular assessment of the situation;

114

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
9. promoting the participation of disabled people in the labor market and ensure
the implementation of commitments made by the public sector for the employment of people
Disabilities (see proposal 242);
10. strengthen the control and sanctions for discriminatory practices with regard to the origin of
workers;
11. train HR managers to diversity.

Proposition 132: The fight against social dumping linked to the secondment

Some economic sectors are sometimes strained by the effects of competition
social and tax within the European Union. This creates competitive situations
unfair and penalizes virtuous companies that respect the rules and offer good
working conditions to their workers.
The posting of workers is a good thing: it helps to promote the free movement of
workers within the European Union. However, it should be more regulated and its rules
met.
Therefore, the CDH proposes to better monitor and control the possibilities of detachment
workers.
It is indeed to ensure that the basic principle is respected, namely that a benefit
carried out in a Member State should respond to labor law and social State. This principle
is not sufficiently respected today: it must be checked more regularly and
we must ensure timely follow-up.
Moreover, the European principle of posting of workers should be limited in view of the
length of the services provided under the foreign social security scheme, for some sectors
sensitive like construction. A benefit of several years may be submitted
the same administrative rules and constraints that a supply of a few days or months. To
maximum term of 12 months of posting, the worker must depend on the security system
Belgian social, both as regards access to benefits that, as regards the payment of
social contributions.

133 flagship proposal: Impose criminal responsibility for solidarity
Donor companies orders
The internationalization of trade encourages companies to delegate responsibility
of their production to subcontractors without always worrying about how they work. There
detection and control of the bad environmental and social practices become
particularly difficult in the case of subcontractors chains that involve many
intermediaries.
In Belgium, there are several liability rules concerning Frauds
Pay for corporate debts and / or tax, and in case of illegal occupation nationals
third country. Unfortunately, these rules do not apply to trade relations
International. For example, a prime contractor in Belgium can not be held responsible
working conditions of companies located in other countries, including outside the Union
European. If a company located in Belgium can not be kept informed of what is
happening all over the world for the lower bolt it buys, it is too easy to just wash
hands while the prime contractor is fully aware of working conditions in these
subcontractors.
115

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
For CDH, it is necessary to increase the involvement of economic actors to make them
severally liable for companies they are contractors. Introduce
vigilance obligation to allow workers victims in their countries to have recourse
court against contractors. Currently, although some companies
undertake to compensate the victims, they do not always do so because nothing compels them. We do
want not aim here all suppliers, but the subcontractors for which
trade agreements are concluded with producing a donor society of orders.
The CDH proposes to extend criminal liability for donor solidarity orders companies:
1. extend this principle to all sectors of activity;
2. providing for the extension of this principle in all countries of the European Union;
3. providing a dependent mechanism of accountability of companies with headquarters located in
of the European Union in relation to activities outside the borders of the Union
by reversing the burden of proof in cases of serious and manifest the conditions
decent work.

Proposition 134: Better regulate temporary work
To promote development in temporary employment that integrates harmoniously
the mechanisms of the labor market, which promotes positive transitions towards more jobs
while stable to meet the flexibility requirements, it is desirable to improve the
temporary work scheme on different elements. The goal is naturally to allow this
job seeker land a steady job.
The CDH offers:
-

establish clearer guidelines regarding the use of temporary staff, including
With regard to the renewal of successive temporary contracts;

-

ensure that temporary work is penalizing for access to measures to support employment and
obtaining a more stable employment contract, as well as access to credit;

-

adapted in consultation with the social partners legislation that prohibits the use
the interim in the public sector.

Proposal flagship 135: Rethinking work organization to allow
better reconciliation of work and private-life
Parents must constantly juggle their work that often requires more flexibility,
their various obligations and the time they would like to spend with their children. It is essential
give time to people to their personal lives, whether for live moments
happy, eg parenting, or to help through difficult times as
death or illness of a loved one. Thematic separations play in this respect an important role (see
Proposition 1), but new avenues should also be developed, including
rethinking the organization of work.
The CDH offers:
-

allow floating schedules so that workers can organize more
flexibility in their daily lives and encourage telecommuting;

116

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
-

encourage the employer's financial intervention for childcare and camps
Vacation with a deductible tax benefit;

-

develop corporate and business combination nurseries (eg in
zonings) - ensuring that the nursery is organized autonomously; integrate the nursery
to its environment (open to people other than the company's employees) to
to avoid the implications of working life on family life: to avoid that dismissal
will also lead to an exclusion of the crib;

-

strengthen and structure the sick child care networks (see Proposition 14.)

-

ask the social partners to provide for family flexibility measures in
next AIP and particularly encourage the use of flexible work on annual basis (calculation
38h / week based on six months or yearly) for adapting to the school timetables,
accumulate days or hours of work at times (form of capitalization)
to collect it for example to care for children.

117

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Chapter 2. Creating and innovating
Nearly six years after the outbreak of the financial crisis and its consequences on the economy
World, signs of recovery appear. These encouraging results have been possible thanks to
the balanced policy in this parliamentary term, fiscal consolidation and stimulus articulating
employment. They must not however hide the many challenges that remain to be solved. Support
the development of tomorrow's business, get on with the job creation, particularly in the
field services to people in order to support the changing demographics of our
society, promote more local economy are the priorities of CDH. These challenges call for a revision
deep our economic system and to identify the sectors expected to grow
in the years to come.
For the CDH, the Bureau, in collaboration with the regional statistical institutes play
the role of "observer jobs of tomorrow" and be responsible for assessing the economic sectors
emerging, such as personal services, energy efficiency, events, jobs
securing ...

Action 1. Develop tomorrow's business
To ensure a long term sustainable economy, we know that we need
successful businesses, particularly in high value-added businesses. The industry collects
in fact the bulk of its exports and relies on many services, which allows it
generate a significant number of indirect jobs. Each job creation in the industry
thus accompanied by two new jobs in the service sector.
Particularly because of its specific position as Belgian and European capital, as
first urban center of the country and as a center of international decision becomes Brussels
plus a high-value service economy. For its part, Wallonia has a fabric
industrial high-tech and medium-high technology, infrastructure and capacity
logistics senior at the crossroads of major European routes, and land reserves
for the development of such activities.
These differences explain why each region needs a specific plan. He imports
However foster synergies between them. It is also important to involve them closely
Wallonia-Brussels Federation, in particular to bring the poles of competitiveness,
universities and research centers. Finally, the Fed, for its part, must support its plans,
particularly by developing a monitoring competitiveness by sector and enable regions
best benefit from the expertise of the National Bank, the Office of Planning, Belspo (Politics
scientific), etc.
To this end, the CDH intends to continue and expand the scope of the Walloon Marshall Plan in
especially by strengthening the competitiveness clusters and funding. The CDH also intends
Brussels in 2025 to develop a Plan of comparable ambition to the Walloon plan. These plans should
including promoting the international development of our businesses. Strengthening the
research funding and a better valuation of the research profession is also
essential, as the development of a high-speed connection throughout the
territory.

118

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

136 flagship proposal: Adopt a third Marshall Plan in Wallonia
Did you know that employment in industry generates two jobs in services?
The restructuring and relocation have multiplied in recent months both in Wallonia and
Brussels than in Flanders. Of course, some traditional industries (steel, glass, etc.) were
already facing major problems. But it is undeniable that these difficulties have increased, and
they also affect businesses now was believed until now competitive, such
Caterpillar Gosselies or Ford Genk. Now a modern and vigorous industrial sector is essential to the
good health of our entire economy. Without strong and sustainable industry, it is unrealistic to
thinking pass the economic redeployment of Wallonia.
Understand
The Marshall Plan is a transverse plane, with a detailed timetable, mobilizing and focusing
significant resources on a limited number of priority objectives clearly defined and
targeted policies, structural and hierarchical, to revitalize and redeploy on Wallonia
economically. All economic and social players recognize the success of the Plan
Marshall launched in 2005 and extended in 2009 under the name of Marshall Plan 2.Vert.
We can not compete with emerging countries successfully promote our local roots
industries and ensure the future of our companies and our jobs that we specializing in
leading sectors, developing innovative products and exporting them. It is the ambition
driven by the competitiveness clusters policy implemented by the Marshall Plan, and by
Comparable initiatives of "clustering". We must continue in this direction by extending
industrial policy by developing a 2022 Marshall Plan.
Understand
Now number 6, competitiveness clusters associate companies, universities,
training centers, research units. They aim to concentrate resources and
energies on the business segments in which Wallonia is (or can) become a leader at European level or
World. These are the life sciences, health and biotechnology (BioWin); from
food (Wagralim); Mechanical Engineering (Mecatech); Transport and Logistics
(Logistics in Wallonia); aerospace and aeronautics (Skywin); green chemistry and
durable materials (GreenWin).
The CDH proposes to adopt a Marshall Plan in 2022 whose main objectives are:
-

maintain and enhance complementarity and exchange between clusters and
clusters, so that Wallonia Brussels because these policies feed and reinforce
mutually

-

7th create a cluster, dedicated to information technologies and
(ICT);

-

improve and guarantee local anchoring transfers between R & D, to applied research,
innovation and industrial exploitation of these results within our clusters;

-

financial incentives and provide organizational support to the poles
accelerate the realization of industrial innovations and the marketing of these
new products ;

-

forecast calls for specific projects to promote the participation of SMEs in clusters
competitiveness (through calls for specific projects); support SMEs suitably
so that they can participate fully in the poles and grow there;
119

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
-

open-pole non-technological innovation and strongly develop the sector
business services ;

-

encourage the development of "smart cities" in the definition of new research themes
Applied involving universities and companies, including: mobility, quality of life
urban, urban planning and architecture;

-

promote synergies between the Walloon and Brussels Regions and associate Federation
Wallonia-Brussels to organize a coherent and structurally linking
economic, training and education, especially by developing
linked training (see proposal 124) and strengthening universitésentreprises gateways.

137 flagship proposal: Adopt the project of a pact BXL2025
ambitious economic deployment (businessbxl2025)
It is essential to provide Brussels the day after the election of a deployment strategy
"BXL2025" 10 years in the same dynamic as that which animated and manages the Marshall Plan
Wallonia.
The Brussels Deployment Plan we propose for the next 10 years (see Theme 5)
is a cross deployment strategy (BXL2025) that has 5 objectives and which at
economic, Brussels wants to make a creative innovative job metropolis that grows
via a large ambitious socioeconomic deployment and modern urbanism
"Businessbxl2025" common to all public actors.
Understand
The Brussels-Capital Region has a cluster policy (or "business networks")
taking into account the specificities of its economy. Thus, the Region's research policy
is now guided by a strategy of "smart specialization", which aims to strengthen the
innovation potential niches of excellence in the fields of ICT, health and
environmental technologies. The Region therefore supports several initiatives of "clustering" in
these sectors, and other specialties animated by professional federations ("eHealth" or "Intelligent Transport Systems" for example).
The CDH Brussels proposes to adopt a 2025 plan based on the following priorities:
-

create new Urban Zones in which companies would receive
tax benefits when they prefer local recruitment of their workers;

-

create an account manager service responsible for acting as a liaison officer between the
regional government and the main Brussels companies;

-

Future skills training in order to match the best offers and requests
employment, including developing the 6 currently operational competence centers
in the fields of catering, logistics and transportation, IT, Public Service,
industrial and construction trades;

-

promote the internationalization of SMEs through appropriate support neo-exporters
and service exporters;

-

standardize criteria channels "green" and help companies in their transition
towards sustainable production;

120

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
-

promote access to European funding of research: setting up projects aid
SME awareness of R & D program "Horizon 2020", defining component R & D
substantial in the next ERDF programming;

-

support young innovative companies by creating a budget line of 3 million
euros for the Region to participate in funds to support the creation and
development of spin-offs and other innovative companies;

-

promote the emergence of a "smart city" in the definition of new themes
applied research involving universities and companies, including: mobility,
quality of urban life, urban planning and architecture.

Proposition 138: Create unique enterprise agencies and innovation
in Wallonia and Brussels
Many organizations, measures, devices, agencies have been set up over time to
encourage the economic redeployment of our regions. They each have their purpose, their
specific niche, expertise, etc., and most of them work properly.
However, this proliferation undermines the effectiveness of support policies for entrepreneurs and
businesses, small as big.
The CDH therefore proposes to consolidate and rationalize existing financial tools:
-

creating "Business & Innovation Wallonia" and strengthening "the Brussels Agency
Company / Impulse "existing through a double rationalization;

-

ensuring decentralized presence in Wallonia and Brussels territories through
regional offices and local representatives to ensure easy access to their services;

-

integrating the social partners within the two agencies to management bodies
ensure that they are serving businesses and innovation;

-

defining the tasks of the two agencies in a management contract between them and their
Respective regional government. This management contract will, on a multiannual period,
objectives and the means to be implemented to achieve them;

-

by providing for a transition period to gradually integrate the tools,
personal and existing devices in new agencies: it will serve during this
period of dome or holding encompassing and absorbing joining the various agencies.
Above all, they will be structured on the basis of the most relevant existing tools.

Proposition 139: Valuing the Walloon and Brussels territory
There are about 240 business parks in Wallonia, which provide employment to 150,000
people. This represents 12% of total employment in the Region. The data also show
about 65% of positions are filled by people from the surrounding area where is located
zoning. Thanks to the Marshall Plan, the business parks have had their development
accelerate. According to the latest available figures, between 2001 and 2010, 17,000 new jobs have
been created in the areas of economic activity.
In Brussels, the economic activity zones also contribute to the revitalization of the Region. There
scarcity of available land, however, necessitates a higher densification of the occupation
existing areas.

121

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
The CDH offers:
-

book zonings in priority to activities that can not be located in
habitat areas, and encouraging service businesses and businesses to locate in
towns and villages hearts to revitalize these neighborhoods;

-

improve the Walloon offers attractive land for industrial and technological sectors
by intensifying the construction and equipment of AEZ (zonings) and by making the
rehabilitation of public and private brownfields a priority;

-

to accelerate and simplify procedures, reduce time, run faster
work within the framework of the development of these lands;

-

enhance the attractiveness of the Walloon and Brussels infrastructures: focusing
particularly intermodal, sustainable mobility, accessibility, ICT, a tax
attractive, administrative simplification, appropriate services companies, etc. ;

-

densify certain zonings, especially those located in Brussels, because of the scarcity of
available surfaces.

Proposition 140: Devoting 3% of GDP on research
Research and innovation are key to promoting the well-being of our community,
particularly through their impact on the education of our young generation and the potential
development and prosperity of our businesses in the industrial and technological plans. He is
essential to invest sufficient financial resources in research and to ensure access to
such funding that is the least complex. Furthermore, many actors
engaged in research: universities, colleges, research centers, enterprises. It is therefore
also essential to foster collaborations and synergies between them.
To get the CDH offers:
-

increase funding for basic research and applied in order to move towards the 3%
of GDP dedicated to research;

-

create a research funding agency applied with Wallonie-Bruxelles
their own autonomy, which would play a role similar to that played by the FNRS for
fondamental research ;

-

simplify and clarify the aid mechanisms for research;

-

provide mechanisms to encourage sponsorship for basic research;

-

continue the development segment relating to the development of research in
Building on the existing network currently in universities and colleges (network
APPLICABLE);

-

structure the approved research centers (CRA) to ensure greater sustainability financial and greater visibility, particularly at the international level;

-

further support to competitive clusters and ensure in this context more
synergies between the Walloon Region and the Brussels Region;

-

granting federal sustained attention to the Belgian participation in the programs
and European space research activities and public service institutions
scientists whose management must be resolutely modernized through greater
self-responsibility;

-

educate and assist researchers in their search for European aid;
122

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
-

promote tax investments in innovation (see proposal 204).

Proposition 141: Making the most attractive research profession
Belgium is struggling to keep his brain from lack of financial resources and opportunities in particular because of the shortage of researchers and faculty positions in universities. He
is also essential to facilitate the entry of doctors in the labor market by strengthening
their skills in communication, popular science, project management,
etc. The attractiveness of the research profession also requires a valuation of trades
scientists. Also, it should ensure the promotion of outreach activities of Sciences,
the organization for young modules to spark creativity and curiosity
Scientific and building awareness and information campaigns trades
science and technology, including in young girls.
The CDH therefore proposes the following:
-

improve researchers' careers and harmonize the different status of researchers;

-

gradually move the exemption from withholding tax for researchers
80% to 85% and extend the academic staff of up to 40%;

-

assess the implementation of the notification procedure and advice to businesses
Belspo planned as part of the granting of withholding tax exemptions to
ensure that this new procedure does not hampers SMEs at the administrative level;

-

Register research policy in a European and international dimension in operating
a strategic rapprochement between regional and European programs;

-

a policy of promotion of scientific careers through training and
Science outreach activities;

-

increase the employability of doctors by strengthening skills
cross during the doctoral training and developing collaboration entreprisesuniversités in the training of doctoral students (see proposal 72 and 74).

Proposition 142: Ensure high-speed connection throughout the
territory
Did you know that a recent study by the end of 2013, 23 40% of the world population
connected. If Western countries are widely represented, note that
Belgium is only 25th behind the other Benelux countries.
ICT (information and communications technology) are everyday, either
via the fixed computer, laptops, tablets or smartphones. Their development is a
critical issue not only in economic terms but also in ecological terms.
To encourage investment in ICT, the first priority is to develop and
a network interconnect at very high speed on the whole territory. This will
reduce travel, to implement digital solidarity at the service of aging
of the population, create e-health services, etc.
Beyond the infrastructure to the real development of ICT, we must also train all
the actors to the strengths and potentials of a thoughtful use of ICT. Indeed, these aim
23

Estimates of the International Telecommunication Union.

123

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
the entire population, whether businesses, governments, schools or
citizens.
The CDH therefore proposes the following:
-

increase investments in order to equip the entire territory of a "very infrastructure
broadband "and make possible in particular the development of" Smart Cities "(" new
cities, intelligent and sustainable ") in Wallonia and Brussels;

-

train ICT companies: lack of knowledge, ICT training is a
Brake for SMEs. We must therefore train and support SMEs to these new
technologies, either e-commerce or "cloud computing";

-

develop digital public services in order to promote administrative simplification and
exchanges with businesses and citizens;

-

ensure effective electronic communication network on the entire territory,
serving areas where the network is still lacking.

Moreover, CDH also proposes:
-

support the development and dissemination of free software, from governments,
businesses and citizens.
Free software help reduce the digital divide through free
access to computer programs. They also promote the sharing innovation
for computer development. Finally, they contribute to our development
economic, reducing IT costs and license administrations
businesses, and strengthening our technological autonomy from the major manufacturers
of paid software.

Proposition 143: Making Brussels a digital capital
Internet is nothing less than a change of civilization! The arrival of new technologies
Information and communication is a real social issue. These new technologies
also cater for new activities, innovations and jobs. The CDH wants to
digital a major focus of its development agenda by supporting and stimulating.
The CDH offers:
-

Establish a governance through digital Estates General on
the integration of new technologies (education, culture, citizenship, research
and innovation, audiovisual, multimedia ...) opening on a coordinated strategy
led by a single public operator (the CIRB would become Be.Connected) and a label
"Creative Brussels". The strategy would focus on the integration of new technologies in
fields and telecommunications, mobility, traffic and transport ...

-

Make Brussels a smart city (Smart City) using ICT to manage
optimally territory and infrastructure and public services (transport, energy,
safety, waste management, administration, ...). This requires the development and
democratization of the infrastructure (fiber optic, WiFi, 4G) piloted by a steering committee
bringing together all the operators network managers (water, gas, electricity, waste,
transport ...) to interconnect networks and make their intelligent management.

-

Create a "Digital District" to focus on the same site teaching
higher education and research, incubation of innovative companies (ICAB) and
Nursery TPE / PME, shared workspaces (co-working), spaces
124

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
event, decentralized manufacturing platform (fablabs and hackerspaces) of
design agencies, venture capital funds, etc.
-

Make sure you have a 2.0 economy by supporting companies by advisers
digital or federation in each sector and encouraging the presence
Online.

-

Create a fund Starts Ups and Start Up Covenant consisting of complete support
and readable by any entrepreneur in the ICT sector.

-

Create an "Internet business skills pole" to stimulate all
training courses and stimulate digital professions.

-

Generalizing in schools access to better infrastructure (fiber optic) and
multimedia equipment; the training of teachers for educational use
digital tools; the introduction of course code; Development of a die
oriented computer technology Start Ups ...

-

Generalizing the free access of data by public authorities to citizens (Open Data) to
promote public service development and maximizing management
administrative line, while relying on human resources free (open source).

Proposition 144: Boosting exports
Given the size of our country, the health of the Belgian economy is directly dependent on its trade
outside. Or Wallonia and Brussels must make a massive catch-up vis-à-vis Flanders.
Their share of total Belgian exports is too weak effect. Support for creation
activities and jobs in each of our regions therefore requires the implementation of a plan
coherent revitalization of our exports. It must be selective and concentrate resources
on measures "that work" and are directly linked to the new Marshall Plan 2022
with Bruxelles2025 Plan.
The weakness of our exports is explained by the fact that SMEs form the bulk of
Wallonia and Brussels economic fabric. But often they are reluctant to pass the course of
internationalization. Yet it is essential to enable them to consolidate and
to increase their activities. It is therefore essential to accompany them more closely in their
steps to make it easier internationalization. To this end, complementarities
cross between the two regions should of course be valued more. Strategies
defined medium term by AWEX (Walloon Export Agency and Investments
foreign) and BI & E (Brussels Invest & Export) should build on their strengths and
support each other.
Finally, the "mark Belgium" always keeps a clear added value that is embodied in the
successful royal mission / princely, in the action of the Agency for Foreign Trade (ACE,
which combines the three regional agencies and FPS Foreign Affairs) and tools like the
Ducroire or Finexpo. He therefore essential that the regions are also cooperating with the Federal, everything
as it is important to promote synergies between diplomatic and commercial tools. Yes
AWEX and BI & E dedicated to foreign trade and WBI (Wallonia Brussels International)
in international relations mission, they are all called upon to exercise their missions abroad
specific, like the FPS Foreign Affairs. Bringing networks developed by these
different organizations can only encourage our exports.
The CDH therefore proposes the following:

125

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
-

conduct an internal audit of the effectiveness of various existing measures within the envelope
budget of AWEX and BI & E; and on this basis to an ambitious reform to strengthen
the effectiveness of these two tools;

-

improve efficiency by proactively attractiveness of investment WallonieBruxelles delegates;

-

entrust AWEX and BI & E mission foresight to identify emerging markets
of interest to our businesses;

-

continue the development of cells of investments in priority countries and
emerging markets;

-

target actions of AWEX and BI & E slots, sectors and most businesses
holders in their respective regions and make the outer extension of the Marshall Plan in 2022
and Bruxelles2025 Plan;

-

focus efforts on the international promotion of clusters and R & D
bound thereto;

-

designing "customized" projects with SMEs to facilitate their start
International;

-

maintain and strengthen the cooperation agreements "tri-regional" (Flanders, Brussels, Wallonia)
organizing cross-representation of business interests of other regions where
only one of them has an office in a country or a foreign city;

-

expand and better formalize existing partnerships between network AWEX and BI & E
WBI in the management of some posts abroad;

-

gather offices AWEX or BI & E, the WBI delegations, cultural centers, etc.,
in the same country in one "multi" delegation. Where possible, this
integration of networks abroad will also be done in partnership with the posts
Federal diplomatic.

126

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Action 2. Develop personal services
An economy at the service of humanity, it is an economy that places at its center the well-being of
people. The place given to personal services is the best expression. Today
already, many needs in this area are not met due to excessive cost
work. But lengthening the life time will generate the multiplication of these needs. Invest
in these high added value jobs human is therefore a top priority for the
CDH. This is not only crucial for the growth of our quality of life, but
also a key source of job creation.

145 flagship proposal: Increase developmental services offer
reducing labor costs
The CDH proposes to rebalance the tax and incidental contributions that they are
less on work and more on other sources of income. This should result in
sharp reduction in labor costs and a decrease in social contributions (see proposal 95).
This reduction in labor costs will create many jobs. This is
particularly true for jobs that do not necessarily correspond to objectives of
profitability as such but which nevertheless make major services for all
people. For the CDH, the reduction in labor costs in the non-profit sector must
translated in full by the creation of additional jobs in the non-profit sector.
For this reason, we hope that the resources that are related to the reduction of labor costs
Maribel be paid to head the fund. This will create more than 21,000 jobs
additional.
Understanding the social Maribel
All market sector workers benefit from a reduction in contributions
employers. This is what is called structural reduction in employer social security contributions. In the
non-profit sector, however, the mechanism is a bit different. Indeed, rather than
directly benefit the employer, the amount of employer contributions reductions are
paid into a fund. The fund, called Maribel social initiative to finance job creation
Additional in various non-profit sectors. The social partners in these areas
decide within various management committees "social Maribel" of the allocation of these jobs
additional.
To boost employment in the non-profit sector, the CDH offers:
-

continue the reductions which catch between private sector employers and benefit
non-profit sector employers;

-

fully convert reductions in employers' social contributions proposed a
creation of additional jobs by supplying the Maribel social fund.

127

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

146 flagship proposal: Do not increase the price of service vouchers and
expand into new activities
Did you know that there were 20,194 service checks workers in Brussels and 39 619 in Wallonia
2011 while they were still in 2007 than 7213 in Brussels and 23 690 in Wallonia? Level
number of shares purchased by users, for the first 10 months of 2013, there have been
11,775,567 shares purchased by Brussels and 24,924,639 shares purchased for Wallonie24.
The service vouchers are a particularly useful and efficient tool, because they
allow to meet three objectives:
-

fight against social fraud in the household-aid sector: before the introduction of
Title Service, most of these activities were carried out in black and the housekeeper does
benefited from any protection at work;

-

create employment: the service voucher scheme is the area in which employment is most
increased in recent years, 130,000 workers are involved in this scheme in 2013;

-

facilitate Privacy combination - professional life: in Belgium, nearly one household in
uses four service voucher to perform household chores at home.

For CDH, backing this plan, jobs were created and daily assistance
thousands of households is a top priority. This is all the more true as the extension of
life time will require a significant expansion of services to people (see
proposals 217 to 219). But it is essential to maintain a price as attractive as possible to
does not lead to a resurgence of work in black. The CDH is committed not to increase this price.
For the CDH, the transfer of securities services to the Regions should be an opportunity to improve,
including the recovery of the companies active in this sector who invest in their
workers. Today, the use of employment subsidies to reduce the cost of hiring in
part of title services encourages companies to ensure regular rotation of staff. By
against, companies that invest in their workers by keeping them in their
providing access to training and welfare-to-work are not valued. He
is therefore necessary to improve the system and better address the subsidy to
business impact of seniority workers on increasing labor costs.
For the CDH, the system of service vouchers should be expanded, in consultation with the sector, to
home child care outside of school time.
CDH offers from the case of:
1. not increase the price of securities services;
2. maintain a single system for Brussels and Wallonia. If the mechanism of securities services
met a great success and continues to grow, it is mainly because it is designed according
a simple model based on a single price regardless of geographic location or
characteristics of the worker or the employer. For CDH, this option should be maintained
maximum for the future and should avoid additional costs of operation or
unnecessary competition. Furthermore, the current regime Walloon IDESS must be integrated with the system of
service vouchers, through the use of a single operator, but with a separate title as it affects other
types of activities and planning further price;

24

2013 Annual Report of the National Employment Office

128

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
3. prevent the cumulation of aid to employment and service voucher and take better account
the increase in labor costs for businesses. Currently, companies that invest
their workers and keep them for several years are penalized since
reimbursement by title service provided remains the same while the employer pays seniority
and indexing the wage of the worker. Therefore, many are tempted to replace their
by other workers to take advantage of employment subsidies and thus reduce their costs;
The CDH proposes to prevent cumulation between the system of service vouchers and the different mechanisms
of employment assistance (which is a form of double-subsidization). Companies are
Anyway encouraged to hire unemployed people, as 60% of new hires are
involve fully unemployed compensated. The cumulative benefit fully ban
employers by an equivalent increase in the aid granted to the price paid
Employers (which should also be also indexed);
4. expand the voucher system services to babysitters at home. The CDH proposes to extend
the voucher system services to another sector where social fraud is important and especially where
families need is particularly important: children guards in the late afternoon. These
"Parental-checks" would address the needs of families for school care at parents' home for children 3 to 12 years. Particular attention will be
paid to single parents.
This scheme would initially organized structures active in welcoming children to ensure
the quality of service rendered. These activities are carried out under stringent conditions defined in
consultation with the sector:
-

these activities would be limited outside school hours (from 16 hours or Wednesday
afternoon) and weekends;

-

only the active structures in the home of the child and approved by the NEB and Child and Family
could benefit from the scheme;

-

quality standards of employment, training and qualification would be required. Thus, the
such committed staff should have a nursery nurse training or
training outside school reception. Staff should benefit from an employment contract
Minimum third time;

-

a proportion - to be defined - of workers should be outcome-risk groups.

5. enable employers to offer workers who want service voucher checks.
These would be an additional advantage as an interesting alternative to the car
company. The proposal articulates with the flexi-card mob 'that we propose to develop (see
proposal 290);
6. Increase the number of allowable securities services for specific audiences (uncap
deductibility).

129

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL Proposal flagship 147: Strengthen subsidizing nonmarchand sectors
Funded Contract Agents (ACS, in the Brussels region) and Aids Promotion
Employment (EPA, in the Walloon Region) are initially unemployment reduction programs.
However, over the years and the reforms, these instruments have become more and more tools
for funding for specific sectors, to local authorities or association level.
As part of the 6th state reform, the entire instrument is now in the hands
federated entities and it is possible to enhance coherence. Management of EPAs and ACS must
move clear as a tool of subsidizing sectors: sport,
culture, youth, education, socio-professional integration, local authorities, small
Children ...
This simplification will make life easier for associations providing better legibility and
strengthening subsidy modes (including by integrating the data to
non-market agreements). This will also facilitate the recovery actions that give
well and achieve their objectives. This reform is complementary to development
measures "springboards" otherwise provided for (cfr. Proposals 97-99).
The CDH offers:
-

gradual approximation of employment programs (ACS EPA) to support policies
sectors;

-

link the granting or transfer of an ACS or an EPA in the first instance to the supervisory authority
sector concerned;

-

bind maintaining a job with his employer to evaluate the results achieved in
the sector concerned;

-

facilitate change in allocation of a position;

-

gradually integrate employment positions in grant modes sectors;

-

pay particular attention to non-priority ASBL.

Proposition 148: Creating a Business Angels network in the social sector
A business angel is an individual who, in addition to the financial investment, accompanies and makes
provision of an entrepreneur his skills, his experience, and relational networks
of his time.
This type of aid does not currently exist in the social sector. Yet creating a purposeless activity
profit social sector is not obvious. For the CDH, the performance of this sector is
as important as the performance of the commercial sector. In addition, it is desirable that
Many such initiatives can develop in the future, given the increase
the needs of an aging population on the one hand and the desire to increase the rate
employment of the working age population on the other.
The CDH therefore proposes to create a network of experienced business angels in the social sector.
This business angel network can usefully assist people who embark on a
activity in the social sector in order to guide them through the various steps to be taken with
subsidizing authorities, the establishment of a quality team and the adoption of management procedures
rigorous.

130

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

3. Action environmental challenge of human development lever
Human development integrates the challenges of sustainable development such as the
global warming or depletion announced medium term fossil fuels. In
As humanists, we must ensure the quality of our environment. Living conditions
of future generations depend on it, and in the longer term, the very existence of humanity. Gold,
Since 1950, carbon dioxide emissions have been multiplied by six. Natural resources are being depleted. Yes
Humanity continues its momentum, it will consume in 2050 three times more raw materials
today while several metals already come to exhaustion.
Since 1986 we are living beyond the natural replacement level of the planet. If all
world consumed like the average European, it would take 4.7 planets to support
of the entire population while the African average is only 1.4 planet. We have to
promote the transition of our economy to make it more environmentally friendly
and ensure the preservation of the quality of our living environment, but also make this
transition an opportunity to promote the emergence of new industries and create
many jobs.
Did you know that if no measures are implemented to fight against change
climate, the effect of climate change on the world welfare will correspond to a fall
immediate and permanent GDP between 5 and 20%?
Human development can not be a sustainable development, that is to say a "
development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations
future to meet their needs. " But talk about sustainable development is not enough. This
would indeed define our development project by its constraint (respect
environmental) rather than its purpose (the quality of life of the human person). If we need
change the model, it is primarily because we believe that development is important is
that of the human person and his quality of life.

Proposition 149: Implement an efficient climate policy
Belgium should improve the performance of its climate policy. To this end, rapid agreement
on the distribution of tasks between the different levels of power for climate policy
2020 is essential. In addition, the poor results of Belgium in the sectors
non-ETS (Emissions Trading Scheme), especially internally in the building sector
especially in transport, are fundamentally incompatible with climate policy
effective. Greenhouse gas emissions that are caused by production in the
consumption are a major challenge that must be addressed globally.
The CDH offers:
-

invest in mitigation sector of global warming effects to reduce
the amplitude of the impacts of global warming and can be both less dependent and
more autonomous and competitive;

-

develop a "Low Carbon Development Strategy" Belgian to manage the transition to
a low-carbon economy and CO2 reductions of 80% to 95% by 2050 and improving
governance of climate policy in Belgium;

-

act in favor of a 30% reduction on CO2 reduction by 2020 in
European level and continue to advocate for limiting to 2 ° C of global warming;

-

develop a legally binding international strategy at the Paris Summit
2015;
131

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
-

define the path for the Belgian contribution to the financing of climate policy for
developing countries for the period pre and post-2020. The act calls for cdH
directly on this issue without waiting for the Paris summit on climate and the agreement
which should result. We must help developing countries who will be the first
victims of global warming.

Proposition 150: Adapting to climate warming up
to "1234 calendars"
We must prepare now to the impacts of projected climate change in
the coming decades. The question is no longer "whether" temperatures
will increase significantly, but rather "when" will be achieved in Belgium caps
of 1 ° C, 1.5 ° C or 2 ° C or 3 ° C more compared to the current average temperature, and
"How" these increases will result in terms of precipitation, seasonal variation
and weather events (storms, hail, wind ...).
Wallonia and Brussels do not yet have an action plan to adapt their territory
to the future effects of global warming. That is why we propose to implement
local, regional, national and European 'agendas in 1234, "that is to say, action plans
perennials, including measures in the fields of regional planning, the
mobility, health, housing or agriculture, to adapt to higher
temperatures of 1, 2, 3 or 4 ° C. These plans will be adjusted according to the new projections
calculated by scientific experts. They will be developed on participatory basis to assess
the acceptability of measures for the population.
The CDH proposes to launch "1234 agenda", namely:
-

action at European level (the effects of global integration in the CAP), national (management
crises, health), regional (spatial planning, housing ...) and local (participatory process);

-

to support scientific research on the one hand to refine forecasts on change
climate and its impact on our territories, secondly, to develop solutions
innovative;

-

help farmers to anticipate the effects of global warming by creating a cell
Agricultural forecasting and industry outreach to support the development work
agricultural land to reduce the risks of global warming;

-

provide heavy solutions (arrangements, égouttages, storm basins, dikes ...) and light
(crisis management, sealing of buildings and entrance doors, anti-flood panels ...)
to fight against the risk of flooding;

-

adapting our homes, hospitals, nursing homes, day care centers or schools, to
consequences of global warming.

Proposition 151: Developing circular economy
As part of the development of circular economy, product standards are a tool
valuable. It is necessary to define at European level demanding manufacturing standards.
For CDH, it is essential to be ambitious in terms of product policy. We must give the
means the economic sector to locate or relocate the production of products in Belgium or
at least within the European Union. We need to encourage products which the entire cycle

132

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
life from conception to recycling takes place on our territory. This is a vital economic issue
and a sustainable source of employment.
Understand
According to a report commissioned by the McKinsey Ellen MacArthur Foundation, the choice of
circular economy to European companies would save at least 380 billion
dollars (288.5 billion euros) per year in materials. Behind this concept lies a new
production system, which forces companies to think about the recycling of raw materials from the
design of their products. The circular economy reduces the pressure on resources
while reducing production costs.
It should also further develop the NEXT project alongside the 6 clusters
the Walloon Region, which are specialized axis of industrial policy in Wallonia
Figure axis on the effective management of resources that crosses all sectors, it is the project
NEXT. A first step was developed in 2012-2013: this is the platform-oriented
the efficient use of resources, to the leaders of industries and focuses on
sustainable competitiveness. The goal is to make Wallonia one of the cradles
the industry of tomorrow.
Furthermore, it is essential to develop waste recovery processes on the territory
Wallonia and Brussels.
The CDH proposes to develop new patterns of consumption and promote economy
circular while struggling against planned obsolescence in:
-

promoting the emergence of business networks, establishing a development of their
identifying waste and production cycles for that residues of a company
can become a resource for another that promotes reuse;

-

implementing a plan of "eco-sufficiency" actions to enable satisfaction
needs through reduced use of resources and products, and analyzes how
loan services, leasing activities, etc., can be stimulated. Should be encouraged
development services companies that charge the use of products. These new
types of services would replace the sale of products;

-

establishing a regulatory framework struggling against planned obsolescence, in view of
reduce resource consumption, reduce the amount of waste generated and
enhance consumer protection, including:
o

prohibiting practices making impossible the repair of a product or
replacing more fragile parts such as batteries;

o

imposing the availability of the necessary elements for the repair of products for
Warranty period (5 years and 10 years).

The CDH also wants to better inform citizens about the environmental impact of products
through the implementation of several measures:
-

provide, at European level, labeling to inform consumers so
simplified, the environmental impact of the product life cycle;

-

impose a pictogram with colors (eg dark green: excellent, light green:
satisfactory, orange: inefficient, red: significant environmental impact) such as that
used for appliances in connection with the ecodesign. This will allow
citizens to choose higher quality products and to fight against obsolescence
programmed;

133

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
-

impose compulsory labeling of construction and furnishing products as well as
wall and floor coverings, paints and varnishes that emit substances into the air. This
labeling will draw from that about ecodesign: a pictogram, a class of scale
a large letter corresponding to the classification of the product. This new labeling
be a selection criterion for building materials and uses
decoration and allow consumers to select the least harmful products
their internal environment;

-

optimally inform citizens about the modes of production and components
products they purchase;

-

adapt Ecodesign Standards appliances (freezer, refrigerator, dishwasher, washing machine ...) in order to achieve the lowest energy consumption
possible electrical appliances at the European Union.

152 flagship proposal: Invest heavily in the rational use of
energy and develop green jobs and the green building sector
The cheapest and least polluting energy is that which is not consumed. It is therefore
essential that everyone can make the investments and take the necessary behaviors
to reduce energy consumption. This is especially true for low incomes whose
power consumption proportionately weighs in the budget.
Did you know that Belgium must achieve a renewable energy standard of 13% in its
energy consumption by 2020, a 20% reduction in CO2 emissions and an increase
18% of energy efficiency?
Reduction potentials are important and the techniques are available, such as
building insulation that reduces energy consumption for heating. From
Moreover, it allows to control and reduce energy bills.
The CDH has also been a forerunner in this field, thanks to premiums Energy and loans
energy saving in Wallonia developed under the leadership of André Antoine (eco-house plan
SOLWATT).
The CDH proposes massive investment in the rational use of energy (RUE) for the energy
the least expensive is the energy that is not consumed. The following measures should be put in
artwork :
-

ensuring access for citizens to housing quality and low energy, which includes
including an excellent level of insulation; strengthening for this purpose devices aimed at
provide access to low-interest loans to the citizenry and prosecute premiums
insulation; impose the adoption of high environmental standards (cfr. performance
energy buildings - PEB) during the construction of new housing and support
adaptability in time;

-

provide a massive plan of investment in public utility buildings to create a
qualitative leap in energy efficiency of these buildings and to improve the cost of the same
quality. This is dope UREBA program and so help to overcome the constraints
debt which are sometimes subjected schools, kindergartens, ... Action must in particular
be oriented schools (all networks) and ensuring equal treatment,
who too often suffer shortfalls and postponements of investments. It must then be extended
other actors such as nurseries, nursing homes public or associative, backgrounds
cultural, ...;
134

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
-

develop training for workers in the fields of energy efficiency;

-

promote the development of sectors of the green building: energy performance
buildings, rational water use, the choice of sustainable materials, reduced
construction waste, but also comfort and a better quality of life for occupants, the
responsible management of buildings ...;

-

encourage liberalized market players to integrate ERUs dimension in their customer service
end;

-

encourage distribution system operators (DSOs) to investigate the issue of
energy services to municipal partners (lighting, home automation ...)

-

adapt standards and incentives to technological developments in order to maintain permanently
a stimulus to innovation, exceeding the standards and to guarantee citizens access to
best technology at the lowest cost;

-

ensure the continuation of branch agreements, which allow companies and sectors
realize, on the basis of agreements with the regions, efforts to reduce emissions
greenhouse gases, notably to benefit from tax advantages;

-

ensure the implementation by network operators (transmission and distribution of electricity)
investment needed to make the system compatible with development
(solid) of renewables, including decentralized generation;

-

support smart grid and preparing the development of "smart meters" and
integration, where they are economically justified, in the network;

-

deepen the problems of development of electric vehicles and their impact on the
network and identify necessary modifications;

-

awareness of energy issues and energy management, including
young people.

Proposition 153: Continue the development of renewable energy
To meet its European commitments, Belgium must achieve by 2020 a level
renewable energy corresponding to 13% of its energy consumption. Important steps
has already been made: in 2011, the production of renewable energy was 8.8% (11.32% for
electricity, 10.43% for the production of heat and 4.24% for transport). The effort must be
continued providing effective support mechanisms, but also financially sustainable
on the long term. While it is important to maintain an ambitious voluntary policy of promoting
renewable energy, it is indeed important to keep the cost. This is supported by
the whole of society and especially by the precarious people and many families,
de facto, consume more. Controlling energy costs is also essential to
preserve the competitiveness of the companies most exposed to international competition.
The CDH proposes to continue the development of renewable energies:
-

considering a facilitator which could take the form of a platform-like structure
designed to help businesses enter renewable energy markets;

-

establishing strict sustainability criteria and complete traceability for biomass;

-

providing citizen access to financing renewable energy projects (wind,
geothermal, hydroelectric, etc.);

135

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
-

supporting the emergence and development of renewable heating networks ensuring the
economic and environmental efficiency;

-

supporting the emergence and development of electricity storage mechanisms issue
renewable energy;

-

ensuring developing expertise and a local activity;

-

supporting, at EU level, the review of the electricity market to integrate energy
renewable without jeopardizing security of supply or higher prices for
consumers.

154 flagship proposal: Implement wind farms along motorways and
at sea
Wallonia has set an ambitious target of producing 4,500 GWh of wind power by 2020.
To reach it, it would triple the existing 261 wind turbines today. However, this
development would have a significant impact on agricultural land, landscape and comfort
residents.
This is why the cdH proposes that the new wind turbines are installed primarily along
874 km of motorways of Wallonia, in the respect of safety and the environment. There
proposed combination combines large and medium wind.
For the CDH, the installation of wind turbines in Wallonia must be based on solutions
pragmatic, respectful of the living environment of citizens and taking into account the particularities of
Wallonia. It should allow to preserve the Walloon and our family farming
biodiversity while developing the small wind industry in Wallonia. A feasibility study will be
organized in transparency with the public to demonstrate whether the profitability expected by the setting
implementation of a wind farm is waiting for you.
In the same spirit, it would be desirable that, as far as possible, power lines
also follow the route of major roads rather than cross the fields.
The CDH proposes to establish wind farms at sea and along the Walloon infrastructure network. It
has many advantages:
-

concentration of auditory and visual nuisances;

-

control of land policy;

-

rational use of landscape and natural resources;

-

additional funding source for Wallonia;

-

sites near the connection points;

-

preservation of the living environment of the Walloon citizens.

Other sites within the regional domain such as waterways, road interchanges
or motorway areas could accommodate wind turbines, thus concentrating nuisance.
Specifically, this proposal combines:
On the motorway network: -

the implementation of 180 large wind type masts;

-

an installer multifunctional 1500 posts per year for 20 years.
136

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
On waterways:
-

The installation of 2,000 small wind turbines of 100 kW.

The CDH also wants to continue the development of offshore wind (offshore) that
present no inconvenience to the public.

Action 4. Favour local economy
Bringing consumers and producers is a quality assurance of goods and services
products. The proximity allows trade out of anonymity and generates
confidence. Promote short economic circuits also reduces the distance
traveled by the goods and is therefore beneficial to the environment. Finally, it helps to create
local jobs.
The defense of local shops is also essential. The local shop is
not only an economic activity, it is also a great social link generator. There
closure of a business district reinforces the isolation of vulnerable people and mobility
reduced.
Moreover, tourism is a sector that is particularly rooted in our territory. It allows
offering many non-relocatable jobs and also serves to promote our culture,
our heritage, our traditions and enhance a tourism chain.

Flagship proposal 155: Valuing the products of our land
The products of our farms and our craftsmen deserve to be valued in their production area
because it has three priorities: remunerate fairly producers, reducing
CO2 emissions and promote healthy eating and quality based on the expertise of our
producers.
To further strengthen these actions, the CDH proposes that:
-

in professional training, technical and higher agricultural trades and
restoration, specific courses are planned for the enhancement of local products
(products, traditional techniques and recipes, production conditions, techniques
marketing ...);

-

AFSCA systematically adapting its specifications taking into account the scale of a
production and the type of producer (craft or industrial) and be equipped with a Committee
producers and artisans responsible for expressing an opinion on these particular specifications;

-

the development of processing unit, manufacturing or sales from products
agriculture can be achieved in the agricultural zone where those activities are directly linked to a
agricultural exploitation ;

-

all public systematically ensure the promotion of local products or
equitable through their communication tools and through the actions and
events they organize, encourage or support;

-

agricultural promotion policy, economy and tourism of our region relies more
still on the expertise and regional products, for example by identifying for each
house tourism, local gastronomy flagship products, informing
always on the point of sale of local products, organizing markets
terroir during the peak tourist season, etc.
137

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
-

the commodity development policy of our land also requires a
awareness of childhood and youth. In this respect, initiatives such as "camp
Walloon eat ", are to expand, strengthen, sustain;

-

support the development of tourist visits to farms that produce products
regional to flesh the possible offer of attraction and enhance the attractiveness and consumption
regional products;

-

favoring the purchase of local products by communities directly dependent on powers
public (schools, hospitals, rest homes, ...).

156 Lighthouse Proposal: Strengthen local exchange systems
Local exchange systems (SELs) are local associations of people putting
services and knowledge at the service of each other. This is true of collective alternatives
consumption locally based on interpersonal trust. In Belgium, which SELs
involved in the relocation of the economy, still affect a very small part of the population
and deserve to be extended to a larger number of citizens.
The CDH offers:
-

recognize the specificity of SELs;

-

encourage participation in SELs in promoting them through local campaigns
awareness;

-

to develop tools to support people who want to create new SELs.

Proposition 157: Support of common purchasing organization (GAC)
Governments need to further support citizens' initiatives such as GAC
(grouping of common purchases) or AMAP (association for maintaining agriculture
peasant).
The GAC is an alternative to a system of production and distribution based on profit. He
consists of a group of people who join together to buy directly from the
Local producers (often vegetables, sometimes also other products like bread, honey,
etc.). These initiatives therefore have a positive impact on the development of agricultural products
regional.
The CDH offers:
-

continue supporting the regional environmental education centers (CREE) that
currently an important advocacy work;

-

to extend the use of the computer platform Click to local officials and the GAC,
to simplify procedures for both producers and GAC managers.

138

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Proposition 158: Train near merchants
The local trade has strong assets as the professional quality of
independent retailers, consumer friendly and animated by a real expertise and a
strong passion for their craft and their products. Surpassing its commercial, trade
proximity plays an important social role in maintaining the urban and rural fabric. There is also a
important provider of jobs.
In order to allow its development, CDH offers:
-

provide training that meets the needs of strengthening the independent trade
Academy in the Brussels region and by setting up in the Walloon Region a similar project;

-

create specific training courses on e-commerce under the Trade
Academy.

Proposition 159: Guaranteeing merchants a commercial environment
quality
Ensure safety, maintain roads and sidewalks surrounding, provide quality lighting,
are vital to the dynamism of a shopping area.
The CDH offers:
-

systematize the camera surveillance in investment traders and cores
multiply police stations nearby, as well as mobile police stations at events
individuals;

-

promote investment for securing business;

-

Tags intensify cleaning and illegal deposits;

-

intensify financial compensation and reduce the tax burden on traders
during periods when the revenues are impacted by work on public roads.

Proposition 160: Increase the occupation of retail space
The number of unoccupied commercial cells in Belgium is increasing. It is therefore
essential to put in place measures that will prevent surfaces
commercial are empty.
The CDH offers:
-

penalize owners who let the abandonment of retail space, as is the
case for homeowners in Brussels;

-

create a Commercial Agency, which would handle the renting surfaces
business whose owners do not care. This proposal helps fight
against rental voids that tarnish the image of the cities, to provide lower cost to local
those who want to start their own business and so boost trade and reduce
some obstacles to entrepreneurship.

139

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Proposition 161: Building "tourist clusters" in Wallonia and
Brussels
With over 1 billion international tourists who traveled from one country to another in 2013, the
Tourism is the leading economic sector in the world. Europe is the world leader in this
sector and Belgium is no exception in this market, particularly in Wallonia and Brussels
in which tourism is 60,000 direct jobs and 30,000 respectively. Tourism
Walloon represents 5% of GDP, and many opportunities are to be seized. This is clearly a
growth area, especially since it effectively contributes to the brand image and reputation
International our regions.
Did you know that 90,000 people work in the tourism sector in Brussels and Wallonia?
The external effects of a powerful tourist sector are numerous: direct employment and
premises are created, while the hospitality, friendliness and land use are
significantly improved. Developing tourism, it is all our living environment is improving. The
Tourism is a joint project between all citizens to value our cultural heritage and
natural in the heart of Europe. The tourism sector is at the heart of an economy
human face vigorously carried by the CDH.
Our regions should support the development of a structured tourism offer and quality
around some strong products such as tourism for relaxation, wellness, good living and
Healing in the great outdoors (structuring "Country / tourist valleys" or
"Forests") or with the major tourist attractions (Pairi Daiza, Walibi ...), tourism
Cultural and Heritage in major tourist cities (Brussels, Liège, Namur, Tournai,
Mons ...), large museums and UNESCO sites, and memory tourism (Waterloo,
Bastogne, websites ... 14-18).
The CDH proposes that:
-

the offer is more structured and organized around these few strong products supporting
the development and work of DMCs ("incoming") and plants
Booking accommodation combining managers;

-

the role and resources of tourism houses in Wallonia are strengthened, which implies
reduce their number from 15 to 20, to give more responsibility to the actors
private tourism and create a tourist territorial management training;

-

the creation by private operators, 2 new tourist resorts like in Wallonia
This has been done on the site of Eau d'Heure lakes;

-

priority be placed on the strengthening of a "Quality tourism" approach whose steering
must be provided by the regional authorities, but implementation must be delegated to
professional associations;

-

the resources allocated to tourism promotion are concentrated on tourism clusters
organized and respecting the "quality tourism" approach.

Finally, the sixth state reform entrusting more powers to the regions tourism, the cdH
offers, both in Brussels and in Wallonia, a full integration of regional structures and
Community, requiring precisely redefine the scope of Wallonia-BruxellesTourisme and organizing his co-pilot by the regional authorities and representatives of the sectors
tourism in Wallonia and Brussels.

140

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Action 5. Reinvesting in agriculture
Agriculture is primarily nurturing. It is fundamental both in its component that livestock
Culture: it conditions access to quality food and sufficiency for all beings
human present and future. Therefore, for CDH, agriculture remains an industry first
essential economic that can become the object of speculation of a few large conglomerates
through technologies, land grabbing or pressure industries
Agri. Agriculture should, through dialogue and structured consultation,
find its place as a respected player in the food chain. International commerce
agricultural products must also be framed by rules and specific rules
promote independence food sovereignty of each region of the world and prohibit
deadly financial speculation. Finally, agriculture must live in harmony with nature: it
is a key player in the maintenance and preservation of our natural environment. This one
conditions the sustainability of agriculture.
Reinvesting in the farmer also means defending the agricultural sector. They do not
are now more than 2.5% of the workforce. A sharp decline in the cost of
work should help stabilize or even recreate and boost employment in this sector, to ensure
decent income for farmers, and to promote, downstream of agricultural production, the creation of
new jobs. Besides the current European markets, we must encourage the development of
short circuits (including through cooperatives and from clean and quality standards
differentiated) and diversification of agricultural activity that can reconnect between
producers and consumers to benefit as each other. It should also
continue efforts to increase the added value of the food industry in Federation
Wallonia-Brussels, also generating growth and jobs.
The CDH in this respect confirms its adherence to all the objectives of creation of agricultural policy
Common (CAP), namely:
-

ensure a fair standard of living for the agricultural community, in particular by increasing the
individual earnings of persons engaged in agriculture;

-

increase agricultural productivity by promoting technical progress;

-

stabilize agricultural markets;

-

ensure security of supply;

-

ensure reasonable prices for consumers.

Proposition 162: Regulating agricultural markets
Under the effect of trade liberalization rules, agricultural products have become
like other commodities on which it is possible to speculate virtually limitless
and mobilizing a pittance compared to the value of production. This deregulation
leads, the last 10 years, to aberrant fluctuations in international prices, causing
cyclically several major crises in many countries. In the more fragile countries,
these crises have endangered the health of millions of people. For us, these crises have resulted
by economic, social and family dramas in a significant number of farms
agricultural.
For CDH, agricultural products, their purpose and nurturing their particular mode of production,
need to be considered as specific products, benefiting from trade rules
specific and singularly special rules in international trade.
141

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
To this end, the CDH offers:
-

the defense of the "agricultural exception" regarding trade between
large blocks of countries to ensure every region of the world food sovereignty for
ensuring sufficient quantity and quality to feed its people and the respect of his
ethical choices (human health, antibiotic use, animal welfare, ...);

-

the definition, at international level, with strict rules to prevent purely games
speculation on food crop production, in line with the G20 initiative and
the Agricultural Market International System of transparency of public data
pricing, production, crops, stocks;

-

the implementation of new European rules on market organizations and
competition, in particular in order to facilitate the grouping of producers; these organizations
should be allowed to determine their own production capacity in the medium and long
terms and to collectively negotiate sales price references with a weight equal to that of
agribusiness;

-

the defense of the acquis communautaire in respect of social, environmental and
monetary.

Proposition 163: Recognize and protect genetic resources
Seeds and living genetic heritage are the fruit of the labor of hundreds of generations
human. They are therefore a collective good of humanity that can do neither the subject of an
appropriation or subject to manipulation with the ultimate purpose of confiscating the public good.
The CDH therefore proposes:
-

organize the recognition of the genetic heritage and character of public good, which
involves record keeping and preservation of this heritage (cryobank, orchards
conservatories, ...);

-

supervise strictly private rights over the selection of species and varieties and guarantee
accessibility to all individual farmers seeds and breeds constituting a
"Public good";

-

to establish a moratorium on any further authorization of GMOs at European level,
As for import and cultivation;

-

the Belgian and European, to change the rules of operation of bodies
controlling GMOs, Biosafety Committee and EFSA (European Federal Security Agency
food), to include consideration of precautionary principles, the impact
economic and ethical issues of GMOs;

-

Brussels and Wallonia, to continue the ban on GM crops policy and
development of alternative channels for a GM-free animal feed.

142

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Proposition 164: Strengthen the link between agriculture and food
Food is an essential factor for human health: in just quantity, in sufficient variety
and of good quality. Agricultural production minimizing external inputs, organized a
family level and consumed within a reasonable distance, is likely to contribute to
healthy eating.
This is why the cdH defends:
-

strengthening research and extension efforts to agricultural production
reasoned, supported by the development of training cycles in partnership with
agricultural organizations and professional federations and that target support and
supervising farmers cope with the changes and mutations;

-

the pursuit of the strategic plan Organic, established in Wallonia, strengthening development
the recovery of the organic products sector (by activating the aid
Economic included in the 2nd pillar CAP);

-

greater transparency of the origin of the food component ingredients
(e.g., the origin of the meat in ready meals);

-

the continuation and development of awareness and information campaigns in
especially among younger people, such as operations "Milk at school" and "School Fruit"
or "Bon'App camp";

-

encouraging local initiatives of short circuits, farmers markets, groups
collective purchasing of farm produce, local and regional labels, work-sharing workshops
agricultural relay halls;

-

the possibility of modulating the greening depending on soil quality and take
account any outside agency such as the creation of storm basins;

-

the frame of a "dialogue sector" regular and structured creating the conditions for a
permanent dialogue with the sectors upstream and downstream of agriculture; -

the implementation of a plan to fight against food waste to the Belgian scale.

Proposition 165: Encourage high quality production
The agriculture and agri-food processing sector present growth
Volume and activities with high potential for our regions. The food sector, based on
high quality agricultural production, is able to develop a competitive offer, both
artisanal scale than the industrial scale.
For the CDH, the excellence of our expertise must be supported and innovation should be encouraged,
notably by focusing on:
-

encouragement in each production sector, quality labels to develop
products of excellence, able to pull up all of the production and
position our food products on a high value;

-

the further development and promotion of the labels' geographical indication
protected '(PGI) and' protected designation of origin "(PDO) in Wallonia and Brussels (IGP
white-blue-Belgian ...);

-

the integration of the issue of food quality (sanitary, technical and organoleptic)
in the curricula of agricultural and catering schools in our regions;
143

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
-

active participation in the European Innovation Partnership ("PEI") to revitalize and
greater innovation within the Rural Development Programme (RDP) for the
2014-2020.

Proposition 166: Ensuring sustainable access to agricultural land
The sustainability of farms in our region is strongly linked to the capacity for
farmers, particularly the young, to have access to their indispensable factor of production
is the earth, both in direct and indirect Stooges.
The regionalization of the farm lease will modernize the current legislation to reflect
regional specificities, but will above all provide the ability to maintain security
Operating in the long term for farmers and ranchers, ensuring compensation
Fair landowners.
For CDH, it is important to:
-

modernize legislation on the farm lease and encourage leases very long by
tax incentives on the part of owners;

-

facilitate access to land for young people who move and transfer of land to young
buyers like reducing inheritance tax at 0%;

-

facilitate land reorganizations in particular by using the new tools
consolidation (rural land development);

-

fight against the reduction actually assigned to the farm surfaces.

167 flagship proposal: Ensuring fair income for farmers
The Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) was established by the founding fathers of Europe to ensure
agricultural production in sufficient quantity and quality, at affordable prices for
consumers and remunerative to producers. Over the reforms it has known for
correct overproduction, to meet societal expectations or the pressure of rules
liberalization of international markets, it has changed the supporting tools for producers
Agricultural subject to compliance with new standards including environmental.
Compensatory CAP subsidies are an important part of farmers' income
European. Without this income, a large number of farms could subsist seen
input costs and price volatility for agricultural commodities. The CAP, costing just € 120
per year per European citizen (or 0.30 euros per citizen per day), using therefore mainly citizens
European and food companies to buy agricultural products at affordable prices
European.
To ensure fair compensation for European farmers, the CDH offers:
1. pending the establishment of true social and environmental locks to
Europe's borders, maintain direct compensatory aid to farmers such as
traded for the 1st pillar CAP, including coupled support to cattle and sheep sector,
opposition to any renationalisation of policy in the Member States;

144

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
2. amplify and perpetuate the regional co-financing with incentives and compensatory measures
Second pillar of the CAP (agri-environmental measures, aid for innovation and diversification,
disadvantaged areas, Natura 2000 ...);
3. sustain the tax exemption measures requested and obtained PAC compensatory aid
by the regions with the Federal Authority following the milk crisis (like what is done for
Enterprises of all other economic sectors), in particular by promoting
Small family farms and youth.

Proposition 168: Supporting farmers against risks and crises
Climate change and the development of international trade exposes more
farmers to hazards: floods, drought, animal diseases, health crises strike
regularly agriculture causing damage and very significant losses and
threatening entire sectors of agriculture.
For CDH, it is important to:
-

direct a significant portion of the resources allocated to agricultural research and the work of
agronomic faculties prevention in the field of health and climate risks,
the adaptation of farming practices and breeding techniques;

-

provide a mechanism to replenish the fund for agricultural disasters (regionalised
as part of the 6th state reform) and to facilitate the administrative procedure of intervention
Fund increased use of available technology;

-

encourage, for example through interprofessional, pooling the mechanisms of
risks involving all the food chain taking into account the
relative weight of each link in the value creation;

-

support farmers to facilitate their reorientation towards sustainable agriculture techniques
such as direct seeding under cover.

Proposition 169: Empowering farms
To cope with the vagaries of production, crises, economic fluctuations, our businesses
Agriculture must further strengthen their own autonomy or network with other
farms or agricultural stakeholders.
To achieve this objective, the CDH offers:
-

encourage food self-sufficiency of our farms from the research plan
protein autonomy by proposing a strategic plan "food autonomy farms"
with all stakeholders and agricultural partners (research, training, investment,
structuring, industry);

-

to value the manure by encouraging their use as humus for intake
reduce the use of mineral fertilizers and, alternatively, by strengthening production support
Energy and heat network from agricultural byproducts and effluents
livestock;

-

encourage shared investments by systematizing incentives for all forms
mutualisation and cooperative structures that also optimize the benefits
tax;

145

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
-

strengthen concrete business management modules in courses leading to
agricultural business (accounting, management, markets, taxation);

-

support federations in their efforts to improve information on the possibilities
hand engagement workforce, including punctual.

Proposition 170: Promoting our land
The work of our farmers, artisans and restaurateurs should further be highlighted not
just because they deserve it but because they convey a positive image
for our regions.
The CDH proposes that:
-

all public systematically ensure the promotion of local products or
equitable through their communication tools and through the actions and
events they organize, encourage or support;

-

agricultural promotion policy, economy and tourism of our region relies more
still on the expertise and regional products, for example by identifying for each
tourism house or natural park, the local gastronomy flagship products (creation of a
Circuit flavors, for example), systematically informing the sales premises of
local products, by organizing local markets during the peak tourist season,
etc. ;

-

Products of our soils are better identified and valued (label "Agriculture Wallonia"
www.lecliclocal.be, etc.) (see proposal 155).

146

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Chapter 3. Respect people and
nature
The central pillar of the project led by CDH is reflected in the quality of life. The economic axis
our project is no exception to this principle. A successful and innovative industry, economy
create jobs, and a per capita income that progresses - or the objectives of the two previous
chapters - are meaningful only if they actually improve the quality of life and well-being
citizens. For this, the CDH intends to develop an economy based on mutual respect between
each protagonist and social groups in society. This requirement is respect
divided into five levels:
-

The respect of the worker;

-

Respect for the consumer;

-

Respect for the real economy face finance;

-

Compliance with the foundation for a fair exchange;

-

Respect for the environment.

Regarding the respect of the worker, the measures are presented in Chapter 1
(proposals 129-135).

Action 1. Respect the consumer
Without the households, the market knows function effectively. We must therefore work towards confidence
consumers. Respect the consumer, ensuring them access to quality products,
especially in the food. The consumer can be fooled into what he eats, because it is his
health is at stake. Clarify information in labeling is therefore an essential step in
achieve in this area. This is also the case for financial products. Consumers
deserve to be fully informed about the products in which they invest or borrow. From
Generally, if the advertising is necessary for companies to advertise their products,
it can not lead the consumer into error by providing incorrect information or
incomplete. Proposals to this effect are made by the CDH.
Respect the consumer, but also pay attention to changes in prices of goods and
products. Strengthen competition, notably in the energy sector is the best way
to avoid some players use their dominant position to increase so
unjustified prices. The Competition Authority and the Price Observatory, under the reformed
Parliament must play a vital role in ensuring a competitive market favorable to
consumers and businesses. As regards energy, the safety
Supply is also crucial.
Finally, respect the consumer, allowing him to be heard when it is not satisfied.
This is why the CDH wants to strengthen the means and visibility of mediation services
all sectors, so that disputes be handled more efficiently to the benefit of consumers.

147

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Proposition 171: Ensuring safe products for consumers
The new code of commercial law includes a book about the safety of products made
available to consumers. This is essential for CDH: ensuring safe products,
especially for the most vulnerable populations such as children. On the other hand, it is
essential to ensure that the production of these products do not harm our society.
Every day, the consumer has access to new products, more various and original.
Unfortunately, the producers do not always assess the impact these products may have
on the health of consumers. In order to provide the original products, the components are more and
more varied, such as dyes or additives.
To ensure safe marketed products for the consumer, the CDH offers:
-

require full labeling on the product composition when a health risk
may be considered, especially for products affecting vulnerable populations such as
children and food and cosmetic products;

-

simplify the information so that they are clear and legible by consumers;

-

fix for a specific European framework an obligation to register the sell-by date and the deadline
consumption on all food packaging;

-

reform the controls and increasing penalties for not respecting the producers
obligations on the composition of foods and their origins;

-

easy readability regarding the origin of products by as didactic logos
flags or pellets giving credit like the logo "Agriculture Wallonia";

-

create a "Brussels without GMOs" logo.

Proposition 172: Protect consumers from financial products
Consumer protection must be guaranteed for all products, but it is even more
important for investment products, insurance and savings because they are products
atypical, highly technical and affect the finances of the population. Control and
duty to provide information to banks, insurers and credit intermediaries have just been
reinforced. A follow-up must now be insured and tighter controls different
players must ensure the effectiveness of new bonds. In the future, it will continue
this logic, including the prohibition of linking a mortgage and a product like Schedule
fire insurance or balance due.
The CDH offers:
-

follow up and evaluation of the new provisions concerning products
investment, insurance and savings;

-

enhance transparency and readability of financial products and ensure that all
expenses are well known borrowers by setting up a standard type of RAE
(effective annual yield) for a quick comparison of the performance of a product
financial;

-

enhance the protection of consumers in respect of financial products, a
clear division of responsibilities for regulation and structured collaboration
for checks between, on the one hand, the FPS Economy and, secondly, the FSMA;

-

reform the law on mortgage credit in order to integrate new protective measures are
the consumer;
148

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
-

ensure the transition to another facility for any products without appendices
impact on the interest rate of a mortgage;

-

facilitate access and price transparency for insurance, especially for assurancesauto for young people and strengthen controls to check that drivers are
insured;

-

prohibit the sale of financial products exposed;

-

increase accountability of financial advisers and intermediaries to ensure
reliable advice, clear and adapted to the consumer's situation;

-

facilitate access for all consumers to a basic bank account.

Proposition 173: Remove the markup on books
Created in the seventies to counter the extra cost of converting between French francs and Swiss francs
Belgian on the price of books, "tabelle" is to increase the French price when selling to
Belgian Books by distributors.
Although abolished by law in 1987, in France, the system continues under the name "Mark-up". The
additional cost is estimated between 10 and 15%!
This system of "Mark-up" is applied by the two largest book distributors: Hachette
Book and Interforum. These represent 70.1% of imports in Belgium. It is estimated
that this import percentage between 50 and 60% of the total volume subjected to this mark-up. There
majority of books sold in Belgium are overtaxed!
We believe that this system has no reason to be it for one main reason: with the Euro
more exchange problem!
We believe that this system causes an obvious inequality between citizens of the Union
European.
Therefore, the CDH offers:
-

prohibit the mark up of the mechanism for book sales in the European market.

Proposition 174: Regulate advertising
Advertising is an integral part of our lives and is omnipresent. The vast majority of messages
daily is perceived subconsciously. Whether on billboards, on television or also
on "new media" such as the Internet and GSM, the commercials are numerous and
varied.
Did you know that each of us is confronted averaged 1,200 commercial messages,
visual or sound day? 25
It is normal that companies advocate the benefits of their products to increase their
sales. However, it is the same content of advertisements and especially the staging of some who
are not always acceptable. Therefore, control of advertising reports to a challenge
cross of our society. Education, health, equal opportunities, citizenship, debt,
sustainable development, addictions are all themes to which organisms
education or public authorities are active via numerous policies and campaigns

25

Awareness Tool "Our brain is not for sale," the popular Teams, May-June 2007.

149

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
prevention and awareness. The shape as advertising background therefore of
importance.
In particular we must ensure full information regarding the products
affect our health or the environment. It is important that all citizens are aware
the risks of poor diet or an unbalanced diet. It is therefore clear
on each of the commercials a clear message about the importance of good nutrition and a
physical activity.
Therefore, it is essential to strengthen the duty of information in each advertising but
also to create a binding and specific organization regarding advertising. This one
ensure that advertisements do not face the ethics and do not encourage excessive consumption harmful
for the health of certain products. The withdrawal of the offending advertisements can be done in a very
rapid and important penalties ensure compliance with laws and code of conduct. An opinion
previously on an advertisement may be required by companies if they wish.
The CDH offers:
-

use the notion of "0-5-30" in each food product advertising to promote
healthy food where they are encouraged to consume cigarettes and drugs 0, 5 fruits and / or vegetables
practicing 30 minutes of sport per day. This fairly simple and concrete concept aims to promote
a healthy diet, in addition to an anti-smoking message and an incentive to practice
sporting activities;

-

ban doorstep selling, including by telephone and changes
insecure contracts;

-

write "photograph retouched to modify the physical appearance of
persons represented "in an ad using a photograph or body image
modified by an image processing software;

-

prohibit communication practices which mislead consumers as
the use of unrepresentative scientific studies submitted by persons blouse
White inspiring confidence;

-

creating a Federal Council of the independent advertising and featuring a real binding power
in partnership with the FPS Economy;

- further regulate advertising on public roads, in particular via the code of conduct.

Proposition 175: Ensure the transparency of energy prices
The energy policy under the leadership of Melchior Wathelet has reduced the
price of gas and electricity. The elimination of severance payments for contracts
energy supply and the reduction of the amount of the federal contribution paid by
Consumers, in particular, had a positive impact on energy bills for citizens. In the
continuity of this policy, measures must still be taken to reduce the cost of
energy, such as control of distribution rates and public service obligations,
Important components of the bill paid by citizens and control of additional costs
generated by support for renewable energy.
Did you know that energy prices have decreased in Belgium in 2013?
The CDH offers:
-

improving transparency of tariffs;
150

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
-

strengthen the capacity of the regulator so that it can ensure compliance with balance
the social, economic and energy;

-

review the support mechanisms for renewable energy, taking into account changes
prices and technologies, so as to reduce the cost for consumers and better
ensure the sustainability of investments in producers of green time;

-

identify on the invoices the cost of public service obligations;

-

strengthen social in access to energy.

Proposition 176: Ensuring security of supply at the lowest cost
Europe and Belgium are highly dependent on the rest of the world in terms of energy. By
Therefore, improved independence through a diversification of supplier countries
and supply routes. Moreover, Belgium faces the challenge of the output of
Nuclear. It provides more than half of our electricity today, while energy
Renewable have a capacity of producing highly variable. Innovative solutions should soon
then be developed to ensure security of supply.
To this end, the CDH offers:
-

continue the implementation of the Plan Wathelet who created the tools to get out of
Nuclear while preserving the purchasing power of citizens, business competitiveness and
protecting the environment, building on a combination of modern solutions
innovative;

-

support the development of innovative solutions for demand management and storage
electricity;

-

work towards the creation of a regional market (Benelux, France, Germany) for energy
increase competition and security of supply, including strengthening
interconnections, and allow consumers to enjoy the best prices;

-

further intensify solidarity between Member States in case of disruptions
supply, through the formation of large gas reserves and capacity
electricity production in addition to mandatory oil reserves in the context of legislation
European;

-

aim gradually equalization of distribution costs;

-

develop partnerships between the EU and third countries on energy and
create a common Euro-Mediterranean energy space;

-

maintain the central position of Belgium in the gas market by reinforcing the hub
Zeebrugge, the transit market and our interconnections with foreign markets;

-

adapt distribution networks and promote a coherent development of the network
power at a reasonable cost.

151

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Proposition 177: Ensure access to quality water at the right price for all
the citizens
Wallonia is rich in water and its access to drinking water. The awareness of this double
privilege achieved by strengthening awareness-raising and education. Targeted actions
must be conducted with water operators and it will fit effectively in the framework
wider environmental extension.

The CDH offers:
-

avoid pollution of surface water and groundwater. This involves in particular:
o

prohibit certain chemical or pharmaceutical substances (ideally at
European);

o

use the resources made available for the protection of catchments to finance measures
more effective than the single replacement of the fuel tanks in prevention area. He
need to develop a targeted monitoring in particular vis-à-vis the farmers concerned
in a support process (eg incentives to choose
organic farming) ;

o

sensitize citizens (professional, household, school, etc.) the consequences
financial of all kinds of pollution that will ultimately contaminate surface water
or groundwater.

-

guaranteeing citizens access to drinking water and ensure a fair price make by not adding
no new tax comes encumber water bills, ensuring fair treatment of
consumers, eliminating communal drip taxes and introducing new
social measures, especially for large families;

-

operationalize an emergency service in case of water cut. Citizens need to be
Drinking water supplied sufficiently and promptly in the event of
water cut;

-

make water an economic stimulus engine: develop activities around
technologies for capturing and water treatment, in the construction sector and
urban planning to better integrate the rain in the amenities and habitat ...

Proposition 178: Boosting competition in the market for more
Telecommunications
The telecommunications sector is the victim of constant legal uncertainty hampers
investment and deployment of new technologies. Furthermore the new possibilities
technology should be encouraged. A more efficient and stable control boost
more competition and promote job-creating investment and quality
service.
Moreover, the multiplicity of tariff offers and the emergence of packs make less
transparent tariffs of telecommunication services to the consumer.
The CDH offers:
-

strengthen the capacity and independence of the regulator (BIPT) to create the conditions
necessary for fair competition providing equal opportunities for all market players
telecommunications;
152

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
-

market development of mobile broadband connectivity;

-

amend legislation allowing the BIPT to impose heavy fines on directly
Operators who do not meet the information requirements of customers in the event of increases
tariff;

-

a cap of 100% of the subscription price at which a confirmation
the subscriber is absolutely required to continue to eat, all in order to avoid risks
(very common with joint bids) overconsumption.

Proposition 179: Enable consumers to be heard
The current Government has strengthened the means to allow consumers to exercise their
rights, including by establishing a judicial procedure in collective action, but also by the
introduction of a mediation service. This work should not only be assessed and its application
must be controlled.
The CDH offers:
-

conduct monitoring and evaluation of all the new measures introduced by the Code of
Economic Law, particularly concerning collective action;

-

strengthen granted means and to increase awareness of the new Mediation Service
for fast litigation settlements in all sectors;

-

improve information exchange and coordination between the various parties
the protection of consumers in the same sector of activities and assess whether the distribution
current skills is effective against practices that harm
consumers.

Action 2. Put the financial system at the service of the economy
The banking system is at the heart of our economy. The relaxation of rules
financial markets helped trigger the economic crisis we are experiencing. It is therefore
essential that governments enact strict rules so that the financing
the real economy is placed at the center of banking activity to ensure development
Human Endogenous and our territories.
Did you know that since the beginning of the crisis, the Belgian government has guaranteed the banking sector
up to 358.62 billion euros or 97.4% of the 2011 GDP?

Proposition 180: Complete the construction of the European Banking Union
The European banking union is a major overhaul of the European banking system. Determined to
Summit in June 2012, its implementation is ongoing. It rests on three pillars: a single supervisor
for all banks; a common system of management and crisis resolution; funds
mutual protection of deposits and bank resolution. If it is a step forward, the cdH
already already want to go further in the construction of a true banking union
European. The banking union is indeed the indispensable condition to protect the economy
European financial crisis and ensure that the banking system is at the service of
economic development and not vice versa.
In order to build a complete banking union, the CDH offers:
153

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
-

the creation of a European system of bank resolution. This device will mentor
bank failures and reduce the exposure of a minimum States. The European mechanism
Banking Resolution will require the creation of a European resolution authority
independent and a European resolution fund. On the model of what already exists
the United Unis26, this fund would be contributions by banks. Contributions
banks should take into account not only the balance sheet size, but also the degree of
risk assets. The risks posed major institutions for the entire system
in this manner will be taken into account;

-

the creation of a European fund to protect bank deposits. This would be a device
common to all Member States of the euro area and to replace the scheme
harmonization of national arrangements as foreseen in the draft directive. As the
resolution single fund, this fund would be financed by contributions from the banking sector
benefit from the joint financial support from Europe. The creation of this fund will
guarantee all European savers the same security standard;

-

promote without delay the recapitalization of weak banks; by ensuring that the
the soundness of banks reinforcement is done by increasing their capital rather
a reduction in credit to the economy.

Proposition 181: Separating banking businesses in Europe
Some mechanisms at the heart of European banking system have contributed to the spread of
crisis between the actors on the financial markets. The model of universal banking in
particular, should be reviewed by imposing a clear split between the savings harvesting activities
Citizens and speculative activities. Belgium has set up a new banking law that insulates
the most risky activities of the linked activities with the real economy. However, a market
only requires common rules. The European Commission has made a proposal
separation of banking activities but it was filed too late to be adopted before the end
of the legislature.
The CDH offers:
-

separate banking activities at European level;

-

fight against the transactions (or trading) at high frequency.

Proposition 182: Increase the transparency of the Belgian banking system
Faced with economic uncertainty, investors have placed their savings on savings accounts.
Outstanding savings accounts in Belgium reached 247.4 milliards27 in October 2013 a level
never before. At the same time, SMEs complain of increased
difficulties to obtain credit from the banques28. There is thus an imbalance.
To remedy this situation, the Government launched the thematic citizen willing to encourage
investors to put their money in a long-term investment product that finances
only the real economy.
The CDH wants to go further with this logic and proposes:

26 European Commission, 2008, risk-based contributions in EU Deposit Guarantee Schemes: current practices, Final Report on Contributions RiskBased, June
27
Free Belgium, 2014 The savings account knows its first signs of weakness, January 8.
28
Cefip, 2013 Barometer 17: SME access to bank financing, cefip.be March.

154

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
-

increase transparency of the banking sector by requiring banks to publish their chiffresclés the real economy financing activity as are business loans and
individuals in Belgium;

-

enhance the expertise of the banking supervisory authorities specifying in the law
prerequisite criteria for executives of financial supervisory authorities
such as the National Bank of Belgium and the services and markets supervisory authority
Financial (FSMA). Also strengthen the expertise of the directors appointed by the State
within banks (partially) public;

-

protect consumers and investors:

-

o

requiring information on financial products and health companies
is reliable, clear, comparable and accessible not only electronically but
also by any other means;

o

framing strictly the complex and dangerous financial products;

o

with a complete legal framework to ensure that European consumers
independent advice, particularly when they use financial services;

o

increasing the accountability of financial advisors or intermediaries;

o

allowing the prosecution of unfair trade practices and clauses
unfair contract;

o

facilitating access for all consumers to a basic bank account;

o

give the consumer the option to specify a maximum amount in contracts
of debit.

align the interests of banks and bankers over the general interest in framing the
remuneration and bonuses of bankers, limiting and conditioning them to sustainable health
institutions and financial operations.

155

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Action 3. Promote fair trade
The economic and financial crises of recent years have shown us our weaknesses
economic systems increasingly dependent on international trade. It is crucial to
ensure that the economic benefit of our Belgian, European but also
Global taking place in the respect for human values. The search for a high yield can
have serious social, environmental, health or human. Businesses
must be aware of their involvement in society and their social responsibility,
especially from the point of view of solidarity and the environment.

183 flagship proposal: to uphold the human, social standards and
environmental border of Europe
Globalization has profoundly changed international trade and has led to the segmentation
International production process. Firms relocating certain stages of manufacture
products, particularly low-wage developing countries, regardless of
human standards, social or environmental. These choices distort
competition caused by a human dumping, sanitary, social and environmental. Products
who arrive on the Belgian market at low prices to the detriment of European businesses and
local workers can not be tolerated. It takes a fair trade.
Guarantee the respect of human rights, the interests of customers and consumers, fight
against corruption, protecting the environment, respecting healthy competition rules
as many concepts that must be considered to penalize foreign products.
In terms of intra-European trade, companies are subject to the rules and
specific legal constraints that require them to respect human rights, the interests of
customers and consumers to protect the environment, fight against corruption, etc. This
is not always the case for international trade. We must therefore ensure compliance
Human standards, social and environmental and a better balance between the interests of
States and citizens on the one hand, and those of the other investors.
For the CDH, the restoration of fair trade goes through tariffs on
Products that do not meet these international standards. This will build a
responsible globalization. This system can avoid unfair competition for products
can be found on our territory, while guaranteeing standards of human, social,
international environmental and health.
The CDH offers:
-

the introduction by the EU of a tax mechanism locks on products
not respect human standards, environmental, health and social Europe.

An international organization linked to the WTO, certify the companies' production processes,
base including various environmental international standards (Kyoto, Copenhagen ...)
social (Core Labour Standards ILO), but also health (REACH ...). This
locks tariff mechanism will operate in both directions, via premiums and taxes, related to
a level set by the institute.

156

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Proposition 184: Establishing a label for Corporate Social Responsibility
Business
Did you know that nearly nine in ten EU citizens want the EU to ensure respect for
social and ethical standards by companies?
It is essential for companies to demonstrate social responsibility and exercise
due diligence on their supply chains, in particular to ensure compliance with
human rights, civil and social, in the production and businesses but also
they do not participate in the financing of conflicts.
To ensure this, the CDH calls for:
-

introducing human, environmental and social criteria in the contract documents
public procurement in particular to promote "short circuits" (reduction
carbon footprint) and encourage subcontracting nearby;

-

coordinate the use of the concept of corporate social responsibility (CSR) in
developing at European level a label that integrates CSR concerns in human terms,
social, environmental, ethics, human rights and consumers;

-

promote corporate social responsibility, their suppliers and their subcontractors, by setting up at European level one of their certification mechanism
production process, based on their respect for human standards, social, health and
environmental.

Proposition 185: Ensure good corporate governance
Companies must make efforts in terms of social responsibility, compared to
men and the environment and be able to present it to everyone in their annual reports, but
it is also that their accounts should highlight these achievements.
Accounting standards are now decided at international level without
Europe actually participates in their modification because it does not position itself
coordinated. Europe must therefore play a role in changing these accounting standards, especially that they take into account the specificity of our economy and our fabric
SMEs, but also for them to be structured to highlight the responsibility
societal.
The CDH offers:
-

impose on publicly traded companies to include in their annual report initiatives
leaders, human, social and environmental, as well as key indicators
to assess these concepts;

-

ensure that tax policy companies also follows these principles of good
governance by fighting against tax evasion and the use of tax havens;

-

create a tax incentive that would encourage businesses to implement investment
who use the best available technology from an environmental point of view;

-

coordinate EU positions in international accounting standards by creating
a structure capable of carrying out a strategic analysis of the economic impact of standards
and insert a CSR appearance.

157

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Proposition 186: Promoting socially responsible investment and
durable
More and more investors want to invest their savings in investments
are focused on the development of civil society while respecting the environment and
social norms. With the increase in demand, banks have responded favorably
creating a panel of offers of socially responsible investment funds ("ISR" 29). However,
many investment funds in fact use the terminology of investments
"Sustainable", "green", "green", "responsible", "solidarity" to attract customers, so
no legal framework accompanying them. To overcome this deficiency, it is necessary to establish a
legal standard to ensure that SRI are truly socially responsible and not
simple marketing label.
The CDH offers:
-

establish a quality label "socially responsible investment" that will be granted if the
promoter does not invest in certain companies or states that do not meet standards
human, social and environmental;

-

require banks to disclose the percentage of societal investment managers
in which they invest.

Proposition 187: Guarantee equity of private companies competing on
a public market
When a public authority is launching a tender for the procurement, the private companies
find themselves competing. This competition is beneficial when it is right and fair, because
authorities can benefit from the best market prices and services. Conversely, a
company that can provide the quality of service will be rewarded by winning the contract.
In practice, however, the public authority may be tempted to favor one or the other company without
unrelated to the quality or price that the company can offer. This kind of practice is well
heard purely illegal, but is difficult to control now.
Establish an observatory for public procurement would ensure the proper functioning
public procurement and to ensure fair competition between companies. Public procurement
must be the example of efficient policy.
Furthermore, public procurement must be more accessible to SMEs. Currently,
regulations have become so complex that it is not uncommon for SMEs waive all
just to bid.
The CDH offers:
-

create a Price Observatory of public contracts which, at first, will allow
public authorities (contracting authorities) to better assess the normality of the proposed prices
by bidders and in a second step, facilitating the task of contracting authorities
in connection with the negotiation of public contracts in the case of negotiated procedure allowed
by regulations;

-

promote access to public procurement for SMEs mainly through the use of market
Lots and secondarily through the use of the following systems: either the list of candidates
selected, or the qualification system;

29

Inspired by a study BAYOT, B., A. and S. Coeckelbergh DEMOUSTIEZ (2008), "Study on a proposed definition of a
legal norm socially responsible investment "Réseau Financement Alternatif.

158

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
-

centralize all procurement notice and public entities procurement documents within a
single portal.

Action 4. Respect the environment
For CDH, ensure restore and maintain the balance of nature therefore is the responsibility
every woman and every man. Nature is not a museum and it is transforming in
cultivating it, we can improve the human condition, but it is essential to recognize the limitations
our natural resources and their ability to (re) production. Nature must be respected in order
to allow our children and our descendants to enjoy an even better quality of life
as ours.
Respect nature, but also ensure a healthy environment for citizens. Development
human can not be implemented only through, inter alia, improving the quality of
air, the fight against noise pollution and, more generally, the noise that affects the quality of life
citizens and access to safe drinking water and affordable.
Finally, the cultural and emotional bond between man and nature must be strengthened. Instead of
seen as a foreign object and material or as a threat, we believe
that nature is part of our culture and is a source of wonder and inspiration.
Destroy nature is to destroy our nature as human beings.

Proposal flagship 188: Preserving biodiversity as a global public good
The services provided by ecosystems have value both priceless and irreplaceable.
Do you know that in Wallonia, 350 species of wild bees and bumble permit
fertilization and reproduction of more than 80% of plant species?
They provide, in fact, essential services in the development of human society, such as
food production, supply of raw materials, degradation of waste,
purification of air and water, soil formation, erosion control, stabilization and
climate moderation, mitigation of droughts, floods, ...
Understand
The indicator usually used as an indicator of the state of biodiversity is an assessment
"species at risk". It has been developed globally by the IUCN (International Union
Conservation of Nature). It assesses the risk of species extinction throughout their
range.
But transposed to the scale of a small region, the indicator has limitations because one of the criteria is the
rarity. Quite logical since a rare species, represented by few individuals, has more chance
disappear a species which is represented by many individuals. Thus some species
as the black stork are considered endangered when they are expanding.
The CDH wants the protection of biodiversity is one of the major goals
international relations. Protecting this global public good will be implemented including
defending the protection of the marine environment and fighting against deforestation.

159

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
The CDH offers:
-

implement the Nagoya Protocol;

-

support research to better understand the richness of our
biodiversity and maintain inventories of all animal and plant species
on earth ;

-

assist developing countries, including the Congo to sustainably manage their
forests and stop tropical deforestation:

to. proactively implement the regulation on the wood of the EU and provide
sufficient means to monitor and control. In addition, wood products and related
relevant for the European market should be left to the Regulation on the EU Forest;
b. provide active support to the participatory development of a Voluntary Partnership Agreement
(VPA) including the Democratic Republic of Congo;
c. pay particular attention to the protection and sustainable use of the rainforest
Congolese as part of its development aid. It does not only is of interest
world in the fight against climate change and the preservation of diversity
biological but also for the fight against poverty and support sustainable development
and human in Congo and in neighboring countries;
-

strengthen the integration of biodiversity into national policies of partner countries
development cooperation;

-

protect the marine environment: ban on deep-water trawling and preservation of the Sea
North ;

-

effective protection of Natura 2000 areas at sea with concrete management plans. There
Belgium proposed a Natura 2000 area in the sea because of its shallow sandbanks
and precious and reefs with beds of gravel and sedentary shells. However,
This entry has not yet been transposed into concrete measures.

Proposition 189: Amplify the policy of reducing the use of
pesticides and biocides.
The number of cancers increases for several years, and this not only because of
lengthening the life. The use of certain pesticides and biocides can affect our health. Us
may at any time inhale or ingest substances harmful to our body. Moreover,
these products degrade biodiversity, and thus destroy some potential that nature is
may offer us in the pharmaceutical, food or
economic.
The CDH offers:
-

analyze the toxicity of the active materials which may have an effect on insect pollinators
when analyzing requests for permission and on human health;

-

organize an effective communication campaign and targeted (eg inspired
anti-smoking campaigns). It does not aim only proactive but consumers
also those not spontaneously seeking information on pesticides;

-

extend health monitoring measures for workers. These measures will not target only
professional users of pesticides but all concerned as

160

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
professional, including in particular carriers and workers on sites
Production;
-

assess the exposure of people living near the product application areas
plant protection and take all measures that would prove useful.

Proposition 190: Raise awareness and educate citizens to the protection of
nature
The citizens are important actors in the conservation of local biodiversity. These
must become the custodians of biodiversity and possess the tools necessary to protect
the biodiversity. Education and training are essential tools for the protection of
biodiversity.
The CDH offers:
-

increase awareness campaigns such as "Plan Bee", "Maya map" to
save other species;
educate children from an early age to the preservation of biodiversity.

Proposition 191: Amplifier and diversify the protection of Nature
We think we need to look at the "ordinary nature" that surrounding reserves and
reconcile man with nature. There are many ways to encourage this reconnection
of man to nature every day ...
The CDH offers:
-

maintain effort while modernizing the tools such as a 'nature' code, which would reform the law
Conservation of Nature;

-

sit and develop the Natura 2000 network while adapting to local conditions and techno-;

-

streamline financial and human resources: the use of public funds or from
clearing systems by targeting efficient projects;

-

simplify and streamline procedures for natural sites management plan but also
protecting federal lands and allow other actors of rurality, protect and
maintain their own nature heritage;

-

integrate biodiversity consideration in land use by integrating reflections
concept of ecological networks in planning operations such as land consolidation
or municipal development plans;

-

apply, adapt and complete integration of ecological tools such as the "network Wallonia
nature "to ensure cross and pragmatic management of" ordinary nature ".

161

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Proposition 192: Enhancing the animal welfare
The respect for life is a fundamental element of humanism. It concerns first course
Instead women and men living on our planet.
It also implies respect of the entire living world. For several years, the legislation
Belgian on animal welfare has been strengthened. The next regionalization of skill will
an opportunity to improve animal welfare.
For CDH, it is important to:
-

strengthen the means of control against violations of the animal welfare, including
integrate the inspectorate of animal welfare in the Police Department and
Controls Wallonia public service;

-

support associations of animal owners and veterinarians to disseminate to
Owner and the most useful information to the wellbeing of animals
company;

-

support European harmonization initiatives up standards of animal welfare
in order to enhance the efforts of farmers, especially at the Belgian level;

-

leverage university research to develop "best practices" improving
animal welfare while ensuring its feasibility by the livestock sector and encourage
farmers by supporting investment they make to go beyond) of standards
force;

-

strengthen penalties for intentional acts of animal abuse which contravene
the legislation on animal welfare, including the implementation of an automatic penalty
detention prohibition of any animal for the most serious offenses.

Proposition 193: Purify the air we breathe
Do you know that according to the WHO, air pollution would cause 350,000 premature deaths per year, the
territory of the European Union?
The air pollution affects all open places or public or private session. Towards a more air
Pure requires the establishment of consistent efforts, consistent and sustained.
If the pollution did not exist, Europeans live on average 8.6 months longer. 50% of deaths
caused by air pollution are caused traffic according to a study conducted in
Austria, Switzerland and France. 90% of Europeans are exposed to air pollutants. TO
Brussels, reduced life expectancy reaches a year and a half.
The CDH offers:
-

halve industrial diffuse pollution by 2020: There has been progress but
it should stay the course to ensure compliance with commitments;

-

improve air quality in buildings, including high traffic areas or
public housing a weakened: conduct analysis of air quality in high places
Attendance (schools, kindergartens, hospitals, nursing homes) or in a public housing areas
weakened and work on awareness-raising measures;

162

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
-

act locally:
o

systematize the development of Local Action Plans in sensitive areas. Pollution
air tends to localize in more sensitive areas than others for questions
density of emission sources, topology ...;

o

the fact that an area is not another, only local actions would stem the
Specific causes of this pollution and potentiate the actions taken by the General
Government;

o

continue the development policy of green areas in town that are true
lungs for their inhabitants and make them more welcoming urban centers and more
pleasing;

o

better account of air pollution in taxation;

o

integrate air pollution criteria in the calculation of different taxes.
The use of lower-emission vehicles such as electric vehicles or gas
should also be promoted especially in the city where pollution tends to
be more concentrated.

Proposition 194: Develop a cadastre noise in Brussels and Wallonia
The noise and noise are too present in the daily lives of citizens. The
different planes 'noise' must be respected. It takes better account of the factor
noise combustion engines, especially in neighborhoods where homes that coexist with
noisy factories or workshops, geographical areas and issues such as
combining dance halls or night bars. Police areas must be properly equipped
to ensure better consideration of noise with sound level meters.
The CDH proposes creating an agency of noise pollution in each Region to:
-

receive and monitor the calls of the suffering citizens of recurring noise pollution;

-

measuring noise in the territory;

-

establish a register of noise, by town, to identify areas
Public awareness issues and administrations to the problem of noise;

-

develop legal solutions, technical or educational and support municipalities
in their implementation;

-

implement, with local authorities, actions that reduce noise pollution
(arrangement of roads, municipal regulations, noise barriers, awareness raising, sanctions ...).

Proposition 195: Ensure monitoring and implementation of management
Preventive health risks
The quality of the water supply must be guaranteed at all times. Both preventive procedures
healing should help to ensure the control of health risks.
This implies to continue to develop a public high-level expertise to better understand
the risk that newly in the news (ie plant residues, contaminants
Emerging in the water, etc.), before taking appropriate measures in terms that will decline
regulatory and operational at an acceptable price.
163

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
The development of organic farming in Wallonia is one of prevention policies
for the protection of the resource.
It is also proposed that better regulation concerning the use of rainwater or well water, and
the investments softener or filter, to ensure public health.
A gradual harmonization at EU level of the water quality standards
contribute to the development of public expertise at European level while opening
more regional markets and thus lowering prices of products.

164

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Axis 3
Conclude a new contract
of society
We live in increasingly large communities. Social relations, increasingly
complex, are based on the pooling of part of the resources to meet
collective needs. The social model established in the aftermath of World War II is
increasingly challenged by the expansion of our community to the village level
Planetary, parallel to changing family patterns. Wanting a better life requires
refound our partnership agreement, based on two pillars: tax and social protection.
1. Redefining tax
The first chapter is dedicated to taxation. For CDH, taxation can fill
several roles simultaneously:
- Financing of the action and of public services;
- The redistribution of wealth;
- A way to encourage or discourage certain behaviors. Our tax system for both businesses and individuals, took water from all sides. The
Many patches made over time led to a tax system with
major gaps:
-

a higher tax rate to income tax combined companies an unfair advantage system
essentially a few large companies;

-

very high taxes on labor;

-

a taxation of capital income exploded.

We propose to recover, from the beginning of the next legislature, the redistributive functions
Economic taxes. With all the social partners, the CDH wants to lead a
"Fiscal revolution" to simplify our tax system, ensure better redistribution, value
work and above all create jobs. CdH proposes to reduce the 10 billion tax that weighs
on work and business, and support families while ensuring the balance of
public finances through increased taxation of pollution and speculation, as well as the
removal of notional interest and enhanced fight against tax fraud.
For the CDH, the method chosen to carry out this fiscal revolution is essential. The
changes must be clearly identified and programmed in time. He is
essential to conclude a fiscal pact which binds the state, households and businesses to promote
stability of a tax system and prevent new changes come shortly
change the tax landscape.

164

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
2. Modernising solidarity
The second chapter is devoted to our welfare model. The Belgian social model
regularly put forward as one of the best in the world. Our security system
Social allowed for decades to ensure broad and effective social protection for everyone
to face the vagaries of life.
However, it must be modernized if we want to preserve it. It continues to be based on a
presupposition share gains in growth and productivity, as well as a conception of
now outdated nuclear family. We must now focus social policy more
active that avoid confinement in the long-term unemployment through policies
coaching and training, development of prevention policies, etc. (see line 2),
but also adapt to the new needs that arise.
Our social system must guarantee seniors the best possible quality of life. This means,
obviously ensure decent pensions, but also preserve as long as possible
autonomy, particularly by developing personal services. An objective symbolizes this
ambition allow seniors to choose their place of living and stay at home as long as they
wish.
The health care provision must also be reoriented. New pathologies related to our
living conditions should receive priority attention. The medicine must be near
strengthened, including through the enhancement of general practitioners. They must be given time
to be attentive to the patients. It is also essential to ensure that health care remains
accessible to the most vulnerable patients. But it is mainly favoring a policy
health focuses on prevention that can become live better.
Finally, our social system must encourage the participation of all in society paying
privileged attention to disabled people and the fight against insecurity. The possibilities
Home, including the handicapped adults, are largely insufficient, which then
many dimensions of social life - the habitat management to the labor market
- Are not adapted to promote their social integration. Our social system must also guarantee
but fall into poverty due to an accident of life may not cause a vicious circle
social exclusion. He is the last base that can provide everyone with the minimum requirements of a lifetime
decent: access to water, to food, to housing.

165

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Chapter 1. Redefining tax
The tax allows us to finance at lower cost basic services: education, health,
transport, security, social protection ... Pay our taxes is to contribute to prosperity
town! It is an act of participation and solidarity that meets so
our collective needs. But paying taxes is inseparable from the absolute requirement for rigor
its use by public authorities, and the constant search for greater efficiency
the services it funds, in favor of the citizen and the user: it is an absolute necessity for
guarantee the legitimacy of the state. This is the framework of the renewed social contract we propose for
taxes.
Today, the legitimacy of the tax is found weakened by tax competition within
EU but also worldwide. Some companies, some individuals fare
profit to evade taxes sometimes using complex constructions. To better protect the
citizen, promote social cohesion and develop the business, we need better
Europe stronger, which can converge the fiscal mechanisms in the Member States.
Our tax system has become unfair, inefficient and too complex. We have a duty to
reform. Unfair, because he is no longer able to curb the increase in inequality. Ineffective
because it taxes heavily, and thus penalize the resources we want to encourage (labor)
and does not value those we want to protect (the environment). Complex, fed
special measures, it benefits especially to those who have the capacity to enjoy it,
individuals or companies.
A tax revolution is urgent to value the effort and support workers
families, to reduce labor costs for employers, to release the job creation and
help companies that, for the same capital, generate more jobs.
The basics of this fiscal revolution should be discarded early in the next legislature and
respect budgetary neutrality. They should allow us to establish a tax system more
simpler and more balanced, likely to boost economic dynamics. It is through this path of
creating jobs, not new taxes, which should meet our goals
budget.
These new bases will be the opportunity to conclude a peace tax, which clearly establishes the steps to
come, ensures the stability of rules and allow us to rebuild confidence between the state,
businesses and individuals. Besides social security, we must make every effort to
ensure fiscal security.
Specifically, our fiscal revolution is a tax shift 10 billion and continues
four objectives:
1. Create 140,000 jobs during the next parliamentary term, at least 21,000 jobs
personal services to cope with the demographic challenge;
2. Making Work: a gain of 100 euros per month per worker taking better
account the family situation and a 0% rate until 11,000 euros to fight against the
employment traps;
3. greater social justice Redo: the tax burden on labor and companies will
lightened by contributing speculators and fighting against fraud and pollution, it
which will mainly benefit workers and SMEs;
4. Ensure a balanced budget ensuring the budget neutrality of the reform
proposed and devoting return effects of job creation to deficit reduction
public.

166

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

There neutrality and neutrality ...
When speaking of budget neutrality, it is generally considered that the money saved on
certain measures used elsewhere. But some have a much broader concept: they
consider the feedback effects of job creation (the decline in unemployment expenses
for example) must also be taken into account. For the CDH, the effects must be used to return
reduce the fiscal deficit and expenditure related to aging.

The reform we advocate is budget neutral as shown in the table below:

ISOC

IPP

Spending
Decreased rates
Cost: 1,250 mio
tax to 30%
Reinstatement of the deduction Cost: 500 millions
Investment
Premium reduction
Cost: 1,250 mio
employers
TOTAL EXPENDITURE: 3000000000

Receipts
Clearing
Gain: 3,000 mio
Notional interest

Increased quota
exempt
Better consideration of
family status

Revenues
Gain: 3,400 mio
capital
Standards
Gain: 2,300 mio
Human
and
environment
Fight against
Gain: 1,300 mio
fraud
TOTAL REVENUE: 7000000000

Cost: 6,400 mio
Cost: 600 millions

TOTAL EXPENDITURE: 7000000000

TOTAL REVENUE: 3000000000

The proposed reform is expected to create nearly 140,000 additional jobs
all of the next Parliament. The effects return should amount to over 2.3 billion
euros. These would be devoted to the return to a balanced budget (an effort of about 10.5
billion needs to be done by 2016) and funding of an aging population.
Proposal Description

Dues
social

IPP

Gain due
effects return

Structural reduction

46,600

€ 729,804,250

Youth reduction

16,700

€ 166 million

Maribel reduction

21,700

€ 72 million

85,000

€ 967,804,250

ISOC decreased to 30%

22,000

€ 475 million

Investment allowance
Reduce by € 100 per month tax
physical persons
Better reflect the people
load in the tax calculation
TOTAL

5000

€ 75 million

27,000

€ 810 million

139.000

€ 2.327.804.250

TOTAL
ISOC

Jobs created

167

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Action 1. The taxation of citizens
Levies on labor income are particularly high in our country. This verdict
is not new and is not surprising therefore that our country is a country where the tax burden
Global is often described as very high and labor income are the main
source taxation.
We want to achieve a shift in taxation to reduce taxation on labor, which expand
is imposed on all income and reduce tax loopholes, which became a maze
benefits only a few.
Also, have a simpler and fairer tax system will also fight more
against fraud and promote greater adherence to the payment of its
contributions.

196 flagship proposal: Reduce by 100 euros per month tax people
Physical
Did you know that taxes and social contributions levied on earned income up more
50% of government revenue?
High taxation of labor income discourages initiative and creates employment traps: it is
not interesting enough to go to work. Our tax system is unfair. He is not
normal that labor income is taxed at very quickly while some 50% of revenues
Speculation are not at all. To make work, the minimum taxable income should
be 11,000 euros.

What about Tax Proposals MR?
The MR proposed to distribute € 5 billion in tax gifts to households, without explaining
how to finance them. According to the KUL (Katholieke Universiteit Leuven), not 5 but 15 billion
that the proposed measures will cost. A magic trick we'd all be the losers ...
Furthermore, the personal income tax is currently presented in marginal rates. It's a
complex system that does not allow the citizen to know the rate at which it is actually
imposed. It gives the impression to the public that the state fee 50% of all their income as they
reach the income bracket taxed at 50%. This reinforces the sense of injustice to citizens.
To reinforce the legitimacy of the tax, it is essential that the present tax scale rates
citizens' contribution numbers.
"The great advantage of the scales expressed in effective rates is that they immediately allow
everyone to get an idea of ​​who pays what. In particular, they allow to realize it takes
usually go very high in the hierarchy of income to achieve effective rates
important. "1

1

Thomas Piketty, For a fiscal revolution, p. 87.

168

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
To make work pay and ensure transparency in the system, the CDH offers:
-

Establish a 0% tax rate until 11,000 euros. This represents a gain of € 100 per month2.

-

Adopt a tax schedule expressed in effective rates.

The tax scale desired by the cdH
Taxable Income (€)

Effective tax rate

11,000
15,000
18,500
22,000
27,500
36,500
50,000
58,000
75,000
100,000
150,000
300,000
500,000 and beyond

0%
10%
15%
20%
25%
30%
35%
37.50%
40%
42.50%
45%
47.50%
50%

This new tax scale expresses the rate of tax actually paid by the citizen
(before taking into account any deductions or tax cuts). It is therefore a rate
maximum effective tax paid by the taxpayer. A person does not earn more
11,000 euros will pay no tax at all, while someone earning € 50,000
will pay a tax of 17,500 euros, or exactly 35% as shown in the table. Finally, a
person with an income of 32,000 euros, an amount exactly located between revenues
corresponding to 25% and 30% will be applied a rate of 27.5%.

197 flagship proposal: Better take account of dependents in the
tax calculation
A tax advantage is granted when one or more people are in charge of a household.
Specifically, in the present system, this means that the portion of income that is not taxed is
increased by a certain amount, thus reducing the tax due. However, today the situation
family is not sufficiently reflected in the tax calculation.
To support families, the CDH offers:
-

create tax cuts increased to better reflect dependents. In
the old system, this amounts to increase the portion of income that is not taxed. Families
with dependents may reduce the amount of tax payable (under Schedule
196 defined in the proposal) an amount based on family status:

o

For one child, the reduction would be € 843, an increase of € 40 per
months from the current system;

o

For two dependent children, it would be € 1,775, an increase of € 61 per month;

2

Calculated in relation to the 2013 tax year.

169

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
o

For three dependent children, it would be € 3,705, an increase of € 79 per month;

o

For four dependent children, it would be € 6,085, an increase of € 104 per month;

o

The reduction would be increased by € 2,380 for each additional child, an
increase of € 5 per month;

o

Like today, disabled children count for two, which ensures
further increase of € 21 per month;

o

An additional reduction in additional minimum € 932 would be given to
parent families, an increase of € 42 per month;

o

Finally, for families with a person over 65 dependents, the reduction would be
€ 1,311, an increase of € 43 per month.

-

Index the reduction of property tax for dependent children. We want to index the
reduction of property tax for dependent children which remained stuck at 125 euros
for over 10 years. In addition, the introduction of automaticity in granting that reduction
is essential so that all families can benefit.

-

Giving families a tax advantage to alleviate the cost of students kots (see
Proposal 89).

-

Implement a total exemption of inheritance tax for sole own dwelling of
surviving spouse in the Walloon Region. Given the current situation, lead to exemption
Total inheritance tax is only possible as part of an overall tax reform
individuals.

Proposition 198: To help speculators
To restore a balance between the different levies on capital income and also
to make the tax shift, the CDH offers:
-

Taxing 25% of height at short-term stock market gains and allow for the possibility of
deduct losses;

-

Uniform taxation of capital income: the tax benefit of 1,900 euros now
planned for the savings account is extended to all income received (interest, dividends,
capital gains) and standardize the withholding tax to 25% withholding;

-

To exchange financial information between countries (proposal 209).

-

Implement the tax on financial transactions (Tobin tax) at European level via a
enhanced cooperation. (see proposal 208);

Proposition 199: Enforcing human standards, social and
environmental
The CDH proposes to introduce a tax at the borders of Europe in imported goods
from countries with human standards, social and environmental inferior to
European standards. Indeed, these products come to compete unfairly companies
installed on European territory (see proposal 183).

170

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Proposition 200: The fight against tax fraud
Belgium lost each year between 25 and 30 billion because of tax fraud or the
annual cost of educational expenses. Therefore, the CDH offers:
-

Assign the money recovered through the fight against tax evasion to reduced taxation
on labor income (in 2013, this represents 1.3 billion);

-

Extending the scope of the automatic exchange of information on all types of
back to all countries of the European Union and other OECD countries (see
proposal 209);

-

Strengthen the capacity of the Federal Public Services "Finance" and "Justice" to fight
effectively against fraud, including the introduction of a magistrate

specializing in tax matters;

-

Limiting cases where it may use the plea agreement procedure (which allows subject
financial transaction to evade a criminal trial).

Proposition 201: Facilitate access to housing
Can become a homeowner is a priority for many people. This is
Also one of the best ways to ensure a decent standard of living when you are a pensioner.
The tax deduction of loans contracted for the purchase of a home is the main tax assistance
facilitating the access to the property. But this skill is now transferred to the Regions. He
return to the regions to develop their own housing policy. For CDH, it is
important to preserve this system:
Therefore, the CDH offers:
-

confirm maintenance of the deductibility of mortgage loans;

-

establish a tax benefit to channel savings towards property investment (see
proposal 254);

-

allow the spreading of payment of registration fees for the first housing (see
proposal 268);

-

establish the portability of registration duties to move without charge (see proposal
275);

-

addressing the tax benefits related to renovation loans under housing
shared (see proposal 281).

-

reduce inheritance tax on housing that the heirs agree to entrust an
social housing agency (AIS) for minimum 12 years (Proposition 271).

Proposition 202: Adjust the tax rate for school buildings
To promote the quality of school infrastructure, cdH proposes to lower the VAT rate on
school buildings from 21% to 6%. This will allow schools to have means
increased to invest in the maintenance and improvement of their buildings, sometimes in poor condition.

171

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Action 2. The business taxation
Regardless of the changes that must be taken at European level (see Action 3: convergence
European), we believe it is essential to carry out without waiting for a tax reform
Companies in Belgium. Companies are subject to significant taxation, complex and
does not promote sufficient job creation. Corporation tax (ISOC) is riddled with
many tax loopholes that undermine its readability. The corporate tax is 10 billion
revenue to 16 billion deductions! This anomaly results in a nominal rate of ISOC
much higher than the rate actually paid by the companies. This complexity night
our competitiveness. We plead therefore for a progressive abolition of interest
notional to devote the revenue thus freed to reduce the tax rate, reintroducing
Investment incentives and create jobs by reducing labor costs for
employers.
Belgium participated in the tax competition, including the introduction of the mechanism
notional interest. As a reminder, this measure was decided by the PS-MR government. The cdH
had, at the time, warned repeatedly against the introduction of this deduction
for notional interest.

The CDH had warned against the introduction of notional interest
In the parliamentary debate of 2 June 2005, Jean-Jacques Viewfinder, MP cdH, held the words
following:
"I am happy to speak now, not for today or for weeks
come. I attach great importance to the fact that what I say will be taken down in history and
I give you an appointment at all, in a few years for the effects of this project. this project
contains good things and others much more disturbing; the future decide between the (...).
First reflection. If we wanted to give a sign to our companies and to foreign companies
wanting to invest in Belgium (...) it was extremely easy to take a simple measure, namely
lower the tax rate of ISOC. (...) Everything was clear, visible to all and, in budgetary terms,
this would have a positive effect. We really controlled the consequences as they would have been calculated
based on current revenues of ISOC and would have known that there was no variation. But was
preferred to do so we could do complicated simple. "

203 flagship proposal: Reduce the corporate tax rate and
remove notional interest
We must reconcile the nominal rate and the rate actually paid by the companies. Our goal is to
gradually join the EU average, currently 25%. This will promote a
better understanding and enhance the attractiveness of the Belgian economy. We also want
simplify our system and restrict many tax loopholes. It is unacceptable that today
some companies pay a particularly low rate because they take full advantage of
certain niches while others pay the full price.
We plead for a long time for an overhaul of corporate taxes to boost
investment and employment. To achieve this, we propose to phase out one of
Key measures which undermines the fairness of corporate tax: the notional interest mechanism.

172

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
Did you know that Didier Reynders (MR) had initially estimated the cost of notional interest 476
millions of euros ? It is now 6.159 billion euros ... 3.
This regime is no longer sustainable because heavy burden on the state budget. In addition, he created a
huge windfall effect, since this advantage is only associated with holding capital
by the companies and not for investment or job.
To establish a tax fairer societies, simpler and more effective, the CDH offers:
1. Reduce the tax rate to 30% immediately, then join the middle
European 25%.
2. Delete in five years the deduction for risk capital (notional interest). Suppression
progressive notional interest to devote the revenue thus released to a decrease
the tax rate, the reintroduction of investment incentives (see proposal 204) and
job creation by reducing labor costs for employers (see
Proposal 95).
3. Standardize and simplify the taxation of capital gains on shares realized by the companies. This
proposal allows to benefit from a simplified system of taxation and to adopt a logic
comparable between dividends and capital gains on shares realized by enterprises. The
Budget gain provided by this measure will focus on the reduction of the tax rate.

204 Lighthouse Proposal: Stimulate investment and innovation of our
Business
To stimulate economic activity, it should support companies that invest,
especially in the real economy. When the notional interest were introduced, the deduction
for investments has been removed. For CDH, it was a mistake. We wish
reintroduce and expand. Indeed, so far only the infrastructure-related investments
valued. This choice often enhances the production methods associated with more intensive use of
raw material. We must be able to expand that deduction to intangible investments,
innovation and human capital.
To support investment and business innovation, the CDH offers:
1. Reinstate the investment deduction. This deduction can be deducted from income
taxable percentage of the purchase price of investments. We offer
reintroduce this deduction for all our businesses.
2. Extend the deduction for investment in human capital and innovation. The
made non-material investments can bring real added value to the process
productive. These include investments made to improve the flow
output, innovation in a broad sense in the process, worker training or
even improving well-being at work. It is important to promote this proposal
investment in human, innovative and environmental components businesses.

3

Latest available data for 2011. FPS Finance, Inventory of federal tax expenditures, in 2012.

173

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Proposition 205: Supporting SMEs and job creation
There is currently a progressive discount for companies with taxable income exceeds
not a certain amount. The CDH wants to maintain this advantage for SMEs. However, it is the
employer contributions which account for two thirds of contributions from SMEs
the State. Support for SMEs thus passes first by reducing them.
The CDH offers:
-

Reduce employers' social contributions, which are the main contributions by
SMEs (see proposals 95 and 96).

-

Reduce to 20% the tax rate for SMEs up to 150,000 euros in taxable income
parallel with the reduction to 25% of the regular rate of ISOC.

Action 3. The European Convergence
The globalization of the economy and increased capital mobility reinforce tax competition
Between the countries. They are forced to continuously reduce their tax rates to attract
investors. But this competition down is barren; she lost tax revenue to
everyone and weakens social models and public services.
This thorny issue is on the agenda of European officials for several years. She is
returned acute lately, following the demonstration of avoidance schemes
large scale and the OECD's work on taxation of multinational companies.
For CDH, these developments are too slow. We must move up a gear, ensure
transparency of financial flows within the EU, not just a basic harmonization
taxable but also promote a convergence of rates. It also requires that the Union uses all
the tools at its disposal to force convergence.

Understand
Decisions on tax matters must be taken unanimously by the Member States. This is
why it is difficult to move forward. At European level, the CDH think we need to take more
decisions by a majority of Member States.

Proposal flagship 206: Harmonize corporate tax at European level
In terms of corporate tax, the European Commission proposed in March 2011 a plan
common for calculating the tax base of businesses operating in the EU:
the common consolidated corporate tax base (CCCTB). The determination of the same
tax base for all companies within the European Union is essential for
avoid tax optimization strategies that lead large companies to locate their
benefits where the level of taxation is lowest.
Understand
Between European states harmonize the tax base, ie which is subject to tax, is a
good thing. But if rates remain far apart, this may further increase competition
Tax! That is why the CDH also calls for guarantees convergence on rates.
While Belgium will soon begin its legislature next fiscal revolution, the level
Europe must move forward in the direction of better tax harmonization.

174

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
To support the convergence of tax systems at European level, the CDH offers:
1. Defend the CCCTB project for the harmonization of the tax base for businesses.
Determine the same taxable base for all companies within the Union
European will to fight against tax optimization strategies that lead
large companies to locate their profits where the level of taxation is lowest. It
also reduce the tax obstacles that firms face that perform
operations in several countries;
2. Bringing the tax rates within the European Union. We believe that a
only harmonization of the tax base is not enough. This could indeed have to
resulting in increased competition on rates. As the monetary snake has européen4
made in the 90s prior to the introduction of the single currency, shall be created
European tax snake delimit a maximum rate and minimum rates between which
expected to be the national tax rate.

Proposition 207: Condition financial aid to the tax cooperation
Understand
In the context of the financial crisis, the European Union has supported several States
members. But the Union has ever matched this with a requirement to limit competition
tax. For CDH, it is not normal that the EU helps Member States to maintain
tax competition mechanisms.
Following the financial crisis, several mechanisms are in place to provide support to
Member States experiencing difficulties in their financial stability and banking sector:
Greece, Italy, Spain, Portugal, etc. If such assistance meets a need of emergency related to the
pressure from financial markets, renewal of such aid must be used as
lever to promote a dynamic leading to greater convergence of tax systems. The
There is a risk indeed that to rebuild their economy and attract foreign capital, some
troubled countries do not choose a niche strategy pushing for tax dumping. This strategy,
if it might make sense for the state in question is disastrous for the European project.
Therefore, the CDH offers:
-

Condition the renewal of the aid to concrete commitments to the
convergence of tax mechanisms, particularly on the most mobile factors (profits
corporate, investment income individuals) (see - Europe Programme)

Proposition 208: Continue the implementation of the transaction tax
Financial (FTT)
Many Member States introduce new forms of taxation for the financial sector
in order to ensure that it participates in the fair cost of the crisis, especially since it has
received massive support from the public authorities.
The European Commission has proposed to provide a framework for a tax on financial transactions
(TTF) in order to harmonize the essential elements and thus avoid fragmentation
internal market for financial services as well as double taxation or phenomena
double non-taxation.

4

Device to limit fluctuations in exchange rates between member countries.

175

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
However, the ECOFIN Council of June 2012 could not achieve unanimity to establish a system
TTF common for all of the EU as the Commission had wished. Months
Later, the Council adopted a Decision authorizing 11 Member States (including Belgium) to establish, by the
through enhanced cooperation, a common system of financial transaction tax. A
Once implemented by the eleven Member States, this tax would generate revenue of around
30-35000000000 euros annually.
Therefore, the CDH offers:
-

Implement the FTT in as many member countries and revenues of this
Tax allow the development of investment policies and employment. It is by this
through ensuring financing of trans-European projects in member countries that have
decided to subscribe to this mechanism (see also - Europe Programme)

Proposition 209: Ensure the transparency of financial investments
According to the European Commission, fraud and tax evasion would cost each year 1000
euros5 billion to the Member States of the Union. Non-reporting and non-tax revenue
significantly reduces the tax revenues of the country. It is therefore imperative to strengthen
significantly the efficiency and effectiveness of tax collection. Automatic exchange
information (EAI) is a valuable tool in this regard.
Reducing fraud and avoidance, Member States could thus increase revenues
tax, which would also give them greater flexibility to restructure
their tax systems. Beyond additional revenue, it is also a question
Tax Fairness.
In this respect, Belgium has started negotiations with the US to reach an agreement on
automatic information exchange, agreement called "FATCA". This agreement will greatly expand
scope of tax cooperation with the United States.
Therefore, the CDH offers:
-

Conclude an agreement type "FATCA" with the countries of the European Union is a minimum.
For CDH, it is inconceivable that Belgium exchange information with the United States with its European Union partners;

-

Generalize automatic information exchange on all types of income level
World (see also - Europe program).

5

http://ec.europa.eu/news/economy/121211_fr.htm.

176

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Chapter 2. Modernising solidarity
The second part of the new partnership agreement that calls for CDH is the
modernization of our social security system. This one, we wrote, must be supported
participation and social integration. It therefore asks to favor social policies
active, such as those we have proposed in the "work" of the axis 2.
Similarly, it must allow people outside the labor market to be valued
socially and remove administrative barriers to social participation. Disability can not
not be synonymous with social exclusion.
The modernization of our social model is primarily necessitated by the great
increase in life expectancy which, Belgium and more widely in the Western world,
we enjoy. This increase will result in the coming years by a sharp rise
number of older people in our society and require adapted social benefits
and utilities.
Did you know that by 2030 there will be 800,000 people aged 65 and older more? 6
This will also mean an increase in public spending, however, limit the Challenge
the lengthening of life in one issue of public finances would be a mistake. It will mainly
transform interpersonal relationships, family dynamics change and transform
consumption patterns, particularly because of the growing importance of needs
personal services. These are essential to allow everyone to stay
autonomous and can choose where to live.
For qu'allongement of life means quality of life, it is also essential to ensure
adequate standard of living for pensioners and adapt our health care to new needs.
Adapting health care concerns, moreover, not only the elderly, but
all citizens. We need to promote the health of all emphasizing the prevention of situations
risk. It should also refocus the provision of care, too focused on acute care and not enough on
chronic care, among others related to "diseases of the century". Finally, recovery of the relationship
between caregiver and patient supported globally (in both preventive aspects
curative) medicine can truly allow human scale.
Attention to the increase in life should not however divert attention from the
support to be given to families. These are often the same people who have to care for
the education of their children and who see their parents gradually lose their autonomy. A
Special support should be given to single-parent families where the risk
precariousness is very important. It is crucial to pursue policies that combat insecurity by
prevention, but also allow people through access to a particular housing, to get out.

6

Statistics Belgium (2011), Federal Planning Bureau (2008)

177

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Action 1. Support all families financially
Families, whether traditional, blended, single parent, etc., are the first
happiness pockets of people, the first places strong human relations,
learning, solidarity ... It is essential to enable families, whatever their
composition, specificity, have the financial means to live together, have the
possibility of transmitting to younger values, meaning and the maturity to them
can develop in our society.

210 Lighthouse Proposal: Make family allowances a child's right
Family allowances are an essential part of family income. This help
Financial can often meet needs related to education of children, care for
bring them, their clothing, with many spending on daily or occasional needs
children. They are a continuous support parents need and must allow
every child to have the necessary resources for its development.
Did you know that the removal of family allowances would put 10.86% of beneficiary children
most under the poverty line? 7
Now Article 23 of the Constitution establishes, at the request of CDH, the right to benefits
family for each child. For CDH, it is a strong signal that guarantees the principle of
cash allowance and universality of the right to family allowances. This means that
Child benefit is a child's right first. Each child can claim it regardless
its position in the family or the occupational status of the parents. The alignment of the
family allowances between employees and independent workers is a
important first step in that direction, but we must continue in this evolution.
For family allowances actually become a right of the child, the CDH offers:
-

Ensure continuity of the payment of family allowances in the context of reform
the state and continue to use the existing payment institutions to manage and
the payment of family allowances during the transitional period necessary to prepare the
transfer of allowances.

-

Implement a management model to ensure consistency family allowances
Wallonia and Brussels to allow the free movement of families.

-

Simplify the system of family allowances. There is no question of changing the amounts
current perceived by families beneficiaries of family allowances. By cons, we wish
progressively converging amounts for new entrants (born after
reform), without reference to the place of the child sibling or professional status
Parents (which means that each child will now receive the same amount without
penalizing the first child), ensuring that large families are not
penalized. As is currently the case, the increases should be considered for
disabled children, orphans and single parents.

-

Restore the initial amounts by 2015 and strengthen the allowance for school based
the grade level in which the child is enrolled in repositioning the supplement system
age.

7

"Landscape of family allowances to the split blade" ONAFTS, Study Day 29 March 2012

178

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Proposition 211: Supporting single parents financially
Did you know that a family of 4 is a single parent in Belgium, 77% of household heads are
women ?
Lone-parent families are at high risk of poverty (53%). They often have more
difficulties in participating in the labor market and to reconcile family and professional life. The
parent families already enjoy a number of advantages, particularly in terms of
family allowances and tax contributions, return to employment or service voucher.
To support single-parent families, the CDH offers:
-

maintain and strengthen existing mechanisms to support families financially
parent and strengthen service provision to families that meet the needs of
single parents (parent-child meeting points, drop-in, or para Home
school, playgrounds ...);

-

meet the income limits allowed to qualify for advances on pensions
food provided by the Department of maintenance claims (SECAL) to eventually remove
completely this limit and increase the amount of SECAL intervention for these advances and there
integrate the financial burden of a disabled child;

-

increase the exempt portion 2,330 euros for single taxpayers with one or more
charge8 children;

-

increase the amount of the allowance for single parents who take parental leave;

-
financially better protect the recipient parent's income and social integration with the
alternating custody ;

-

make a practical guide and information on the rights of single parents, via a
co-ONE Ministries of Social Affairs.

-

strengthen the complement of childcare for single unemployed with children who return
work (currently 81 euros for a year to 180 euros, 120 euros, 60 euros over 3 years).

8

Proposed legislation already filed by the CDH in the House of Representatives

179

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Action 2. Social security, social integration
Social Security aims to protect each of the hazards of life by solidarity. For the CDH,
it should also aim to enable everyone to participate in community life. At this
end, it is important to strengthen the mechanisms to actually take part in society.
The CDH refuses to consider that there are recipients of social benefits on one hand and people
Active other: all can contribute to the achievement of a collective ideal.

212 flagship proposal: Allowing long-term unemployed to carry
services of public interest
For the CDH, the first UI priority is, and remains, to bring maximum
people into employment, salaried or independent. It is in this sense that we want to strengthen
support and track each job applicant (see Proposition 117).
Nevertheless, we find that the services responsible for the support and control of the
job search behavior are sometimes clueless about the situation of people very
distant from the labor market. These job seekers, although they have sometimes shown their
willingness to actively seek employment, fail to enter the labor market.
For CDH, one must be more creative face this type of situation. We must allow to offer
to people excluded from the labor market social recognition. We must allow these
people to develop through another type of activity that the contract job. This
capacity is particularly necessary that the needs are immense, particularly to achieve
services to people become dependent and in a multitude of public services
or create social ties.
Long-term unemployment
Did you know that in August 2013, there were 193,244 unemployed over two years, including 94 136 in Wallonia
and 42,693 in Brussels?
Currently, there is one device that allows the unemployed to carry out activities
retaining their status: the local employment agencies (ALE). That is why the cdH
fought (and was the only one to do so), in the context of institutional negotiations, for
maintaining this instrument. The CDH proposes to use this feature to enlarge and use it
widely.
The CDH proposes to create a "participation agreement" to allow very distant unemployed
the labor market to make public services The contract must meet
follows:
-

it would be implemented by the FTA and reserved for social or collective interest. It's about
notably to ensure coverage of needs in local services with people
in situations of dependency (mainly elderly) located in the area covered by
coordination with referring consultants (see proposal 218). ;

-

activities conducted with schools, nursing homes, some
communal services or family support could also be considered;

-

the realization of benefits would be paid and, in the unemployed person's chef de
partially offset the gradual reduction of unemployment benefits;

-

the participation agreement allows the reduction or suspension, the availability check.

180

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
Furthermore, CDH wants to strengthen FTAs:
-

expanding the scope of activities that can be worked through a
FTA agreement (eg shopping, accompany the elderly);

-

strengthening the role of integration, re-socialization and employment springboard to FTAs;

-

by developing and deploying child care tasks at home.

Proposition 213: Do not penalize twice excluded unemployment
The rule when one receives unemployment benefits is to be available on the market
employment. A beneficiary must accept offers of decent jobs that are submitted to it and
demonstrate that it is making efforts to seek employment. When this is not the case, it may be
sanctioned even after several reminders, be disqualified from receiving unemployment benefits.
For CDH, these individuals can not be ruled again by the loss of access to
employment aid.
Therefore, the CDH, proposes:
-

extend the benefit of employment aid to people who are excluded from unemployment;

-

strengthen the support to the socio-professional integration achieved within the CPAS;

-

develop social workshops to up-to-the very activity for people
distant from the labor market (see proposal 101);

-

CPAS compensate for any new dependents outcome of their rightful decisions of another
level of power.

Moreover, CDH also proposes to extend the reference period for the calculation of the number of
days of work performed in order to facilitate access to full unemployment benefits for
part-time workers and temporary workers and valorise and those
perform a part-time job.

Proposition 214: Engaging seniors in the community
To support the full place of the elderly in society and create a society
intergenerational, the CDH offers:
-

promote and facilitate volunteering seniors, particularly in response to the needs of families;

-

providing them with adequate premises and take better account of the fees they
undertake;

-

improve the aggregation rules between labor income and retirement pension or survival
providing that the pension reduction must be proportional to the overrun of the ceiling,
regardless of the height of the overrun;

-

encourage nursing homes or residential projects intergenerational services,
together in one place at a school or nursery, shopping activities, etc. and
promote solidarity between residents of the same nursing home;

-

enhance the role played by seniors in everyday life, particularly through the ONE of
schools, or the enhancement of the transmission of cultural heritage;

181

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
-

include clauses "seniors" in the public service obligations (legibility, accessibility
physical or telephone, ergonomics, ...);

-

promote the development of Universities of seniors;

-

remove the age limit in public offices, in social and other organizations and
provide in the organs that concern at least one place for seniors;

-

promote the vote of older people by organizing such electoral offices in the
nursing homes.

Proposition 215: Support the return to work of workers with disabilities
The number of people unable to work has risen sharply in recent years. For
the CDH, failure does not mean that we can not allow a return to work, ensuring
primarily to respect the wishes of workers. Despite their condition, some people
incapacity have sufficient resources to allow full or partial socio-professional reintegration, provided you have access to diversion programs,
training and coaching. However, it must ensure that these people are not
financially penalized. It is therefore on the one hand enable them to enjoy a level
decent living and also to support their return to work:
-

increase the level of minimum compensation for people unable to work;

-

remove the obstacles to the return to work of persons with disability to enable people
on disability to take part-time work without penalizing in case of relapse; and
continue the implementation of the initiative "back to work", which combines the INAMI and services
public employment;

-

educate employers on the various forms of surrender at work
the development of working time, adapting the workstation or temporary assignment
in another function;

-

make available an optional accompaniment on the ground for people
disability, employers and the entire team will welcome the return of worker to work and
information on the rights of each and the possible reorganization of work and make it more
efficient administrative circuits between employers and health insurance funds;

-

reduce unemployment traps ensuring continued tax breaks for individuals
on disability when they follow a professional reintegration program;

-

meet all the minimum social benefits at the poverty line.

Proposition 216: Strive for personal tax and social rights
Currently, social and fiscal rights are too often influenced by the fact of living or not
alone. This can be extremely detrimental, especially for women for whom it
employment can be a trap. It is also a major obstacle to the development of
of shared habitat initiatives.
This is why the CDH offers:
-

aim to make social and personal revenue tax;

182

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
-

provide for a gradual move towards this principle, for new entrants, for example,
notably to avoid unemployment traps incoming women on the labor market.

Action 3. Allow seniors to choose their place of living
For cdH more than simply increasing life expectancy is to increase
life expectancy quality that we must rejoice. One of the major concerns in
this framework is to allow the elderly to retain their autonomy as long as possible
and free choice of place to live. Today, the management in nursing home is needed too
often as the sole solution. This is not to impose home care or taking
load in rest homes, but to allow the individual to make the choice that matches the
best wishes and needs.
As part of the 6th state reform, many skills were seniors
transferred to the Regions. For the CDH is the opportunity to develop a truly political
Built in the elderly and rethink the continuity of aid to seniors in consultation with
the actors concerned (cfr. 313 proposal). The development of local services is the
cornerstone (see propositions 145-148). The CDH also intends to include in the measurements
affecting seniors all dependent adults who require childcare and
specific help.

217 Lighthouse Proposal: Create a self-insurance
The elderly may, at one time or another, gradual or sudden way be
facing a loss of more or less strong autonomy. Dependency should not be analyzed
as a physical and bodily level. The reduction in cognitive abilities can also lead
the loss of autonomy. Moreover, relational, family and social situation of the elderly has
affect its autonomy and dependency status.
The loss of autonomy creates various fees: be it health care, aid to life
daily, family and care assistants, home care services, management of the home,
nursing home in some cases.
For the CDH, the creation of an independent insurance is essential. It aims to cover a series of
services as well as reimbursements under the health care insurance. Create
insurance autonomy can support older people experiencing loss
more or less severe autonomy, with physical, mental or social dependency.
This autonomy insurance could be created by developing the APA (aid for the elderly)
but modifying deeply the philosophy: rather than settle for a supplement
income, we want to provide a response to situations of dependency by interventions
the needs and benefits.
For the CDH, the development of this type of intervention is an investment. This is to address the
increased dependence situation early on to avoid a degradation of the quality of life and
care in rest homes that followed, often more costly both for the community as
for the beneficiary.

183

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
The example of Denmark
Today, over 20% of those admitted to nursing homes in Wallonia and Brussels
have a low level of dependence. The development of systematic support for the
home support should help limit the number tomorrow. Such a policy was
developed in Denmark: it allowed them to close nursing homes despite aging
Population ! It is also possible here.
To meet the increasing life, the CDH wants to create a self-insurance
will focus on the following principles:
-

Intervene according to the situation of dependence of people. Alongside
Medicare operates according to the pathologies, the intervention of the insurance
autonomy is linked to the level of dependency on the basis of an evaluation grid
multidisciplinary. This evaluation grid must take into consideration the different forms
disabilities but also some chronic diseases such as Alzheimer's disease;

-

Fund services and equipment as needed depending on the chosen place to live,
both at home and in accommodation. Insurance autonomy could come by
eg for different personal services (aid and home care), the Alarm Management Services, to compensate individuals who provide regular support to the person, ...

-

Grant repayments whatever the income and age of the beneficiaries. It's about
out of a logic of assistance but to establish a real sense of assurance.

218 Lighthouse Proposal: Strengthen the role of the trusted reference for
coordinate services to people
There are currently many different services to persons: Homemakers, gardemalades, aids and home care service vouchers, etc. These services aim of activities
different and cover a broad spectrum ranging from medical assistance to acts of life
daily.
Understand
The Belgian aid landscape and home care has three business areas: nursing
at home, helping people (support services to families and the elderly), and
coordination between the assistance and care (care coordination centers and home services for the
Support for most dependent patients).
It is not always easy for the addict and his caregivers (parents, friends,
neighbors ...) to be in all these services and know where to go to find
necessary support. It is essential that someone can help and advise them to set in
depending on the personal situation and its evolution over time, the supply of services
the most appropriate people to. This role of point of contact for patients, caregivers and
care and service providers, devoted to coordination centers, should be strengthened.
Focal points play a fundamental role in providing assistance and personalized care:
a "coordinator" meet the person, an inventory of needs and resources
which it can count (including his entourage) and offers customized solutions. The center
Coordination thus centralizes offers necessary services for each person (in
medical and paramedical, adapting the place of life, cleaning, meals, ...) and makes it easier to
daily life of these people because it provides a single point of contact in relation to different
People who provide care and services. The center acts as a centralized

184

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
Information: this is a point of contact for the patient himself, for relatives
participate in this support, care and service providers. Coordinate
this aid is an act that often is not recognized nor funded but that takes time.
Given the need to coordinate these different services to people and ensure
structured development of services to individuals, the CDH proposes to strengthen the role of
trust referent. This reference function must be reinforced from centers
coordination of health care that exist today, collaborating with such
CPAS.
This reference will aim to build a relationship of trust with the older person and to take
heart the interest of the whole person:
-

Ensure that the different needs, both domestic as medical, dependent care
are properly completed and the adaptation of housing;

-

Monitor the person's contacts with other institutions, especially between
physician and providers at home;

-

Ensure regular contact with the dependent person and accompany the person on the
psycho-social support for its autonomy.

Strengthening this trust referent allows, together with the creation of a
Insurance autonomy, to ensure continuity of assistance and support provided to
in respect of a dependent person.
In this context, we must ensure the deployment coordination centers:
-

Additional funding must be provided to support the coordinating role
(time allowed for the assessment of needs and resources and find solutions
appropriate, coordination between the different actors of the accompaniment, evaluation
regular accompaniment ...) and ensure a sufficient number of centers;

-

The coordination between the hospital and GPs should be improved and thus support
working with the first line of actors from the ambulatory sector.

Proposition 219: Developing business at home
The development of home services, facilitated by the creation of a self-assurance and
strengthening coordination centers by the trusted reference should also be ensured
through the following actions:
-

Recognize and support the home care business and family support services through a
contingent specific hours;

-

Develop homemaking services by granting overtime quota
and developing a contingent of hours of care assistants to social tariffs;

-

Broadening the scope of activities that can be performed under the FTA to related activities
home support of older people (shopping, presence at home, household activities,
travel, small household repairs, etc.);

-

Support the recruitment and training of home crafts;

-

Refinance aids and home care;

Moreover, to support the elderly regardless of their place of living, CDH offers:

185

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
-

Establish a "proxi-health" plan in each locality, which ensures that in each neighborhood
residents have access to a range of services and local shops, development
public spaces, sidewalks, etc;

Promote adaptation of housing to meet the increased dependence (see
proposal 276).

Proposition 220: Diversifying the supply of accommodation for the elderly
To diversify the type of service offerings that can be offered, the CDH offers:
-

Promoting intermediate structures, such as Friendship Centres day / evening / night the
Day care centers, short stays, services residences, serviced residences
social, innovative formulas intergenerational solutions, with attention
specific to rural needs, and increase the number of places in this type of
services;

Support the creation of acquisitive senior residences that allow older people to be
owner of their apartment in an assisted living complex;
Lift the moratorium on the creation of beds and continue the conversion of MR MRS beds beds,
including through the conversion of certain nursing homes for the elderly, ensuring
the development of small structures associated with larger institutions and benefiting from
lighter standards;

Improve the reception and supervision of disoriented elderly or psychiatric disorders;
Programming in Brussels Region limiting commercial rest homes like
what is done in Wallonia and to the extent that the public sector and the voluntary sector fill the
Contract assigned to them;
Encourage partnerships between municipalities to create accommodation facilities for
elders ;
Develop emergency beds.

Proposition 221: Supporting Caregivers
Did you know that, in countries of the European Union, about 10% of the general population assumes
caregiving proche9? This is 75% of women10.
Caregivers are individuals, non-professional, such as a spouse, parent,
child, a neighbor, friend, ... who are helping the near loss of autonomy. This loss
autonomy can be caused by a physical or mental disability, a disease related to the large
age, illness, accident ...
To support caregivers, the CDH offers:
-

9

Grant a status to caregivers by organizing a recognition procedure in
coordination with professional speakers, with positive consequences for
unemployment, taxation or pension;

ASBL close Caregivers, Caregivers National Day, June 14, 2012
Maria Theresa Casman, "Listen caregivers to better support", King Baudouin Foundation, 2007

10

186

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
Educate families to identify situations where caregivers intervene and anticipate
the future;
Better inform families, caregivers, people in situations of dependency on
existing aid, centralized management;
Arrange respite opportunities for families by granting them listening, respite places;
Create additional specific thematic leave for caregivers providing them with
decent income and that does not penalize them in the calculation of their careers when their pension, and
provide an exemption from availability for the unemployed;
Guarantee access to social rights for caregivers;
Provide if intra-family disputes a process of objectification of expenses of the person
received through the intervention of trusted referral coordination centers (Proposition 218)

Action 4. Improve the living standards of pensioners
Longer life means that the number of pensioners continues
to increase. To help ensure every person aged adequate standard of living and
ensure the viability of social security, the first way is to allow everyone to access a
to increase the overall employment rate of employment of all workers, particularly
for older workers (see proposal 100). Meanwhile, it is essential to strengthen the pension
legal by upgrading lowest pensions and allowing those who contributed
benefit from more consistent with the importance of the contributions made by them pension.

222 flagship proposal: Increase the pension replacement rate
If the legal retirement age is 65 years in Belgium, the actual age is 59 years. For CDH, it is
no question of increasing the legal age for the pension. The priority is rather to continue
efforts to gradually raise the effective retirement age pension and increase the rate
employment for older workers (see proposal 100).
To ensure social sustainability of our pension plan, the priority for the CDH is to ensure the
strengthening our state pension system, the first pillar.
The three pillars of pensions
1st pillar: State pension funded by compulsory social security contributions in the regime
social Security ;
2nd pillar: supplementary pension funded by additional contributions set
contract or collective labor agreement;
3rd pillar: voluntary pension insurance but is primarily to individual savings funded
individual contributions tax deductible.
The CDH denies that the first pillar that is moving towards a system of assistance that would be completed by the
fiscal capacity of each individual to form his insurance mechanism. Only
strengthening the legal pension is likely to maintain the legitimacy of social security
ensure access for all to a quality standard of living. For this reason, it is essential to raise the
replacement rate, which is the 1st pillar in Belgium lower than the average for the country
OECD.

187

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
Understand
Theoretical replacement rate indicates the ratio of the income of the new pensions had retired
regard to the last earned professional income.
Moreover, for CDH, it is essential that the pension system is the most transparent
enable workers to easily identify the impact on his pension career choice,
reduction of working time, to the career of elongation, etc.
To meet the replacement rate of the statutory pension, the CDH offers:
-

Raise the ceiling which limits the salary taken into account in calculating the pension;

Give priority envelope binding to the well-being of social allowances to improve
of the statutory pension replacement rate;
Create a pension account for each worker that takes into account the whole career
whatever their status. This pension account would take into account all
year career, and weight them according to various parameters (painfulness, holidays
thematic, etc). Furthermore, we suggest that you create a compensation mechanism for
the salary that exceeds the annual limit considered for the pension can be taken into
account for another year when the ceiling is not reached. This mechanism would include
to facilitate the regularization of years of study. A single point of contact should help
know the status of its pension account;
-

Strengthen the incentive bonus pension from the age of access to early pension
so as to effectively reward the pursuit of careers;

-

Extending the benefit of the second pillar of pension for all workers (or create a Pillar 1 bis);
Today, many workers receive a supplementary pension scheme
sector. For CDH, it is necessary to extend this benefit to all workers in order to strengthen
solidarity, especially in the non-profit sector that is largely excluded;

-

Increase funding for social security through a broader funding base. In the
part of the tax reform that the CDH offers, the aim is to put more in particular
contribution speculators. Broadening the tax base should allow
more balanced funding from the state and, through this, a strengthening of alternative financing
social security;

-

Further harmonization of pension schemes.

Proposition 223: Enhancing and lowest pensions
Some pensions are so low that they do not ensure a standard of living
Decent. They absolutely must be revalued.
Did you know that the risk of poverty is 30% higher among those over 65? 11
The CDH offers:
-

Raise the minimum pension and ensure differential between the minimum pension
and GRAPA (Income Guarantee for the Elderly);

-

Continue alignment of the minimum pension for self-employed over that of
employees ;

11

EU-SILC 2011

188

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
-

GRAPA upgrade and increase awareness of the right to GRAPA.

Action 5. Adapt Healthcare offers new needs
Support a humanistic approach of Health, is to focus on the centrality of the citizen in the
care of his health and respect his choices (in terms of treatment or place of taking
support, after being properly informed about his illness, treatment options, the cost
thereof, etc.). This approach must be global since the person is considered in
all its dimensions (physical, emotional, social, etc.). By also attaching the
communication between the health professional and the patient, it is often also more effective
to provide adequate treatment.
Furthermore, our health system is facing turmoil (whose development
chronic disease, longer life, increased costs of care) that impose
a reorientation of the way the financing of the health sector is organized.

Proposition 224: Developing ambitious prevention policies
To allow everyone to live healthy, before thinking to health care, we must first
act on the multiple determinants of our health: diet, exercise, employment,
housing, the environment, parenting support and prevention, etc. Pursue a policy
ambitious public health means that the health of citizens is apprehended so
transverse and overall, by integrating all of these determinants.
Often these different policies will be much more effective in promoting the health status of the
population and health care as such.
Therefore, the CDH offers:
-

ensure that citizens' health is systematically taken into account in
the adoption of public policies;

-

increase access to sport and physical activities including better management of
public spaces, access to healthy food, promoting stress reduction policies
both the well-being at work by supporting the conciliation between private life and life
professional, the fight against addiction to addiction and excessive consumption
alcohol, etc. ;

-

adopt a comprehensive plan to burn-out at work, promote a genuine policy of prevention
terms of burn-out and educate each company to develop a prevention policy
in well-being at work. Establish a center for prevention of burnout;

-

pursue an ambitious public health policy where the health of citizens is apprehended
cross and comprehensive manner, incorporating all the determinants of health (network
social, educational, cultural, environmental, housing ...) and giving the sector the
health promotion a prominent place among political decision-making bodies;

-

fight against social inequalities in health by strengthening local health actions:
encourage and support projects to promote health at the local level, which adapt to the
reality of a population (especially in food);

189

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
-

reflect on the impact of the environment on health, including the study of the problem
electromagnetic waves and pursuing prevention against asbestos and radon;

-

strengthen health prevention in schools, including organizing one day a
year on the subject;

-

involve representatives of the various health professions in all organs
current and future decision-making and advisory (which will result from the transfer of powers) (see
proposal 313)

-

Conduct enhanced action at local level through the deployment of "cities and towns
health "in different regions and the fight against social inequalities in health through
support health promotion projects that adapt to the reality of a population
(including feeding material);
Thus, the adoption of appropriate health behaviors and raising awareness
lead to a decrease in the prevalence of the conditions such as diseases
cardiovascular.

225 Lighthouse Proposal: Strengthen the first line of care
Ensuring each patient a first contact with a health care professional and better
coordination in supporting it enjoys are prerequisites for
promote access to health for all. For this, governments must reduce gaps and
geographical inequalities in access to health care. Or it persists areas where the need
by qualified professionals such as doctors, nurses, physiotherapists, pharmacists, etc., are not
met by adequate supply. Urban areas are often favored at the expense of
rural areas.
Did you know that in Wallonia, it lists, in 2013, no fewer than 108 municipalities as of
common "low medical density" or shortage of general practitioners?
It is therefore necessary to continue and expand support for the 1st line for it to
guaranteeing accessibility, geographical and financial, health care, and a taking
comprehensive care of the patient. To this end, the first line must be based on multidisciplinary teams
meet enhanced when it serves as an interface by its general function between patients
and more specialized structures.
The overall medical records, what is it?
The overall medical record (DMG) contains the patient's medical data (operations, diseases
chronic, ongoing treatments ...) and allows better individual support and
better cooperation between doctors. This file is free to all and allows you to enjoy
a larger refund consultations to the GP.
The guards medical stations also play an important role. These positions allow
ensure provision of care at night and on weekends and foster the sharing of medical guards
between several doctors. Furthermore, medical centers also enhance accessibility to
care. The medical centers are places where you can reconnect with medical and social care, where
the community health can be developed and provide medical permanence. These structures
also help to strengthen the safety of general practitioners and the clutter
emergency departments of hospitals.

190

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
To strengthen support to the first line of care, the CDH offers:
-

Strengthen the general practitioner in his role of proximity and patient orientation
Many providers of pathology specialists, while remaining the preferred partner
its medical monitoring. The general practitioner must ensure the link between the 1st line and 2nd line
care (including through telematics sharing of medical data among physicians
1st and 2nd line). The approval criteria must be modified to adapt them to
changes in the practice of general medicine. We must take better account of the time
spent by the health care professional to communicate with the patient. Training of
Physicians must further integrate multidisciplinary approach;

-

Ensure coordination of patient care and help of personalized manner,
according to its needs. We must strengthen care coordination centers and aid
provide patients with a full range of services to suit their needs, including
prevention, and to ensure sufficient coordination centers to offer
to anyone who wants this service to cover the whole territory (see
proposal 218);

-

Encourage GPs to offer the global medical file (DMG) and at DMG +
their patients in order to generalize the use of it, and strengthen continuity
treatment of the patient;

-

Develop a mapping of health resources needs and medico-social order
meet the shortages and anticipate the skills needs (including
certain specialties such as physiotherapy);

-

In Brussels Capital Region, ensure the implementation of the programming tool under
Decree on outpatient services that provides a programming them into
account the existing offer and the needs identified from a sociological point of view,
geographical, epidemiological and socio-economic;

-

Continue and extend the measures aimed at encouraging GPs to settle
in rural areas (Project Impulseo, consolidation in guard houses, ...);

-

Greatly reduce the administrative burden for all healthcare staff in
including general practitioners;

-

Promoting Multidisciplinary Local Networks and the development of houses
medical, in articulation with other professionals in the 1st line, particularly in
disadvantaged neighborhoods;

-

Promote presence within medical homes, health experts for children
especially in urban areas, including strengthening the pedo-psychiatrists commitment
of child psychologists;

-

Recognize the physiotherapist as primary actor, under certain conditions,
especially in preventive physiotherapy; ensure the harmonization of training
between the Communities and recognition of specific qualifications.

-

Encourage the modernization of computer tools to facilitate decision-appointment
Quick and easy for patients in hospitals and medical centers.

The CDH also wants to promote nursing as comprehensive care Actor:
1. Find creative solutions to the nursing shortage, both in hospitals
and at home and develop the use of auxiliary staff;
2. Change in the nomenclature, the reimbursement of nursing as needed
actual population in a context of expansion of home care and close patient;

191

V
g1

e1

e. the

CR RR
C
HC HR L PR EC DDPAG Ducr D PG PCO P CD LP UG OU GH HPAG U GHPH HPL H
U RPH HPL
DGACO DGE CDAGG R GDR D MEPH US HPGDHPHUHPAGDEAUCE CDAGG D
D PGDP
that, when necessary, of the wage scale revaluations 2
G AC CR ACO HPAG HR CMR

DPG CD PCO P H D G P D4DAP GHD0

CG AC C CH CO AGPD training nurses to recognize only a single title
9L
EADDP PRPH EAUC R D PG PCO P é CD
The GPC the O RW GG GH UG ACO HPAG
AO ER O PC GH 32
C G C A R RP HAPC ACO HPAG AGHPGU

DPG PCO P CD2

further evaluation on C OF HPL D tasks

D G P D4DAP GHD HPG PCO P CD1

the provision of care to meet
changing needs
We are facing now a profound change in care needs
D GH
R EAEUR HPAG1 RUDP UCD UCD H AGHCP U GH
GH G AO O O elongation of the
LP UP UG G G C
G O
GH CAPDD
DPADM
RAG UC U V R IN
The WEEE O GH
RR OF GAUL P ARA DRP H D O UL UG PD RPO GH HPAGV A lack of physical exercise, the DHC DD
OP 1 AUD LAGD RI H E C DD a medicine with GHP RR DD O GH D DPADM P UD UG
O
PG AGG GHERUD ER
US DPADM CAGP U D1
to
the number of hospital beds per inhabitants
S

zi

i Svvv

e

i Svvv

Rather than argue for still more resources for the health care sector, it is
DUCHAUH redirect resources to better match the supply of care to new
O G D1
The reorganization of the A C

DPADM

LC PH PGDP HC

S

DUKE

US C G DEMR D0

4

R O
PG
ECASPO PH requiring an emergency response. Rs'agit to ensure that the
response times are as short as possible with a supply spread throughout the
H HC G AC CCPHAPC
C
US EADH D
2 C O P US

4

Belgian doctors ensure graduates obtain a number

4

R O
PG UP OF P V DPR G HADD UG CHPD IN SE
DPR HPAG OF P D D GHC ADEPH RP CD LACPD UC SE CR CHPD
O PSU GHD1

2
UPE D O GHD
EAPGH 1
PGDP AO ER O U R GH CPH D

To redirect the supply of care,
edéfinir hospital supply UHAUC
EMR D
AO G H E D D DE P DPR EAUC DDUC C UG
AO E G O GH
U RPH VR EC DG of PSUs DOPRD SE CPO GH GH DVUG GCO
THE PD PD GH H ERUCP PERPG PC H UG LARUO OF PD GH E HP GHD1 OA
PG G O D GH
Hospitals must also be adapted to avoid overconsumption of acts MEDP USVHAUH G
H G GH AO EH DDE PP PH DCUC R D2
EH CR
E PH ADEPH RP C EAUCECPLPR PC DDHCU HUC DPGH CO P O PC DEAUC PRPP CR DUPLPLP D
DPADM Erud EECAECP DV LPH CRDCO PDDPAGD H DDUC CL GH
GHC 0 ECASPO PH D

the re

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
revalidation and rehabilitation, convalescent homes, short-stay structures, houses
respite ...
3. promote global management of health policy-related resources in order to promote
shifts from one sector to another, especially in the context of the competence transferred
by the 6th state reform;
4. develop via the "e-health" platform and the "Walloon Health Network" the patient's medical record
so that all the patient's medical information (reports of hospitalizations and accounts
specialized consultations, reports of all technical examinations and biological
made - biologies, radiology, nuclear medicine - doctor of comprehensive medical record
GP, pharmaceutical file) are readily available online from the
general practitioner or specialist chosen by the patient. Systematize the inclusion of
patient specific request except system thereof.

Proposition 227: Taking better account of new diseases
Some pathologies, related in particular to our way of life, are becoming more frequent.
The importance of a genuine policy of prevention and health promotion (see proposal
224) and an evolution of the system support people (see propositions 245-248)
constitute elements of an integrated approach to combat the conditions and
to accompany the sick. In addition to these developments, the CDH has in particular:
1.

build capacity related to prevention and health promotion (see proposal 224);

2.

recognition of care based on the evaluation of scientifically proven data
(Evidence Based Medicine);

3.

develop a comprehensive strategy (multidisciplinary) the fight against eating disorders and
obesity through three main areas:
-

prevention, strengthening information campaigns focusing on healthy lifestyles and
access to sports facilities and to the early detection of persons
risk;

-

the multidisciplinary care of patients, providing reimbursement for care
given in the support structures (doctors, dieticians, psychologists, ...);

-

the fight against prejudice and discrimination related to overweight and obesity.

4.

develop a plan for prevention and control specifically focused on diabetes;

5.

develop efficient and early action against cancer:
-

Give clear and unambiguous information both in terms of prevention
that primary screening. Support the adoption by the people of good behavior
health to avoid cancer risk factors and encourage more screening
Early in the population taking account of cultural barriers;

-

Maintaining and strengthening the approaches proposed by the transverse Cancer Plan;

6.

Provide a mid-term evaluation of the Plan Interfederal AIDS; Plan and strengthen the AIDS fight
against sexually transmitted diseases, including using indicators and
by setting targets;

7.

develop a national plan against hepatitis B and C;

193

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
8.

prevent cardiovascular diseases through the adoption of appropriate health behaviors and
enhancing awareness;

9.

continue the development of a coordinated mental health policy:
-

Start crossroads of Mental Health to determine establish a new Maps
needs and recommendations for creating new types of offers and services;

-

Strengthen mental health care provision, primarily by the further development
psychological care (especially at home) and deploy the health care offer
Mental youth especially in a strengthened partnership with the Youth Services
and schools;

-

Create an index for specific beds dual diagnosis (mental illness and disability
mental) and develop specific hospital units;

-

Reforming forced admission procedures to guarantee individual freedoms for
patient and facilitate the practice of law for legal professionals and health;

-

Adopt a plan against suicide based on strengthening prevention,
creation via the GP of a detection plane and care for
depression and suicide, training of resource persons in contact with patients,
public information.

10. Develop a comprehensive strategy to fight against Alzheimer's disease, dementia and
related diseases through three axes: improving the quality of life of patients and
caregivers, invest heavily in research and inform / educate the public about the
disease ; Autism adopt a plan focused both on health than on education and on
coaching;
11. recognize fibromyalgia as a disease in its own.

Proposition 228: Acting preventively against "women's diseases"
Women live longer than men, it is well known. But unless they are known
especially live longer in poor health: almost 19 years in poor health against 13.5 years
for men.
CDH request to the:
-

pay particular attention to the gender dimension in health, in particular by
through scientific and medical research.

194

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Proposal flagship 229: Framing the cost of health care for patients
Even if Belgium is among the countries that provide the best access to the health system,
under-consumption of medical procedures in certain geographical areas shows that accessibility
to healthcare remains a problem for many households. It remains essential to improve
frame the cost of health care.
Did you know that over 15% of people have difficulty understanding what their doctor their
said?
Therefore, the CDH offers:
1. integrate coverage of all hospitalization costs in double beds and better coverage
dental care in compulsory insurance without exclusion, selection or age limit.
The integration of these hospitalization costs in the mandatory insurance costs much less
expensive than the premiums paid today by individuals and companies for insurance
optional;
2. set a ceiling for the Honorary supplements single room, by coupling this
measure to the reform of hospital funding and forcing them to private insurance
reduce their hospitalization premiums. Points 1 and 2 will be subject to consultation
Medical and mutual;
3. ensure free choice of professional practitioners by patients who are dependent on the CPAS, except
if the public social welfare center can prove that the tariff security is not ensured;
4. support the provisioning of an accessible and understandable health information for all;
5. Improve information for patients about the costs of health care:
-

inform patients in advance of healthcare costs;

-

in the bills, enabling patients to know the nature of the various care costs
Health (specifying, for example in the bills after hospitalization costs
services, drugs, supplements fee ...);

-

before hospitalization: inform the patient about the cost related to the choice of the room, invite the
hospital doctor to discuss the costs of an intervention with the patient, improving
the information available on the websites of hospitals about the admissions;

-

to doctors: each patient should be able to receive a bill with his doctor
details of fees.

Proposition 230: Valuing as intellectuals acts as acts
Technical
In order to ensure a global consideration of the person, we must recognize the importance in
management of technical procedures but we also recognize the importance of acts
intellectuals.
The CDH offers:
1. review the nomenclature of care in particular to better match rates for
actual costs and thereby upgrade the intellectual act (taking into account, in these benefits,
the importance of the human factor) as well as the time required for the communication between the
doctor and patient;

195

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
Nomenclature, what are we talking about?
The nomenclature of health care is the list of reimbursable by health benefits
health insurance.
2. adapt, in the nomenclature, the reimbursement of nursing as needed
actual population in a context of expansion of home care and close patient and
and review the delegation of tasks among health care professionals;
3. analyze accurately the changes in care practices and granted results for
avoid overmedication treatment of pathologies.

231 flagship proposal: Reduce consumption of drugs
If we had the same drug consumption in Belgium and the Netherlands, we could
save 2 billion euros. The cost and volume of drug consumption must
absolutely decrease.
Did you know that 12 years expenditure on the purchase and consumption of medicines
Ordinance nearly doubled? The total rose from 1.7 billion euros in 1997 to 3.2
billion euros to 2008.
For this, the CDH offers:
1. ensure responsible access to medicines:
-

setting drug prices based on actual costs of investment and production;

-

encourage prescription "international nonproprietary name" (INN) and the use of
generic drugs;

-

encourage pharmaceutical companies to reduce the size and packaging
establish a price paid by drug unit, regardless of the packaging;

-

ensure a risk assessment of medicines and health products, the organization of
Regular checks of the products marketed and adaptation obligations in terms
information to consumers.

2. adopt an innovative policy on drugs:
-

ensuring the development of personalized medicine based notably
genetic heritage of each. Still embryonic, this medicine is used to adjust the
treatment according to the specific characteristics of each;

-

supporting the development of bio similar drugs by informing
professional about these drugs, the development of a specific procedure for
reimbursement and incentives for the use of these drugs within
support different places (hospital, public pharmacy ...).

196

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Proposition 232 Lighthouse: Strengthen care for more patients
Vulnerable
Different categories of patients have specific difficulties due to cost or
length providing care to their own characteristics, the type of disease, etc.
The CDH wants medicine can develop a specific approach:
1. For chronic patients:
-

pay attention to the medical needs of chronically ill patients, but also their
psycho-social needs and their life goals;

-

support these patients face the very significant costs associated with their disease, including the provision
Automatic plus action, administrative simplification Social paying agent
better management of costs related to medical equipment and amenities
places necessities of life by addiction.

2. For children:
-

humanizing the hospitalization of children: adaptation of teenagers care structures,
establish a true home of the parents in the hospital or in a foster home policy;

-

make every effort to allow sick children to continue their education, either
the hospital or, if his condition permits, in a conventional school.

3. For patients with a rare disease:
-

implement the recommendations for rare diseases by the Fund and
orphan drugs, provide a Belgian plan for rare diseases to disseminate better
knowledge of rare diseases and facilitate their detection, and promote the development of
areas of expertise to ensure the specialization of teams;

-

continue adopting innovative financing mechanisms for taking
over by the social security of innovative medicines for the treatment of diseases
rare;

-

officially recognize the ASBL Rare Disorders Belgium as representative of patients
Rare disease.

4. For patients with Hepatitis C, aligning the conditions for compensation on those
applicable to people infected with the AIDS virus and under the same conditions.
For people in later life: see Proposition 235.

Proposition 233: Enhancing the attractiveness of heart sectors
The heart of the business and non-market, particularly in the field of health, sometimes suffer
a lack of attractiveness related to the difficulty of the tasks. The CDH considers it essential to work
the attractiveness of these areas:
-

Strengthen training and role of nurses and caregivers:
o

strengthening and harmonizing the training of nurses to recognize only one
title (with possibility for nurses to become A2 A1 through training
Complementary);

o

mandating continuing education for nurses;

197

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
o

continue the evaluation of the respective tasks of caregivers and nurses.

-

Have a unique system of training for nursing studies "European" with a very
proper guidance and monitoring the internship places; spend 4 years in master. These studies must
remain accessible with a minimum CESS degree;

-

Have a gateway for auxiliary nurses who want to become nurses;

-

Maintain training plans 600 and 360 to allow the non-profit staff
follow the nursing school;

-

Have training for nursing assistants available with at least a degree of CE1D
(Second year of secondary school);

-

Recognizing the difficulty of the nursing profession and nursing assistant as "business
heavy ";

-

Recognize all musculoskeletal problems as occupational diseases
caregivers for all workers;

-

Review standards staff on the rise in non-commercial sectors: hospitals (duration
So short stay patients causing significant turnover overwork) house
rest and home care (return "made fresh" increasingly rapidly causing
work overload);

-

Recognize nursing specializations.

Proposition 234: Improving the fight against addictions
Collective responsibility to provide adequate benefits and services to everyone should be articulated
with individual responsibility, that of avoiding greater consumption of goods that harm the
health (tobacco, alcohol, drugs, etc.). To fight against addictions, the CDH offers:
-

improve treatment of addictions: to support the implementation of the policy unit
"Healthy addiction" French concerted policy to provide all actors on
addictions;

-

adopt a comprehensive approach to the drug problem by strengthening
prevention campaigns, improve the provision of care, rehabilitation programs
social, promotion of good practices, support for risk reduction initiatives and
the collection of epidemiological data on drug use in Belgium;

-

fight against tobacco use by adopting a truly dissuasive taxation,
the intensification of preventive measures, the ban on advertising tobacco products in
booksellers, the prohibition of products inciting the consumption of tobacco among children;

-

fight against the misuse of alcohol by regulating the prohibition of sale to
minors under 16 years, the organization and the announcement of controls on campaigns
roads, development of awareness campaigns regular alcohol consumption,
alcohol sales ban for drink dispensers, the clear separation of rays
of alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages in stores;

-

prepare and implement a national plan related to the use of alcohol that would particularly
Account prevention, health promotion and hospital accompaniment projects;

-

implement a health-drug policy in prison based on the needs of inmates
involving the health sector through therapy, support groups, before the implementation

198

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
Framed substitute products, the implementation of policies and principles for reducing
risks ...;
-

further articulate the drug sector with related sectors, such as
housing, prisons, mental health, education, youth welfare ...;

-

deploy prevention procedures addiction to video games among youth through
awareness of schools and families;

-

emphasize risk reduction and public health plans in the field of addictions
to meet health requirements in different environments: prevention of risks
drug use and alcohol testing of narcotics, distribution of condoms and
ear plugs in the evenings and festivals, framed needle distribution 'clean'
in appropriate places ...

-

continue experimentation in urban areas controlled distribution of medical heroin
(diacetylmorphine) as part of a strict medical supervision and psychotherapeutic
for patients resistant to conventional weaning approaches.

Proposition 235: Accompany people in later life
Did you know that 70% of terminally ill patients want to die at home but only
30% of them can realize this wish?
Allow people to live their end of life as well as possible, for an accompanying
quality and respect for their choices (especially where they live) values, history is a
strong concern of CDH. Anyone end of life must be able to benefit from taking
Quality burden proposed by competent professionals especially trained
specificities of this type of support, including pain management and the importance of
communication with the patient and family.
To support the development of palliative care, the CDH offers:
1. Improve support for people in later life:
-

strengthen and expand efforts to help patients who wish to live
until death in their homes, especially strengthen and adequately fund staff
nurse accompanying multidisciplinary teams at home; improve access to
patients guards home for palliative care (including night workers);

-

strengthen palliative function in nursing homes by creating a function reference
palliative and plan for the palliative nursing home patient the opportunity to benefit from a
palliative package (reduced);

-

promote strengthening and professionalisation of caregivers trades close to
allow our seniors to remain at home longer, so they can
flourish best in a familiar and open living environment. By allowing to have close
quality training, and we allow our seniors to remain at home longer
them, while ensuring a degree of autonomy (see proposal 221);

-

Family Respite develop solutions to enable families involved in
the support of their immediate end of life can "blow" some time.

2. Providing quality support by competent professionals:
-

develop training for professionals and health volunteers in coaching
end of life, both at the technical level by learning ways to relieve

199

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
pain but also at the relational level by learning the importance of
communication with the patient and family ...;
-

ensure the expertise of professionals and health volunteers involved in
the accompaniment of palliative end-of-life;

-

strengthen the multidisciplinary nature of the support to take into account the
different dimensions of suffering in later life (physical, mental, social, spiritual,
existential ...);

-

to finance the new initiatives such as multidisciplinary teams,
psychologists, supervision for nursing teams, consultations with several physicians
at the announcement of bad news ...

Proposition 236: Overcoming obstacles to organ donation
Organ donation is the first act that leads to transplant. This is one of the nicest gestures
solidarity that is as it saves lives. It is the most intimate act that we can
carry for others because it directly affects our own physical integrity. To encourage
organ donation, the CDH offers:
-

establish the management of all donor dependent medical expenses and provide for
compensation for loss of income;

-

prohibit insurers discrimination on organ donation;

-

establish a protection against dismissal for organ donors workers
notify their employer a medical certificate;

-

providing for the registration as a donor in the polling stations during the elections;

-

develop a database of municipal administrations and doctors.

200

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Action 6. Promoting the integration of people with disabilities
Living like everyone and with everyone, freely choose their lifestyle, have a
equal treatment ... are principles that must in future be the bedrock of a
cross-disability policy in every community, in every region, in a
European dimension.
Did you know there is no official database of people with disabilities
Belgium? There has never been a census and the criteria for establishing the degree of disability
are not strictly identical from one Region to another in Belgium.
For people with disabilities to lead an ordinary life, it is not a question of developing
disability policy apart from other policies conducted. It is preferable to integrate
directly the issue of disability in all the policies: housing, employment,
mobility ...

Proposal flagship 237: Improving the reception of persons with disabilities
dependency needs
People with severe disabilities require considerable help from family,
the environment, public authorities in order to achieve benefit from better living conditions. Ugly
given to the severely disabled person can not be considered a privilege.
This assistance simply falls within the right to a decent life for all.
Did you know that Belgium was condemned by the European Committee of Social Rights to
lack of accommodation places and docking solutions for the disabled
heavily dependent?
In this matter, as in any humanistic approach to social protection, the ability to
to increase the autonomy of disabled people is particularly important. Thus, the
CDH wants to develop all policies that allow the disabled to conserve
autonomy in order to free up space in the specialized agencies only
people who absolutely require.
To better respond to the situation of disabled high dependency, cdH
proposes:
-

priority strengthen support means in a residential setting for people
in dependency needs;

-

lift the moratorium on new childcare places for people with disabilities
resident in Belgium;

-

better support from the family home to people who have a
lower level of dependency to free up residential spaces including, in
addition of elderly people, disabled people in the benefit of autonomy insurance
(see proposal 217);

-

conduct a census of the disabled by age, type, severity and
Originally disabilities;

-

set up in the administration a reference person for the dependence;

-

develop services and support networks and extend the geographical coverage
the "Respite" service (currently 3 days);

201

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
-

assess progress and strengthen the Plan "dependence" and adopt a plan
"Autism" by involving all levels of government and extending it to a wider set
with disabilities;

-

develop more shared resource centers, that is to say, a cooperative system based
the pooling of resources, knowledge and resources (subsidies) like the
"Respite House 'Villa Indigo, created to seriously ill children and open to families
disabled children in dependency needs;

-

create an index for specific beds dual diagnosis (mental illness and disability
mental), establish a register of supply and needs, stabilize existing services and create
a hospital unit "dual diagnosis" in Brussels;

-

expedite the processing of disability claims for recognition, including for maps
parking;

-

giving more financial resources to AWIPH12 in terms of reception to increase the
number of places available;

-

integrating higher places for people with complex dependency in projects
urban (building charges).

Proposition 238: Enjoying the reform of the state to create a real
co with actors
With the sixth state reform, important matters affecting persons with disabilities,
seniors, health care, will be transferred to the Regions and Communities.
To best preserve access and quality of services and care but also avoid
even greater complexity, the CDH provides that public bodies responsible for the management of
these skills (currently Phare and AWIPH) are organized in a concerted fashion
reinforced with industry players (not for a purely advisory role); and ensuring
a dome strengthens ties between Brussels and Wallonia. Similarly, matters relating to
disabled people and the elderly must be found in a single organization
multisectoral, so as to ensure consistency of policies for the public.

Proposition 239: Integrating the needs of people with disabilities in
housing policy
That disability is light or heavy, the accommodation must take into account the specific needs
a person with disabilities. Currently, there is a deficit of accommodation
affordable housing and adapted to the particular situation of disabled persons.
Therefore, the CDH offers:
-

12

implement a host infrastructure investment plan and hosting by
Regional infrastructure funds in ensuring the diversification of hosting solutions,
including transitional housing;

Walloon Agency for the Integration of Persons with Disabilities.

202

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
-

recognize and support organizations that contribute to the production centers
hosting;

-

harmonize the criteria for access to housing (SSSI, land boards, municipal housing);

-

invest in the maintenance, modernization and adaptability of the existing building stock and
Reserved disabled;

-

arrange the outskirts of homes and public spaces;

-

give the possibility to reduce personal tax expenses incurred in adapting
housing (see proposal 276).

Proposition 240: Support parents upon discovery of their disability
child
Parents often need training to understand and grasp the needs
specific of their disabled child. This support is all the more important that it takes place
the early years of childhood.
Therefore, the CDH offers:
-

consider time parent training young disabled children as a reason
exceptional leave of absence in labor law;

-

create an Internet platform bringing together and informing on devices meeting the needs
specific families, including those of children with disabilities;

-

encourage and support specialized professionals to support families in the
training process.

Proposition 241: Developing home and schooling for youth
Disabled
The inclusion of disabled children should start early. It's an early age
these children must meet the other. The participation of children with disabilities to the course
School is an essential element in this regard. Therefore, the CDH offers:
-

support the inclusion of disabled children in kindergartens by developing cooperation
between early childhood professionals and medico-social and health sectors, forming
pediatric nurses (as teachers) to the early detection of situations
disabilities and developing a mobile nursery pool;

-

pursue the increase in the number of children with disabilities into mainstream schooling
including through a strengthened partnership with PMS teams and paying attention
priority to school children, as well as putting in place a strategy for disability
each school and in kindergarten;

-

encourage the appointment in a teaching team of a key contact for
Parents and the student and generalize partnerships and bridges with the PMS sector;

-

set up within the higher education needs a systematic analysis of
youth with disabilities to propose adjustments / her any adjustments
curriculum.

203

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Proposition 242: Strengthen access of disabled people to employment and
Training
Employment is the primary concern of all citizens, disabled or not. Work is a
essential element for the integration of any person. Access for the disabled person to a
Employment is therefore essential.
Therefore, the CDH offers:
-

fight against employment traps, including immunizing all revenues for the
calculation and granting the integration allowance, which must be related only to the costs
disabled person must take in order to participate in social life;

-

modernize the disability assessment criteria and remove the "price of love" and
"Price of labor" by immunizing revenues acquired by the professional activity but also
income of the spouse;

-

identify and quantify the training needs of the disabled with operators
specialized;

-

enforce by public services obligations quota of disabled people,
and extend this obligation by social clauses in public contracts. A mechanism
a fine is to be expected, the benefit must be used exclusively to promote the employment of
disabled people ;

-

diversify missions adapted work enterprises to strengthen employment and
foster links between "employment" adapted to "ordinary".

Proposition 243: Encouraging participation and well-being
Disabled
The voluntary sector plays a major role in the field of medical. It is essential to promote this
citizen engagement. Therefore, the CDH offers:
-

promote the active participation of associations for people with disabilities;

-

enhance the availability of publications in various forms at the request of the interested parties:
audio, Braille, closed captioning;

-

facilitate access to sport and culture by making reasonable accommodation;

-

facilitate access to common law such elections;

-

facilitate access to public services and public transport by hardware changes
(wide passages and ramps) and adjustments (sound amplifier, icons, Braille,
etc.) but also by promoting a humane and respectful attitude of the person;

-

meet the emotional and sexual needs of the disabled;

-

invest more in training interpreters in sign language;

-

promote inclusion by fighting against negative stereotypes, particularly in the context of
public service obligations of the RTBF;

-

review the regulations so that the contribution of assistance dogs other than guide dogs
can be considered as "individual integration assistance."

204

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Action 7. Combating precariousness
As part of the EU 2020 Strategy, Belgium has committed to lifting at least 380,000
people out of poverty by 2020. The best way to fight against poverty, it is first
prevent people from falling into this trap. To do this, employment and housing, but also
the fight against excessive debt, are priority levers.

Proposition 244: Emphasize a preventive approach to poverty
A structural policy to fight against poverty can not be limited to a curative approach. He
is essential to take preventive policies to prevent people falling into the
vicious cycle of poverty and exclusion.

Did you know that in 2010, 20.8% of the Belgian population, or 2,235,000 people, were facing
risk of poverty and exclusion?
The CDH offers:
-

Accelerate the automatic opening of social rights for people who meet
conditions to benefit;

-

Ensuring access and exercise of the rights to health, housing, energy and public services.

-

Fight against excessive debt by giving more resources to mediation
debt by prohibiting organizations to canvass in public spaces and
personalized advertising by imposing a specific space be reserved to credit in
places of sale and prohibiting What are offered credits that are not associated with a purchase,
and teaching youth to manage a budget.

Proposal flagship 245: Fight against homelessness through the Housing First
The CDH is convinced that the best way to fight against insecurity is primarily to
implement a comprehensive preventive policy, by acting on the upstream determinants rather
as acting downstream emergency.
In the fight against insecurity, our first goal is the full realization of housing rights
which is a fundamental human right. If aid devices for the homeless are trying to answer
social emergency situations, only access to decent housing can truly be
a first step to leave a lasting precariousness.
The Housing First is a fast access to housing coupled with personalized support.
A key element of this approach is that social service interventions can be
most effective when offered to people in their own homes.
To devote our energy to first find housing for everyone, the CDH offers
of:
-

finance mechanisms that target sustainable solutions and support sector initiatives
associations or public Housing First, direct access from the street to housing;

-

developing a network of emergency housing, in cooperation with housing corporations
social and social housing agencies;

-

subsidize night shelters perennially and equip them so that animals
company may also be admitted;

205

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
-

strengthen post-housing follow to stabilize people in their homes;

-

support specialized shelters for domestic violence issues.

Proposition 246: Encourage social participation of people experiencing
precariousness
The social participation of people in precarious situations should be promoted.
To this end, the CDH offers:
-

fight against unemployment traps in the social and professional exemption system;

-

ensure the development of literacy training to fight against
illiteracy;

-

ensure the development of "scribes" to allow more insecure of
be eligible for help with administrative formalities;

-

provide structural funding for activities that encourage the CPAS to organize
social, cultural and sports participation of vulnerable groups;

-

Support the work of CPAS that they offer quality support in:

-

o

improving the rate of reimbursement of the social integration income by the federal state;

o

improving the quality of social care staff by imposing standards,
and quality training, stricter controls and social surveys;

o

intervening financially to help CPAS in their accompanying tasks
and prevention as coaching people to work and other
social activities, supporting the homeless, the reception and integration of people
foreign, mediation in cases of tenant eviction.

Continue the fight against the digital divide.

247 flagship proposal: To support food aid initiatives
The right to food is a fundamental human right. However, according to the Belgian Banking Federation
food, nearly 121,000 people depend on food banks to feed
regularly in our country. The condition for receiving such aid is to have a
income below 740 euros per month. It is therefore not only dependent people
social but also helps small independent troubled, part-time workers ...
Their number has more than doubled since 2005!
To help these families to feed properly, the CDH proposes to strengthen support for
associations of food aid. In Belgium, food aid is organized through collaboration
9 food banks, charities 437, 320 CPAS and especially with the help of
thousands of volunteers who give their time and energy to serve others.
Therefore, the CDH offers:
-

Belgium quickly translate the new aid program for the most deprived and compensate
budget loss caused by the reform of the MDP (at Feeding Program
European);

206

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
-

clarify the words "deadline". Too many different dated particulars appear on our
food (the packing date, date of sustainability limit, the deadline for
consumption, expiration date, the deadline for optimal use ...). For cdH it
need to clarify and simplify the understanding of this information by setting two dates: the deadline
sales and use-by date. The food donations will then be made at the
the day before the use by date;

-

encourage food donations for tax deductions for companies that donate
their eating unsold or useful materials (refrigerated trucks, refrigerators, freezers ...) to
food aid associations;

-

fight against food waste. For CDH, it is essential to avoid waste
Food at source particularly in terms of sales channels. The CDH proposes a
incentive and regulatory measures in order to minimize this waste:

-

labelliser companies and businesses active in the fight against food waste
that have signed and respect the "Food aid charter";

-

impose on supermarkets over 1000m² of distributing unsold banks
local food.

-

create and animate a local network of food aid for organizing the distribution of
work and achieve economies of scale, bringing together different associations, cooperatives
local agricultural distribution companies and local businesses, morning markets,
local restaurants, school canteens, catering schools, Red Cross, CPAS ...

-

associations to provide the material and human resources necessary to
allow volunteers to work in good conditions (vehicle loans, and fridges
freezers, provision of storage facilities ...)

-

organizing food aid so that it is suited to the public: to guarantee a place and
accessible schedules, pay particular attention to infant feeding and
toddlers ...

Proposition 248: Making the banking system more inclusive
Did you know that 28% of Belgians pas13 save?
In some circumstances, even people with modest incomes can épargner14.
We must therefore develop investment products for low incomes.
To enable all Belgians to save the cdH proposes to create a social savings account.
On the model of what already exists in France, regulated savings account would be reserved for
low incomes and benefit from a higher interest rate than other savings accounts.

13

Study on ING quotes www.credina.be, 2013, 28% of Belgians are not saving, March 27
Jérusalmy O., 2010, Savings and insecurity: what we know, www.financité.be July?

14

207

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Proposition 249: Improving access to water
By paying his water bill, the citizen contributes to a social water fund to help the most
nots. It is managed by the CPAS to ensure an integrated approach in the fight against
poverty. However, people in great difficulty do not have access to that fund or it
intervenes derisory in relation to the amounts payable.
It is therefore proposed:
-

increase the resources available to the social Water Fund;

-

to enable rural communities to access more to the fund;

-

to study the possibility of extending its beneficiaries, especially very large families.

208

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

AXIS 4
Gather the territory
The territory is a fundamental lever of our political project. By transforming our
territory, our relationship with him, our modes of travel and habitats, we can
move towards greater human development and better living.

1. Meet
For the CDH, the territory should be generating links, prosperity, social cohesion and
quality of life. It must be a gathering place that offers every human person
the opportunity to participate in decision making and the future of all. It also puts us face
significant challenges in economic matters (amplify the stimulus Wallonia and
Brussels), social (make housing accessible to all), environmental (ensure sustainability
of our business), but above population (take into account the aging population
in our policies) and humans (have more quality time and less stress, restore vivreensemble, whatever our differences). Challenges that invite us all to take
our responsibilities to contribute to improving our living conditions and offer our children
positive outlook for the future.
For CDH, territorial development, spatial planning and urban planning must all
First allow to design a new type of neighborhoods, "human" and neighborhoods
building in Brussels and Wallonia, as new cities, new neighborhoods, or
yet existing neighborhoods and villages that will be rearranged and revitalized. These neighborhoods will
designed to promote togetherness, quality of life, participation of residents, sharing
resources of each ... The second objective of CDH is to ensure that everyone can better
contribute to the development of the territory and contribute its design and management. Cleanliness
public, new information and communications technology and heritage are
also the subject of several innovative measures.

2. Living in a quality habitat
The territory is also live in quality housing, adapted to our needs, to changes in the
cycle of life, a habitat that can help us achieve our life goals, and we
similarities to the other. The evolution of the cost of housing prevents more people
to still have access to this quality habitat. The humanist project proposes several measures
radical fight against rising property prices and rents and enable young
to live in a good location and accommodation that meets their aspirations. Other measures
aims to help people adapt to change their home or dwelling. Age,
health, changes in family composition or the vagaries of working life are
at certain times in our lives, we must reorganize our home or move to
maintain or improve our quality of life. It is in doing so that we can
also allow our seniors to live as long as possible at home, so
autonomous. Finally, CDH wants to change our ways of living, to make them more human,

209

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
encouraging habitats "openness" toward their living environment (shared habitat
collocations ...) and that emphasize dialogue rather than the habitat of "withdrawal" that isolate
which reinforce the individualism and exacerbates conflicts.

3. Move
The land directly determines our Guests. But for CDH, mobility,
it is first and foremost "better move." How? In reaching quality time.
This is possible by reducing our transportation needs and traffic jams. This is not encouraging
only the use of public transport and carpooling, but also rational use of
automotive. The CDH also wants to improve the quality of time we spend in our
travel, living together on the road or in public transport and security
all, making our journeys safer and easier to use.

210

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Chapter 1. Meet
The territory and the citizens of the living space reflects our vision of society and to live together.
It predominantly affects the daily lives of all of us. The quality of the links
we can weave our environment, our quality of life, but also of generations
future, are directly affected by spatial planning, our design or habitat
even our way of organizing mobility.
Rather than exacerbating isolationism and impair quality of life, territories as places
Life must be generators of human bonds, collective projects and quality time. He is
necessary to design our territories by ensuring better:
-

Usability: best match this purpose the towns, neighborhoods and villages and welcoming
reassuring, with public spaces, an open habitat on community life and
shops / community services.

-

Social cohesion: growing dialogue and respect in order to succeed social diversity,
cultural and intergenerational.

-

Access for all to quality housing, particularly through access to property: develop
framework "in which to live together", and the price is reasonable.

-

Sharing resources: imagine a cohousing, cohabitation, carpooling,
of trade in goods and services between neighbors, teleworking collective spaces.

-

Participation: design and build the territory with citizens.

-

Regulation: emphasize its role to encourage living together and
facilitate projects of general interest, and not to exacerbate individualism, divide
population and blocking the transformation of the territory that we all need.

-

The impact of human activity: ask for each activity what will be its
Consequently the quality of life of future generations.

-

Respect: the other, the environment and the public interest.

211

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Action 1. Create the towns, neighborhoods and villages of humans
According to demographic forecasts Bureau, and considering the request, it will
create at least 256,000 homes in 2030 and about 124,000 in Wallonia in Brussels,
also many nurseries and schools, knowing that the current supply is already insufficient and draws
prices up.
Did you know that by 2030, it will create 380,000 homes in Wallonia and Brussels, if we
hope the real estate situation is not getting worse?
In the next 45 years, owner of the "65 and over" will also double, while
"85+" will triple. The land use policies, housing and mobility
imperative to integrate this phenomenon of increased life and aging. He is
essential to allow older people to live independently and in conjunction with others,
as long as possible. The demographic challenge is also a great opportunity to
design a new way of living, which promotes environmental, energy constraints,
live together, serenity and security. He invites us to accelerate the creation of housing and
community facilities, while we at the same time be more parsimonious
land use. The towns and villages will have to meet this demographic challenge of
proportionate and sensible way.
Understand
Wallonia today recorded a particularly low urban concentration in comparison
to neighboring regions and countries. In other words, we tend to scatter rather the frame
just concentrate, and each built plot occupies a larger area. A title
comparison, Germany, which has a population density equivalent to Wallonia, affects
proportionally half of the construction land, and to the benefit of agricultural areas
and natural.

212

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

250 flagship proposal: Build one or more new cities
The new cities are far from being a utopia. Some of them were built 40 years ago
and emerge as success stories today (eg. Louvain-la-Neuve). Our Neighbours
European embark again for several years in large urban projects. Brussels

Wallonia are fully capable of carrying out such projects in the 21st century.
These new cities, exemplary in terms of human development (social cohesion, harmony
with nature, living together, participation ...), may take the form of a city building
full or new urban areas large (built or rebuilt) in
existing cities and which, by its magnitude, will have a structuring effect on them.
These cities will be located in rural areas that suffer from the lack of a real center
urban, in urban areas in economic decline (wasteland, urban cankers ...) in
or around poles of economic activity or in areas with high real estate pressure.
Private investment (promoters, private, kindergartens, shops ...), redirecting
savings into building construction (see proposal 254) or potential investments
public (hospital, nursing homes, schools, establishment of a regional administration
following the transfer of skills from the sixth state reform, universities and colleges ...)
be the main sources of funding for projects.
Eventually, each of these cities will be between 20,000 and 40,000 inhabitants.
We wish to build one or more new cities in Wallonia to house 10%
homes to be created by 2030 (40.000 dwellings, ie 60,000 inhabitants).
These new cities or districts must provide completely innovative modes of habitats and
including:
-

Book the main routes for pedestrians, cyclists and public transport and provide a
passing cars in the city or with ring roads and connecting to a
RECO carpool station.

-

High value services and intergenerational habitats by establishing in one
Area nurseries and rest homes or supervised apartments; the development of
local services; by developing intergenerational services or housing; There
availability of shared spaces and community centers.

-

An energy-efficient home or through autonomous self-production of energy
renewable, but which is thought from the outset to adapt to changes in the cycle
life of the inhabitants (anticipating split into several housing units, provide ergonomics
necessary, etc.).

-

Groups of dwellings and common infrastructure shared with reciprocal services
(childcare for example).

-

Numerous green spaces, roof gardens and green walls.

-

Appropriate arrangements for the safety of inhabitants (no corners, many insights,
mixed neighborhoods, decentralized police.

-

Many street sports and play areas, sports and cultural infrastructure
quality and near schools, youth centers.

-

Close to shops and short circuits; integrated offices, incubators
businesses and telecommuting spaces.

-

The integration of new technologies in the city according to the model "smart cities".

213

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
-

The development of quality public spaces, optimal waste management and water and
an identity to the city.

They will be located:
-

In areas of high real estate pressure to fight against the rising cost of housing.

-

In or near existing towns, including industrial restructuring, to create a
positive momentum and contribute to the revival of economic and residential attractiveness.

-

In rural areas suffering from the lack of an urban center large enough.

In Brussels, develop starting from district contracts, and list them in priority neighborhoods
develop in the next ten years: Heysel, Jehoshaphat, T & T, Midi, Prisons, SchaerbeekFormation ...

Proposition 251: By 2030, locate one of 3 new home in
new urban and rural areas
The planning of "dropper", that is to say the anarchic location of new buildings
and the absence of a comprehensive and multi-functional project area when it grants a license, has
adverse effects on quality of life. Beyond the new cities, we think it is possible to
locate a large number of new houses in new areas, designed
integrated, based on an integrated approach. The new cities could also be transboundary
with common infrastructure. We must ensure maximum use of European programs
to develop such centers.
The CDH offers
-

Build pieces of towns and villages copies in development
human (social cohesion, harmony with nature, living together, participation ...) and
can take many forms.

-

New urban neighborhoods (built or rebuilt) in existing cities as
same model as for new cities.

-

A heart of town revitalized, densified or (re-) constructed (see the proposal 252
land consolidation).

-

To create in these new neighborhoods of living together of spaces for
families, youth, the elderly and the various groups consist of power exercised
their activities and projects in suitable locations. This requires the establishment of a center
cultural and associative, in youth centers and leisure closer to neighborhoods, more
near living places.

-

New multifunctional areas in rural or semi-rural, properly
located, where new housing will be primarily localized, and whose objective
is to revitalize a neighborhood or viable (creation or maintenance of a school, a nursery,
shops and services ...).

-

Reasoned densification of some villages (hollow teeth, vacant lots ...).

-

A "vent" pieces too dense cities (urban parks, landscapes, greening,
bodies of water ...).

214

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Proposition 252: Foster Wallonia urban and rural land consolidation
to revitalize the hearts of towns and villages
We want to transform the face of our cities but also our villages. We must recreate it
of life and coherence to prevent them from becoming dormitories campaigns. But
rather than threatening people who want to settle outside of a certain area of ​​habitat,
we prefer to go through a work-sharing with municipalities directly to the maneuver.
The CDH offers support urban consolidation mechanism in major cities and
create a new territorial development tool: the land consolidation
To help municipalities better manage their territory, we would add a new
PCDR lever (municipal rural development plan): the scope of land consolidation,
in parallel to the existing model of urban consolidation perimeter. The PCDR ensures
citizen participation.
The idea is to bring housing in already built-up areas, while developing areas
rural. Example: in an already built-up area, well located in the heart of a village or nearby, a meadow
between two buildings could be leveraged to create housing, trade,
handicraft or service (nursery, school, etc.).
In the other direction, land in a remote area of ​​the frame center could be assigned to a
agricultural activity. In this way it is avoided that the housing extends in a long chewing gum
outside the village, at the expense of the vitality of the heart of communities.
The CDH proposes that cities and villages are supported in this process through an intervention
the Regional Centre for the municipalities to pre-finance the operations and by
through future regional development agencies (Proposition 237).
The CDH also proposes to penalize speculative behavior on land left to
abandoned by their owners.

Proposition 253: Strengthening the role of CITYDEV and create Walloon agencies
Territorial Development
Understand
CITYDEV is a public body that was created by the Brussels-Capital Region to develop and
build neighborhoods and business parks in the interests of sustainable development
(affordable housing, economic development, eco-districts ...). The advantage of this type
organism is that it can work on a larger area and therefore a common
develop better economic control and land.
CITYDEV, former SDRB (regional development company of Brussels) is a tool that should be
amplified and extended to Wallonia. This organization including mission is to acquire land
and build neighborhoods and high quality homes, which are then resold to
households with limited incomes, at a price that escapes the speculative logic. Nevertheless, its means
are still too limited and its goals are very broad (economic development,
housing ...), which explains why it has produced "only" 3,000 housing for 25 years.
-

In Brussels, it should bring together existing structures where they exist, to make
real companies integrated and transversal development, and provide them with financial means
and legal, to a certain land management.

-

In Wallonia, several such bodies should be created, in limited numbers, and cover
sufficiently large territories.
215

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
The CDH proposes creating regional agencies for territorial development in Wallonia and
strengthen CITYDEV in Brussels.
Their mission will be to:
-

Supporting the construction of new cities and new neighborhoods.

-

Build pieces of towns and villages with a human face.

-

Revitalize the town cores and urban neighborhoods.

-

Innovating settlement pattern by developing an offer based on the dismemberment
ownership (surface rights and the right to split use, leasehold ...) as
Community Land Trust1.

-

Promote and support public-private partnerships.

-

In Brussels, the area where the activity of CITYDEV applies is extended to the entire territory
Brussels Regional

254 Lighthouse Proposal: Create a citizen of investment savings
immovable
Did you know that in Belgium, 245 billion "sleep" on bank savings accounts?
Many Belgians have a certain amount of money placed in accounts-savings. Gold,
the yields of these accounts remain below the inflation rate. This induces a decrease
progressive savings of savers without these have touched their capital. Our
system also encourages pension savings by granting a tax reduction. But
many are unaware of how the accumulated capital is used by financial institutions. To which
activity area ? In which geographical area? Is it fair investments
guarantee the respect of human dignity?
To maintain a certain standard of living at the end of their career, so the Belgians tend to
provide a pension savings, to become the owner of their home, and a second
housing available for rent, when they have the means.
It is possible to use part of the savings of Belgians to partially finance the construction of
these "pieces of towns and villages," including luxury homes, housing
social, but above all quality housing, sold outside of logic
speculative, with people belonging to the middle class.
This proposal allows:
-

Ensure ethical and citizen of the pension savings.

-

Increase the transparency of investments (real estate investment in the territory
national).

-

Securing investments (real estate less risky than many
speculative financial investments).

1

The community land trust (CLT) are nonprofit organizations that acquire land to build housing and
utilities, as well as previously developed land. Accommodations are sold at affordable to middle-income households. The
Households thus become owners of their building but not the land. The CLT retains ownership of the land but grants
residents the right to use (lease, servitude ...). This reduces the cost of acquisition of the dwelling.

216

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
-

Partially finance the construction of human neighborhoods towns and villages as well as
new cities.

The CDH proposes to fund the regional agencies for territorial development by creating a
citizen pension savings tax-deductible real estate investment and a green booklet
along with a tax benefit, based on the popular Debt facility recently implemented
at the federal level.
Regarding the long-term savings, the CDH proposes to set up a pension savings
Citizenship:
-

By granting a tax reduction for investors, like pension savings
current.

-

By using this savings to finance the construction of pieces of towns and villages,
injecting it into the capital of regional agencies for territorial development.

Every citizen will have the choice between traditional pension savings and pension savings citizen.
Regarding the short-term savings, a green booklet will also be created to allow
individuals and companies to allocate their savings to finance real estate projects
of general interest. These savings will benefit from a more advantageous tax system.

217

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Action 2. Involve all stakeholders in the development of
territory
We believe that the territories are first generators links, better living together,
gathering and sharing, and therefore constitute a breeding ground for collective projects. The
governments, administrations, developers and landowners and
buildings have a responsibility to contribute to the development of the territory, fairly and
fair.
Did you know that the number of appeals submitted to the Council of State against a permit
planning, increased by 40% between 2005 and 2012?
Yet land use and urban planning are often conflicts between places
the public interest and the private interest. There are more and more use from individuals
disagree with a project. A better participation of citizens, individuals, merchants and
contractors in the design and implementation of urban projects would reduce the number from
when their expectations, fears and criticisms have been integrated from the outset
projects. Participation also allows project managers to properly inform citizens,
starting with local residents and to avoid misconceptions in the population.

Proposition 255: A true strategy for each catchment area: square
Contracts territory!
In our conception of the territories, it is essential that every citizen can participate in the future
its catchment area. This participation should be effective at all stages of the process
design, implementation and evaluation of a collective development strategy
each territory. These strategies must themselves contribute to the revival of Brussels and
Wallonia.
The CDH proposes that municipalities develop and implement, in a participatory manner and
partnership, a territory contract at the pool of life, to contribute to
human development of the territory. The contract will aim:
-

Position the territory on a theme both original and carrier, to enhance coherence
the catchment area, to differentiate the project from the adjacent living areas and provide the
territory of a brand.

-

Prioritize the human dimension of the projects, regarding for example the cohesion
social, education, housing.

-

Cover many dimensions related to human development (employment, economy,
training, environment, social cohesion, demography, land use, housing,
living together, education, tourism ...).

-

Define the content of this contract in cooperation with citizens and the forces of
territory (associations, companies, investors).

-

The part of the duration (10 years), with an interim evaluation at mid-term.

218

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Proposition 256: Require developers to build services
collective
Every real estate investor derives some benefit from the use of the territory. Obtaining a
building permits and modification of sector plans and bring value to surfaces
held by investors. This is an annuity which is, in part, serve to improve the
community's quality of life (kindergartens, schools, playgrounds ...) and general interest (access
housing, accessibility for people with reduced mobility ...).
To ensure the social and functional mix of buildings and neighborhoods built by
private operators, and to ensure that such projects contribute to human development
territory, the CDH proposes to strengthen the system of planning and expense in Brussels
generalize the use of building charges for all of Wallonia.
-

The building charges are intended to involve private developers to
the development of public spaces, roads and other infrastructure of general interest, but
Also in the construction of commercial spaces, social or affordable housing,
suitable for Disability Access, and community facilities (crèches, schools ...).
In this case, the goods are resold by the sponsor to the concerned public operators at a price
affordable.

-

The planning expenses must first be negotiated between the municipality and the
promoter and be a public report (transparency).

-

Small real estate projects (over 1,000 sqm) located in the same perimeter will
also be involved, as part of a shared planning expense, to
in particular to allow the construction of places of children in centers, play areas, of
restricted housing low-income etc.

-

In Brussels, in real estate projects over more than 5,000 m², forcing developers
Real to devote a percentage to be determined (5 to 10%) of the floor-area
built on the development of green spaces on site.

257 flagship proposal: Consult citizens much earlier, in the
part of major urban and real estate projects
Citizen participation is required. It allows one hand to align the interests
individual, secondly to improve decisions by better meeting the needs of the
population. She therefore save time and money by preventing potential conflicts.
Procedures that involve and empower the population with respect to remedies will
put in place from drafts.
The CDH proposes to strengthen citizen participation in the design, monitoring and evaluation
real estate and urban projects, and that interest to intervene earlier:
-

That during the consultations, a preliminary information meeting be held whenever there is a
intention to project, so before the establishment of the specifications on the basis of the draft
(sketches and model) so that the consultation exercises as early as possible.

-

That consultation is as plural as possible, that is to say, not based only
on written procedures but using all the means and mobilization
communication: approaches to the inhabitants, more than pedagogy with entertainment
panels, decentralization in the affected districts, meetings between
citizens and intermediary agents (associations) to strengthen the capacity of citizens.

219

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
-

When planning project gets planning permission but changes
Substantial are subsequently made, there is an obligation to go through a
public consultation.

The CDH also like several other principles are found in the regulations:
-

Consult systematically defense associations of the disabled,
during any development of public space.

-

Strengthening the role of CCMTA (communal land use commissions).

-

Create a citizen committee to allow urban project to the public and future residents
to meet, and to participate together in the design of the neighborhood project. This committee will be
made up of local residents and future of people living near the project, acting in there
individually.

-

Improve the efficiency of public inquiries and take greater account of the opinion of
citizens (incentives on selected options and answer questions from local residents to be annexed
the permit).

-

Punish those introducing an unfounded when it is established that it is
only slow down the implementation of a project.

-

Strengthen in the course of the architects of programs (and administration)
initiation into the process of participation and deliberative democracy by training on
consultation. In this regard, the formation of CeM (mobility advisor) can be a good
example, because beyond the content of the training, it allows everyone to have a "
standardization "of concepts: all CeM (police, agents of SPW, municipal officials, ...)
use the same vocabulary, eliminating any potential misunderstanding.

-

Establish an advisory board of trade and development in each local
common.

-

Take better account access and visibility problems at major work by
a policy of consultation with local residents, motorists and traders.

-

Published on the website of the municipality all the data of urban projects.

220

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Action 3. Allow each citizen to enjoy a clean living environment
Public cleanliness is an essential component of the quality of living environment. Challenges
related to cleanliness are both social, health, environmental, economic, financial and
policies. The cleanliness of public space reflects firstly the ability of citizens to act so
responsibly and in the interests of living together. Cleanliness is a matter of education and
respect. Waste management and cleanliness of public spaces and buildings with character
public, may also have impacts on our health and our environment.
If Wallonia has to maintain its performance in the future, and Brussels continue its efforts, several
challenges will require appropriate policy responses:
-

Maintaining the principle of cost truth and ensure its proper implementation.

-

Strengthening the prevention of waste and cleanliness.

-

Reduce the costs of collection, waste treatment and storage, and ensure secure
transparency in the use of the taxes paid by citizens.

-

Offer new services "practical" to citizens in collecting and sorting
waste.

-

Better punish antisocial behavior and environmental crime.

-

Organize better management of cleanliness at markets, fairs, flea markets,
demonstrations and other large events in public spaces (adoption of the polluter pays principle, imposing the use of reusable cups with a bond system,
installation of public ashtrays and waste bins).

-

Reintroduce gradually in urban public space for new public toilets,
aesthetic, free and open access 24h / 24.

-

Start in Brussels a "clean city" operation with ambitious annual targets, a
strengthening of municipal and regional staff to cleanliness, a Memorandum of Understanding
with each municipality to secure the obligations of each, the frequency of collection, etc.

Proposition 258: Develop genuine education activities at the
cleanliness in schools
Did you know that in 2012, only one Wallon on two reports having received information on
waste reduction? And a three-Wallon does not sort its waste properly?
To enhance the spontaneous behavior among the population, we would integrate
in education and educational projects of the schools' public cleanliness "dimension.
Public cleanliness will be integrated into learning to live together in school. Modules
Information and awareness will also be held throughout the school career in
adapting the shape and content of the lessons at the age of students. These modules will build on
actions in schools on road safety.
The CDH offers:
-

Embed the "clean public" dimension in teaching and educational project of the schools.

-

Organize information and awareness modules for public cleanliness
the nursery, primary and secondary (1 module organized by 3-year cycle).

-

Provide an information module and awareness "public Cleanliness' in some
socio-professional integration training programs.
221

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Proposition 259: Promote the use of reusable packaging or
recyclable
Studies show that packaging contributes only a small part of the ecological footprint
product, compared to pollution associated with its production, supply and consumption. The
packages also have their uses. They guarantee that the product arrives in good condition at the
consumer, it keeps well, and therefore not be destroyed or discarded before
consumption. Because in that case, waste is absolute. So do not fight against the package
as such but rather encourage the use of packaging "clean", which are biodegradable
or can be reused or recycled.
Therefore, the CDH offers:
-

develop own products and packaging from consumers;

-

encourage businesses to register in the current concept of "circular economy"
that drives companies to produce only what is biodegradable and what can be
reused or recycled;

-

encourage innovation and research in the field of materials and techniques
Packing

-

strengthen this industrial sector and support companies active in this sector.

Proposition 260:
environmental

Sanction

more

strongly

the

offenses

Did you know that in 2012, they are still 21% in Wallonia to declare abandon their waste in a
public space ?
Despite advances in control and sanction of environmental violations in
2012, a five Walloons said its household waste incinerated outdoors. They are provided to
confess drop their rubbish in the public space. One third of the Walloons say they "defile"
the public space. It is still too because this type of behavior degrades the quality of
our living and environment. It also generates costs to the community.
To prevent anti-social behavior, better control and sanction the CDH offers:
-

Strengthen the means of control of incivility, through three measures: increasing the number
constatateurs agents of offenses; involve the local police; allow some agents
communal also be able to establish offenses; multiply cameras
surveillance at the most polluted points introduced under the future common-law
for administrative sanctions high fines for not respecting the acts
rules of cleanliness.

-

Target controls on critical places.

-

Increase the minimum fine for environmental violation: passing
the administrative fine of 50 to 150 euros and the criminal fine of 100-300 euros.

-

Propose alternative sentences to financial sanctions. The offender would fulfill a
general interest mission in the field of public cleanliness, to repair damage
similar to the one he committed.

222

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Proposition 261: Make our waste a creative resource job
Did you know that in 2011, households produced 1.992 million tonnes of household waste, or 547 kg
per inhabitant ?
Waste is an economic issue which is clearly underutilized in Wallonia
in Brussels. It is therefore essential to develop the processing industry and the enhancement of
waste because it is an important source of local and sustainable jobs.
The CDH offers:
-

Apply a peace tax on waste policy. The cost-truth diet should
be properly applied.

-

Ensure optimal service for all Walloons and Brussels in collection
Waste. We must therefore harmonize collection services and establish criteria
to ensure a quality service for all citizens.
-

In Brussels, take up a collection at least a week for the yellow bags, green and blue.

-

Widespread use of collective containers and bins in adequate premises
apartment buildings in major cities.

-

Regulating of reversals bond market and implement a system of approvals
for managers such as RECUPEL to ensure a quality service to citizens. There
citizen input must have a real social utility.

-

Develop waste recovery processes on the territory of Wallonia and Brussels
including support for reintegration companies. And valuing the digestate
(product residue from methanization) to promote bio-methanation in the die
making it more profitable.

-

Provide, where possible, the burial of bottle banks to reduce pollution
noise for local residents and make the cleaner and friendly neighborhood.

-

Imposing the use of reusable cups at major events in the spaces
public.

-

Place collection containers in shopping areas offering a mix
Commercial making cohabitation "trash-commercial activities" difficult.

223

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Action 4. Make the most "intelligent" territories
Walks of life, whether located in town or in the countryside, must be arranged and organized
according to the needs of the inhabitants. The information and communications technology
we offer the opportunity to be able to act on many dimensions which are the life
daily, economy, environment, social cohesion, health or the
democratic participation.
Did you know that in Belgium, 4 in 5 people use the Internet?
These new instruments make it possible for residents to act as partners
and development stakeholders, rather than as mere consumers of goods and
services. The intelligent city is therefore a human development facilitator.

Proposition 262, "Objective: WIFI-free capital and 50 cities and towns
smart "
Territorial Intelligence solutions can undeniably contribute to the development
human territories. The town also remains the ideal territorial level in order to
implementing a strategy of territorial intelligence. To encourage them to move forward in this area,
we believe that the Regions should establish and strengthen financial incentives
support for local authorities.
The CDH offers:
-

Make Brussels in the framework of the "digital capital Brussels", a smart city and
wifi-free intelligent decentralized capital including free internet space, with
a regional and municipal governance involving digital applications offer
customized to citizens for services, forms, relative interactivity
including exchanges of information relating to nuisance, etc.

-

Raising awareness and assisting in the development of towns
IT solutions for citizens.

-

A call for projects with municipalities on the development and implementation
a strategic plan "intelligent territories".

-

Create communal plans of smart cities, like municipal mobility plans,
and match a grant.

-

Condition the regional subsidies to the establishment of a free WIFI in space
public, the implementation of a strategy of intelligent territories.

-

Making new cities the most "intelligent" territories in Europe.

-

Implement smart rural areas, adapting the tools of "smart cities" on
Indeed, the constraints and needs of rural communities.

-

Encourage the use of software "open source" in government and agencies
public interest or providing public services.

-

Create a community manager position in every city and town.

224

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Proposition 263: Empowering elderly by new
technologies: the alliance Hab-IT-A (Habitat-Intelligence-Territorial Autonomy)
By 2060, people over 85 years will be three times as many as today. For
allow seniors and persons with reduced mobility or with disabilities to live in
a quality living environment, we want to mainstream the continued autonomy
the layout of the territory.
The CDH proposes to create the first "Hab-IT-A" alliance "Habitat-Intelligence TerritorialeAutonomie"
Through this alliance, we want:
-

Integrating regional and local policies on territorial intelligence, measures
to empower seniors and persons with reduced mobility (PRM).

-

Support the development of building technology that promotes independence and the
home automation and support entrepreneurs who wish to invest in this sector.

-

Adapting building standards and urban demographic challenges and needs
PMR.

-

Grant aid and loans at zero interest, as part of a "Qualipack" (see Chapter 1)
to finance housing adaptation works that allow seniors and PMR
remain independent at home.

-

Generalizing the intelligent medical bag system among general physicians and
home care nurses.

225

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Action 5. Enhance the tangible and intangible heritage
Tangible heritage (buildings, architecture, facades, monuments, landscapes, outstanding sites,
biodiversity, green spaces ...) and intangible (folklore, legends, local festivals, expertise ...)
contribute to the quality of life of human beings. They are a solid ground on which
build to build the future, strengthen the pride and sense of belonging to a territory,
improve living together and engender spontaneous citizen participation in projects
collective. Finally, heritage influences the economic development, as investors,
households, tourists or those with high qualifications, are sensitive to the image of
territories. More heritage is highlighted, the territory radiates more nationally and
International.
The first item that comes to people's mind when one mentions a city or territory is
its heritage. What do you think of when talking about Brussels, Tournai, Waterloo, Namur, Binche,
Bastogne or Liège?

Proposition 264: Create a special fund to support the patronage
restoration
The government budget is under stress and can not cover all needs
restoration, while a refurbished heritage improves tourist attractiveness,
economic and residential land and enhance the pride of the vis-à-vis its population
historical legacy, the sense of belonging to a community, and therefore solidarity
spontaneous.
We propose to create a special fund for the sponsorship support for the restoration. This fund
will aim to fund the restoration, renovation and upgrading
heritage, additionally to actions by public authorities. The fund will be
fueled by the private sector.
In order to encourage private investors, businesses and particular to contribute to this
special fund four devices will be set up:
-

Allowing the donor to choose the project for which he wishes to make a donation and inform
the progress of work.

-

Allow tax deduction for each donation made to the fund, whether from an individual or
a business.

-

To honor donors, inviting them to the inauguration or the ceremony site
restored, and place during a period of time a panel with the names of people and
Companies that have participated in the financing of works.

-

Under certain conditions (sufficient amount of funds agreed on the type of campaign
communication ...), enable companies to leverage their donations in their
communication. The product-sharing, where a share of the revenue of the company is paid back
the fund, justifies such that the company can enhance its efforts to strengthen its
responsible corporate image and attached to the territory in which it has
established.

Complementary to the creation of the fund, other measures must be implemented:
-

Public-private partnerships: a private investor funds the site renovations
or building that reassigns housing, tourist place, offices, a cultural space ...
Convention allows governments to use part of the infrastructure for the purpose
of general interest.
226

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
-

To extend and develop centers of expertise in renovation of old buildings
used as a dwelling.

-

The tourist development of heritage, by strengthening synergies between tourism hautesécoles, vocational schools, local tourism associations, guides,
construction sector and HORECA establishments. It will be anchored in the framework of a plan
Strategic development and promotion of heritage.

Proposition 265: Create a "Googlestreet" heritage
The new information and communications technology offer many
possibilities for heritage development and citizen participation. Just like Googlestreet,
Instagram, Facebook or Wikipedia, you can develop with citizens, an interface,
both fun, educational and interactive, where everyone can share information and
content on the heritage features of our territories.
To better promote heritage, CDH offers:
-

Develop a heritage Googlestreet. The development of an online application
allow individuals, associations, administrations or universities
associating content (old photos, engravings, paintings, stories, videos, text ...) a
specific place.

-

Propose to all associations active in the field of heritage in Brussels as
Wallonia, identifying, each in their town, the Petit Heritage items
Popular Walloon (pppw) or Brussels. The goal is to then encourage its management
citizen by volunteer groups.

227

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Chapter 2. Living in a quality habitat
For CDH, quality housing is a dwelling in which the location, size and configuration
are tailored to the needs of its inhabitants (isolated, young, seniors, families, persons with mobility
reduced), their habitat (urban or rural) and family and professional realities (near the
family, workplace). It is also a generator housing ties, the interior of which facilitates the
sharing moments between cohabitants.
The accommodation is comfortable. It feels good. It is naturally safe, efficient in terms
energy thanks to its good thermal insulation. It is an intelligent home that integrates
gradually building automation source of comfort and reassuring. The habitat and housing
represent a priority of CDH. No human development without solving
housing problems faced by many people, who are no longer able to
live in a habitat and a quality living environment. It is not human that thousands of people
do not have the means to shelter. It is not human that youth, families, seniors
or persons with reduced mobility can not access a habitat that meets their needs,
because they are part of the "middle classes", and therefore does not have a very high income or
a big heritage.

Action 1. Allow everyone to have access to quality housing
Many households are experiencing major difficulties in housing, simply because,
many places there is not enough housing to meet the demand. And when
markets are tense, the houses are often unsuited to the needs of all, especially
seniors and families. Housing shortages and rising prices are forcing low and
average incomes to devote a share of more and more of their resources to financing
their homes. Living in inadequate housing, lower quality, poorly located, away from his
workplace or his family fabric, is another consequence of offredemande imbalance. For CDH, it is urgent to stop this negative dynamic and reinvest
massively in the housing to again make it a genuine development generator
human.

Proposition 266: Fight against the vacancy of buildings
The right of all to quality housing faces in its effective application to another
law, namely the right to property. If ownership is important and should naturally be
preserved, however, it should ensure that it actually contributes to human development,
and not the opposite. We must fight against such retention of land and real estate,
for speculative purposes (empty housing, substandard housing, hollow teeth, undeveloped land,
storey shops ...) as this scarce housing supply and drives prices and rents to
above.
The CDH offers:
-

Encourage the transformation of empty offices into housing.

Conversion projects deserve special attention even if it has a cost. The
third party investor is a public response to the need for prior cash before
to engage in expensive housing office work processing.
The cost of housing office conversion work is funded not by the
Owner offices but by an external operator, public or private, called "third
228

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
investor ", it is repaid in subsequent years by the owner or tenant
building that gives it part of rental income as a result of rental housing development.
-

Stepping up the fight against the unjustified housing vacancy

The owners of empty homes will be encouraged to renovate and put their housing for sale
or rent, being able, if any, benefit from third-investor mechanism.

267 flagship proposal: Allowing young people to become homeowners
less credit: Form "J"
To help young people find a home that fits their budget and their desire, we
propose to launch the "J" formula. This allows young households to borrow
bank that the price of bricks, not the ground.
The formula "J" is planning to defer the acquisition of the land, with registration fees reduced to
later. The young becomes the owner of the building already built or to be built, but not yet
the land, according to the principle of the right area. The land is leased, based on a
leasing (minimum 15 years) or a long lease (minimum 27 years). The rent payable by the young will
reduced. At the end of the lease or leasehold, the person has the choice of redeeming the land
to become full owner, sell his house or extend the lease or
emphyteusis.
Regional territorial development agencies (see proposal 253) will be charged
acquire undeveloped or vacant lots and buildings. They may viable the
land, renovate existing buildings or building on the land purchased, before setting
selling the building lease or leasehold. 10% of building land should be reserved for
J. formula
To finance this formula "J", part of the savings of Belgians will be directed towards the sector
construction and housing and a tax on the financial sector to offset
he takes more risks. Spreading the registration fees, the cost of registration
Mortgage and notary fees take the form of a loan at reduced rates.
A certificate "own funds" will assimilate these interventions to equity and thus
"reassure" the private banker to which it grants a great rate.
Young people who wish to build their own home, but must respect a
specifications to optimize the energy performance of the building and guarantee
the adaptability of the dwelling, depending on the life cycle.
The CDH wants to book 10% of building land or already constructed the formula "J":
-

The young becomes full owner of the building, but not the land. The cost is
therefore reduced because we must pay as construction.

-

The land is leased in the form of a lease (15 years minimum) or a long lease
(27 years minimum). The rent is limited.

-

At the end of the lease or leasehold, the person can either redeem the land (with rights
reduced registration) or sell his house or renew the leasehold.

Furthermore, CDH proposes to maintain and amplify the bonus-housing to allow young
Households benefit, if any if certain conditions are maximum income set
met, tax cuts over the term of repayment. The bonus-housing
allows those who sign a mortgage to deduct from their taxes the

229

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
repayment of interest and a portion of the principal of the loan - and the premium
the outstanding balance insurance.
In Brussels, the CDH also proposes to grant an exemption for a specified period (10
years) from property tax for any purchase of a first housing in which the household
installs and domiciled.

268 flagship proposal: Spread the registration fee of 5 to 10 years on
first home
For a property situated in Wallonia worth 175,000 euros, the registration fees are
amount to € 22,000 and other expenses (notaries, mortgage registration ...) to 3,500 euros. TO
Brussels, the rights would then be 14,000 euros. So we must also pay 14000-25000
euros, mostly in capital, because the banking industry now refuses
cover these costs.
To reduce barriers to ownership, particularly for young people, proposes to allow cdH
spreading the payment of registration fees on 5-10 years. Spreading removes a barrier
major of ownership: have to pay several thousand euros tax at
purchase. It will also allow potential buyers who can and wish to use
their savings as capital contribution to fund a portion of the market value of the property
real estate, and reduce the amount of the loan, the quotité2 and therefore the proposed interest rate and
monthly installments to be paid over several years.
The CDH proposes to allow the spreading of the registration fees. This proposal allows the
following advantages:
-

No big amount payable at the time of purchase of its housing, but rights
Registration to pay every month for 5-10 years.

-

If the borrower decides to use the amount equivalent to the registration rights he should
had to pay to reduce the capital to borrow from the bank, it will benefit from a rate
of lower interest and will pay less each month to the bank.

-

Total monthly payment (repayment of the credit spread and rights to pay for 5 to 10 years)
which, in the early years, does not exceed a few euros monthly payment
the borrower would have had to reimburse the bank without sprawl. This therefore amounts to almost
deletion of registration fees, from the perspective of the borrower!

Proposition 269: Encouraging private investors to finance housing
Social and means by the dismemberment of the property
It is possible to encourage private investors (individuals, companies ...) to fund construction
social housing and means by the dismemberment of ownership and taxation. The principle is
relatively simple: divide the usufruct of a building and the bare ownership and provide a tax advantage
the private investor who wants to build up savings or place its capital in housing
social or means.
A public housing company built social and medium housing and offers individuals or
to companies buying the bare ownership of dwellings, in other words to own
a home equity but can not use it right away. The investor can therefore not

2

The share is the percentage of the market value to be financed by mortgages.

230

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
occupy the home directly or to rent it. He agrees to grant usufruct, that is to say the exclusive use of the property to a public housing company, which is responsible for the rent
people with precarious incomes or modest means for several years. The investor renounces
also touch social rents from the rental of housing. In return, the investor
enjoys a tax reduction on investment for several years. After one
given period (a minimum of 9 years), the bare owner becomes full owner, without
paying a dime more, and may enjoy his property as he sees fit.
The dismemberment of ownership is an interesting product for social landlords who have more
and more difficult to obtain financing to build buildings.
The CDH proposes to allow private investors to receive tax assistance in the form
tax reduction if they entrust the usufruct of their property to a public housing company for
to hire people with precarious incomes or modest means.
This device offers several advantages for investors:
-

Prepare for retirement, their future and that of her children, placing their capital in a
citizen investment;

-

A tax reduction on investments;

-

The certainty recover the full ownership of the property after several years.

Proposition 270: Reforming the law on mortgage loans to better
supervise financial operators and protect borrowers.
Excited about the next purchase of their "home", the future owners are sometimes not
as attentive to the conditions of their mortgage. Whatever the formula adopted, it is
imperative not to get "caught" by the displayed call rates and take good
knowledge of the percentage rate.
The CDH offers:
-

Prohibit the preferential-rate bond / insurance remaining due.

Most credit grantors mortgages require that the lessee subscribes
also home fire insurance and outstanding balance insurance. It is most advantageous to
be satisfied with a loan a little bit more with his financial institution and subscribe
Besides an outstanding balance insurance much cheaper.
-

Cap the loan redemption fees. The CDH proposes to ban record of closing costs,
make the free release and cap the reinvestment allowance.

-

Improving borrowers against loss of income for professional reasons.

We want to create a solidarity fund financed by financial operators, borrowers
and public authorities. This fund will allow borrowers who lose their jobs can
benefit from a reduced rate bridging loan of a maximum of 12 months, the time for
person to find a job without having to sell his house.

231

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Proposition 271: Double the number of housing AIS
In Brussels, there are currently 3,000 rental accommodation by housing agencies
social (AIS). This number rises to 3.5003 in Wallonia.
The AIS system is to rent out property belonging to
private owners, to households with limited incomes. The lessor agrees to owner
set the rent slightly below the market price. Tenants receive optionally a
financial assistance that covers part of the rent to pay. The rental is managed by the AIS. The advantage of
this system is that it is less expensive for governments that housing construction
social.
We want to double the number of rental accommodation by AIS, Brussels and
Wallonia.
The CDH offers:
-

AIS refinance the sector, based on its needs and the growing number of
owners and landlords who use their services.

-

Generalize and sustain all AIS, homeowners insurance against the "loss
rents "and" rental damage. "

-

Grant a reduction of inheritance tax where the property is leased
in a social housing agency for a minimum of 12 years.

-

Expand the mechanism of rent allowance for limited-income households who rent
Private accommodation in linking the granting of the allowance in respect of a reference grid and
granting the landlord insurance loss of rent and rental damages provided for under the ISA.

-

Encourage public authorities to give housing to AIS.

-

Support public-private partnerships by creating a support cell for local authorities to
within regional agencies of territorial development.

Proposition 272: To benefit the middle classes of the various aids
Housing
The issue of access to housing for middle class so arises more and more increased.
Do they not somehow "big forgotten" housing policies? Not
rich enough to be able to become owners of a habitat suited to the needs, especially
that banks now require a significant capital contribution, which often income
means lack. But not in a social emergency that would allow them
become priority in access to social housing.
The CDH proposes to create 40,000 housing means in 10 years, in Wallonia and Brussels
-

Support innovative initiatives dismemberment of the property and housing
participatory (Community Land Trust, housing cooperatives, ...).

-

Build housing resources through regional development agencies
territorial resold affordable, funded by private savings.

-

Raised ceilings income and market value of the property to obtain a social credit.

3

Figure of 2013.

232

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
-

Imposing building charges to private developers for the construction of a minimum of
average home in their project.

-

Raise the income limit of the definition of the average income in order to enjoy the class
average "low" AIS and some public housing.

-

Allow SLSP (public service Housing Corporation) to better diversify their park
housing to balance their financial accounts, and enable them to reinvest in
renovation and affordable housing, as some local utilities and
provincial.

-

Expand the mechanism of rent allowance for limited-income households who rent
Private accommodation if the rent does not exceed a limit set by a reference grid (proposal
259 and continue the development of the rent allowance in Brussels.

-

Provide middle-income households or restricted the possibility of becoming owner of a
social housing by enabling municipalities to create homes for sale in
affordable, within the multiannual programs of housing construction
public. A formula lease may also be implemented. The product of
sales will be used to renovate or build more social housing.

Proposition 273: Place the "active and participatory social housing"
There are approximately 100,000 social housing in Wallonia and 40,000 in Brussels. Yet they are
respectively 35,000 and 40,000 persons to be entered on a waiting list for housing
Social Wallonia and Brussels. These numbers show how many households arrive
more to cope with rising housing costs.
For CDH, it is important to continue efforts with regard to access to housing, including
continue to improve and build new social housing. Meanwhile, the operation of the
Social housing must be improved.
The CDH proposes to make social housing more active and participatory:
-

Improve mutations, the move to public housing to another housing
social, including the introduction of a surcharge for tenants who under-occupy
while another housing suitable accommodation proposed to them, to free housing
under-occupied for the benefit of families with children and the elderly or disabled. This
surcharge will enable housing companies to create other social housing.

-

Optimize the park occupation, and allow families with children to stay
transiently in a smaller social housing, but empty.

-

Reforming the calculation of rents and charges to better reflect the level of comfort
housing, its energy performance and tenants income.

-

Making effective systematic consideration of movable heritage of candidates
the conditions for the grant of a social rent. .

-

Better control and punish abuses in the head tenants (debits
fictional, crime, disturbing the peace, crime, welfare fraud, deteriorating housing,
moonlighting ...), strengthening collaboration with community policing and service
municipal population and by establishing a housing removed automatically when it is not
not busy.

-

Strengthen tenant involvement in the management of their environment by encouraging
Existing citizens' initiatives and ensure that they are independent of government.

233

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
-

Successful social mix, continuing to monitor the allocation of housing and diversifying
housing supply within the public housing companies (, intergenerational housing,
Average housing, student housing ...) and favoring the construction of social housing
scattered in existing housing in the municipality. "Neighborhood mediators" will be loaded
prevent neighborhood conflicts. It also needs to be a policy
intelligent distribution of social tenants that takes into account the configuration of
building / neighborhood (anticipating problems of noise) to maximize the chances
good cohabitation.

-

To evaluate and improve the Plan HP (Habitat Permanent) Wallonia: to allow those
living in makeshift housing (caravan, bungalow, cabin ...) to be able to resettle in
affordable housing and reintegrate into society and the socio-professional world.

-

Better control the allocation of housing by the CPAS (award committee and dot grid).

-

Facilitate the implementation of Article 132 of the Walloon Housing Code (provision for rental
by a housing corporation to a public authority or EFT / OISP) including through the
calculating a profit rent for a housing quota held by public authorities on
the communal territory.

-

Create joint venture companies serving the public authorities to develop
major construction projects.

Proposition 274: Create a home-pass to improve transparency
real estate and rental markets.
With the exception of the EPB (Energy performance certificate of the building), candidates
owners or tenants do not always have all the information needed to assess the
quality of housing. In this connection, to develop a real transversal policy practiced by
all federal and federated authorities, creating a real home-pass
is required. You need a single computer coding for the entire territory (ILL allowed
planning, cadastral income, personal income tax, VAT control over work status
Civil / population / housing, etc.) to have a clear vision (tool for quality habitat).
Meanwhile, some owners feel no qualms about asking their tenants
rents exaggerated in relation to the quality of the proposed housing.
The CDH offers:
-

Create a "home-pass" a kind of real SIS card, through the creation of a
central bank and computerized crossroads of all data relating to goods
Real (PEB certificate, cadastral income, urban planning, population, bonus opportunities, status
mortgage, etc.), transverse to the federal, state and local.
This "home-pass" would be annexed to every announcement of sale or rental and would feed a
general cadastre housing, in compliance with regulations on the protection of
private life.

-

Introduce Reference grid: it is proposed to be established as a reference grid
considers the housing equipment, its size, its energy signature. This
grid will be an informative function. Its purpose is not to impose rent ceilings
landlords, but to encourage them to set a reasonable rent. AIDS
public housing, renovation and insulation will be subject to compliance by the
applicant or potential beneficiary compliance with this reference grid.

-

The lead connections are removed by water suppliers to ensure content
Lead meets European quality standards for drinking water. For this issue

234

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
health is fully raised, the indoor facilities of water must be, too,
replaced. It is proposed to assist individuals to carry out an audit of their facilities
inland water. This could lead to a true health passport for houses
buildings that also incorporate PEB certificate, a check of the sewer connection, the
radon, lead in water pipes and other sources of indoor pollution.
-

Create a "top-kot label" in the same spirit as the home-pass, it will take into account
criteria as quality than price, but also the more specific criteria related to kots; esta- say that the lease time, contract type, number of housemates ...

235

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Action 2. Being able to live throughout his life in a habitat suited to its
health, professional and family situation
The evolution of the labor market, the cycle of life, our health and our age or
certain family events (death, divorce, births ...) make the housing in which we
live may one day become unsuitable for our needs. It then becomes necessary to adapt or expand
housing, or relocate.
For CDH, it is essential that throughout his life, each person can adapt its
home or move to live in a more suitable housing.

Proposition 275: Establish the portability of registration duties for
Relocate toll
Residential mobility is an essential element of territorial dynamism. It allows to allocate
each nuclear family a home that best meet their needs. Yet rights
of high registration and lack of portability are that this mobility is not
sufficiently encouraged by the Brussels and Walloon tax policy.
The CDH offers to those who own their own unique housing benefit
portability of registration fees (100% of registration fees in the first 10
years and 50% thereafter for the principal residence).

276 flagship proposal: Borrow at 0 and benefit from premiums
adapt its housing to age or disability: up to "quali-pack"
During life, old age, illness or accident can profoundly change our
habits. Disability can gradually make our troubled lives in accommodation
we chose and we liked so much. Some people may be forced to have to leave
their homes to find another one for their needs.
Landlords are "encouraged" to adapt their housing to people
elderly and disabled. However, some adjustments are necessary to "stick" to
lives of these people: access to external lighting control, passing traffic,
health, cooking, etc. Coatings, electronic accessories, suitable for small items
disability and age and should be reviewed.
For these reasons, we want to create a quali-pack, like eco-pack. Eco-pack was launched
by the Walloon Government to enable households to benefit both from a loan rate
zero and bonuses in order to achieve energy-saving work. It is therefore investing
today to save energy costs tomorrow. Similarly, we want
Quali-pack establish a plan to invest today in the adaptation of housing to a situation
dependency or disability, to avoid higher expenses related to tomorrow
the stress the person institutionalization.
The CDH offers:
-

Create a quali-pack which contains the same principles as eco-pack but that targets
facilities and the acquisition of necessary equipment to enable people
disabled and elderly to continue to live at home. There also should be a
neutralization of facilities work on the cadastral income.

236

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
-

Review the construction standards in partnership with the industry to make new
systematically adaptable dwellings, and have them adopted at European level.

-

Launch awareness campaigns and training to the construction industry,
individual and architecture schools.

Proposition 277: Create a large network of housing associations
Intergenerational
In Belgium, few options exist intermediaries between buying or renting a home.
Many young people do not have sufficient means to become fully owners and are
therefore forced to turn to renting. However, rents are often paid to the lessor
important and prevent young people from saving. We must therefore create a system that allows
Youth affordable rent, to save and to have the opportunity one day no longer have to pay
its housing at the time of the pension, for example.
The vagaries of life (professional changes, blended families, illness ...) forced
Also some families to relocate, which can sometimes be complicated and expensive. Do not can one implement a scalable housing stock where occupants can enlarge or reduce
their habitat, according to their needs? This large park should also be established on
multiple sites in Wallonia and Brussels, and to move easily.
Finally, seniors are sometimes faced with a painful choice: continue to live in a habitat
unsuitable, accept life and then give up providing children with their home equity, live
in expensive living facilities, and finally enter into rest home. Why not invent
a new alternative where the elderly have the opportunity to move to suitable accommodation,
in an intergenerational living environment, with home care, with limited cost and capital
preserved property, which will return eventually to the children?
This solution exists and has an almost zero cost to the government. These cooperatives
estate. The occupants of the houses are co-owners of the cooperative and not
directly from their homes. When a person has shares in a cooperative, it
acquires the right to occupy a dwelling owned by the cooperative, upon payment of a
rent whose amount is set based on the number of units held by the person and
housing characteristics. Cooperatives can build housing sets,
even neighborhoods, ensuring priority habitat through, scalable, adaptable, if applicable
modular, energy performance, intergenerational, shared facilities (hall
versatile apartment for visitors ...) and shops and local services.
The CDH proposes to create a network of intergenerational housing associations:
1. With a formula "junior" for young people:
-

have access to quality housing at affordable cost, from the purchase of a first part and
use his savings to gradually acquire additional shares in the cooperative and therefore
to lower his rent;

-

benefit from a scalable and adaptable habitat depending on the life cycle and be able to move
easily to another region (multi-site housing stock).
2. With a "senior" formula for seniors:

-

to buy shares of the cooperative, either in cash or in kind (former housing
inadequate is available to the cooperative will sell it or enhance it).

-

pay a small rent, or even receive a pension, depending on the units held (complement
to the board);
237

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
-

continue to have the 'home' and have an adequate habitat in a living environment
intergenerational, with the possibility of home care;

-

to transmit its shares to children, in case of death.

Action 3. Emphasize a generator habitat linkages and relationships
confidence
Our family structures have undergone a profound change in recent decades. Households
had their size reduced, first with the scarcity of ancient life in common
bringing together several generations under one roof, then with increasing families
lone and isolated.
Today, new forms of communal life begin to emerge. Singles
or households decide to live together without forming an emotional or family unit.
They gather in different forms of shared housing (group, community,
solidarity, intergenerational, "kangaroo").
The motivations of the participants in these new types of living together have
usually a social aspect, bearer of certain values ​​(out of isolation, recreate links,
provide mutual support, including between seniors and young couples and persons
weakened) and / or a financial motivation (essentially, access to more affordable rents).
The CDH shall give priority support to be given to new forms of habitat, when
generating social ties and convey the values ​​of sharing and mutual services.

Proposition 278: Create shared flats for single parents and
isolated, around projects of collective interests
Share living spaces in a roommate offers the possibility to access housing more
great and enjoyable at lower cost, while putting an end to loneliness. This is an opportunity to
facilitate human contacts, to help each other while keeping its autonomy and, perhaps too,
reforming a couple. The financial and human interests converge while increasing quality
of life.
The CDH roommate wants to encourage families by governments when
supporting a project to benefit the community.
-

Create roommate families gathered around a community service project supported
by municipal authorities. A housing allowance will be given to roommates to
approved projects and financial assistance to landlords.

-

The lease, the relations between the landlord and the roommates, will
provide for a solidarity clause: the lessor may demand payment of all
each tenant rents, which protects it against the rent unpaid by one of them.

-

Signing a roommate Pact (relations between flatmates) will be compulsory
specify the allocation of expenses, inventory of collective and personal furnishings,
Maintenance procedures for public areas, a person Home terms
external to the roommate, the rules of life together and without participation in the project ...
forgetting the provisions for replacement of a roommate or dissolution of
flatsharing. Thus, the departure of a roommate will be allowed only on condition that one of
find his replacement.

238

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
The municipalities ensure organize regular days colocation to ensure
advertising sufficient to families and projects roommate, generate interest and promote
meetings between interested parties.

Proposition 279: Rethinking urban standards to an open habitat
creator of links
With the "golden sixties", characterized by a general improvement in living standards and rising
individualism, dreamed habitat often become detached house, surrounded by a garden,
isolated neighbor, in a secure estate. This ideal is reflected in the urban standards
and land use, and consequently in the development of a dispersed habitat
withdrawal.
For CDH, a shift is needed towards a better space management
available and especially habitat that encourages sharing, links between people, conviviality.
The spatial and urban planning policies must focus less habitat
compartmentalised, fostering human contact and spontaneous solidarity.
In this context, the CDH offers:
-

Encourage functionally mixed areas: the presence of shops and services
Nearby accommodations near open about their living environment (interior courtyards spaces
meetings and trade in services within the neighborhood ...).

-

Encourage through habitat, combining the limitation of urban sprawl and management
costs without going through large groups of family housing: space for individuality
residents (garden, terrace, separate entrance), controlled density and building height,
close public spaces for meetings and relaxation, presence of small collective spaces
private areas adjacent to ...

-

Imposing construction of terraced houses in areas with high population density.

-

Encouraging the construction of scalable housing.

-

Plus a grant for reconstruction and renovation of existing buildings.

Proposal flagship 280: Lift the sanctions imposed by the social legislation of
new forms of living together
Understand
The kangaroo housing is a type of intergenerational housing within which the senior or
Senior couple cohabits in full autonomy with a young couple in a dimension
mutual aid and cooperation.
Alternative housing initiatives can encounter various obstacles, often dissuasive:
urbanistic, fiscal, or on housing standards ... So, more social legislation
tax and penalize welfare recipients on the basis of economies of scale meant to be
achieved through community life, without regard to reality or extent of these gains.
Specifically, they become cohabitants see their welfare benefits reduced
substantially. For unemployment benefits, the loss amounts to about 200 to more than 400
euros per month.

239

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
For CDH, it is necessary to gradually end this discrimination and to allow
and support for shared housing, vehicle values, mutual support and solidarity for the benefit not
only participants "co-residents" but also of society as a whole:
tight social ties, recognizing the role of elders ...
CdH proposes to gradually allow sliding of the taxation and protection
social that is neutral with regard to lifestyle choices (see proposition 216).

Proposition 281: Supporting shared housing projects and
intergenerational and create "kangaroo" plots to build a
second housing
Intergenerational housing and habitat kangaroo grow more and more in our
Western societies. It responds to the shortage of affordable housing for young couples and
the urge older people to stay as long as possible in their homes. The idea is
So gather under one roof for youth and seniors can share services
according to their abilities and possibilities.
Different formulas are possible: one or more housing units, private areas and
collective bigger or smaller, home of an elderly within a home or
in an annex built for this purpose, the reception by a person of a young couple on the floor
unoccupied, giving him a supplement to his pension, with or without support
public agencies ...
The CDH offers:
-

Provide for the granting of regional planning premiums (renovation, transformation) to
owners engaged in a shared housing project, the property is rented in whole or
in part.

-

Remove or moderate the increase of 40% of the cadastral income when setting
renting a shared or intergenerational housing and throughout the life of the project.

-

Limit the increase in consecutive cadastral income to development work
made, continues as the shared housing.

-

Addressing the tax benefits related to renovation loans under housing
shared.

-

Continue the adaptation of the regional quality standards processes (security,
safety, livability) shared housing.

-

Ease urban constraints, via the replacement of a planning permit
declaration to the town, during the creation of a housing unit
additional within an existing main dwelling.

-

Making the exemption from obtaining planning permission on condition that the
Temporary housing subdivision remain: the premises must be handed in their
original assignment, that of an individual dwelling for a single household, after a
term fix (10 or 15 years, for example, subject to obtaining a permit
planning in due form).

-

Extend loans granted by Regional Housing Fund outside the family circle,
to encompass intergenerational housing.

-

Provide greater adaptability of the houses according to the different stages of
life from developing the plans.
240

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
-

In contracts district in Brussels, enable and enforce housing projects
intergenerational.

-

Create intergenerational houses date with organizing activities: This is
promote a fulfilling social life for all seniors, with moments of
encounters between young and old.

-

Develop unoccupied public buildings such as former parsonages, offices
housing or schools "kangaroo".

The urban level, the construction of a second near a residential location
Sometimes existing unthinkable. That is why we propose:
-

In the framework of territorial consolidation (see proposal 252), authorize the
processing of non-buildable land in building zones on small surfaces and
provided they are built adjacent to a parcel owned by one owner.

This authorization would be granted only for the construction of a second housing
to form a set of "kangaroo" and limited in time to maintain the character
intergenerational (dwelling unit 'removable').

Proposition 282: Create a charter to give visibility to housing
quality students
A series of student rented dwellings do not meet all the rules laid down
various regulations, in particular because of various constraints. Some
housing instead meet the standards without the student tenant can rest assured.
The CDH therefore proposes:
-

Create a charter of quality student housing, developed at regional level.

-

This charter will include a series of mutual commitments for each part, for example
guarantee rapid intervention of the owner in case of work in exchange for compliance
well via regular maintenance and tranquility roommates and neighbors.

-

It may also contain a quality assurance beyond regional regulations,
for example in terms of acoustic comfort and energy.

-

The different rules and commitments in the Charter shall be attached to the lease agreement, it
providing advertising to the tenant, and an attractive factor for the lessor.

An advertisement friendly housing the charter will be provided by a distributed directory by
University authorities with the students.

Proposition 283: Developing the community social housing
80,000 people are on waiting lists for access to social housing in Brussels
and Wallonia. The construction of community housing would meet
social emergency situations, at lower cost. The community habitat also encourages sharing,
mutual support and openness towards others.
To diversify the supply of social housing within a habitat strengthening social ties, the
CDH offers:
-

Develop the Community social housing, by introducing this type of accommodation from
the supply of social housing companies, today restricted to individual dwellings.

241

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
Community social housing, private areas and involving at least one space
common, would be organized around a shared lease.
It will allow social housing companies to meet the housing needs within more
shorter than for individual housing. This is a property of transit, which does not therefore by
definition of purpose to persist.

Proposition 284: Transform some villages in nursing homes
Intergenerational
With demographic changes and increasing longevity, the number of isolated seniors or
only increases. Among the elderly, social isolation is more common among those residing in
nursing home and soins4.
The quality of life of seniors is a priority for the CDH. We want each person
elderly can benefit from an integrated living environment to life in her neighborhood and her village, to which it
can participate and contribute, a place and feel respected.
But nursing homes are too often closed and disconnected architectural sites
social life, where activities and social contacts are inadequate.
The CDH offers:
-

Provide places to live and care more harmonious and integrated in elderly
residential areas: notably smaller units, where the residence of
Elderly sufficiently autonomous yet is encouraged.

-

Encourage diversity in these areas between the young and elderly, by providing
location of meetings, joint activities.

-

Pay particular attention to the movements of elderly: sidewalks
wide enough to circulate wheelchair accessible taxis services, housing
Bungalow ... Reviving commercial mobile outreach services, which stop near the
home (food), and diversification (hairdressers, ...).

-

Stimulate the integration of cribs in homes, to exchange
intergenerational mutually beneficial: providing attention to children, opening to the
world and decrease feelings of isolation of older people.

-

Make organize the common computer courses - or other - to the attention of
elders. The town can also facilitate trade in services: courses
computer in exchange for childcare.

Proposition 285: Reforming the rental lease to reassure owners and
Tenants
The success of a lease is based on the good relationship between landlord and tenant over compliance
by each of its obligations and balance well sometimes divergent interests. For the
owner, the rental income is often the result of an investment, but also financial
time and energy when it's due to renovations that have embellished his property. For the tenant,

4

"Aging, but not alone. A survey of loneliness and social isolation of the elderly in Belgium, "King Baudouin Foundation,
2012, p. 7.

242

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
it is the expression of a fundamental right to housing, who intends to live in a decent environment and
respectful of all the quality standards, and needed stability.
Conflicts between landlords and tenants, if they can not all be avoided, however, may
be mitigated by a more effective sanction abusive approaches, accelerated
procedures to enforce its rights and clarifications avoiding arbitrary judgments.
The 2007 law on rent guarantees has shown its limits. This law allowed tenants
power up the rental guarantee at once or in installments, with an institution
bank. Evidence shows that banks are reluctant to grant this spreading from
some households that do not have a permanent job, or income
comfortable, which is contrary to the spirit of this reform guarantees. A new system which
pools the risk and offers more security to the lessors and tenants should be established.
How to improve the tools for dealing with unpaid rent?
The CDH offers:
-

Shorten the procedure for recovering unpaid rent to 12 months maximum,
is the term generally covered by insurance "unpaid rent".

-

Create a rental guarantee fund to facilitate the provision of the guarantee and ensure
homeowners against unpaid rents (see proposal 286).

-

Encourage owners to set a reasonable rent based on a grid references
(see proposal 274) and allow tenants a rent allowance (see proposal 272)

286 Lighthouse Proposal: Create a rental guarantee fund
The warranty (3 months) is blocked with a single fund and can be made in installments
(maximum spread 36 months). The rental guarantee is locked to a single fund, this allows
portability: a tenant leaves a property to rent another, it does not advance a
new guarantee when he has not yet recovered the old. The fund stands surety during the
transition period for the amount of the former guarantee. If the new warranty is higher
the old, the tenant must complete this amount (in one or more installments). If it is
lower, it retrieves the difference, when the former provision is released. If some or
all of the rental guarantee is paid to the former landlord (eg rental damage), the
tenant will be the new rental guarantee partially or entirely.
The system allows to spread the payment of the deposit. The tenant, especially one who does
has only a limited income, should therefore no longer advance a large sum of money into a
times. Landlords can also take out insurance covering rents
and unpaid rental damage from the fund at an affordable price. It's a risk pooling
which can also benefit tenants by reassuring the owner about the risk profile
tenant. By acting more effectively on unpaid, evictions are also reduced.
The Fund will also be powered by a fraction of the interest generated by the guarantees.
It will also have a mission to fight against abusive detention deposit: Sometimes
Unscrupulous owners practice an unjustified guarantee retention. A sanction
dissuasive such tampering should be provided in case of discrepancy between the inventory
input and the state of fixtures when the warranty is not returned to the tenant within
one month.

243

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
The CDH proposes to establish a rental guarantee fund:
-

The tenant can spread the establishment of the guarantee over several months.

-

The portability of the rental guarantee is established (the blocked guarantee for old housing
can serve as collateral for the new housing).

-

The owner has an unpaid rent and rental damage insurance.

244

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Chapter 3. Better move
Mobility and ability to move are the starting points of human, social,
economic and professional. In a society constantly requiring more speed, take
time and control the choices have become rare. Human development is part of a
reclaiming our territories, to improve usability, to allow each
manage his time and his mobility, so chosen and not coercion, respecting space
and the other.
To move us, we use a lot the car. We go to work, véhiculons children,
do our shopping etc. If it is necessary in a number of cases it is not in
others. There are other ways. Mastering your time and choose the mode of travel
appropriate rather than be forced, as are proposals for development
human, resolutely focused on the development and quality of life.
Mobility around Brussels must debate between the three regions. This is clearly the subject
including Metropolitan Community, implemented by the last reform of the state, must seize.
Solutions for Mobility in and around Brussels will find that reflective
globally between 3 Regions. Parking persuasion / deterrence, RER, subway outside Brussels,
tram lines and suburban transregional, carpooling, ...: all tools to policy
bottlenecking that have meaning only in a cross-regional vision of Mobility ...

Action 1. Reduce our travel needs
Belgium has the highest number of "commuters", that is to say persons working
in another region than that of their home. Many citizens "lose" some
so quality time in their daily movements. 66% of Belgian workers
use the car as their main mode of transport to get to their workplace, and
during the same slices-hours (7h-9h and 16h-19h). The consequences are easy to imagine:
traffic jams, traffic congestion ... The commuting, coupled with a
Poor traffic flow or a lack of punctuality of public transport, affect our
quality of life, for hours "extra" spent in car, train or bus, can only
be used to see his children in the morning, look for school at night to rest, achieve
sports, cultural and associative ...
For CDH, talk about mobility, it is therefore also consider measures that reduce our
travel needs.
Did you know that the Belgian spends on average three times as long to move as to address
children 5?

5

Glorious, I. & J. Minnen (2008), www.time-use.be

245

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

287 Lighthouse Proposal: Stimulate teleworking to reduce needs
mobility
In Belgium, one in five works, partly or exclusively, from his home in
through its main job. It was ten years ago, it covered only 13% of workers. Except
independent, that their status allows to choose the workplace they want (60% work
home), the proportion of teleworkers among workers highly dependent on the function
exercée6.
Teleworking has many benefits for both workers and employers for
government: A travel time savings; A better combination privacy / life
Work by a more independent time management to the worker; Lower expenses
offices or parking and travel allowances; The attractiveness of the company for
less mobile workers or who live far from their workplaces, more motivated workers;
lesser transport investment for society; a reduction in pollution.
For all these reasons, telework should be encouraged.
Teleworking exists in different forms. Besides working at home in another place chosen by
the employee - for example, shared offices - there teleworking in the decentralized offices
'satellites' of the company situated near the home of the worker or the nomadic telework
Mobile, close to transport areas ... This diversity is necessary to meet the
Application flexibility of both workers and employers.
However, the promotion of telework must be considered taking into account the importance
"Socialistic" and human journey that is also a place to meet with colleagues or
other commuters. It should not give rise to a feeling of isolation. To work from home
also means to have a place dedicated exclusively to work, in order to establish a
boundary between work life and private life. Telecommuting can in shared offices
address these concerns.
We offer:
-

Access media materials and compensation expenses related to telework.

-

Condition the use of teleworking at the disposal of the material by the teleworker
necessary media (laptop, webcam, Internet access, ...).

-

Establish a mandatory flat-rate compensation for the professional use of worker
of its own multimedia tools in proportion to the days of telecommuting. This is in line with the
principle compulsory intervention of the employer in equipment and costs inherent in
télétravail7.

-

Streamline and coordinate the (para-) Tax provision facilities
IT and intervention of the employer in the use of these facilities.

-

Introduce mandatory principle of intervention of the employer in user fees
shared offices. The teleworker provides only working tool (offices
usually equipped) and pays the access to the office.

-

Sign in regulating a mandatory minimum fee package. When telework
is performed at the request of the employer, such a package will cover the costs generated by

6
29% of managers and entrepreneurs sometimes telecommute. The intellectual, scientific and artistic professions see 23%
their members to work occasionally from home.
7
Mandatory action under the Collective Labour Agreement No. 85, introduced in 2006 under the European impulse. These rules
Telework brought out some hiding giving it a legal status and establishing essential principles of
working conditions, training, career development, collective rights, health and safety, etc. A large room for maneuver
however left to the parties to the contract and the social partners in the concrete rules for the implementation of these principles.

246

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
professional home use: electricity, heating, water consumption / gas,
depreciation of furniture, office supplies.
-

Leave a regulatory status occasional teleworking.

-

Increase the deductibility of telecommuting costs for employers.

-

Adapt mandatory transit benefits to teleworking.

-

Create a coworking space by town by 2018.

-

Protect the teleworker at its full time reintegration into the company premises

-

Financially encourage the establishment of satellite offices in places
strategic.

-

Provide tax benefits or premiums to businesses that create satellite offices in
former business premises or vacant dwellings, and in rural areas, in a
Optical support intelligent mobility policy and a role revitalization and
attractiveness of certain territories.

Proposition 288: Allow workers to adjust their schedules
One solution to avoid gridlock is to think about the thinning
traffic. To improve traffic flow, should be so that half of the employees are bound by their contract
work to work fixed hours will be more or at least may organize
work day starts and purposes so as to no longer spend hours (during which they
are not productive professionally) in traffic.
Legalization of the modulation of working time entered into the contract of employment would have
The direct positive effect on the regulation of traffic and also on the quality of life
worker who, in agreement with his employer, would be organized optimally level
commuting.
The CDH offers:
-

Allow workers whose purpose allows, you can arrange their schedules
more flexibly, in consultation with their employer: eg 4 working days
9am week and have a 3-day weekend, arrive earlier and leave earlier,
arrive later and leave later ...

-

Develop service infrastructure just outside activity centers and poles
intermodal transport.

-

Develop commercial areas and services within the stations ... These areas to avoid
commuters have to travel further for example, do their shopping, go to
post / bank, or even drop their children at nursery.

-

Develop and encourage local shops.

247

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Action 2. Streamline our roads
Belgium is a country of commuters, whose capital, Brussels, is considered one of
the most congested cities in the world.8 A commuter traveling to Brussels (or large
Walloon city including city centers are also congested in rush hours) by car loses
one hour each day in traffic jams. This time lost in traffic jams is to
expense of family time (driving or go pick up the kids at school, prepare
meals). By cons, it increases stress and fatigue. Everything diminishes quality
life of the driver and his inner circle.
A sustainable solution for mobility can only be considered as part of an overall reflection,
taking into account all modes of transport and all the related problems, all part
a space and a determined public management.

289 Lighthouse Proposal: Create RECO: Express Carpooling Network
A smarter use of cars can help to relieve traffic congestion and reduce
CO² emissions. Carpooling allows maximum use of existing resources
significantly reducing congestion with moderate investments.
Did you know that 4 of 5 vehicles represent only the driver on board at rush hour and that
suffice to convince only one of these four autosolistes to disappear traffic?
To encourage the practice of carpooling, we must act on four dimensions: psychological
(secure and reassure users), economic (strengthening the comparative advantage of carpool
financial terms of time savings, stress reduction, etc.), practice (actually facilitate
practice of carpooling) and cultural (build awareness of carpooling and favorable opinion
respect).
To do this, need to act gradually and in phases, in order to create a real-Express Network
carpooling (RECO).
-

First phase: structuring the traditional carpooling via the establishment of a platform
carpool computer. This unique database would aim to manage the supply and
travel demand in real time. There should also be an on-line payment
basis of a fixed contribution odometer; favorable tax treatment to all employees and
independent; the proliferation of secure carpool stations to road inputs
strategic and implementation of a large campaign to promote and raise awareness.

-

Second phase reinvent carpooling creating the first lines. These lines
Carpooling is a part of the boarding stations upstream sections bottled,
the other bands High Occupancy Vehicle these sections. A
Guaranteed return system will also be developed. The lines will be tested via projetspilotes.

-

Third phase: finalize and perpetuate the RECO, that is to say reinforce the above and run
an advertising campaign.

Finally, organized hitchhiking is a good complement to carpooling. It allows people, especially
those living in rural areas without having a car, or young people living in the city,
to wait at a particular stop, passing a driver. Drivers and passengers should
register with an operator-manager, through a traceability system for the sake of

8

scorecard.inrix.com & www.tomtom.com/congestionindex

248

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
security and have a membership card, especially after checking the criminal record,
which helps secure the service.
The CDH offers:
-

Create RECO (Express Carpooling Network) in Brussels and Wallonia, either:

-

Create "lines carpool" with express boarding stations along
highways, easily accessible and located just before the traffic jams, strips of highways
High Occupancy vehicles where traffic is saturated, and finally stops near
metro stations, tram or bus, in the office districts and inputs
zonings of economic activity.

-

Ensure the return to the express boarding station, if necessary via a service
jitney or taxi.

-

Create many small car parks on the edge of the highway entrances.

-

Establish a unique and dynamic IT platform to facilitate meetings
among commuters.

-

Enabling citizens to better tax deduction for trips made
carpooling.

-

Carry out awareness campaigns and large-scale promotion.

-

Encourage the development of car sharing in the city

290 Lighthouse Proposal: Create flexi-mob map 'for more flexible supply
mobility in pay packages
Faced with the tax and social charges on particularly high salary in Belgium,
Many employers offer company cars to employees employed even when
professional use is limited or nonexistent. These "cars-wage" represent about
6% of cars in circulation and 35% to 40% of new vehicles registered per year are in the name
a society. Company cars in circulation in 2012 and held by employees amounted
nearly 360,000 unités9.
Recipients of a company car substantiel10 receive a financial benefit if their
benefit was converted to salary level of taxation would be significantly higher. However, if they
wish to take another mode of transport from time to time, they usually need the
personnels11 finance their funds. The significance of the benefit granted and the lack of
flexibility in the use of it does not encourage workers to use another mode of transportation
the car. They are therefore in some way forced to accept the conditions
usually imposed by the employer (model or price range, lease period, mileage,
fuel).
Flexibility in the choice of transport will benefit employees, employers (which will
more attractive) and society as a whole if there are fewer cars on the roads.

9

J. Christiaens, F. De Witte, R. Vanderbeuren, "Eindrapport Mobiliteitsbudget werkt! "Ed. Danny Jacobs, March 2013, p. 11.
http://www.mobimix.be/thema/mobiliteitsbudget
10

The tax they pay for its use not only covers travel between home and the workplace, but also any
other purely private visit. It does not depend on distance traveled. And fuel card finance these trips without
generate additional tax.
11
89% of workers are entitled to a company car are not seen repay other means of transport, according to SD Worx,
"Fleet & Mobiliy Survey - Trends in Mobility", 2012.

249

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
For us, we must respond to this demand. With a budget, the worker may:
-

choose the modes of transport that will borrow according to their own needs;

-

change at any time mode of transport, depending for example trafficking,
weather;

-

combine several transport for the same journey.

This choice may be made without it financially lost compared to the exclusive use of the
company car.
Moreover, the budget will also offer alternatives beyond mobility, such as
participation in housing costs (especially for a reconciliation to the workplace). In
Indeed, rather than granting tax benefits that grow with the distance between the place of
home and workplace, the CDH also considers it necessary to promote those
choose to live near their workplace. Local services (service vouchers)
or day care expenses should also be included in this budget.
Finally, the budget will be proposed by employers without generating administrative costs
and punitive organization. Indeed, only 3% of companies currently offer a budget
mobility, according to a survey of SD Worx, as 86% fear supplémentaires12 costs.
That is why we launched the map "Flexi-Mob". It's about
-

In fiscal envelope determined annually. This envelope corresponds to the advantage (gain) in
Tax received by a user of an average company car compared to the payment of a
salary (taxed at 50%). This reserve will be available to any worker, whether or not
car société13. It will help reduce the inequality between the beneficiaries of Car
society and those who do not have them.

-

The offer will be at the discretion of the employer, as the various benefits
or not to grant and which fall within the application of this card.

-

The worker can freely choose the benefits it wishes to receive within the
value of the card.

The holder of a company car may by a more rational use of the car or
the best adapted to their needs, increase reserves at its disposal for other choices. He may
and choose a cheaper model, abandon the fuel card, or opt for ceiling
km lower.
Tax fairness between different transport modes is provided for different uses
map: the combined use of several modes of transport is totally exempt from tax.
The CDH offers:
-

12
13

Establish a flexible legislative framework allowing workers to choose themselves or
different modes of transport they wish to borrow: public transport,
shared bicycles, carpooling. They can combine different transport according to their needs
daily, 'à la carte': company car, buy tickets, a subscription or
payment of travel expenses. The benefit of the tax benefit should also be extended
to allow the worker to benefit from securities services in the pay package offered by
the employer.

Op. Cit., Pp. 34-35.
The imposition of the company car remains unchanged.

250

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
-

Give a moving allowance to be used during the year or over two years when the
Moving is work-related, or a housing allowance: for the payment of rents,
loan repayments, or renovations.

Proposition 291: Regulate the delivery of goods within the centers
Urban
In Belgium, the vast majority of goods (Belgian and foreign) are transported by
trucks (72% 14). Goods transported by rail and water respectively 8%
and 19.7% of total transport.
The towns and cities are regularly congested because of trucks and
trucks parked two abreast to make their deliveries. The amenities on the road
are rarely sufficient in city centers to allow such operations.
New technologies have an important role to play in regulating road traffic. By means of
informational signs along roadways or on top thereof, traffic bands will
a different function depending on the time and day.
The CDH offers:
-

Book a band exclusively to deliveries of heavy (large goods
size) within urban centers for a few hours early (by 7:30 up
example) to then be devoted, like the rest of the tracks, the road traffic
peak hours. Apart from these, dedicate a parking strip or circulation
transit or motorbikes.

-

Adapting roads to mobility needs and to different types of transport, while
based on hours and days, the traffic flow would be guaranteed for consideration.

-

Encourage the transport of goods by river and rail routes: via development
inland waterway (dredging, amenities surroundings) to facilitate the movement
Boat cargo, cargo transport can save time, energy and
capacity compared to road transport.

-

Ensuring adequate infrastructure for such transportation.

-

The political part of an intermodal freight transport (also with
railway poles) that does not stop at the borders of Belgium.

-

In Brussels, waste collection schedules will be developed to decongest traffic
road at rush hour.

Proposition 292: Developing the transport of goods by road
Train
Development and economic growth in Belgium, especially Wallonia, have
been possible because significant logistics investments have been made to develop
a structured, efficient and dense network of terrestrial communications, railway
and waterways. And its geographical position in the heart of one of the European regions
industrialized world can be exploited optimally.

14

http://statbel.fgov.be/fr/statistiques/chiffres/circulation_et_transport/transport/

251

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
This policy must be continued because Belgium can not lose the benefits in terms
jobs that provide all modern logistics.
It is obvious that these logistical activities can be exercised only if communication networks
are maintained, developed and made more efficient.
Specifically, the support 4 cdH railways which should receive attention throughout
particular:
-

Position Belgium as a central link in European freight corridors.
This implies a high level for concerted political action that Belgium is this passage
forced all goods. The CDH has contributed to what Belgium is part
Integral to these European roads, we must continue to be "on the map".

-

Intensify multimodal and in particular the multimodal Liège that has all the tools
(airport, Trilogiport motorway network, sedges ...).
Efforts are still needed for the high-speed freight (on the TGV line) becomes
the modern transport tool in addition to the airline

-

Maintain support for transport of goods by containers (combined traffic) or
carload (diffuse traffic) Without them, industrial lose economic opportunities.

-

Maintain goods railway undertaking with a strong Belgian anchoring.
The liberalization of goods transport and the decline in economic activity due to the crisis
World put the "freight" subsidiary of SNCB in a difficult economic situation bringing
its management bodies to seek new industrial partners. A country such as
Belgium can not accept however that the choice of goods transport
be made according to foreign interests denying our national reality. The CDH will be there
particularly attentive.

The CDH also intends to support the sector batelerie that has been in recent years under
an untenable pricing pressure. This sector is experiencing unprecedented crisis, it is essential that
the file submitted to the European level to recognize the specificities of this sector is
continued to guarantee him a decent profitability.
Finally, the national road transport sector must remain competitive and the fight against
unfair competition must be strengthened to avoid relocation.

Proposition 293: Doubling the length of roads suitable for pedestrians,
cyclists and motorized two-wheelers
Did you know that if a three Belgians on average runs at least once a week by bike, this
represents a ten Walloon and Brussels month a week?
The Walloon cycling network is over 1,700 kilomètres15 which will add more than 1,300
km of green roads (Ravel network) 16.
Absolute priority must be given to the safety of road users, and particularly to
vulnerable road users. By arranging the roadsides and creating a space for cyclists
separate from that reserved for pedestrians, it increases the safety and optimal road sharing.
The CDH offers:

15
16

http://routes.wallonie.be/struct.jsp?chap=0&page=2
http://ravel.wallonie.be/opencms/opencms/fr/cles/historique/histore1a.html#essor

252

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
-

Improve road markings (the quality of materials) and signage
all of the existing road network. Investment, inexpensive, improves the
safety of vulnerable road users.

-

Embed in each new road project (renovation or construction) size
pedestrian and cyclist, and also take account of PTW.

-

Allow two-wheeler to use the lanes for public transport to
move.

-

Invite each school to identify routes for children and high-risk areas and prioritize
the work necessary to organize safe trips.

-

Requiring municipalities and regions to finance priority areas defined by the schools
(walkway, bike path, sidewalk, crosswalk ...).

-

Support initiatives that promote the shared bike and initiate a shared bicycle network
Power (in Brussels or Liege for example).

-

Strengthen advocacy campaigns and awareness-motorized traffic.

-

Ensure good complementarity between cycling and public transport, strengthening
parking spaces for motorbikes near stations and stopping points.

-

Install box bicycles and parking spaces for motorbikes near homes that
integrate infrastructure and the environment.

-

Multiply the transformation of disused railway lines in Ravel walks,
accompanied by signage indicating the nearby routes and their mileages
and estimated journey time.

-

Establish a ten-year plan of cycle paths with targets in kilometers.

Proposition 294: Ensuring seamless mobility at the crossroads of three regions
Did you know that traveling by public transport Wemmel La Hulpe requires the purchase of three
different transport tickets?
Public transport is organized by region. Unfortunately, the links between the regions
are not yet sufficiently established. Thus, for the residents of the periphery, which therefore lie
crossroad of three regions, find themselves facing difficulties in travel, see
weak existing connections.
The CDH offers:
-

negotiate between the three regions the development of a single subscription for all means
transport (see proposal 281) in the territory of the Metropolitan Community and
a coordination of different transport-level schedules and correspondence;

-

finalize, as soon as possible, the RER construction connecting the Walloon Brabant in Brussels
(see proposal 278);

-

extend the subway beyond the borders of the Brussels region and build parking
deterrence near the terminus stations (see proposal 281);

-

curb the expansion of the ring, which would only increase the Brussels traffic without making
no cure, and favor a coordinated management;

-

ensure joint management of channels to facilitate flow but also boats
prevent flooding.

253

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Action 3. Encourage the use of public transport
To reduce the number of vehicles on our roads, especially during peak hours, citizens
must rely on a sufficient supply of public transport, quality and adapted to
needs of the greatest number. Human development will promote the sharing of resources.
Regulate movement by making them more collective and organized, will improve traffic flow,
and therefore better move.
Our political project includes priorities such as maintaining small stations
Rural rail, improving the quality of public transport, and the rapid opening
a railway RER around Brussels.

Proposition 295: Beat the RER to 2019 and create the REB (Network
Express Brussels)
For commuters Brussels and devices to the Brussels Region, the RER will allow
greater supply to and from Brussels with more frequent sailings. Currently scheduled for
2021, in the 2013-2025 multi-year investment plan of the SNCB, it is completely possible that this
time is still extended. This site, created over twenty years, must lead and sign up
in a bid to common intermodal transport for commuters.
Did you know that the CDH was the only party to oppose the draft investment plan SNCB
Referring RER 2025?
Going further and to offer an RSP axis finalized to Wallonia, incite complete the work on the
Ottignies line (161), that of Braine-le-Comte (96) and then finish the line to Nivelles (124).
Alongside the development of the RER, intra-Brussels rail network (28 stations) must be
strengthened and promoted, so as to constitute a credible alternative to the STIB network, the better
distribute the traffic flow, especially during peak hours.
The advantages of the RER are numerous: firstly, it will offer a greater frequency of inputs and
rail outputs from the periphery into and out of Brussels. On the other hand, it will serve ads
stations (also at regular frequencies) enabling commuters but also to
Brussels, to borrow a parallel network STIB network, thus avoiding congested metros and buses
stuck in traffic.
In this case, the CDH is not available, it requires that:
-

SNCB respect its commitments on time implementation of the RER, as part of its
investment plan;

-

the opening of all RER lines to be advanced to 2019, when new ways
budget emerge by then;

-

SNCB lines 26 and 28 are not currently used in the Brussels Region are connected
to create a completely circular BWR complementary to RER and STIB network;

-

28 stations located in the Brussels Region are refurbished, secure and served by the
BWR order to achieve little covered by the STIB network areas;

-

communication and appropriate signage be provided to inform commuters
Intra-Brussels rail stops and connections / existing schedules for combining
the different modes of transport;

-

SNCB provides in its plan a priority not only for mobility but commuters
also for that of Brussels within the Region;

254

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
-

establish a free minibus service to the center of Brussels in partnership with
municipalities concerned and the STIB.

Proposition 296: Implementing the Liegeois Express Network (REL)
The REL (Liège express network) aims to link major centers of life Province
Liège and surrounding towns in the center of Liege. The project arose from the observation infrastructure
existing rail offers an under-exploited potential of urban and suburban service. Cork
Yet polarizes a large number of trips of this nature. So there is a clientele
applicant for a minimum investment.
In a PWS feasibility study, the project aims stations Waremme, Tongeren, Maastricht,
Eupen, Spa, Aywaille, Bomal and Statte. There is talk of a line serving the Geer Valley (Vise,
Maastricht via Liège-Vennes and Cheratte), a Liege-Huy axis via Flémalle, Seraing and Ougrée or
the old line 125A, but also an axis Liege-Verviers (via Chaudfontaine) and Liège-Tongeren (via
Cork and cork-Vivegnis-Coronmeuse). The objective is to obtain a frequency of two trains per hour,
notably through the implementation on track "lights trains."
Wallonia has planned a budget of EUR 25 million to launch the project in the Plan
2013-2025 multi-year railway investment. This envelope should allow to build
or enlarge relay car parks at stations Milmort, Ans, Cheratte, Seraing and Angleur and
develop eight new breakpoints (Chaudfontaine, Flemalle Centre, Seraing, Ougrée, LiègeVennes, Vivegnis-Liège, Liège-Coronmeuse and Cheratte). They will optimize the connections
between the rail network and the TEC. An integrated tariff "train and bus" in the Liège conurbation
is also under consideration for 2015.
The CDH offers:
-

Develop an integrated Liege express network, operational in 2020.

Proposal flagship 297: Exceeding 80% of satisfied commuters SNCB
SNCB currently has more than 600,000 subscribers. SNCB, as a public service, must
to offer a high quality rail service to the user, as to the security level of the
punctuality and comfort. After the disaster in Buizingen, investments for safety
Belgian rail were decided (intelligent braking systems, new infrastructure in accordance
with European legislation). About 5 billion will be spent for the 20132025 period.
In addition to rail safety, the main challenges SNCB for the coming years are
directly related to its public service status, to provide quality service to traveler,
punctuality, cleanliness and information. But for years, the popularity of the
SNCB and the satisfaction of its users are not rosy. Only 48.4% of frequent travelers
(73.4% and occasional travelers) are satisfied with its fonctionnement17. In 2012, only 85.6%
trains were to heure18.
In summary, for CDH, SNCB must pursue three main objectives. Prime rest security
Rail, for passengers and for the SNCB staff on trains and around
docks and stations. Second Objective: reassure the public service mission of SNCB at all
levels (punctuality, comfort in trains and around, information, accessibility, etc.). Third

17
18

2012 satisfaction survey, Time to B.
That is to say 85.6% of trains are less than 6 minutes late.

255

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
objective: keep the rail network as it is, with a focus on
preservation of lines C (located in rural areas). It is important that all passengers can
have rail connections regardless of the region they come from.
The CDH offers:
-

maintain and possibly reopening of small stations in rural areas, complementing the
territorial consolidation (see proposal 252) and the creation of human neighborhoods
rural areas and in Brussels (see proposal 251);

-

reinvestment in rolling stock and safety, to improve passenger comfort and
safety and punctuality and regularity of trains;

-

secure docks and around the stations by means of suitable barriers and signage,
allowing in particular for persons with reduced mobility to travel safely and
ease;

-

linking executive compensation SNCB and Infrabel the results in terms of
quality and user satisfaction;

-

inform travelers optimally schedules, delays and incidents through
smart panels at the edge of the docks and in the halls, integrating all public transport
nearby public (including TEC and STIB), combined with real-time information via
smartphone application and website;

-

strengthening coordination and intermodality between different transport networks
Common (SNCB, STIB, TEC and De Lijn). The user will be additional networks at its
provision covering all the territory and provisions and facilitated connections with
neighboring countries. This coordination will increase by wealthy connections between
various transport, common docks to switch between transport
the other without unnecessary travel and optimum information.

-

Ensure, without breakpoints counters, pay their tickets via terminals
electronic, or a defined computer system (via SMS, for example);

-

ensure the presence of compartments in trains "business" allowing
Commuters to work during their journey under optimum conditions (Internet access,
large shelves, ergonomics). The time devoted to telework during the journey may
count as working time full;

-

improve the quality of services at branches, through a queue management more
dynamic;

-

develop commercial areas and services within the stations, in order to monetize
Maximum time spent in lobbies and train stations: coworking areas to work, administrative pointsservices (post office, banks, town), shopping, etc. ;

-

enhance the frequency of trains.

256

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Proposition 298: Establish a management contract in the Public-Private TEC
The TEC must be a reliable service able to meet demand efficiently and
permanent. To find sustainable solutions without straining public budgets, partnerships
Public-private partnerships (PPP) will be established with the aim of entrusting the management of certain lines in
private operators, while leaving the regulatory role to the government.
Indeed, fully privatize TEC would inevitably imply the abandonment of the least lines
profitable, which would have negative consequences on serving rural areas.
By partnering private-public operators powers, the service lines will be
increased, all under the control of public authorities. The objective is to establish a
dynamic and true mobility service network to the attention of all users.
For CDH, should be encouraged widespread collective taxi or shuttle bus in
rural areas, to a public that has not weakened little or no mobility solutions to
move.
These modes of transport, very flexible, can help revitalize rural areas, poor
transportation because of the low population density. They are also of
social and human contact (or rehabilitation), through measures on services
such as filing errands, transportation for medical appointments or other, etc.
The CDH offers:
-

provide contract management partnership-TEC - private sector - profit sector, to
better distribution of tasks and responsibilities and to organize a field
full mesh of passenger transport. This better distribution between the public,
associative and private, however, will give no question the public nature of the SRWT and
TEC.

-

TEC impose that include in their objectives the provision of shared cars, taxis
of hitchhiking organized and cross-border opportunities;

-

multiply the bus lines on demand in rural areas;

-

ensure consistency of routes and availability at later hours;

-

enhancing accessibility in CET for Persons with reduced mobility (PRM);

-

develop TEC offers in partnership with business;

-

continue and strengthen efforts to improve the performance and governance of TEC
empowering municipalities and ensuring the principle of subsidiarity;

-

Liege extend the tram line to Herstal and Seraing;

-

continue the project of Liege and Seraing tram to Herstal as originally designed;

-

ensure that the tram project be continued in Liege regular manner to cities
Herstal and Seraing to create a full mesh of the Liège conurbation along the
Meuse and enable rapid service to town with a new design of the network
Liège bus and this in conjunction with the Express Network Liege.

257

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

299 flagship proposal: Extend the metro lines and continue
tramification in Brussels: the program "STIB 2021"
STIB is different from other public transport companies with a more attendance
important: over two borrows Brussels STIB lines at least twice
week (+ 70% in 10 years). Only 15% of Brussels residents do not use them. Are dating
reversed compared to other regions (in particular because of the density of supply and lines
on a small urban area).
The population of Brussels continues to grow, it is necessary to further facilitate access to
public transport and better coordinate different modes of transport within the Region.
According to CDH, the main challenges for the STIB of tomorrow are on one side: strengthening
main lines in peak hours, extending the hours during evenings and weekends; from
the other: the extension of the STIB network border of the Brussels region (and beyond), the
developing new lines own sites and commissioning of surface lines.
The CDH has launched the 2021 STIB program which will include:
1.

the rapid implementation of the metro to Schaerbeek and Haren, automation of line 1
(center), and then the study and implementation of the subway to the South;

2.

turn some bus lines especially crowded trams in lines and foster
setting own sites;

3.

the extension of the STIB network to the ends of the Brussels region (and sometimes beyond if
necessary), so as to provide optimal public transport network and at best the cover
Brussels territory. This extension will help to create connections with uninterrupted
public transport in the other two regions. Extend especially in the Brussels network
areas underserved by STIB (lines 25, 26 and 50 Uccle, Haren, Diegem) and expand
lines beyond the Brussels region (zoning Zaventem airport);

4.

the development of an offer to move not only toward the city center, but
also from east to south, etc. The current network, star, no longer corresponds to the needs of
displacement of Brussels;

5.

the introduction of a single tariff system (including all modes of transport (SNCB,
STIB, TEC and De Lijn), RER and why not shared modes of transport (Cambio, Villo)
pricing system that would also easily accessible by sms payment;

6.

increasing the supply of public transport: for rush hour, evening and
during weekends / holidays;

7.

access to an optimal information for commuters and users via intelligent panels
the judgments of transport, the development of a smartphone application and a
website that centralize scheduling, scheduling adjustments (in case of incidents or
delays) and other useful information in real time. This allows the commuters to
account of the different possibilities in terms of transport available to
him according to its geographical position;

8.

the establishment of a visible and appropriate signage for commuters to spend
easily from one mode of public transport to another;

9.

the provision of more buses Noctis the weekend and shared taxis every night
(victims of their success today);

10. the development of a free access to wifi in STIB stations;

258

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
11. regular human presence in stations and on platforms, to enhance security
but also the friendly nature of transport;
12. additionally, the CDH proposes to develop infrastructure in the parks
Brussels crown
o

persuasion parking / quality of deterrence in the vicinity of RER stations, 25-30 km
Brussels;

o

persuasion parking just outside the Region, the terminus of metro lines in
near the current ring;

o

the STIB network expansion should be done by developing priority mode
transportation deemed most comfortable, safest, fastest, by customers, namely
Metro. STIB must expand its subway network out of Brussels
go, as well, to Zaventem (extension of the line to Haren), to Grimbergen / Meise
(extension of the line King Baudouin) to Kraainem / Wezembeek (extension
Stockel) to Overijse (extension of Herman-Debroux), and finally to
Drogenbos / Ruisbroek (future extension of the South line). The metro extensions
periphery does not necessarily take place underground, and therefore require less
investment. ;

o

to deploy to the city center and the pentagon electric minibus organized
partnership with the municipalities concerned;

o

thinking of launching water bus along the canal from Brussels border
until Molenbeek.

Action 4. How to make our journeys safer and more user-friendly?
We need to reduce our need for travel, travel or promote shared
further encourage a more rational use of the car.
Another priority of cdH concerns the usability and security of our movement. Every
person must be able to move safely and enjoy the respect of everyone and the rules
good uses of the road.
If reducing travel can generate quality time, for CDH, improving
displacement conditions can also contribute to improving the quality of life.
Human development is also put forward the friendly and pleasant character
trips. Establish a living together between different modes of transport will
to make the roads safer and enjoy a trip without stress or fatigue.

Proposition 300: Renovating and equipping our roads for safety and
friendliness
Before this parliamentary term road maintenance suffered from chronic underinvestment, a
poor work planning and deficient load specifications for manufacturers. The CDH has
was to maneuver to adopt a "road map" that has improved planning
work, according to the prioritization of the work to be carried out depending on the status of various sections
road and improve the specification to ensure sustainability of the work.
The CDH offers:

259

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
-

continue and expand the implementation of the road map, with a variation on the plan
local, to ensure the refurbishment and maintenance of road and motorway network, with a
coating quality and amenities that enhance the safety of all users;

-

ensure better involve local authorities (communes) in the prioritization of work
renovation or redevelopment of degraded regional roadways. By involving
common in these processes, they now have the tools to
diagnose damage roads in their territories and to consider solutions,
consultation with the supervisory authority;

-

invest more in smart mobility (synchronization of traffic lights,
marking of parking spaces available, etc.);

-

develop a multi development program to be known crossroads
blackheads traffic in the Brussels Region;

-

encourage the creation of pedibus and supervision of schoolchildren for travel
between school and home / car / place of business. The walking bus or school rankings
are organized at local level and have a visible and road development
secure, so that the groups of displacements do securely
without impeding vehicular traffic, and help to improve traffic flow in the vicinity of
schools. This can be extended to cyclists ranks;

-

make our sustainable travel modes, thanks to cars
electric.

Proposition 301: Treat the side barriers on all roads where
speed limit is greater than 50 km / h
50% of deaths recorded annually on Walloon routes are against obstacles
side. All inquiries into the accident showed that in case of collision with a
fixed obstacle, the chances of survival of the occupants of a car are very low for speeds
impact beyond 65 km / h in frontal impacts and 35 km / h in side impacts.
Many serious accidents would be avoided, however, if we provided security zones along
of roads outside built, allowing any vehicle that is an unfortunate gap to recover
its path without hitting an obstacle. The treatment of the side barriers along the roads
therefore a key issue for improving road safety.
The General Directorate of Roads (DGO1) of the Walloon Public Service has produced a guide for
treatment of lateral obstacles, which the Walloon Higher Council for Road Safety, is
be fully implemented on all the roads where the speed limit is greater than 50
km / h, to reduce substantially the number of casualties on our roads.
CDH offers from the case of:
-

Conduct a systematic inspection of the risk of side barrier on roads with the
guide produced by the SPW and with the help of a checklist.

-

Establish a prioritization of areas to be treated according to a cost-effectiveness (number
of fatalities and serious injuries that could be avoided) compared to the cost of the treatment area
budgets and plan accordingly.

-

Make a road safety audit for any new construction or new development
a road which will take into account the safety of all types of users but also
lateral obstacles to avoid or "fragile".

260

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Proposal flagship 302: Multiply the number of fixed radars and fight against
road offenders
Did you know that more than two people die every day on Belgian roads?
Under the leadership of the State Secretary Melchior Wathelet, sanctions were tightened for
drivers under the influence of alcohol and for repeat offenders, and the scope of
immediate perceptions was expanded. In addition, it will now be possible for a judge to propose to
offender to choose between paying a fine or monitor a driver training
(alternative sentencing) for offenses that have not caused injury to others.
However, it is necessary to continue to strengthen measures of monitoring and penalties on our
roads, to drastically reduce the number of road deaths, and help avoid
Road risk behaviors.
Thus, severe and exemplary policy (fines, license withdrawals, immediate perceptions)
will be systematically applied to road offenders, those who ride in
phoning without hands-free kit, without a belt, too fast or under the influence of alcohol or
staggering.
The CDH offers:
-

repressive install radars in areas at risk, specifically radar
sections on dangerous sections and on construction sites, and provide clear information to
drivers to achieve a priority objective: control the speed on the road. Large
Brussels highways (Auderghem viaduct, tunnels Leopold II, ...) will be particularly targeted
by this measurement;

-

Ensure apply a consistent speed limit with the characteristics of the road.
The higher the speed will be credible, the better it will be respected. Adjustments can also
be carried out if necessary to make the most credible speed limit.

-

apply a severe and exemplary policy (fines, license withdrawals, perceptions
Immediate) to offenders of the road.

-

Incorporating road safety and awareness courses from the mandatory teaching
educating children to the road code from an early age. Once a year per cycle,
training in the Highway Code had to first aid, will be provided in all
primary schools in the Federation Wallonia-Brussels. These modules will be managed by
schools with the help of associations awareness about road safety,
approved by the Federation police. A collaboration with the Red Cross
Belgium will also be organized for the training component of first aid.
The organization of these courses during the "white days" that precede the holiday periods
School will be privileged but it must be also considered the possibility of incorporating the notions of
road safety in some courses (physical education, geography, applied sciences, etc.).
A repository was framed for this purpose with the Wallonia-Brussels Federation and approved by
Walloon Higher Council for Road Safety.

261

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Proposition 303: Fighting against drink driving
Alcohol is responsible for over 200 deaths on our roads every Belgian année19. Alcohol
exerts a numbing effect on the brain that reduces inhibitions, decreased concentration and
promotes overconfidence. Even in small amounts, alcohol greatly influences
driving behavior. To further awareness of the important work started by our
Ministers.
The CDH offers:
-

promote the use of breathalysers allowing everyone to objectify his drinking.
To do this, breathalysers will be made freely available in schools
debtor (coffee, night clubs, night shop, ...);

-

maintain prevention work by reallocating more resources to the police zones
so that they can educate drivers on the use of breathalysers;

-

integrate offenses relating to the repression of drunkenness in the definition of offenses
mixed.

Proposition 304: Provide Sufficient parking possibilities
Free near his home
In Brussels, the Regional Parking Plan, adopted in this Parliament helps to harmonize
parking policies in the Brussels Region. It also aims to recreate the public space
reorganizing the space devoted to street parking, and provide more spaces and modes of
motorized traffic (pedestrians, cyclists, ...). However, the removal of road in parking
leads today a scarcity of parking in residential areas, rendering
increasingly difficult - especially in the most densely populated areas - the
parking of residents themselves.
Because Brussels may have a car, because the need to Brussels
able to park their cars near their home if we want to encourage them to use
more other forms of mobility, because the population pressure results in
to further increase the number of motorized households in the capital, because the aspirations
receive public more open space and less crowded by cars, it is essential
that governments, regional or municipal, are implementing new policies
regarding parking supply for their inhabitants.
We demand and any suppression of road in parking spaces is offset by
creating off-street spaces. The total compensation of seats removed by road through the creation
of off-street parking is one of the founding pillars of the regional reform
for parking. The removal of on-street parking spaces, without compensation
by creating nearby off-street parking areas, runs the risk of seeing
Families with children, leave the area to municipalities where the properties offer the advantage of
offer both lower prices, green amenities, and tomorrow no parking facilities
constraint.
Parking policy must propose a more user-friendly layout of balance
public space and maintaining a quality service to the Brussels population with or
several vehicles.

19

Source: www.goforzero.be.

262

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
To develop parking in residential areas, the CDH offers:
-

review the planning rules which limit to two the maximum number of slots
Possible parking in new residential constructions ";

-

impose on developers of new housing developments and / or office building
surplus parking spaces made available, graceful, residents;

-

encourage tax companies to set their parking available to residents
evenings and weekends, with conditions and award agreements
synallagmatic;

-

build in shopping areas or high population density parking
Public underground and make them available to residents after hours
opening businesses;

-

the duration of free parking in the red zone in Brussels will be increased to half an hour;

-

the urban environment is ideal for promoting clean technologies. We propose
every road development is the opportunity to pre-equip or even equip the streets
electric recharging terminals in order to promote clean vehicles.

Proposition 305: Recognize the taxi as a complementary offer to the
soft mobility and public transport
Taxis are an important link in the chain of alternative transportation. They allow
particularly those that do not have a car to move to areas with little or no
served by public transport and easily accessible on foot or by bike. Taxis take
over of public transport at night. They allow some seniors to continue to move in
safely. Taxis also are important to tourists, especially in
part of the business tourism. Finally, public taxis contribute to improving road safety,
especially at night, on weekends and during festive events.
That is why the CDH offers:
-

support the taxi industry by improving the conditions of access to the profession (training,
granting the operating license, price transparency ...) and controls, to strengthen
service quality and fight against unfair competition;

-

better integrate taxis into the public transport chain (real time information
train stations or on public transport sites, access to specific sites ...);

-

develop public-private partnerships to meet the needs of seniors, youth
and persons with reduced mobility;

-

set up in Brussels and Walloon towns in some Collecto (night taxis
shared);

-

clarify the distinction between the professional activities of taxis and citizen exchange
mobility services.

263

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Axis 5
Build togetherness
Human development is based on a strong conviction: the development of every woman
each man can be built only by his personal development, participation in
the company and through its relationships with others. These relationships fundamentally determine the
quality of life to which everyone aspires. Therefore, the social bond and brotherhood should be
delivered to the heart of society.
Faced with various fractures that run through society, we can live better if we
manage to reconstruct living together.
1. Being a citizen
Citizenship is the basis of living together. Citizen participation is essential in a
modern democracy because it allows them to be involved in maintaining and improving their
living environment. It is the best way to stem all institutions of rejection movement
improves the quality of policies. Social engagement must be valued in order to promote
a new vision of the involvement of everyone in society. A vibrant civil society is the
natural and necessary counterweight to bureaucratic invasion as well as the laws of markets
ignore any value and are impervious to all ethics.
Mirroring his personal commitment, the citizen is entitled to expect of the institutions,
common to Europe, they work effectively and they set a course, that of
human development.
2. Respect the collective rules
Promoting living together requires respect for every member of society. Respect for
collective rules begins with respect for oneself, through the development
staff, learning community life and understanding the world around us. There
question of respect and safety is first and foremost a question of education.
The issue of security is not just a theme of cops and robbers. Respect
the company requires the ability to participate and contribute to economic, social,
policies, through access to employment. Similarly, the inviting living spaces stimulating respect
thereof. Security is therefore as a result the cause of coexistence and results
coherent overall policy and thought, which constitute the foundation for strong
prevent criminal behavior. Any conduct that violates the law must be judged
and the repair within a short timeframe. Anyone facing violence must be
immediately supported by the judiciary and receive adequate assistance. In this
Indeed, gender and sexual violence are too often extreme revealing
all other inequalities. The fight against violence against women is a first stake
plan.
When crimes, unfortunately, occur, the punishment must be credible, relevant and
right. It will be proportional to the product act and intervene quickly. A sanction
proportionate and fast is also educational. It gives a clear signal both for the author as for the
264

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
victim and society as a whole. The punishment can take different forms: the objective
the penalty will be punished, but above all to prevent a criminal behavior from happening again.
It must allow the person's reconstruction. Remedial measures will be applied and
encouraged.
However, if credible sanctions, effective and fast is essential in
development of a security policy, mediation and educational support, bringing
gradually towards reintegration are equally necessary to sustainably avoid
repeat criminal behavior.

3. Sharing values
Construction of living together as a collective project requires the respect of each and the right to
difference. But that right to be different should not, however, lead to individualism and
communitarianism. This diversity in society must come instead enrich dialogue
Standing on the values ​​we wish to share. Culture, as an expression of a
develops social space where identity and where anyone can make sense of his life, is an essential tool
this. The dialogue between cultures and the fight against discrimination are also essential
to build togetherness. They are the expression of the humanistic attachment to the value of
brotherhood.

265

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Chapter 1. Being citizen
Being a citizen is above all to fully participate in society. There are different modes of
citizenship. The more passive: to respect the rules of life in society, pay taxes. At most active:
engage voluntarily take part in the political or associative system, being an actor
action and change. These different modes of citizenship are complementary and are
essential.
For the CDH, the state's main mission is to create and enable the development of these
different modes of engagement. These determine the direction of a democratic debate, and
Then allow the emergence of various initiatives involved in these shared objectives. These
private or community initiatives, citizen, are most effective when they have an effect
multiplier and also change the mentality of everyone. We must ensure that no
Public brake becoming a barrier that commitment on the part of associations and individuals and
secondly to encourage this commitment by promoting projects and causes which the
trigger.

Action 1. Encourage participation in community life
Everyone is accomplished through personal development, participation in society and
through relationships with others. The quality of human relations and project participation
collective harmony are essential to our society. To better "living together" requires
agree on the contribution of all to the common good, and enhance the sense of responsibility
shared in the respect of everyone's peculiarities.
The commitment of citizens and their social role commensurate with their skills and aspirations
must be valued in order to promote a new vision of the involvement of everyone in society.
Citizen participation is essential in a modern democracy. She is the best
way to stem any rejection of institutions of movement and lack of interest in political choices
made by the company.
In this chapter, we'll develop two distinct modes of engagement: support
voluntary commitment on the one hand and improving the other hand democracy.

306 Lighthouse Proposal: Create a Citizen Service
Human development depends on the participation of everyone in society and on visà-commitment of the community. Volunteering helps build relationships, meet new
universe, revealing vocations. For the CDH, the engaging force must be developed
priority among young people, so they can devote time to the welfare of all
of society.
Committing to the other is often a better way to get to know oneself.
For the CDH must be given the opportunity to make every young citizen service at the end of its
secondary or higher education. This citizen voluntary service should enable young people to it
committed to network, meet new worlds, to find perhaps a vocation.
It also would bring recognition to such essential values ​​as solidarity and
the gift of self and youth who register in view of responsible citizenship,
critical, active and supportive.

266

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
To implement a citizen service, CDH offers:
-

Allow young people between 18 and 25 years to devote himself full time to an activity of interest
General during a given period (between 6 to 12 months).

-

The activities would receive priority areas of solidarity, culture,
environment and quality of life, agriculture and public services or
development cooperation, inside or outside the Belgian borders.

-

Citizens of services in another language community must be Belgian
valued.

-

Allow families retain the rights to family allowance for the duration of
citizen service.

-

Deduct the citizen service the duration of the insertion internship (for accessing benefits
insertion).

-

Also foresee a system of compensation and liability insurance;

-

organize a citizen training during the last two years of high school.

Proposition 307: Encourage all forms of volunteering
Did you know that there is more than one and a half million volunteers in Belgium spend on average 7
hours per week to their voluntary activity?
Many needs in society could only be met if many citizens
pledged not intentional and voluntary way, with the only concern to be of service
and have fun doing it. For CDH, this form of solidarity has nothing to envy in terms
collective contributions to the "institutional" solidarity social security.
Understand
A volunteer is someone who performs an activity without compensation or obligation to other
individuals or the community outside the normal context of work in an organization.
"Let us (...) in mind that everyone can be a volunteer, one who is campaigning for a full-time issue in
citizen gives of his time when he can. Each volunteer in its own way embodies the spirit of compassion
we need and makes a valuable contribution to the achievement of our common goals. (...)
Founded on the values ​​of solidarity and mutual trust, volunteerism transcends cultural borders,
1
language and location. "
Ban Ki-moon

Therefore, the CDH offers:
1. Guaranteeing insurance coverage for volunteers: using the free group insurance
already organized and funded at the provincial level (including injury and protection
in addition to legal liability).
2. Raise awareness of the NEO staff and job seekers: Human Rights
these and the conditions attached to exercise voluntary while retaining their
unemployment benefits.
3. Support the creation of a network of volunteer citizens and create a platform for exchange
to facilitate meetings between volunteers ready to commit and groups
associations working for the benefit of the community.

267

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
4. Launch the "Day of the citizen engagement" one Saturday per year for every citizen
can devote this day to volunteer work in community service.
5. Access in all public purse to volunteer in which all projects
Volunteering and services in the town are presented in stand to attract new
volunteers and simultaneously publicize the citizens of the municipality services.
6. Establish and fund quality training for administrators and
association leaders.
7. Establish training modules to help associations to value
skills acquired by the volunteers.
8. Support the implementation of a referent / coordinator for volunteering by town
or groups of municipalities: in partnership with the Francophone platform for volunteering.
The referent is responsible for centralizing requests associations to provide information
and guidance on the regulatory framework of voluntary activities.
9. Give a decretal basis for houses or incubators Associations and to encourage
creation in Brussels and in every province and major city of Wallonia, to
particular to promote economies of scale and professionalism of associations.
10. Recognize the Francophone Platform Volunteer Advisory as appropriate.
11. Ensure the availability of premises for voluntary associations.

Proposition 308: Set up citizen panels
"The democratic idea is not just about the development of a plan, it is first the idea

a certain form of society [...] ", Pierre Rosanvallon, sociologist.
For the CDH, the rise of populism, the decreasing participation of citizens in elections and
distance between politicians and citizens is a major concern. For citizens
reappropriate their social project, the CDH offers more opportunities for citizens
to engage in the life of their city. Faced with this requirement for greater democracy
Nearby, one must question the form of "passive" citizenship and seek new
participation tools.
In 2012, during the local elections, a voter of 8 did not go to vote.
CDH offers from the case of:
-

Create citizen panels to bring citizens closer to political institutions. Us
propose to permit the establishment of citizens panels. This panel will be tasked to feed
the work of parliaments by sending concrete proposals via internet. Amendments and
discussions will also take place through internet platforms. These citizen panels
could be drawn in order to strengthen the legitimacy and involvement of all citizens,
the image of what happens in the trial of Assizes. Free citizens to accept or not. The
Parliament will retain the power of initiative and deliberate ultimately the fate of the recommendations: to
up to him to make his decision.

268

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

309 flagship proposal: Provide the organization of popular consultations
According to CDH program in 2010, the sixth state reform has granted to the regions
right to organize popular consultations, under certain conditions (excluding
some subjects such as finance, development of organizational rules by a majority of two
Third, prior control by the Constitutional Court). The CDH intends to implement this
new regional competence, and realize the opportunity for citizens to be heard
regional voice on other occasions only for elections.
Therefore the CDH offers:
1. Implement the possibility for regions in the sixth reform of the State to organize
Popular consultations. The CDH wants the rapid adoption of a decree in the Walloon Region
and an order in the Brussels-Capital Region, to make the organization possible
Popular consultations when they have general application.
2. To support citizen initiatives that propose the organization of a referendum and
defend the organization of a referendum, for example topics related to choice
ethical, land or urban planning.

Proposal flagship 310: Remove the head and alternate box to
empower voters
Elections are the main mode of citizen participation in the exercise of power. In
our representative democracy, it is through this that they appoint their representatives.
Elections must allow to identify the will of the majority of the electorate that chooses
its representatives freely. But the complexity of the electoral system hinders the achievement of this
goal. Currently, after the elections or while in office, resigned effective when elected,
This is one of the alternate candidates on his list, which replaces the workforce even if another candidate
its list garnered more votes.
Moreover, after every election, it appears that a number of applicants, despite having received
a large number of preference votes in their list, are not elected because of
the attribution to the first candidates of the list of votes of the head box.
Therefore, in order to strengthen democracy, make it more transparent, more understandable, more
close to the citizens, it is necessary to simplify the electoral system and make it more democratic the
choice of elected officials.
Therefore, the CDH offers:
-

Remove the head box in all elections including for strengthening the communal
Voting power: to give more weight to the voter, to give greater
transparency in the electoral system, strengthen equal opportunities between candidates. So,
only candidates that get the most preferably votes would be elected and that, regardless
regardless of their place on the list.

-

Delete the existence of a list of alternates (as is already the case for elections
Municipal Council and those of the German Community) to bring all
candidates on equal footing. The unelected candidates who obtained the greatest number of votes
are declared 1st, 2nd, 3rd alternate, etc. It is based on the number of votes they
accede or to an actual office or to a substitute (1st, 2nd, 3rd ...).

269

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Proposition 311: Strengthening gender equality in politics
In 2012, the number of elected women was 35.9% at the municipal level. In the House, 41% of
Assembly members are women.
To strengthen the presence of women in politics the CDH proposes to adopt the complete rule
alternation (pull) on all voters and all levels of authority
(regional, federal and European). This applies currently only for the first two
places.

312 flagship proposal: Fully implement the voluntary charter
For the CDH, the role of the State is not to be the sole operator of all interest tasks
collective. Instead, governments are responsible for framing and regulating initiatives
private actors. Civil society, organized and associations, must take public action relays.
Strong commitment and creativity, focused on freedom of association, it must be fully
recognized and supported.
Understand
Associative Charter enshrines several principles of governance to organize relations
the voluntary sector and public authorities: the autonomy of the associations, the principle of legality and
equality of treatment, complementarity between community action and public action,
recognition and appreciation of voluntary participation of the associative process
Democratic, effective governance of delegated services and tripartite social dialogue.
The conclusion of the voluntary Charter by all francophone parties is a requirement of
cdH long time. This is the full implementation.
Therefore, the CDH offers:
-

-

Organise links between public authorities and the voluntary sector to the principles
Associative Charter at all levels of government and in all of the action themes
Public. The application of the Charter is particularly important in terms of powers
local when relations between the municipal government and the associations too often lack
a rigorous supervision and equal treatment is not sufficiently respected. There
Associative Charter must also apply to education, in compliance with the Covenant
school.
Implementing a reform of the consultative function so that it clearly distinguishes
Reviews and bodies management bodies.
Oblige public authorities to indicate how they have taken into account the opinions issued
by the Advisory Councils and inform them of the decisions taken.

270

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

313 flagship proposal: Implement the federated model of protection
social
Under the sixth state reform, many health skills,
social or family policies are transferred. The challenges related to the management of these skills are
many: it is to ensure the effectiveness of policies, their complementarity and
coordination in space Wallonia-Brussels as well remained federal policies; to
ensure the widest solidarity possible and also to ensure continuity of policies.
In February 2012, the CDH suggested organizing skills FEPROS according to the model, the model
Federated welfare. By this act, it was intended to impose the debate on modes of organization
future of those skills, and ensure that co-management principles, effectiveness and coherence
on the French landscape are respected.
In September 2013, the presidents of francophone parties signatories to the State Reform have
reached an agreement on this. The challenge now is to implement it without delay.
In this context, against those who want the state provides only the entirety of these new missions,
the CDH wishes:
1. Implement a co-management model with these actors to participate in the decision
within a public interest organization similar to public institutions of social security,
and use their services as operators of these materials. We must therefore involve actors
who practice these materials daily management thereof. Specifically, allowances
Family must continue to be paid through the family allowance.
Mutuals should continue to mediate to ensure repayment of
care and advocacy for patients, and be involved in the management of health care.
2. Advocate for management of these skills that fosters the broadest possible view, as well as
the allocation of financial resources according to need rather than
clean historical developments in each sector. This global vision should indeed allow
best to stick to changing needs, particularly in the context of aging
population shifts between sectors that will be needed. This cross-sectional view is
also essential for developing a vision of taking désinstitutionalisée
in charge of the dependency and diversification of responses to it.

271

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Action 2. Strengthen the ethics of public action
To renew confidence between citizens and their institutions, public authorities must
to act impartially, guided by strict rules of good management. It is essential
have an effective state, able to impose and to impose oneself, respect for rules
fundamental ethical.
Ethics is the heart of our humanist project. Because being elected is to represent the whole
population, the public interest should guide any policy maker, whatever the level where it sits.
The politicians must be, more than any other, to put aside their special interests and
adhere to high ethical rules. Avoid conflicts of interest and the cumulative issues
or unnecessary has always been a priority of CDH.

Proposition 314: Strengthen the rules to prevent conflicts of interest

and cumulation
As part of its activities, an elected may have to make a decision that interests
personally, directly or indirectly. To prevent any drift in this area of
legal and regulatory safeguards are necessary.
Therefore, the CDH offers:
-

Confirm in the law is impossible for a member of the federal or regional government
to practice another profession or another term: whether public - with the exception of office
of municipal councilor, CPAS and police adviser adviser - or private remunerated. They
will not receive other compensation that their treatment Minister.

-

Strengthening the rules on conflicts of interest: in particular as regards the exercise
spouse of a profession and public office (elected or not), especially for some
liberal features such as auditors, lawyer, architect, consultant, etc., working
for public administrations and public services, and that in order to prevent conflict situations
interest for members of ministerial cabinets.

Proposition 315: Criminalize Bribery committed by individuals
against persons who exercise a public function
Corruption and any form of abuse of power for personal gain are a
threat to democracy, the rule of law and human rights. The fight against these abuses is
vital for the proper development of democratic society. Corruption harms
the whole society by violating certain essential values ​​such as trust and loyalty.
Trading in influence is the corruption that concerns the use by a person of real influence
or assumed at its disposal to obtain an act of an authority or a public administration
or abstention of such an act.
Criminalizing trading in influence can tackle this so-called "corruption
room "that undermines the confidence of citizens. To be considered "unreasonable", the influence
must contain a corrupt intent by the influence peddler: forms of lobbying
known not fall within that definition.
Belgian law punishes influence peddling but has limited influence peddling than that committed by
persons exercising a public function. The French Penal Code knows him a second form
influence peddling broader aims any private person trying to get unduly
certain behavior by a public authority. The influence peddling committed by a person
272

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
not exercising public service can be just as damaging. One thinks, for example,
parent of a minister who intercedes, against remuneration, to the said Minister for the latter
take a decision favorable to the briber. The parent said the Minister, who nevertheless used his
influence, may be punished more influence peddling, since it does not exercise public service.
Therefore, the CDH offers:
-

Criminalize trading in influence committed by individuals in respect of persons exercising
a public service.

Proposition 316: Strengthen the rules of conduct applicable to elected
Inspired by the positive reforms undertaken in the various levels of power, we want
go further and further strengthen the moralization of politics. We want more
transparency to reinforce the informal control and prevention of interest confusion.
Therefore, the CDH offers:
-

Increase the transparency of terms and remuneration relating thereto: expanding
the publication requirement mandates and remuneration to the directors of all
company with the State or a federated entity is a shareholder.

-

Cap for anyone who enjoys public mandates and remuneration
benefits in kind: limit the amount of compensation in the amount of 150%
the parliamentary allowance (used as reference) a combination of benefits, treatment or
by rewarding attendance fees and expenses of public mandates of elected officials, any mandate related to
public elective or not.

-

Link pay European parliamentarians, federal and their presence in Brussels
Commission (this is already the case for the Walloon parliament).

273

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Action 3. Rely on a flexible, modern public service
The success of a political region, a country goes through a strategic alignment
Parliament, a Government and an Administration, all geared towards clear objectives and
shared. A policy will only achieve results if the administration is able to offer,
inform and execute efficiently and quickly the projects decided.
Did you know that about 20% of the workforce in Belgium working in the public sector?
The modernization of the public service must continue focusing on the service provided to
citizens, consumers, businesses. It is these that should guide the organization of services
administrative, to identify how it is likely to assist them in their initiatives,
protecting when necessary, guide them and inform them better about their rights and their
obligations.
Finally, the CDH has a very clear vision about the performance of public administrations and
public agencies. This is not to define all the tasks they need to perform by
regulations, but agree a structured management cycle in several stages: defining
of objectives, declining action programs based on these objectives, to leave
service managers some autonomy to achieve these objectives and finally evaluate
results both qualitatively and quantitatively.

Proposition 317: Enhancing the service to users
For public administrations are at the service of users, the CDH offers:
1. Develop the logic of "single window" in the light of particular interlocutors
(businesses, farmers, ...).
2. Ensure decentralized services in rural areas and develop remote services.
3. Provide consistently that during a first contact with the administration, the user receives
him a contract indicating the steps he must perform the actions that the administration will
undertaken and the file processing time.
4. Establish opening hotlines for public services, including evenings and
Saturday in contact with citizens so that citizens are not forced to encroach on
their working time to contact authorities.
5. Provide presence of users in the management bodies of certain administrations
or public companies (eg FPS Finance, SNCB, ...).
6. Develop e-government services for all users, as individuals
companies (see also proposal 114).
7. Enter in the public administration and business management contracts the concept of
services to people in order to develop the human aspect of these services (proximity, listening,
etc.).

Proposition 318: Valuing the role of public servants
The main value of government are officials who compose it. Since then,
the CDH offers:
1. Allow general staff mobility between the federal,
regional, community, provincial, communal ...; provide mobility also

274

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
mandatory for officials in certain subjects such as environment or
territory Development ;
2. Establish an objective and transparent procedure of transfer requests: the procedure
recruitment should allow power to a job either by accession to the next level, to
default objectified mutation, or finally by a recruitment.
3. Encourage continuing training for civil servants. The training offer should be extended
to allow all staff to progress in their career.
4. Motivating employees: by providing them with career opportunities, including for
contractual, and match with a ministerial portfolio administration. What
can the Minister reconcile his administration to reduce the size of firms
ministerial. giving meaning to their actions, creating a climate of listening and dialogue
within the administration and between it and politicians.
5. Moving towards more homogenous ministerial skills to enhance the fit between
the structure of government and ministerial responsibility.
6. Create "satellite offices" places where the officials can make the
telecommuting while benefiting from IT and logistics resources identical to those
they have their headquarters. These satellite offices in rural areas or in zone
Urban, will house officials from different entities and will be managed in common.
Increased use of telework in the public service must be accompanied by a mutation
work organization, linked to the empowerment of agents on the achievement of results
rather than the actual presence in the seat of administration.

Proposition 319: Ensuring the performance and transparency of procedures
Recruitment
Recruitment is an essential element of the functioning of government. Therefore, the cdH
proposes:
1. Conduct a thorough reform of Selor based on the existence of a college composed of three
in which at least one in each language role, instead of CeuI
deputy head to review recruitment procedures to comply with the
more with the objective requirements of the function and speed up procedures.
2. Without prejudice to the objectivity and transparency, allow agents to recruit a
grade higher than the grade of recruitment.
3. Arrange, as soon as possible, recruitment competitions for levels.
4. Extend public management requirements governing access to the patent held by the School
public administration to allow access management functions
administering to a maximum of talent from both the private and public sector.
5. Ensure equal treatment of candidates from the public sector and industry
private, including always taking into account the years of experience gained in the
private.
6. Establish a basic generic process for the selection of federal public elected.
7. Introduce a career expert for levels A and B (2 + 1 and in the public service
Walloon and community).
8. Reforming the evaluation system to move towards a performance evaluation and
skills (the professionalization, apply to staff engaged under employment contracts, to
275

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
assist the supervisor of a specialized agent in the trade of the assessment, make
follow the feedback of consequences both positive and negative ...).

Proposal flagship 320: Promoting effective administrations and
performance
Our countries and our regions need effective administration to provide a service
quality with true effectiveness, strategy and clear objectives. The management of the issue
plays a central role in the good governance. It is important to ensure the work
complementarity and coherence between the different administrative structures in the framework of a
dialogue and mutual understanding.
Therefore, the CDH offers:
1. Improving the quality and efficiency of our government: the implementation of strategies
based on greater autonomy of management, for capacity building
of managerial executives and team leaders (a real training policy
professionalism, ...), for the establishment of participatory quality processes, by
regular assessments based on specific indicators such as social impact, quality
and volume of the service, user satisfaction, for the establishment of a system of
recognition administrations providing services of high quality, for example,
by issuing a label of excellence ...
2. Transforming management plans and operational plans a framework program
established for the term of office so that they become genuine management tools
translating the strategic vision defined by the competent minister as targets
concrete planned time.
3. Develop managerial responsibility for recruitment and career development
based on objective and transparent procedures and the realization of patents and
titles recognizing these abilities.
4. Build an Accounting supporting a budget managerial vision through
accounts in part with dual balance sheet management which measures the cost of products.
5. Encourage governments to share and make maximum use each other's data
promoting unique collection of information (online forms) and strengthening
the interconnection between databases.
6. Promote the pooling of purchases by governments to facilitate the
economies of scale.
7. Better supervise and justify the use of external consultancy.
8. Implement the Royal Decree of 17 August 2007 on internal audit activities
the Federal Administration; develop internal control systems that give
reasonable assurance of the achievement of performance objectives, reliability
financial and management information, preservation of heritage and Compliance
regulations; provide explicitly in the function charts
management controller and expand the control of the Court of Auditors to all public tools
to strengthen the control of good governance.
9. Encourage the use of free software and open formats in government.

276

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Action 4. human scale institutions
Human development is a new course. To help us stick to it, we must use
development of new indicators to reinvent our prosperity. They allow
give political action an action horizon long time paying all institutions
on shared objectives. The goal is to anticipate rather than surprise, accompany more
than undergo, without breaking the continuity of the process.
Then, it is essential that these different objectives within the framework of the future big project
deploy for Belgium and parallel to Wallonia and Brussels are mandatory for
the general government according to a new convergence method. Have indicators
human development is essential. In making political convergence objectives
all levels of government is equally essential in the new federal Belgium.

321 flagship proposal: Provide the governments of indicators
human development and unite all public authorities behind these
new goals
Human development is a new model of development. Therefore, if our
current development model needs to change, it is imperative that we turn also
the way we measure this development. The Gross Domestic Product has too often been considered
as the overall development indicator of the company or it is not a measure to
calculate the welfare of a nation. It does not take into account the degradation of the environment, or
rising inequality. It does not includes the subjective feeling of loss of satisfaction
of life.
GDP does not measure the growth of the quality of life. The increase in production
and consumption are not sufficient conditions to improve well-being. Occasionally,
the same increase in growth implies a deterioration of well-being.
Understand
The gross domestic product (GDP) measures the wealth created for a year in an economy. But he
excludes stocks (such as the deterioration of the natural environment) of
not linked to a price activities (eg volunteering). By cons, accidents have a positive impact on
GDP per activity they involve ...
To give a new direction, we need to develop new instruments. This is the reason for
which, the CDH is convinced of the need to develop additional indicators to GDP. The
choice of these indicators calls for a genuine debate on our societal values ​​and is an opportunity
develop together a common project.
During recent decades the GDP increased by almost 80% while life satisfaction
to in turn fell 8% 1.
Complementary indicators should focus on the multiple dimensions that meet the
welfare of the entire population, in social cohesion (measuring inequality,
performance of social protection, poverty, isolation); environmental (biodiversity,
CO2 emissions, public transport supply); employment (employment rate, unemployment by type
people); health (use of antidepressants, life expectancy in good health, suicide,
number of students teaching high school graduates, the top, number of students per hour);
training (number of internship offers, training, effort of enterprises; research and
1

"Growth is not everything: economists do they know? "I. Cassiers, C. Delain, Economic Perspectives, No. 38, March 2006,

277

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
Development (Efforts to reach, number of researchers, patents, share of results
Research into technological innovation processed); creation of non-market activities
Associative (service to people, volunteering) number of creating market activities (number
businesses, entrepreneurs, etc.), number of childcare places.
The CDH wishes have been granted a central role to additional indicators to GDP
Governance of the new Belgium, so they are used as a tool of convergence
a Belgian strategy for the quality of life to run.
Furthermore, it should be supplemented at European level a list of the EU Strategy indicators
2020 additional indicators in the same spirit.
Meanwhile, it is proposed to review national public accounting. Today only
based on flows (income-expenditure), it is replaced with a dual accounting taking
into account the investment and inventory changes (Heritage) by integrating long effects
term, positive and negative, of our activities (eg the consequences of the sale of
public buildings, the weight of future pensions, environmental costs generated ...).

322 flagship proposal: Start with the project "BXL2025" a new
the convergence strategy in Brussels
We propose to oppose the fragmentation, fragmentation and the breakdown of the poles
Brussels decision-making in governance of convergence. Should apply, as
have said above, the Capital of Europe the EU2020 strategy: a deployment strategy "
BXL2025 "10 years in the same dynamic as that which animated and animates the Marshall Plan in 2022
Wallonia. Involving strong guidelines and priority strategy for all
relevant public authorities in Brussels.
The goal is to finally have one ambitious deployment plan applicable and binding for 10
next few years, for all policy makers and all levels of authority, making
Brussels human and innovative metropolis of the future. Instead of getting lost in debates
Institutional endless on transfers of intra-Brussels skills, doing according to converge
method EU scattered all public authorities in the capital behind a
only logical and mandatory collective strategy.
The CDH offers:
-

that from the post-2014 election, writes the Region, based on the decisions taken during this
Parliament and the national objectives set in the inter-federal pact for recovery and
employment, its deployment plan "BXL2025" and fixed, based on consultations, objectives
Deployment for the next 10 years. The objectives should deal in particular
employment, education, childhood, training, research and development,
business development, mobility, housing, services for the elderly,
poverty, pollution and the rational use of energy, health, security, etc.

-

to establish a convergence BXL2025 Committee chaired by and composed of the Region
the federal state, communities, communes, intercommunal. The goal is to make the
BXL 2025 strategy a unique strategy whose objectives are shared by all
levels of public powers and powers based in Brussels. The first mission will therefore
to include all levels of government and powers behind the objectives of the plan
deployment. This is to create a public covenant and around the capital. To create a
collective dynamics in the capital service, regular meetings to federate
initiatives and make consistent policies is also essential.

278

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
-

concluding with the federal government a new cooperation agreement on its investment
in the capital that would modernize the organization of Beliris to make it an effective tool to
Brussels service deployment as determined objectives and investment terms
in priority policies of the Brussels plan.

-

concluded with the Communities, a relative cooperation agreement in the course of their
competences to Brussels to meet the objectives.

-

to conclude with the mandatory deployment of common protocols to
specify the way in which each municipality must include in its plan and strategy
its share of communal effort to meet the targets. Each municipality should
now provide in its communal level the concrete and multiannual manner and the
budgets for the realization on the part of the objectives that would be allotted to him. Finding
These MoUs would be a condition for regional funding.

-

strengthen specifications and management contract with the parastatal operators.

-

to entrust the future Brussels office of the prospective annual evaluation mission.

-

by federating themes and targets actors sometimes land under
different levels of government and public authorities in the logic of "poles" or
"Domes" for converging and make more consistent and optimized the
different policies and services deployed in the capital. The offers include various cdH
deployment poles (events, digital, green, logistics, etc.) (see above line 2) and setting
up domes in different materials such as non-market education,
prevention, health, early childhood policy, the elderly etc.

-

to entrust the President the Minister to ensure the management of this plan and to be the guarantor,
without having its own powers, which will strengthen the role of unifying the Minister
President.

The goal is to finally have one ambitious deployment plan applicable and binding in the
duration for all makers, all successive majorities, all levels of government making
Brussels human and innovative metropolis of the future. On this occasion, reconciliations
operational and will be sought between the various institutions, particularly between
the Brussels Region, Cocof and Cocom (cfr. Proposal 300).

Proposition 323: To stabilize and energize the new Belgium by deploying a
Federalism cooperation and convergence
To end the longest political crisis in the history of Belgium, October 11, 2011, eight
parties committed themselves in the path of a new state reform. Anxious to unite
Flemings, Walloons, the people of Brussels and German speaking around a new project, they
the Institutional Agreement concluded for the sixth state reform. This is the transfer of skills
the largest in the history of Belgium.
The state reform brings a durable solution to the nagging Community BHV problem.
It transfers a large number of the Federal State of powers to the regions and
Communities in the field of health care and assistance to persons, allowances
Family, employment policy, fiscal autonomy, etc.
The sixth state reform also provides for several major institutional changes, among
which Senate reform, the simultaneity of elections, regional referendum but
also the strengthening of the Brussels-Capital Region (refinancing of skills
vocational training, safety, sport or tourism, organizational autonomy, ...).

279

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
At the same time it operates the transfer of skills, the sixth state reform reaffirms
a number of principles and confirms the federal nature of certain subjects, especially
regarding the federal character of the social security and labor law, free
traffic, etc.
For CDH, it is to enjoy this stabilization to consolidate and energize the institutions
existing in a new sense of partnership and convergence.
Therefore, it proposes to:
1. Fully implement the 6th state reform by allowing each entity
appropriating its new powers in sole objective the improvement of the welfare of
citizens and business development;
2. Boosting the role of the coordination committee to give it a proactive role in
cooperation and strengthen coordination mechanisms between the different entities, the
cooperation being made more and more essential to get the best of this
reform, particularly as regards taxation, family benefits, health care
or employment policy. It also should be used whenever possible to
mutual recognition mechanisms. Cooperative federalism is indeed the best
mode of political management in Belgium. It combines the autonomy of the different
Communities and Regions and the effective functioning of the federal state. The recovery plan 10
years the country will be part of this logic.
3. Ensure that the Wallonia-Brussels Federation continues its role as a link between all
Francophones. In this spirit, the Government of the Federation shall consist of
members from the Walloon regional governments and Francophone members









Economic.



To

of scale and increase the effectiveness of actions.
8. Better take into account the specificities German (cfr. Infra).

280

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Proposal flagship 324: Optimize and streamline public structures and
strengthen partnerships between them
We must bring our governance in the era of optimization. Optimize is to make
Doing more with less is to strengthen the effectiveness of policy by reducing, simplifying, or merging
by cooperating structures.
1. Better cooperation between municipalities
With fiscal and economic crisis, municipalities, such as police or zones soon
Emergency zones must make savings while expenses increase
It is therefore essential to optimize their management at strengthening partnerships between them and
as well as the coherence and effectiveness of some services
The CDH offers:
-

Develop a supra communal dynamics, particularly through the living areas,
notably to allow the engagement of experts from several municipalities, do
joint procurement, have central purchasing public, promote
common infrastructures (waste reception centers, sports and cultural centers.) joint services such
including service as peacekeepers, administrative sanctions (mediators,
services coordinator official), interest provision of services generally spouses etc.
Some financial incentives may be granted to municipalities which are part of a
Dynamic optimization

-

Strengthen identically partnerships between police areas and between areas
Police and emergency areas to generate economies of scale

-

In Brussels, set up at the regional level, support services to municipalities
including a common central purchasing for municipalities and police districts which
wish with opportunities for joint procurement, service and technical advice
logistics to assist municipalities and regions in the preparation of specifications, a
administrative support service to the administrative formalities of Commons, a cell
is looking for European subsidies and intra Belgian by Joint

-

In Brussels, centralize debt and treasuries of the 19 communes and CPAS not undermine
municipal autonomy
2. Simplification of operation and optimization of public structures

Despite the efforts made and the harvested reforms, we still have too many
public structures to the costs of expensive operation that may create double
jobs and whose added value is not demonstrated. We must enter into a general logic
optimization and simplification of mergers or services that can only strengthen
efficiency and generate margins for new policies
The CDH offers in Brussels and Wallonia:
-

Establish an inventory of the various local public services and structures, local supra,
intermunicipal and regional.

-

Propose a reform based on an analysis of missions, costs and appreciation of these
structures and internal organization, to simplify or reduce the number of
structures within the structures and the number of services, delete or merge services
for which the need is established and impact margins earned on deployment projects
regional.

-

Operate the same approach within federal, regional and provincial.
281

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Proposition 325: Supporting common in their proximity function
The town is the first public authority, that of proximity. The municipalities provide
so many services to the direct attention of citizens and businesses both in terms
of roads, education, economic development or security. The weight
Economic common is therefore the latter accounting for almost 50%
public investment in Wallonia. In recent years, local power has undergone many
pressures, be it financial, institutional, imposing burdens on other levels of authority
or the European requirements. All these elements have a direct impact on public service
local and requires us to take adequate measures to ensure the sustainability and effectiveness of
local tool and thus consolidate this indispensable lever for action for the future of our regions.
The CDH therefore proposes the following:
1. With regard to the effectiveness of the community action
-

Strengthening synergies between and paralocaux (CPAS, association, ...) at
including support services.

-

Encourage the creation of mediators to assist municipal administration who consider
harmed.

-

Conduct an operational optimization of local taxes and fees and delete
obsolete taxes or against-productive.

-

Simplify, standardize and streamline the various subsidies granted to local authorities.

-

Establish an extensive drawing rights and subsidization, the level of the region
Walloon, Walloon all policies enabling real planning
Multi-year for municipalities, provinces and supra-municipal initiatives and expand
Skills Regional Centre for Assistance to Municipalities (CARC) for better monitoring
municipal finance, including outside any management plan.

-

Establishing a genuine Town development plan incorporating planning
Multi-year investments.

-

Better reflect the typical municipal investment cycles in
European accounting standards ESA95.

-

Develop a dynamic supra-in for creating solidarity spaces
where cities, municipalities and provinces decide to unite and walk together towards the future and
on a voluntary basis, without establishment of a level of power.

-

Systematically offset the financial burden borne by the new updates towns
CPAS or as a result of decisions taken by other levels of government; and guarantee
financial neutrality of the reform of the emergency zones.

-

Merge unnecessary administrative services between CPAS and common.

-

Extend the jurisdiction of the Court of Auditors to municipalities.

2. With regard to the inter-
-

Regulate more strictly the designation in different intermunicipal bodies,
Such tight management bodies, ensuring that any strategic decision is taken within
of the intermunicipal bodies.

-

Strengthen the role of municipalities in the decisions taken in bodies
the intermunicipal.

282

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
-

Strengthen the selection and training of administrators not only on the operation
an intermunicipal but especially on the technical nature of the matters dealt with in the intermunicipal,
and ensure selection of directors on the basis of their skills.

-

Rationalize the number and inter-mission by promoting mergers
possible transfers.

326 flagship proposal: Leave the body to the Communauté métropolitaine
The Brussels socio-economic influence far beyond the territories of the nineteen municipalities
of the Brussels-Capital Region. Close cooperative relations between Brussels and its
hinterland are essential and mutually beneficial to all three regions and the whole country.
To actively promote this cooperation, the sixth state reform has created a
Brussels metropolitan community.
For the CDH, the creation of the Metropolitan Community is absolutely necessary, so
many issues require coordination and collaboration between the different levels of
Authorities involved: about mobility, waste, water, energy ... It is therefore
foster a working mode by theme and by combining the municipalities affected by subjects
addressed.
Therefore, the CDH proposes to enter without delay the agreement of cooperation essential to the implementation
implementation of this metropolitan community. Depending on the evaluation given to his
operation, it may be appropriate to gradually expand its mission and expand its
composition of economic and social actors.
Metropolitan Community must deploy its particular action in the following areas:
1. In terms of mobility, in particular to ensure a coordinated management of the ring, overflying
Brussels, coordinate the different public transport networks;
2. On the environment, to ensure joint management of water and storm basins
as well as waste;
3. In terms of safety to federate security policy and also to reinstate a
language allowance in the municipalities with facilities for police and avoid rapid rotation and
better and prevent break-ins in the periphery;
4. In terms of services to people in order to promote a concerted vision of the offer
field of early childhood, nursing homes, libraries, ...
5. In the economic field in order to promote concerted development of shopping centers
sports facilities and cultural and recreational spaces.

Proposition 327: Enhancing the quality of life of the periphery
The political crisis that shook Belgium before and after the 2010 elections has crystallized around
the outskirts of Brussels. The sixth state reform has led to a crisis and a change
institutional, to the periphery, through reforms that protect the electoral rights and
strengthen the rights in judicial matters of the inhabitants of the periphery and entrusting to a
linguistically Joint jurisdiction - the general meeting of the State Council - the task of slicing
disputes concerning the rights of all residents of peripheral municipalities.
For CDH, two key challenges to meet, about the periphery. The first is to
ensure and defend sustainable way, the achievements of the institutional agreement. The second is to
implement the Metropolitan Community, and through it, cooperative relations
283

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
narrow between Brussels and its hinterland in the areas of employment, the economy,
spatial planning, mobility, public works or the environment.

Proposition 328: Establishing privileged connections between the Region
Wallonia, the French Community and the German Community
75,000 Belgian citizens living in the German-speaking region. German Community
is a component of the federal state. This is a federated community as well as the two
Communities of other countries.
As part of the sixth reform of the State, the German community will be transferred
skills of organizational autonomy materials, cultural matters, health care and
Assistance to individuals, family allowance, control movies, justice, Market
employment. In this context, close relations between the Walloon Region and the Community
German must be established.
Below, find the CSP program, which we support: (hyperlink)
Despite its size, the German Community is a federated entity in its own right, in the same
As the other two communities of the country. The CDH offers:
-

Ensure representation of the German-speaking Community in the House at a
Institutional next discussion.

-

Increase synergies and cooperation between the Walloon Region and the Community
German in order to optimize the skills of each of these communities.

-

Consider transferring, under Article 139 of the Constitution, the exercise of
some regional powers, such as planning, housing and
subordinate authorities (composition, organization, operation of Commons, change
or correction of municipal boundaries, institutions agglomerations and federations
municipalities located in the territory of the German-speaking region, the organization of elections
municipal etc.), the German community to make them more homogeneous blocks
skills.

-

Consider, for reasons of simplification and rationalization, to entrust to the Community
German-support skills and finances of the Province of Liège on
the territory of the nine German-speaking municipalities. The DG is already organizing
the supervision of the municipalities of the German speaking region. The exercise of competence
Provincial by the German community bodies would make it
homogeneous blocks of skills relating to subordinate authorities, cultural materials
and customizable.

-

Ensure, in the interests of consistency and in the framework of the 6th state reform, transfer
jurisdictional matters related to employment and tourism.

-

Continue to develop synergies with its privileged partners as the Region
Wallonia and the French Community, through cooperation agreements.

-

Participate in the development of Walloon policies while ensuring the adaptation of these
past its own peculiarities.

-

Amplify and promote contacts and synergies.

284

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Proposal flagship 329: Concentrate European action on a core
The construction of the European Union is a major achievement for all European and
the entire world. The integration of European countries in this political construction allowed
to foster peace and stability within the Union as well as outside its borders while
promoting the vitality of the economy and the welfare of its inhabitants. Today, however, the project
Europe was diluted. He is no longer able to dream citizens or to be commensurate with the challenges
future.
The response to the major challenges we face can not find a real
response by a deepening of the European ideal. Indeed, these challenges have never been
also global: economic and financial regulation, demographic challenges, climate change,
environmental protection, resource depletion, etc. Only a political statement that
global level is likely to provide a fully credible response to these global challenges.
The European Union faces a triple conflict: 1. a cash dispute related to the number of States
members; 2. a conflict of goals between those wishing particularly the creation of a large area
free economic exchange against those who defend European integration in all
areas ; 3. conflict and methods between advocates of the intergovernmental method and
intra-European competition and those who wish the emergence of solidarity and
definition of common standards to all.
For the CDH, the European Union must skip a course: that of jumping to an integration model
pushing policy. The CDH is aware that this leap is not feasible short or medium term to 28
Member states. Therefore, the CDH offers:
1.

The emergence of a hard core of European states wishing to move forward in a vision
federalist, which goes beyond the intergovernmental framework but adopts strong institution with
a real democratic legitimacy. This core could be formed from
Eurozone or even a smaller number of States.

2.

MEPs from these countries will have the ability to choose commissioners
European within them. They will constitute a decision-making body capable of deciding by majority
qualified (and not unanimously as is currently the case).

3.

This Europe "concentrated" will focus in particular on some crucial advances as
convergence of tax and social security regimes, regulation of financial markets and
the establishment of solidarity mechanisms between Member States, building
environmental standards of production and consumption, investment in
transport networks, energy and telecommunications, the affirmation of the European voice
at the World level.

285

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Action 5. Opening to the world
International relations of the European Union and Belgium are marked by
many challenges: the major socio-economic challenges, depletion of some resources, and
the hoarding of these resources by few, the relative decrease in power
American, the emergence of regional powers, failing states that provide the basis for
terrorist movements, the Cold War policies of perfumes, arms expenditure in
Asia, the response to global issues such as global warming or
pandemics, cyber threats, etc.
For the CDH, the answer to these challenges is related to the stronger affirmation of the European Union at
World. At a time when European diplomacy must make progress, it is important, and not
contradictory, Belgium strengthens the possibility to act to promote its interests and
values.

Proposition 330: Support for democratic change in wills
our immediate neighborhood
For the CDH, the answers that the European Union has made to recent tensions and conflicts in
its immediate neighborhood (arable Spring, Syria, Israel-Palestine conflict, Ukraine, ...) are
insufficient. It is necessary that the European Union is increasingly strong manner and is committed
particularly in the following guidelines:
1. Supporting democratization in the southern Mediterranean by creating a global process
focused on the political, economic and human right and develop axes
privileged with Morocco and the Maghreb countries by reinforcing the Union for the
Mediterranean.
2. Weigh the Israeli-Palestinian peace process to give itself the means to
implementing its common position (including the refusal of any recognition of the presence
colonies which violate international law).
3. Solve the frozen conflicts in Europe: The EU should be more involved in the search for a
resolution of protracted conflicts in the countries of Eastern Europe (Transnistria NagornoKarabakh, South Ossetia, Abkhazia) and Cyprus.
4. Support the democratic demands of the people in the east of Europe, by a
Enhanced Eastern Partnership (particularly in Ukraine);
5. Strengthen European civil protection to allow rapid and coordinated action
Effective Member States and the EU in the event of natural or human disasters, and in
outside Europe.

Proposition 331: The fight against terrorism and radicalism in
international
The crisis in Syria, the development of Africa and the Sahel show us the increase of terrorism
Jihadist at the gates of Europe. More than ever we must make a collective strategy
Belgian and European level to prevent radicalism and fight against terrorism.
The CDH offers:
-

introduce projects against radicalism in cooperation projects
development.

286

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
-

establish an international strategy against radical movements on the internet.

-

establish a service speech against internet at European level.

-

strengthen partnerships in security and intelligence between European countries,
between Europe, the USA, Canada and Australia and also with Turkey, Morocco and
Maghreb countries, Jordan and Lebanon and these countries massive support in the fight they
waging against terrorism.

-

Reforming the status of specialized investigating judges terrorism to be integrated into a
more coordinated approach and in better tune with the public security imperatives.

-

Strengthening the number of prosecutors and judges instructions assigned to the fight
Anti-terrorist.

-

Take better account of this phenomenon in the foreign policy of Belgium and its
relations with third countries. It is particularly important fight against certain satellite channels
incite hatred and violence and limit the influence of third countries on exercise and
financing of religious in Belgium;

-

Give the European Union a new global strategy for prevention of movements
violent radicals that combines support for national policies of the Member States and the
prevention in third countries;

-

Integrating migration policy in this process (refusal of visas or ordered to leave
territory);

-

Continue to fight against the chains holding radicalism;

-

Strengthen cooperation with the Maghreb countries, Turkey, Lebanon and Jordan as well
with the US, Canada and Australia;

Proposition 332: Strengthening Multilateralism for a more human world
and redefine the priorities of the Belgian international policy
Belgium is a small country yet has often played a leading role in relations

international: it has therefore a higher influence its size. It conducts its foreign policy
consistently and continuously, focusing on multilateralism, based on values ​​and principles,
that make it a reliable and valued partner. It must retain and strengthen this approach,
including becoming the megaphone middle powers.
The profound changes in the global context are not as economic or strategic. They
affect higher education and research, and now fully internationalized
subject to strong competition. Cultural creation trouble following the explosion of technology and
broadcast methods. The nature of the societal challenges requires global answers,
also a public policy so that players can Wallonia and Brussels
influence the responses that must be made.
Strategically refocus the external relations of the federal entities needs to serve
International Development economic actors, scientific, social and cultural Wallonia
and Brussels. This shift must be combined with a rationalization of tools and programs,
especially overseas representation networks.
The world is changing, Europe is being built, new needs appear and Belgium and should know
decide what she wants and can carry as specific actions at international level.

287

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
The CDH offers:
1. Establish a new Belgian convergent strategy on international politics
including: 1) setting the priority countries and regions for us, 2) establishing in these countries
Regions and the specific roles we want to play, with what means, what links with
cooperation, economic diplomacy and the actions of the federal entities, 3) strengthening soon
in convergence with the federated entities, cooperation and our political policy
Economic export and presences.
2. Establish policies strengthened partnerships between Belgium and some states
selected based on our historical ties, common interests files to
promote political, economic, commercial, social, environmental
(eg, Morocco, DRC, or Thailand) and to be
focus on a number of defined priorities.
3. Towards a coherent international action in Belgium, ensuring that
international relations, development cooperation, European issues and
international economic relations from the federal and Communities and Regions
reinforce and interact positively. CDH will ensure the external representation
consistent and strong in Belgium and its communities and regions for more
efficiency and visibility of its political action and its economic and sociopolitical interests.
4. Refocus strategically external relations of the federal entities serving
International development needs of economic actors, scientific, social
and cultural Wallonia and Brussels. This shift goes hand in hand with
rationalization of tools and programs, particularly representation networks
abroad.
5. Strengthen the controls on weapons, especially regarding the weapons
strongly affect civilian populations and avoiding the weapons can be sold
re-exported.
6. To contribute to nuclear disarmament, including advocating for the establishment of zones
denuclearized, particularly in the Middle East and remove nuclear weapons in Kleine
Brogel collaboratively with NATO.
7. Strengthen access to justice and the fight against impunity, essential elements of the rule of
law.
8. Redefining our Africa policy to deploy in a more particular priority
in the Great Lakes and the Democratic Republic of Congo. To support the process
Peace in Central Africa, to continue the efforts for peace and stability
region, the fight against impunity and against corruption, promote good governance and
development of local economic activities to promote the well-being of
populations.

Proposition 333: Promoting respect of international trade
human development
Trade is an issue that affects the entire planet. Globally, the Organization
World Trade (WTO) has earned a first agreement in late 2013, reviving the Doha Round
which began in 2001 was moribund. It is essential to save multilateralism, only system
allows all countries to participate in the drafting of trade rules and enforce them.
In parallel, the EU continues to develop bilateral partnerships, which may constitute
embryos multilateral agreements.
288

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
Therefore, the CDH offers:
1. Include in any agreement, multilateral or bilateral, respect for human rights, law
labor and human standards, social and environmental. Fair Trade
plays a key role in development cooperation, making
need strong action on policy coherence for
development.
2. Develop a strong transatlantic partnership between the EU and the US with a free market and
just based on common values, to assume a role of global leader
to manage global threats and challenges. Transatlantic Partnership
Investment and Trade (PTIC) should be the first step towards a market
Transatlantic Free, which should evolve to also include in the future the American countries
Latin. The PTIC contribute to increasing growth, creating more jobs and
prosperity. It will also strengthen the geopolitical position of the community
Transatlantic.
3. As part of this PTIC, the elements of the EU's identity must be affirmed
strong manner, particularly with regard to social norms and
environmental, specificity of the cultural sector and agricultural production. He
The same is true for the agreements currently under negotiation, such as the one with India and
Canada.

334 flagship proposal: Focusing development cooperation on
protection of global public goods
Social and economic development of all countries of the world is a factor of peace and
stability for all. A safe environment contributes to the fight against poverty and welfare
Economic and Social reduces the risk of conflict Yet there is a reduced attention
for development policies, as evidenced by the decline in official aid
development in many countries.
The Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), launched in 2000, formed an agenda
mobilizing for those who want a more just world where everyone has rights of its most
fundamentals.
Did you know that the official development assistance accounted for 70% of North-South financial flows
in the 70s, and only 13% today?
This mobilization has made a number of results. For example, the proportion of
people living in extreme poverty has been cut in half globally. But the record
is still very unsatisfactory. 1.2 billion people still live in extreme poverty,
on less than $ 1.25 a day. One in eight continues to lie belly
empty.
Acting in line
The coherence of policies for development means working to ensure that the
objectives and outcomes of development policies of government are not eroded
by other policies of that same government which impact on developing countries
development, and that these other policies support, as far as possible the objectives of
development. (OECD)

289

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
Belgium spends nearly two billion in development cooperation. However it
moving away from its commitment to spend 0.7% of GNI to cooperation. In recent years, its
budget has been reduced several times.
The CDH proposes to fundamentally rethink international cooperation. We must get out of a
vision of a transfer of financial flows and North-South capacities. The world has changed. By China
eg second world economy and able to send a probe to the moon, is
officially a developing country and as such may benefit from public aid
Development ...
For the CDH, the concept of global public goods (BPM) offering for development cooperation
new courses of action. This approach leads to favor sectoral approaches
(the emancipation of women, access to water for all, protection of biodiversity and
natural resources, education and training) over geographical approaches
Traditional development.
Global public goods, what is it?
Global public goods are goods, services or resources that benefit all. The fight
against climate change, gender equality, preservation of biodiversity,
pandemic control or peace and security are examples.
This approach also overcomes the context of a bilateral relationship of North-South blocs,
since it is comprehensive and allows to consider the South in all its diversity,
the least developed countries to emerging and emerged.
Therefore, the CDH proposes to refocus international cooperation on the protection of public goods
world, and in particular the following:
1. Support the investment policies in human capital, health and good
governance.
2. Supporting women, central players in development: Women must be at the heart
any development policy. It is also essential to reaffirm the importance of
gender equality and end discrimination against women, ensuring
in particular to the way budgets take these dimensions into account. Women
an essential role in what should be the priorities of Belgian cooperation: the priority given
family farming to ensure food security for southern populations, priority
given to basic social sectors, as they lay the foundations for sustainable growth and
inclusive. The specific needs of children must also be taken into account,
particularly in terms of education and health.
3. Respect our commitments: 0.7% of GDP for Cooperation: Belgium must seek to
achieve its national and international commitment to spend 0.7% of GDP on
international cooperation. The Belgian official development assistance must be in compliance
the Paris Declaration, and ensuring its harmonization within a European framework, in
the specific functions and sectoral and geographical expertise. Innovative sources
financing, such as the tax on financial transactions, must be implemented.
4. Support citizen initiatives of solidarity: In Belgium, numerous citizens
mobilize in projects to help the communities in the South. It
not only helps to concretely help southerners but also carries
of development education at home. A mechanism should be put in place to
support these initiatives, in particular by facilitating networking and the tax deductibility of
donations while avoiding red tape. It should also facilitate transfers
Financial migrants by reducing transaction costs.

290

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
5. Review the core countries: The countries supported by the Belgian bilateral cooperation,
are now several countries with higher average incomes, have a strong growth of
natural resources and therefore have the means to take into account the inequalities
affect their citizens. Belgium should initiate a dialogue with these countries
gradually reorienting its bilateral cooperation with countries that have less
resources to address development challenges and help their people out of the
poverty.
6. Towards a coherent European policy and Belgium against country
Development (to analyze the impact of international policies), which will result
including the presence of the European Commissioner for Trade Tips
development and vice versa.
7. Streamline cooperation instruments given the large number of existing agencies.

Proposition 335: Laying the foundations for a future European army
The sources of instability are many in the world, mainly because of tensions
the resources, isolationism and ideological tensions, authoritarian regimes, the
nuclear proliferation, organized crime, poverty, political instability
several regions in Africa, Asia, the Middle East, to the margins of Europe. To be an actor
credible in foreign policy, the EU must be able to project an autonomous defense, in
especially in its neighborhood in order to contribute to international security.
Defence remains an essential component of a credible international strategy. The Union
Europe must become a real player on the global scene, particularly in the field of
defense. It must produce safe and not only benefit. Without questioning
Atlantic solidarity, a pillar of our security for 65 years, the EU must be prepared to implement
a true European defense.
Therefore, the CDH offers:
1. Establish a "white paper" European Defence to establish an inventory, a vision
and long-term proposals on security and EU defense strategy.
2. Strengthen cooperation by setting up a permanent structure for the
planning of defense operations at European level, ie neighborhood
general European.
3. Streamline expenses: EU has strategic gaps (transport, refueling,
intelligence, etc.) and no Member State can only counteract these deficiencies. Alone
a pooling of efforts will help to address them. Domestic investments
must therefore be integrated in a European schedule.

291

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Proposition 336: Optimize the Belgian Defence
Belgium registered its defense in a European perspective. It must be able, in
EU to assume its responsibilities in a multipolar world. But Belgium can not act alone.
"We must abandon the idea that each Member State individually has capacities
national. It is for the EU as a whole that it is to be a complete military player ".2
The CDH wants to continue the policy followed in recent years, while the part of a
clear prospect of European army, and for Belgium specialization in niches
excellence.
Did you know that each year, the Belgian Defence is recruiting nearly 1,500 people?
Belgium must assume its share of responsibility in the European and global security, and that
can be done in particular by an air force pointed. However, it will ensure that
investment in a component does not prohibit investment in necessary
other components.
1. Strengthening cooperation with partners and niches of excellence: The Belgian Defence played
a leading role in partnerships with its European neighbors. She also developed a
recognized expertise in a number of areas such as mine clearance, the fight against
Piracy, air operations, major burns.
2. Investing in the future: A reliable army must have proper military equipment. What
involves substantial strategic investments. It should also ensure that these
investments have economic, technological and financial benefits in Belgium.
3. Strengthen the attractiveness of Defense. Various tools already exist for the attractiveness of
Defense (military status, short career). The image of the army must be valued and must
ensure that the military feel good about their function and status. To stick to
to better employment areas, a military district should be open in Hainaut.
4. Establish a better linguistic balance within the army: The army must reflect the
nation. The highest office should not be monopolized by one group
linguistics. It is therefore important to implement the recommendations of the Working Group
Federal Parliament on linguistic balance within the army.
5. Strengthen the synergies between defense and the police through a relative cooperation agreement
joint procurement, mobility of staff between services, the distribution of some
tasks, joint initiatives.

Proposition 337: Contribute to maintaining or restoring peace
Belgium should be ready to assume its responsibilities as a member of the EU, NATO to
the international community and thus contribute to collective security. The use of force is a
instrument to be used as a last resort, in accordance with international legality.
The military option should be accompanied by a civil dimension to contribute effectively to the
conflict resolution.
Therefore, the CDH offers:
1. Participate in missions abroad: Participation of Belgium in military operations
abroad will be in compliance with international law. In order to strengthen control
Democratic, the House of Representatives should be promptly informed of the missions
2

Egmont paper.

292

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
that the armed forces are forced to perform abroad, and the extension of such missions
should be subject to the approval of the House.
2. Participate in the reform and training of some countries in the security forces. Belgium
should continue to support the security sector reform in partner countries, alone or
in international partnerships to contribute to the reconstruction of these countries.

Action 6. Develop a comprehensive migration policy, responsible and
solidary
The wealth of the world is also its human and cultural diversity. This diversity results
largely the evolution of the world population and its high mobility. 3 Europe, because of its
relative prosperity and its space of freedom and peace, continues to attract people come
the various regions of the world. Mainly for economic and geopolitical reasons,
people tend to migrate from the south to the north. These migrations are a challenge, but
they are also an opportunity. To do this, migration must be managed and
regulated, with a foundation for integration policy, responsibility and solidarity. He is
essential to ensure respect for universal values, but also the participation in a project
common partnership for multiple identities, varied and dynamic.
The fight against illegal immigration and abuse must be pursued with greater attention to
criminal networks that exploit the distress of human beings.
We need to ensure the best welcome people admitted for residence, to facilitate their
participation in the Belgian company. However, in case of refusal of stay, the applicant must return
be organized with priority for voluntary return, coupled with personalized support and
search for a durable solution in the country.

Proposition 338: Provide a real European policy on migration and
asylum
European policy on asylum and migration in recent years has mainly
focused on strengthening border controls and cooperation between gardefrontières to prevent illegal immigrants movements, especially along the border
southern sea. This policy, inefficient, contributed to many human tragedies.
For CDH, it is necessary to change course in this matter and to engage in the following way:
-

Strengthening international cooperation and development aid in the countries from which come
migrants;

-

Strengthen cooperation between the Member States of the Union in the fight against the dies
of human trafficking and smuggling;

-

Establish a true common European policy on asylum and migration management
to progressively harmonize the rules on asylum within the EU and allow
more balanced sharing of the impact of migration among member states.

3

The world population has now reached 7 billion people. One in seven people is a migrant due to migration
a country other than the country of birth (214 000 000), or even within the country (750 000 000) - The Swedish Chairmanship of the
Global Forum on Migration and Development (GFMD) 2013-2014 program document pp.5-6

293

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Proposition 339: Ensuring the right to respect for private and family life in
migration situations
The migration resulted in the formation of a new family model, the family
transnational, characterized by dispersion in several countries of the same family.
In such cases, the family relationship still exists but, given the scale of migration, the
families become social units with variable geometry.
The CDH offers:
1. To objectify the granting of short-stay visa to families by providing guarantees for
empower the family member covered by the purpose of the stay for which the visa is
request ;
2. Ensure that each application for family reunification is the subject of an individual examination
and that a thorough check of the applicant's situation is achieved both in terms of
legal conditions that in making the balance of interests. Thus, in some cases,
the applicant's specific situation may warrant the issuance of a residence permit that
all material conditions are not met;
3. Assess legislative changes in recent years and adapt the law, if
applicable. Including:
a) the condition of stable income, regular and sufficient taking into account the situation of
independent;
b) protection of victims of domestic violence that deserves attention
particular in consultation with stakeholders in the field to overcome the difficulties
encountered.

Proposition 340: Provide adequate protection to persons
seriously ill
Everyone has the right to enjoy the best health attainable. It is up to
authorities to ensure respect for this right both in respect of its nationals and nationals
foreigners on its territoire4. Indeed, the medical regulation is part of the right to
international protection, as well as asylum and subsidiary protection. For this, it is
to rely on both the situation of the patient as the availability of appropriate care in his country
original.
Today, if the principle of medical filter (admissibility phase) and related internal legislation are
not in dispute, its application and the large number of applications declared inadmissible
challenge.
Therefore, the CDH offers:
1. Consider a legal changes to regulate the application of Article 9 ter of the law
1980 (Medical regularization).
2. Increase collaboration with CEDOCA (central document of the General Commission
for Refugees and Stateless Persons), which has extensive knowledge on the situation in
countries of origin, and objectify medical databases used by the Agency
foreigners.

4

Art. 9 ter of the Law of 15 December 1980.

294

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
3. Create a full jurisdiction appeal to the Aliens Litigation Council. The
cdH regrets that the current procedure does not leave room for a cons-medical expertise.
When a negative decision is taken by the Immigration Department, only one remedy
cancellation, limited to the examination of the legality of the decision is possible. The Council
Aliens Litigation has no instruction can and can not for example
sought, in case of conflicting medical opinion of the attending physician and doctor of the Office
foreign, arbitration of an independent third party expert. Organize a suspensive appeal
full litigation would remedy.
4. Create an analysis device for appropriate cooperation measures. The CDH offers
establishment of an analysis device to conduct an adequate and sustainable policy.
Today information is scarce on the practical application of Article 9b. There is
no statistics on diseases coupled with the applicant's nationality. A
focus by disease and country will identify diseases and conditions that are most
often the subject of a request for assistance in Belgium. This information can serve as
basis for developing international cooperation projects that meet the needs
field and improve care in countries of origin.

Proposition 341: Securing a home and protection to groups
Vulnerable
The right to asylum is a fundamental human right. Belgium must protect
actual persons at risk of persecution and / or inhuman or degrading treatment in case
back in the country. The Government has adopted many measures to speed
the asylum procedure while maintaining the quality of it by an individual and thorough review
demands. These measures have helped to solve the crisis in the home.
The CDH offers:
1. Allow the organization of a temporary shelter for victims of conflict and crisis
major humanitarian in coordination with the High Commissioner for Refugees Nations
United and the European Union.
2. Provide a reception system adapted to various situations of applicants to ensure
a human host:
-

Reaching up to the balance between collective and individual home device under
the closure of childcare places;
- Provide buffer places ("bufferplaces") to deal with a possible crisis

major humanitarian;
- Develop specialized care spaces to meet the needs of people
vulnerable (eg. the center for young mothers).
3. Pursue resettlement programs: 1) raising awareness among authorities and CPAS
communal participation in the resettlement program and reception of recognized refugees;
2) intensifying the resettlement rates in a major humanitarian crisis.
4. Organize a rapid asylum procedure and quality: ensuring proper motivation
protection refusals.
5. Ensure uniqueness jurisprudence on asylum between the different chambers of
Council of foreign litigation.

295

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Proposition 342: The fight against fraud and abuse while ensuring
respect for fundamental rights
Regulating migration flows involves defining, for each procedure, conditions for granting
stay clear and ensure compliance with those laws fighting against immigration
illegal and abuse.
Therefore, the CDH offers:
1. Continue the fight against marriage and cohabitation of convenience while
ensuring family unity and the right to marriage: by setting up the database
containing the relevant information on marriages and cohabitations of
potential complacency, to the relevant authorities (the registrars,
parquet and Aliens Office).
2. Continue information campaigns in countries of origin.

Proposition 343: Better regulate economic migration
In 2005 the European Commission presented an action program on legal immigration
in which it provides for the adoption of five directives concerning economic migration
Third-country nationals: Directive permits unique5, the Directive on highly workers
qualifiés6, the directive on posted workers within the same entreprise7 and
saisonniers8 directive on workers, both under discussion at
European.
The single permit directive was to be transposed into Belgian law by 25 December 2013
later. We are still awaiting transposition.
Therefore, the CDH offers:
1. Transpose quick single permit directive and implement the application procedure
only by creating one-stop shops which are subject of an agreement
Cooperation between the federal and newly relevant regions in the matter.
2. Set clear criteria for issuing work for more
predictability in the decision of economic authorization service and provide the FPS
Economy published lists of sectors of economic and creative needs
jobs of consultation with the regions and adapted to local demand.
3. Allow people with a residence permit through the occupation of a job (permit B)
extend the stay in case of change of profession to a new employer,
as long as it occupies new jobs.

5

Directive 2011/98 / EU of 13 December 2011 establishing a single application procedure for issuing a single permit
allowing third-country nationals to reside and work in the territory of a Member State and on a common set of
rights for workers from third countries legally resident in a Member State.
6
Directive 2009/50 of 25 May 2009 on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for employment
highly qualified.
7
Proposal for a Directive of the European Parliament and the Council establishing the conditions of entry and residence of nationals of countries
third parties as part of an intra-corporate transferees, July 13, 2010, COM (2010) 378.
8
Proposal for a Directive of the European Parliament and the Council establishing the conditions of entry and residence of nationals of countries
third parties for the purposes of seasonal employment, 13 July 2013, COM (2010) 379.

296

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

344 Lighthouse Proposal: Create a mandatory course for home
new arrivals from non-EU countries
If some newly arrived can benefit from an anchor in our society through family,
work or studies, others will not easily find their place in our society
by their lack of knowledge of national languages ​​and / or operation of civic institutions
Belgian society more generally.
The reception of newcomers course aims to provide support and information
to empower newcomers and the exercise of citizenship through participation
full to society. It includes a docking module, training in the language of the region,
training in citizenship and social and professional orientation. In the module frame
Home, newcomers are informed about the existence of the route, their rights and obligations and
are geared toward a regional integration center.
Understand
Newcomers are defined as persons of foreign origin residing legally in
Belgium for less than three years and with a residence permit for more than three months. Among ceuxci include asylum seekers, recognized refugees or beneficiaries of protection
Subsidiary (12%), people arrived in the framework of family reunification, workers
paid or students.
In Flanders, the decree says inburgering, adopted in 2003, sets up a uniform system-wide
the Flemish community as a whole. The integration program is compulsory
for all non-European foreigner and can also be followed on a voluntary basis, by
Belgian citizens of étrangère9 origin. Since 2006, a fine of 000 euros 50-5 was set
up for people who try to evade this obligation. While it is true that this is
not by courses that can be integrated, but by a real immersion and contact with society
Home The Flemish experience is that the host course yields positive results:
better socio-professional integration, better language skills, ...
Did you know that in 2010, there were just over 300,000 new arrivals for all
Belgium. Of these, 21% lived in Wallonia (1.8% of the population), 37% in Brussels (10%
of the population) and 42% in Flanders (2% of the population). More than half of them are
citizens of the European Union.
In Brussels, the Decree of 5 July 2013 organized a French home course throughout the
Region. Unlike Flanders, it is not mandatory. Newcomers are informed
the existence of the host course and are encouraged to go to a reception.
In order to allow the full participation of newcomers to the Belgian company, the CDH offers:
1. Create a mandatory course host of newcomers in Wallonia and Brussels. The bet
up of this course is the opportunity to develop and better coordinate the actions of
different operators currently undertaken. Match the home journey of a character
Mandatory overcomes the reluctance some might have to participate. He
also prevents dropouts, the rate is relatively high in
persons not subject to duress.
2. Organize a volunteer mentoring system in search of employment: CDH offers
set up a sponsorship system between a worker and a newly arrived experiencing
difficulties in finding a job. This individualized support creates links

9

Belgian born abroad with at least one parent was not born in Belgium.

297

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
interpersonal and intercultural while resting on a mode of operation associative
valuing volunteerism.
3. Strengthening learning a national language and literacy: that are a
key factors of integration. The mastery of the language facilitates access to employment,
social and cultural participation. We need to be more resources in support of associative
Literacy less privileged public and provided in each catchment area a "pole
alpha. "
4. Maintain and develop home devices and new arrivals schooling
(DASPA, formerly classes gateways) that allow newcomers to adapt to
specificities of education in Belgium, starting with French, the language of
learning.
5. Create an accelerated procedure for recognizing qualifications obtained abroad.

Proposition 345: Organize the return based on a humane solution and
durable
The return is an integral part of responsible migration policy. When a person is
unsuccessful asylum or she has not obtained a residence permit, the law must be respected and
the procedure which it provides must be pursued. An effective and humane management of return must
First focus on the voluntary return.
Forced return and confinement must remain a last resort measures. We must then ensure
monitoring conditions of detention and removal to combat violations and abuses
possible.
The CDH offers:
1. Promote the voluntary return: 1) by an individual accompaniment of those rejected
for their return in consultation with the various actors in the field (support
psychological, legal, social); 2) encouraging municipalities to participate in the program
SEFOR10 (Outreach, Follow-Up Return year).
2. Strengthen the readmission agreements by close collaboration between Belgium and countries
of origin, particularly in terms of identifying their nationals on
development cooperation in organizing the return and reintegration in the country,
particularly in terms of identifying their national and matters of cooperation
development.
3. Ensure effective monitoring of detention conditions and removal: 1) by treating
complaints within a reasonable time, even if the complainant expulsion; 2) by easing
formalism conditions for complaints to limit the cases of inadmissibility
to form patterns; 3) ensuring regular monitoring at all stages of remoteness.
4. Develop monitorings relating to the reception by the authorities of the destination country
the person subject to a measure of forced removal.

10

Sensibilize, follow up and return (www.sefor.be).

298

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Proposition 346: Support programs to Roma integration and
of travelers
The situation of Travellers in Europe has worsened in recent years11. They are
exposed to widespread discrimination, intolerance and stigma, particularly in the
public discourse. According to the Council of Europe, there would be 30,000 Roma on the Belgian territory is 0.29%
the population12. According to the European Roma rights Centre (ERRC), a very large
Most of them live below the poverty line. In March 2012 Belgium adopted a
National Strategy for Roma integration which pays particular attention to the
Participation of these to society. Moreover, a Council of Roma and Traveller Community was
created at the federal level.
Therefore, the CDH offers:
1. Develop partnerships with the communities of origin of the Roma to prevent
the discrimination they may be subject and uprooting.
2. Hold regular ministerial conferences: around a Roma Task Force and
assess the national Roma integration strategy based on targets and indicators
measurable.
3. Support and strengthen the Council of Roma, siniti and Travellers;
4. Providing solutions to Roma families in great difficulty.
5. Strengthen the specific school mediators for children Roms.Poursuivre policy
Walloon pilot experiments in the management of Travellers: notably by
multiplication of reception areas in the territory, in order to better manage and supervise these
nomadic peoples, with respect and dignity, in a harmonious with the neighborhood (cfr.
experience of the city of Namur).

Proposition 347: The fight against trafficking and human trafficking
Trafficking in human beings is the slavery of modern times. This is a serious violation of
freedom and dignity and a serious form of crime which must remain the fight
a priority.
The CDH offers:
1. Continue the implementation of the EU strategy for the eradication of
Trafficking for 2012-2016 (see proposal 44, axis 6 Europe).
2. Adopt a new national action plan against trafficking and human trafficking
based on the evaluation of the 2012-2014 plan, which must take account of gender specificity.
3. Intensify the fight against economic exploitation:
- Improve international cooperation of social inspection services in the fight
against economic exploitation;
- Impose a criminal liability mechanism solidarity against companies
order givers for acts of trafficking or human trafficking committed by a subcontractor (see proposal 124).

11

European Commission against Racism and Intolerance, Council of Europe (ECRI 2012)
Sixteenth, seventeenth, eighteenth and nineteenth reports submitted by Belgium on the implementation of the International Convention
on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination.
12

299

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
4. Strengthen detections and support mechanisms for victims, especially
children:
- Set up of "hotlines" for multilingual trafficked beings
humans on the entire national territory;
- Intensify the specific training of front-line services (police, magistrates) to
research and more effective identification of victims and networks;
- Provide adequate funding for specialized centers: Pag-Asa (Brussels), Surya
(Wallonia), Payoke (Flanders), by, for example, a convention system between
federal and state centers to ensure their funding over longer periods.
5. Develop the legal and technological tools in the fight against trafficking and smuggling
of people on the internet.

300

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Chapter 2. Respect the collective rules
Ensure harmonious living together is the ideal towards which every society tries to tender
human. To live together better ground rules are laid down that everyone should
to respect. The company is at the service of citizens to enforce these rules but also
prevent contravention to them, to ensure life safety.
One word of safety order: protect citizens against criminal acts and
against external events and disasters. It is in any case what did during cdH
whole legislature with Minister Joëlle Milquet from within which allowed a reduction in
12% crime figures between 2011 and 2012 and realized at once including the fight against
incivility via the law on administrative penalties, the second essential for police reform
optimize it, the great reform of the emergency zones, a new fight against radicalism
violent reach, and could despite budget constraints hired 1,200 more police officers in 2 years.
We must continue on this path.
Strengthening security application:
1. A full protection and security strategy for criminal acts and
especially the violent acts of some people or groups of people (crime)
based on three fundamental pillars: prevention, punishment and rehabilitation. For
achieve these objectives, we will during this legislature:
-

Adopt a more coherent prevention policy via a new note security framework
applicable at all levels of power and to the new challenges of crime and
new security domes to enhance coordination;

-

Achieving the reform of police optimization and extend it to the local police in order to have
more operational police on the ground, better trained, better organized;

-

Develop a new criminal strategy adapted to the new challenges through a new
National Security Plan;

-

Create new tools for national security in the field of cyber security and
information.

2. A protection strategy for civil security of citizens in relation to risks
Unintentional external events causing damage: fires, storms,
floods, nuclear accidents, crowd effects etc. claiming benefits
Professional anticipation, detection, prevention, communication and information
and of course protection and support in case of problems. To achieve this
objective, we must:
-

Implement the reform of the emergency zones

-

Integrating civil security in emergency zones

-

Strengthen the crisis center and deploy new disaster plans and modes
crisis communication.

Promote living together requires respect for every member of society. Respect and
safety should in the first instance be provided by youth education and population
in general. It must then be addressed preventively (including the presence of forces
of the order), repairing and, at the very end to become coercive educational. Security is both
Therefore the cause of living together and the result of thoughtful and consistent policies, which
constitute strong foundations to prevent criminal behavior.
301

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Action 1. Prevent crime and incivility
The issue of security is not just a theme of cops and robbers. There
crime and anti-social behavior should be understood in all their aspects, with particular
account of their underlying causes. Therefore, we must focus on prevention and
dialog. Respect society requires the ability to take part and contribute to activities
economic, social and political. Security is both the consequence that the cause of vivreensemble and results of coherent policies involving all actors in the field. There
best way to respond to offending behavior is primarily to prevent them from being committed.

Proposition 348: Creating a common network of prevention services for
improve efficiency
Many measures have been adopted to support joint and / or local associations
in their prevention efforts. These measures allow to develop a set of initiatives and
address prevention in its various facets. If this multiplicity of stakeholders guarantees
wealth of approaches and diverse initiatives, it runs the risk of dispersal
resources or the development of incompatible policies. So that every euro is used
better, the CDH wants a comprehensive, coherent and thoughtful is put in place,
developing maximum synergy, oriented towards outcomes.
To make the action more effective prevention initiatives, the CDH therefore proposes:
-

Establish a Interfederal Prevention Committee in order to optimize processes and
synergies of actions and create real consistency of all preventive policies
responsible authority levels.

-

Adopt a national framework for cross Note Security, in consultation with the
different departments both federal and regional and community. Note in the Framework
Integral safety material which was prepared by the interior minister will be in
Belgium, the background paper on which will be structured to align or other plans
policy related to safety. Its main lines of action will base the philosophy of
next strategic security plans to be concluded over the next four years. A
essential part of the note should include the national prevention strategy to ensure the
consistency between levels of government and common priorities, without prejudice to compliance
specificities.

-

Harmonize prevention tools by merging the strategic plans and safety
prevention and security contracts former allowances and harmonizing federal and tools
Regional prevention in the form of a cooperation agreement specifying partnerships and
rules harmonization.

-

Establish police zone by a communal prevention plan that promotes partnerships between
the cities. This requires (1) the identification of general goals, strategic and
operational key locally, based on the problems encountered in the field; (2)
pooling and allocation of subsidies for the realization of these essential tasks, (3)
creation of a unit to control the prevention policies.

-

Create multi-municipal joint networks of preventive services: The CDH offers
identify essential services for prevention policy and recommends creating them
the scale of the area or of the judicial district. These services could in particular
develop for peacekeepers, the actors of the youth assistance, etc.

-

Create domes prevention by locality or school basin that combine actors
school (and especially PMS), the actors of the youth assistance, service
302

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
prevention of locality (including the police) to coordinate action to be taken when
problematic situations are identified (see proposal 23);

Proposition 349: Fight against incivilities
The effectiveness of the sanction is an integral part of prevention, while the sense of impunity
reinforces insecurity. In this context, the municipal administrative sanctions (SAC)
up since 1999 an essential tool available to local authorities to act in the face
problem behavior. These sanctions target antisocial behavior and petty crime
is not always pursued by prosecutors because of the congestion of Justice (degradation
property, disturbing the peace, drinking in public places, illegal dumping, graffiti ...). Every
municipality may make arrangements adapted to its own field situation.
The new law adopted on the initiative of the Interior Minister Joëlle Milquet applies
since 1 January 2014. It focuses on alternative mechanisms of conflict resolution.
Mediation and citizen service are thus measures that intend to make a response
appropriate and proportionate. The aim is to raise awareness among offenders of incivility
committed, for example by monitoring specific training or the provision of services to
an association.
Cooperation between municipalities in the police areas must also be strengthened to
promote coherence and consistency. The CDH recommends the conclusion of agreements between the
common one policy area to harmonize the system (type of incivility sanctioned,
sanctions).
CDH offers from the case of:
-

Ensure fair application of municipal administrative sanctions mechanism.

-

Promote dialogue and alternative measures of conflict resolution (mediation, service
citizen) to raise awareness of the offender committed incivility.

-

Strengthening cooperation between local authorities, to provide a uniform answer and
consistent for the whole area.

-

Inform citizens on redress mechanisms in the fight against the application
possible abuse of the law by some local authorities.

-

Strengthening of budgetary resources through the regions to increase the staff officers
constatateurs the sanctioning agents, mediators and peacekeepers.

-

Organizing services to the maximum at the police zone:
o

Provide public drunkenness in hybrid offenses;

o

A service pluricommunal competent guardians of peace on the whole territory
of the area in order to strengthen preventive presence and dialogue in the streets;

o

A pluricommunal of constatateurs SAC Service agents who can operate on the
territory of several municipalities. They will be responsible to apply a general settlement
Police identical defining incivility subject to an administrative penalty
communal;

o

Pluricommunal a mediation service which is in search of a solution
sustainable suitable to all parties;

o

A pluricommunal service alternative sentences, especially responsible for the delivery
citizen.

303

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
-

Developing new prevention initiatives with regard to certain target groups (youth,
seniors, women, at-risk professions, authority function), target locations and target events
(football games, rallies, public transportation, critical infrastructure, premises
nodal).

-

Allow mayors to close establishments open to the public or public places
in which or around which a disturbance or nuisance are actual or foreseeable and
about which there has indications of criminal acts and respecting the rights and
individual freedoms.

Proposition 350 flagship Seek mediation to resolve conflicts
Mediation, whether criminal, family, social, school or calendar is a voluntary process
allowing the parties to the conflict, helped by a third party (the mediator) to find impartial set
sustainable solutions that suit them in calming the conflict goal. Mediation
has developed over the past fifteen years and affects all sectors of social life even if
it is in the family conflict she took the more important. Mediation is based on the
responsibility of the parties to conflict rather than relying on the judgment pronounced. In this it
carrier is often more of an improvement of living together in the long term.
The CDH has always promoted this process and wish more than ever to make inescapable in
way of looking at conflict resolution.
To make more systematic use of mediation as a means of resolving conflicts,
CDH offers:
-

Encourage, under criminal law, the police and public prosecutors to use mediation
to avoid criminal prosecution by a real awareness of the offense, the
the wrong done to the victim recognition and compensation thereof. Helped by an assistant
justice, the offender and the victim can talk about the facts and try to
agree on remedial measures in the broadest sense. This measure relates well
heard less serious offenses and avoids prosecution.

-

Encourage penal mediation Sentenced to prevent recurrence: The process
restorative justice has many advantages for authors, victims and their
communities. The victims are active participants in the mediation process and feel
recognized while the perpetrators are able to recognize and repair (materially and
symbolically) the harm and thus be empowered. The company as a whole,
benefits from trading restorative solutions to the conflict.

-

Provide systematically in all civil law systems the possibility of appeal to the
mediation.

-

Promote mediation in all conflicts, neighborhood, neighborhoods, for
incivility: for this mediation can lead to conflict resolution, it requires
to establish and develop mediation services at the municipal level and
family schedules.

304

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Proposition 351: Making the first mediation way to resolve
family conflicts
In Belgium, 28,000 divorces are granted per year must be added the many separations
unmarried couples. More than half of these separations and divorces are through the courts,
the other half by adjusting divorce by mutual consent or without taking measures
legal.
Did you know that in some countries family mediation and its state funding allows
93% resolve family conflicts?
In couples who separate and / or divorce of major conflicts around children (authority
parental, accommodation, food contributions) are played and are the subject of lengthy trials,
painful, expensive and exhausting especially. In addition, the final decision taken by a magistrate
sometimes satisfies neither one nor the other, and in no way alleviates the underlying conflict. These trials will often
relaunched for other decisions throughout the minority children or even on the
financial terms until the end of the training of children. The conflict is not appeased, children and
Parents do not emerge unscathed.
The CDH has obtained the creation of the Family Court and Youth (claim actors
field of family law for 35 years) by the passage of the law on July 30, 2013. The entry into force is
will perform on September 1, 2014. This court aims to highlight the modes
settlement of conflicts, especially mediation, at any time to try to appease the
conflict.
However, practice shows that the chances of successful settlement patterns and
mainly mediation are especially great when mediation is instituted before
the introduction of a procedure.
To make the first family mediation way to resolve conflicts, CDH offers:
-

Inform the public about mediation, its modes of intervention and its many benefits and
promote the call for a mediator before any judicial involvement, in particular through action
all socio-legal stakeholders (social workers, lawyers, family planning,
Frontline legal advice). In this respect, it is essential to take on,
Walloon region, funding for family planning consultations for mediation
non-lawyer mediators.

-

Set up in each judicial district or division during a permanence
Hearings family court immediately allowing people to consult a
mediator when the judge informed them and suggested they make a call
mediator.

-

Finance 5 mediation sessions where children are the issue of parental conflict.

-

Develop international mediation in international child abduction
respond quickly to this dramatic practice.

305

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Action 2 Optimising the functioning of police services for
close and effective police
The "optimization plan" implemented by the Ministry of the Interior contains a series of objectives
whose essential purpose a streamlined organization and optimized for decentralized
to increase the efficiency and modernity of the police, increase capacity and availability
operational police services and the quality of their services.
The new law on optimizing the police come into force on 1 October 2014 and its implementation
work involving many changes will be the priority of the legislature. It will extend
the principles to the local police. After the federal police, it will indeed turn to the police to
reform to face the new challenges.

Proposition 352: Continue the minimum recruitment by 1,400 aspirants
year
Since taking office, the Interior Minister advocated as means
Additional be made available for the benefit of the police. Since then, structural annual recruitment
increased to 1.400 instead of 1.000, and even 1500 to 2013. If these measures
indispensable and must be pursued, however, they are not sufficient. They must
also be coupled in a long-term vision, other optimization measures.
We must stabilize the annual recruitment level Candidate inspectors (AINP) to curb
demographic shock of policing. Two projects developed within the Federal Police
(Persepolis and Vitruvius) helped to highlight the extent of foreseeable departures in
the operational framework during 2014-2018. This will include increasing the
Police personnel in priority sectors of the judicial police and the police
administrative.
Therefore, the CDH proposes to continue recruiting at least 1,400 aspiring inspectors
police officers per year.

Proposition 353: Enhancing police presence on the ground by refocusing
their essential tasks of mission
Did you know that…
Since the inauguration of the CDH at the head of the Interior Ministry, 4,300 police officers have been recruited
in 3 years, including 400 in the Brussels public transport. Is 1.300 higher than the average
earlier. In the same period, there was a decrease in crime of 3.5% and
violence 8%.
The CDH advocates a simplified police, more efficient and more modern for a better service to the citizen.
We must adapt our policy to new societal needs with an integrated organization, ethics,
sustainable and effective facing the community.
The impact of prison guards strikes
In 2009, the police had to replace prison guards during 70 days. The figure rose
sequentially to 95 days in 2010 to 120 days in 2011 and finally 180 days in 2012.
A new division of tasks was made during this legislature to free capacity
police by broadening the skills of security officers in public transport
common security officers and peacekeepers. In addition a specific report was prepared
306

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
to determine the essential duties, and not to transfer critical of the police. On this basis
we have to :
-

Primarily reduce administrative burdens and excessive litigation;
Lighten police tasks to refocus them to the essential tasks to be more on
the land on the basis of the report submitted by the Minister of the Interior:
o

the transfer of prisoners, the police in the courthouse and in the presence
prisons during strikes will now belong to the security forces of justice;

o

Markup missions in accidents will now be the responsibility of operators
regional roads;

o

guard embassies and some of the benefits at European summits and
International should be taken by the Defence.

-

Organize a guaranteed service in prisons during strikes. Like
what exists for police services, exercise of the right to strike by agents
Prison would be subject to the following principles: 1) Prior to the strike announced by a
trade union organization; 2) A preliminary discussion with the competent authority,
on why the strike is envisaged; 3) Possibility for the Minister
to order the continuation or resumption of work of some agents (guaranteed service) to ensure
the tasks to be performed necessarily towards prisoners, even during
strike (meals, walks, visits, health care, judicial hearings, interviews with the lawyer).

-

Digitize procedures and generalize the new technological tools to strengthen
police capabilities in the field;

-

Optimizing the organization to free up operational capacity and prioritize in
replacements to operational units.

354 flagship proposal: Attach a standard maximum response time
for police services to ensure quick assistance in case
emergency call
As emergency services, the police are contacted and available round the clock, 7 days 7.
intervention function is to provide a response in a timely manner, to any appeal
requires police intervention. Rapid response to citizens is a
essential parameter of the police function.
However, to date, no standard for response time has been developed at
National. Police areas must themselves define spécifiques13 standards. Now it seems
most areas have not developed such time-related quality standards
intervention. The operating current standard is limited to "go quickly on
places ".
Response time, what is it?
Response time is the time that elapses between when the call-taker answers the call
citizen and when the response team arrives on the scene. It consists of several
: (1) Time of call-taking; (2) the time of dispatch; (3) the reaction time; (4)
travel time.

13

PLP Ministerial Circular 10 of 9 October 2001 on the organization and operation standards of the local police to
provide a minimum service equivalent to the population, point II, 3.

307

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
In 2008, the Interior Minister had sent a study mission to the General Inspectorate of the
federal police and local police about the response time and the impact of various types of
dispatching on the operational functioning of the integrated police. If this report does not conclude
a general problem in terms of response time, it makes a series of recommendations
in order to achieve greater efficiency in the organization of police services and improve
fonctionnement14.
Following the principle of excellence of the police function at CDH, we consider that a standard
intervention which merely states the principle of the earlier intervention at the scene is not
sufficient. A well formulated policy intervention allows for quick decision making and
adequate. It can also be the basis for a general communication to citizens,
specifying in particular the distinction between urgent and non-urgent calls.
It is clear that any appeal must be addressed in the quickest time. However, some calls
must receive priority response in case of bodily integrity by example. He is
therefore necessary to define the categories of urgent interventions taking into account the gravity
intrinsic facts.
For CDH, it is also appropriate to determine the minimum period within which the service
Police should be able to intervene following an emergency call. Citizens must have confidence that
Rapid assistance will be provided to him to ensure his safety.
CDH offers from the case of:
-

Perform monitoring the current situation regarding intervention policy more
especially regarding response time following an emergency call.

-

Refocus the intervention teams to the critical operational tasks to ensure
the presence and availability of police on the ground (see Proposition 2 below).

-

Set urgent interventions categories taking into account the intrinsic gravity of
facts but also special circumstances (eg. the threat of physical, risk
aggravation of the situation, the author places ...), to establish the final objective of emergency
intervention.

-

Establish a maximum response time taking into account the standards in the context of the level and
the means, places features (urban / rural, small / large area, etc.),
category of intervention and when intervention (day / night, winter / summer season;
etc.).

-

Providing a transmission and a systematic evaluation of the time-based data
intervention to optimize the intervention policy. The figures will be
transmitted by the information center and police communication (CIC) to each service
Police concerning its response time.

-

Implement a sanction mechanism in case of recurring and excessive overshoot of the period
intervention by the zone. This sanction is not introduced to penalize the police but
good to meet obvious cases of malfunction and ensure quality of service
citizen.

14

Federal Home Affairs, General Inspectorate of the Federal Police and the Local Police, "parts delivery and impact of various types of
dispatching on the operational functioning of the integrated police, "November 2009, p. 10.

308

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Proposition 355: Reform the recruitment and selection procedure to
to better meet the needs of different services of the integrated police
The Minister of Interior has developed an action plan for the recruitment, selection and
training. It introduces a new concept in recruitment for a better stability
within the police zones and services. Staff movements are restricted to meet
staffing needs of the units and ensure that they actually will have the following candidates
their training.
It is necessary to continue in parallel and implement an accelerated selection process
and more efficient, taking into account the diversity of policing. This involves setting
value of developing skills, career guidance, coaching and
the maximum use of available talent. The objective is to provide a variety of services
staff properly trained for missions to take on within the destination service.
Good data management staff and personnel administration is essential
for a modern and effective human resources policy. We must ensure continuity
the commitment of new recruits with constant monitoring of the recruitment process.
Did you know that…
Of 12,000 candidates running on average annually, only successful 1500-1700
all selection tests. This represents a success rate of between 10 and 16%
depending on the year.
The CDH offers:
-

Establish a constant monitoring of the workforce needs of local police zones and service
the federal police and better anticipate departures.

-

Diversify recruitment, including through public information sessions,
awareness and preparedness for recruitment in the different neighborhoods and with
young people.

-

Accompany the candidate throughout the selection tests in order to increase the rate of
success and further tailor the selection tests to the desired competency profile.

-

Reduce the duration of the selection procedure at 3 months instead of 9-12 months.

-

Ensure allocation of new hires in their destination units as of the end
their training.

-

Encourage social promotion to allow police officers to access the grade
Inspector by coaching and training strategy and require a degree of
Secondary to enter the police officer profession.

-

Valuing holding a graduate degree or university by inspectors
reducing to 3 years (instead of 6 years now) the duration of access to promotional events
to the chief inspector rank.

-

Making attractive a number of essential skills requiring highly profiles
qualified, particularly in terms of management tasks or missions related to police
fight against cyber crime, serious economic and financial crime or organized, the
terrorism and the activities under the technical and scientific police.

-

Require a high school diploma to enter the function of police officer.

309

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Proposition 356: Tailor training
operational personnel and expectations

police

the

requirements

Improving education is a constant concern for CDH. To ensure
good police work on the ground, training must match the tasks assigned to services
Police and the operational requirements and the legitimate concerns of the population and
victims.
The CDH offers:
-

Increase the number of training sessions organized annually.

-

Improving the quality of training by developing a tailored training program: 1)
operational requirements; 2) In the evolution of police work and the emergence of
new crime phenomena.

-

Pooling wage costs in case of social promotion, to avoid, in case of mobility, the
starting area either alone to bear the costs inherent to training.

-

Include a probationary period of six months in training in order to promote one hand
the concrete learning of police work and, secondly, the transfer of knowledge and
skills.

Proposition 357: Strengthening the motivation of police staff
Police services must support a human resource management that preserves and
reinforces the motivation of its officers and employees. Therefore, this management has to contribute to
the creation of a climate conducive to professional growth and motivation of members
staff and to the achievement of the objectives assigned to the police organization.
As such, the CDH offers:
-

Establish and implement mechanisms that improve and strengthen motivation
staff, in particular mechanisms which relate to recognition of the course
accomplished professional in the police (creation of additional grades, grant titles and honors, recognition of a warrant previously exercised, ...).

-

Develop initiatives that enhance the skills and dedication of the staff and
encourage measures which promote a work environment conducive to its development
professional and well-being.

Proposition 358: Successful reform of optimization of federal police
The law on the optimization of the federal police has been passed. This is the second round of
police reform. During this legislature it will implement it: passage
Provincial district, Mergers services decreases directions, strengthening support
to areas, simplification, increased police capacity, new management, new
ICT policy.
The CDH advocates a simplified police, more efficient and more modern for a better service to the citizen.
We must adapt our policy to new societal needs with an integrated organization, ethics,
sustainable and effective facing the community.
The federal police is too fragmented in its organization and in its leadership and therefore,
in its strategic vision. For the federal police to become a modern and flexible organization,

310

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
choices on strategy, recruitment, investment, budget optimization
must be uniform and shared by all the directions.
CDH offers from the case of:
1. Strengthen the strategic vision, uniqueness and effectiveness of management
It will be essential to strengthen the single management, strategy and vision within the
Federal police, especially through the changing role of the Commissioner General and the establishment of
"Executive Committee" of the federal police, the new features that are planned to
strengthen the strategic role on police policy and management of the Commissioner
general and the transfer of the general direction of the management and non-operational support (DGS)
into a new Directorate General responsible for the management of personnel, logistics, ICT and
Finance.
2. To facilitate the implementation of the decentralized operational capacity
Closer cooperation and better support organize themselves more easily when police
Federal works and can be implemented in a manner sufficiently close to the local police,
the requesting authorities, citizens and the reality on the ground. Enhanced devolution
operational benefits and services is therefore necessary but not mean a
weakening national level.
3. Strengthen specialized operational capacity and support capacity in respect of areas
strengthening specialized support policy of the federal police to areas;
4. Strengthen partnerships with the judicial authorities via the new institutions created
(justipol) and a new sense of collaboration and develop decentralized level in
consultation with those authorities, management of research including processes
reporting and monitoring.
5. Improve the management, technology and information analysis within the federal police:
-

Adapt and develop ICT, digitalisation of the functions, the use of new
technologies and new media;

-

Astrid management reform;

-

Merger of ICT services and information at central level and creation of a single service
communication and information at the decentralized level;

-

Improve the capture, analysis and exchange relating to different categories of information. There
digitizing process will pave the way for a functioning more 'paperless' and therefore
greener.

-

Adapt selection tests to the desired competency profile for exercise
service missions to the benefit which recruitment is organized, in particular with
Regarding the selection of candidates who are recruited on the basis of a qualification profile
specialized to assume the complexity and technical nature of certain judicial inquiries
entrusted to the Federal Police.

6. Deploy internationalization and enhance international police cooperation
-

Intensifying proactive, policy, strategy and actions of the Federal Police and the
networks at international and European level;

-

Enhance cooperation with neighboring countries should be intensified in order to better fight
a series of criminal phenomena (vehicle thefts with or without violence, drug trafficking,
trafficking and exploitation of human beings ...)

-

Strengthen collaborations with liaison officers abroad;
311

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
-

Modernize internal and external communication policy involving a building
communicational prevention policies.

7. Proposal: optimize partnerships between police zone
-

To set up at regional level, in line with the federal police, a support service
to areas, a common central purchasing police zones wishing with
opportunities for joint procurement, service, technical advice and logistics
assist in the development zones of specifications, an administrative service
supporting paperwork.

Proposition 359: Reform, optimize and refinance local police
After considering in this legislature on reform of the federal police, the legislature
next will be that of the optimization of the local police.
Therefore, the CDH offers:
1. Improve the recruitment and training areas for the benefit of the local police.
Beyond the major reform of recruitment and training, in addition, the new
"Integrated Police Coordination Committee" should develop an instrument which allows
Effective management of the deficit and an optimized mobility system (to be adjusted according to supply and
request).
2. Adopt a local map optimization fonts
Like the draft law on the optimization of the Federal Police which further improves
collaboration and support of the federal police to the local police, an optimization plan for the
Local police should be established also including a law on the police optimization
Local via:
-

improved organization management and a decrease in the proportion of non-executives
operational from operational frameworks;

-

greater decentralization of policing with stronger
police districts and their recovery and the logic of community policing. A map
of "neighborhood policy" shares must increase the presence of police on the ground and
particularly of agents through various neighborhoods of reorganization measures and
internal optimization, reduction of administrative burdens and job redesign
priority.

-

Deploy the "community policing" in all police functions and not just
those district officers.

-

modernization investment and digitized processes, reduce costs
administrative and digitizing process.

-

a financial incentive to the consolidation of areas and to cooperation with other areas and
relief areas. We must encourage the implementation of legal provisions on
merger opportunities to generate combinations producing economies of scale and
size effects in terms of benefits. Police landscape thus simplify.

-

clarify the research tasks with the federal police support policies of
the federal areas.

-

review the functioning of police boards to strengthen the involvement of consultants and
organize.

312

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
-

Clarify the tutelage of the local police.

-

Change the rules organizing the supervision of the police zones, to ensure the best
joint exercise by the Federal Authority and the regional authorities. A protocol governing this
guardianship assistance will be adopted.

-

Improve the optimal management of operations in several areas. New proposals
will be presented to improve the management, coordination and management of police operations
is operating in several areas.

-

Proposed amendment: addition of three proposals
Have better control and ethics in the police

-

Reforming the disciplinary regulations based on the draft law prepared by the Minister

-

Merging P Committee and the General Inspectorate

3. Action Fighting targeted against new criminal phenomena
Some criminal phenomena have a significant social impact on the safety and sense
general insecurity. They deserve that they be given special attention in the context of
prevention policies and safety. CDH focuses on: the fight against movements
violent radicals, the fight against cybercrime, the fight against sexual exploitation for others,
struggle against police violence and the fight against violence towards people.

Proposition 360: Adopt a framework Rating integral safety 2015-2019
Note-This new framework for comprehensive security will be in Belgium and one
four years, the reference document that will align or others will focus
policy plans or strategy related to security. It will be developed by the Ministers
Interior and Justice in consultation with the various departments levels
federal, regional and community levels.
The CDH proposes the following measures:
-

Adopt a new rating Framework 2015-2019 integral security that takes into account the new
security priorities and Justice, whose main themes will guide the next
strategic plans, including national security.

-

Developing this framework in a transverse rating approach that integrates the four pillars
basic security, namely the prevention of delinquency and crime,
Search authors and criminal profits, punishment and rehabilitation.

-

Adopt a new national security plan 2015-2019 adapted to new challenges
crime (terrorism, organized crime, fraud, cyber crime, arms trafficking drugs,
trafficking, racism, touring bands, cross-border crime).

-

On that basis, establish the operational action plans resulting programs
strategic.

-

Strengthen resources in staff and investments specialized operational services
the Federal Judicial Police who provide support to the local police zones, namely
Computer Crime Units, operational criminal analysts, local managers
indicators and specific research methods, listening rooms. And for the benefit
special units (CGSU) to ensure their support etd'étendre offer.

313

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
-

In consultation with the applicants judiciary (floors, education and auditorats)
implement within the federal judicial police management of research in
including the reporting and monitoring process in order to promote the proper implementation of
criminal investigations and optimal engagement of human and material resources
available.

-

Implement the research management within the police operating model
FBI to encourage the proper performance of judicial investigations.

Proposition 361: Fighting against violent radical movements
The CDH aims to defend an open and tolerant society in which a base
common values ​​developed. It is up to the authorities to fight against violence, hatred,
rejection of the other, unequal treatment and discrimination. In this context, the fight against
radical movements and violent polarization are major collective concerns.
The Government, at the initiative of the Minister of the Interior adopted a Prevention Programme
of violent radicalization. This program sets out the main lines and priorities of
the preventive approach of radical movements, as a process that can lead to acts
violent and radical. It will take the full implementation during the next legislature and
sensitize all levels of government because it is a key issue of our new
company. Five municipalities (Antwerp, Mechelen, Vilvoorde, Brussels and Liège), particularly affected
this phenomenon participating in a pilot project financed by the SPF within.
Beyond prevention, it is appropriate to strengthen the R plan against terrorism and
radical movements and continue to deploy the police and judicial action to detect, prevent,
suppress and punish this phenomenon.
The CDH offers include:
1. Fully implement the planned comprehensive program in the Prevention Programme
violent radicalization;
2. Educate frontline actors and public opinion:
-

Continue raising awareness of local players in their role to detect and fight
against radicalism (local authorities, police, parents, religious world actors sector
associations, ...);

-

Develop local prevention programs, particularly in the context of
strategic plans for safety and prevention;

-

Promote knowledge of violent radicalization, including
the organization of training and dissemination of targeted information leaflets;

-

Involve leaders of the Muslim community in prevention strategies;

-

Also the fight against racism through a new national strategy against the
racism and promoting diversity;

3. To fight against radicalism on the Internet:
-

Strengthen the detection and monitoring;

-

Deploy services and initiatives in charge of against-speech;

-

Assess opportunities to block access to the radical content on the Internet;

-

Develop contacts with key Internet players, including at European level and
with the United States to secure the removal of problematic content;
314

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
4. Preventing radicalization in prison
-

Improving training for prison officers to detect signs of extremism and
radicalization;

-

Create a working group within prisons which assesses the situation
in terms of radicalization, analyzes the recent events and foresees actions
concrete;

-

Organize a systematic exchange of information between prisons and
the state security;

5. Adopt a new anti terrorism and cross-cutting strategy radical movements from 2015 to 2018
mobilizing the necessary resources, coordinating services and information exchange,
specifying the relationship between the judiciary, the intelligence services and the police
local and federal, restating the role of OCAM and the unifying role of the crisis center.
-

Establish a de-radicalization service of those arrested in jail based on
a transversal approach involving voluntary;

-

Establish a protocol agreement between the state security and other services on the
transmission of information;

-

Clarify the rules on information transmission between different services
(judiciary, police, intelligence services) and to the mayors
to override the concept of public security in the fight against terrorism and
violent radical movements to reach;

-

Strengthen the coordination role, staff and access to information OCAM;

-

Increasing staff capacity assigned to the police, the OCAM, security of
the State and the specialized prosecution services in the fight against terrorism and boost
technology investments on special investigation techniques in control
judiciary;

-

Develop expertise in the cell of radical movements within the internal SPF;

-

Designate a responsible municipality concerned by the coordinator of the prevention policy
in the matter;

-

Strengthen the special methods under judicial guarantees, motion detection
radicals on the Internet;

-

Establish an international convention and if a MoU with providers
for more capacity prosecution and radical websites and closure
recruitment;

-

Strengthen judicial cooperation, police and intelligence services in
European and strengthen the role of Interpol and the European coordinator;

6. Strengthen the work of justice on radical groups
-

Reforming the status of specialized investigating judges terrorism to be integrated into
a more coordinated approach and better aligned with safety requirements
public;

-

Strengthening the number of prosecutors and judges instructions assigned to the fight
anti-terrorism;

315

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Proposition 362: Ensure efficient management and better protected
police information
Police work is closely related to the adequacy of police information and its effective management.
That implies a requirement of quality and rigor at every stage of information processing
(collection, encoding, stream and control).
The CDH offers:
-

Run the bill that thorough reform of article 44 of the Law on function
police, which project was unanimously approved by the Interior Commission.

-

Promoting optimal exchange of criminal police and police information
Administrative between police levels in order to improve collaboration and
the performance of their respective statutory tasks.

-

Achieve IT development and merging the management of the BNG and
ICT capabilities in one new direction. 
Proposition 363: The fight against cyber crime and ensure the safety of
cyber space.
Our company, like our economy, have become highly dependent on
information and communications technology (ICT). This is why
critical infrastructure information and communication must be protected and secure at best
to respond to ongoing technological developments.
Did you know that…
Most cyber security incidents are neither detected nor reported. 200 billion spam
are sent daily, 46 malware created every second in order to steal data
online, 292 billion euros in lost annual revenues and 1 million people each day.15
Computer crime (hacking, computer sabotage, computer fraud, etc.) had a
upward trend in recent years.
The Federal Government has released EUR 10 million to strengthen cyber security in our
countries. This amount has enabled the creation of a Belgian center of cyber security. This center
allow better monitoring of cyber security in Belgium. It may ultimately make
proposals to adapt the legal framework, coordinate incident response, disseminating standards
and information and help raise awareness of other entities.
The CDH offers:
1. Implement the national cyber-security strategy:

15

-

Evaluate continually threats to information infrastructures and
communication.

-

Establish clear procedures to be applied in cases of large-scale incident.

-

Adapt the legal framework to respond to field considerations, especially concerning
the exchange of information, certification and accreditation.

-

Putting the technical and human resources available to the cybersecurity agency to perform the analyzes and risk detections.

Le Monde, February 22, 2012.

316

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
2. Develop the means to neutralize cyber attacks:
-

Strengthen and improve the legal and technical possibilities for blocking and
neutralize sites and computers that carry out cyber attacks.

3. Support the police and judiciary in the fight against cybercrime:
-

Strengthen the Computer Crime Units within the central management (FCCU) and
decentralized departments (RCCU) of the Federal Judicial Police, the number of staff and
their specialization and the quality and modernity of the material made available to these
specialized units.

-

Sensitize and train the judiciary to research opportunities as well as via internet
various forms of cybercrime.

-

Educate and inform civil society, including via the site www.safeonweb.be

4. Conclude an international convention on cyber security. The United Nations should
entrusted the implementation of a Convention on Governance and Internet use, which
will fight against cybercrime.
5. Create a digital safe to protect the personal data of every citizen
and each company.

Proposition 364: Reforming the landscape of national security and services
intelligence
Due to new developments of the threat and the problem of configuration
on terrorism, radical movements to reach and violent crime and cybercrime
Organized, we must strengthen the coherence and effectiveness of our security services, strengthen
exchanges of information between them and above all the information of the reception capacities and
directions given by the responsible ministers.
Furthermore, the State Security must work better:
-

Guardianship of justice has little meaning because of non-judicial tasks of the Safety and
its direct link with security threats and public order which fall over the interior;

-

The lack transparency mission exercised against politicians who
do not get enough information, are not always ability to give
clear guidelines on the choices and mission priorities. The action priorities should be
rethought;

-

The exchange of information between intelligence services must be strengthened because
including extreme connection between the internal and external information
particularly with regard to terrorism, radical movements, organized crime, cyber
security.

Therefore, the CDH offers:
1. Create a national security committee
- For more consistency and efficiency and integration of security services at the
high state level, set up a national committee for national security under the supervision of
Prime Minister and the Ministers of Interior and Justice resuming the responsible prosecutors
Federal, the Ocam, federal police, state security, military intelligence and
crisis center to provide and exchange information and receive the necessary guidance to
to have a clear and effective and transversal policy on nuclear safety

317

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
Add to the national security committee a flexible central cell composed of representatives
Ministers of Justice and Interior and Security Advisor to the Prime Minister and
to advise the government, relaying its expectations of services and ensure
control monitoring of decisions on general security policy and the fight against
terrorism.
2. Develop the State Security and replace it with a new intelligence service: the
Federal intelligence service.
-

Taking a deep reform of the State Security to strengthen its staff and tools
technology, efficiency for the benefit of all services and government, transparency
its functioning and monitoring of ministerial instructions, priorities and exchange
of information between services;

-

Establish, as in Italy, "a federal intelligence service" under the supervision of
Prime Minister and co-chaired by the ministers of justice and interior, which includes two
departments: internal intelligence department and a department of the department
internal working under the same management with cross analyzes and constant exchange
information.

-

Establish a binding Memorandum of Understanding organizing exchanges of information required under
conditions to be determined with the federal prosecutor and the police.

Proposition 365: Ensure compliance officers of the police and
punish police violence
The police expressed increasingly openly insecurity and calling for
protection, even though they are responsible for maintaining public order. If confrontation to
Violence is inherent in the police function, violence does not qualify as a risk
job.
If the enforcement involves in certain circumstances the use of force, it should be
make a proportionate manner, in accordance with the rules and rights of citizens. The policeman
may use force only to pursue a legitimate objective can not be achieved otherwise
and in a reasonable and proportionate manner. All acts of violence by security forces in
outside this framework should be severely prosecuted and convicted both criminal level as
disciplinary level to restore the legitimate expectations of the citizens in the police function.
The CDH offers:
-

Ensure the punishment of perpetrators in order to fight against the feeling of impunity.

-

Increase awareness among police zones to the existence of the 'stress team' Police
Federal them so they can better appeal and in the same way for all members
the integrated police;

-

Finalize the establishment of the central registration system of violent phenomena
against police and by police officers;

-

Train the best policeman in ground realities in order to anticipate situations
violence (verbal aggression management, management and conflict prevention, mastery of
violence, ...)

-

Bodycams to equip the police for an objective account of the facts.

318

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Proposition 366: Protect children against all forms of violence
Violence against children is not acceptable under any circumstances and under any circumstances.
Every fact of violence is a fact too and the fight must be waged relentlessly. Children have the
the right to have their best interests are a primary consideration in all actions
concern or affect them.
Did you know that…
In 2012 there were 2762 acts of physical violence, psychological violence made of 246 and 557 facts
Sexual violence against descendants?
The CDH offers:
-

Raise awareness among local stakeholders and the public to child abuse in
all its aspects.

-

Adopt specific preventive measures, based on a horizontal approach and a
enhanced cooperation in different sectors (health, education, social services,
police, justice).

-

Strengthening the approach of sexual abuse and sexual exploitation.

-

Improve assistance to victims, including through updating and investing in
audiovisual Hearing Procedure minor victims and witnesses.

-

Developing a transversal strategy to protect children and young people on
the use of new technologies, including information campaigns to the attention
parents.

-

Prevent the disappearance of children by parental abductions, including on the basis of
recommendations of the task force "unaccompanied minors".

Proposition 367: Fight against elder abuse
The maltreatment of seniors can take various forms: neglect, physical abuse
and often psychological (emotional exclusion, humiliation, blackmail, verbal abuse,
financial spoliation ...). If that elder abuse is sometimes manifested in
care facilities that receive them, she enrolled for a very large share in the home,
including within the family.
The CDH offers:
-

Develop knowledge of this phenomenon particularly through data collection and
Mapping of violence committed against senior citizens in Belgium, to develop
detection instruments signals and risk factors of violence against seniors.

-

Strengthen communication on the existence and mission of the association in Wallonia Senior Compliance
Infor home and in Brussels.

-

Pursue awareness and information about the contact points to
break the taboo that surrounds this phenomenon.

-

Organize places of listening and crisis support for victims seniors
Violence tailored to their specific needs care.

-

Integrating violence against older people in the training of doctors, professionals
health (care staff, not nursing) and social action (family or domestic help)
and the police, to better detect acts of abuse.

319

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
-

Meeting the coaching staff standards in residential care facilities or
care.

Proposition 368: Continue the fight against domestic violence and
sexual violence
The figures recorded by the police and prosecutors regarding violence between partners and
domestic violence in general had increased in recent years. This
increase can partly be explained by better recording and better
identification of victims of violence.
Did you know that…
Did you know that in 2012, 20,370 cases of physical violence were registered and 19 616 cases of violence
Psychic between partners. On 25 October 2013, the figures for the current year amounted
respectively 14,525 for physical violence, 13,277 for psychological violence. What
representing a decrease of 4.6% from the first months of 2013 and those of 2012?
Since 2012, we see that the phenomenon of violence between spouses tends to decrease. The
policies implemented by the Minister of Interior and Equal Opportunities should therefore be
continued. Thus, the Minister made the fight against violence against women as a
priority in the 2012-2015 national security plan.
The CDH offers:
-

Ratify the Council of Europe on the prevention and fight against violence
against women and domestic violence;

-

Extend the scope of the new NAPs 2014-2018 to sexual violence, and improve
Data proofed;

-

Encourage individual support and couple families face problems
violence in connection with the prosecution.

-

Prevent further violence by allowing women access to criminal record
their partners under certain strict conditions.

-

Inform and educate victims and civil society on contact points and the offer
existing support, both for victims and for the perpetrators, and establish a
risk assessment instrument; provide accompaniment by social workers
couples at risk and introduce risk assessment tools

-

Informing the local administration and police services on best practices
existing in terms of reception and support of victims.

-

Provide assistance to victims by strengthening and individualization of an offer of assistance
psychological, medical, social and legal.

-

Set up a push protection of victims through effective intervention in
crisis situations, the guarantee of a safe house by the ban and domicile16
study the desirability of a national implementation of security systems
electronics (remote alarm) for victims at risk.

-

Improve the system of compensation for victims by arranging for the costs and
recovery of damages by mutual;

16

Act of May 15, 2012 and the Act of June 15, 2012.

320

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
-

Ensure effective protection to foreign women victims of domestic violence in
the framework of family reunification and in particular an irregular residence status, and
grant a request for independent residence permits to victims of violence
partners;

-

Ensure adequate monitoring of perpetrators of violence and prevent recidivism by enhancing supply
of voluntary assistance as binding by the implementation of assistance programs
authors and providing a social survey for authors under electronic surveillance.

-

Increase the number of accommodation places for women to meet the beat
European standards.

-

Better prevent sexual violence, including by criminalizing incitement to mutilation
genital; and better response, including through the use of video at hearings
and also by imposing an HIV test for authors.

-

Integrate the issue of genital mutilation in the basic training of all
professional may be confronted with the problem (social workers,
police, law, criminology, education, doctors, etc.).

-

Better prevent sexual violence, including by criminalizing incitement to mutilation
genital; and better response, including through the use of video at hearings
and also by imposing an HIV test for authors.

-

Provide permanence of telephone help service, provided 24 hours on 27, seven days
on 7. In Wallonia, there are no hotline for victims of violence, as there is
number 1712 in Flanders. Then there should be such a number in Wallonia.

-

Systematically integrate DNA samples in the database, because it is possible
to link the sample to the business current or past.

-

Raise awareness and stimulate prosecutors King close more collaboration protocols
with hospitals that agree to receive emergency victims of sexual assault to
to guarantee better use of SAS (Set Sexual Aggression) and develop
in hospitals multidisciplinary teams able to properly use the SAS
with victims of sexual violence.

-

Fight against sexual violence which must receive greater attention; it is essential
to change the nature of certain sexual offenses crimes, to increase the amount of punishment,
to harmonize and to maintain the limitation period; police services and the services of the
Justice must be specifically trained in receiving complaints and processing of offenses
and sexual crimes; a better response must be given by the use of
video at hearings and also by imposing an HIV test for authors; the reception and
treatment of sexual assault victims should be further improved by an awareness
specific healthcare professionals.

321

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Proposition 369: The fight against sexual exploitation and prostitution
The exploitation of prostitution is a serious attack on human dignity. We can not tolerate that the
body is a commodity that women are placed by criminal networks on our
sidewalks, some profit off each other and women, including the
minors are forced into prostitution.
For cdH prostitution is not a profession like any other. It clearly constitutes a violation
human dignity and gender inequality. We must fight against the trivialization of this reality. Us
are for the abolition of prostitution as advocated in the Convention The United Nations
for the Suppression of the Traffic in Persons and of the Exploitation of the Prostitution of Others that
Belgium ratified.
Did you know that…
In Belgium, it is estimated the number of prostitutes at 23 000. Of these, 80% (or 18,500) would
victims of trafficking or sexual exploitation, 10% of serious exploitation (physical violence) .1
The CDH strategy advocates a cross from prevention, prosecution and protection
victims. We must fight against trafficking by enforcing the legislation.
To protect prostitutes, the CDH proposes the following actions:
1.

Implement actions in support of prostitutes, and an exit plan of
Prostitution: By strengthening the resources allocated to field associations (prevention
health, psychological support, administrative support ...); a Home
respectful and public support for anyone who decides to change
Business Line (allowing access to help from the CPAS, housing); and funding
individualized rehabilitation programs for people who wish to leave their activity,
with a social monitoring and appropriate training.

2.

Encourage urban renewal areas of prostitution and categorically denied
creation of Eros Centers contrary to our law.

To reduce supply and demand, the CDH recommends:
1. Conduct a thorough reform with the aim of a drastic reduction
prostitution. This should be done through measures to change attitudes, fighting
against prostitution-related stereotypes, against the commodification of the body, violence,
sexual exploitation, sexism culture and the object woman.
2. Strengthen our legal devices to seize and confiscate the property where
place of prostitution and the income from them.
3. Strengthen our internal and international rules, our technological tools and qualification
and training services in the fight against cyber crime including trafficking in persons
humans and to allow more effectively prohibit sites, blogs and forums that are
link with prostitution.
4. Coordinate action at European level for the control and prevention;
5. Law enforcement involving the ban on brothels and advertising for the
Prostitution in newspapers;
6. To fight effectively against the recruitment via internet for women and children for
sexual exploitation and mobilize service providers and all stakeholders to
internet without exploitation of prostitution;
7. Ensure coordination between a new common practice to have clear
harmonized;
322

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
8. re-specify the legal framework and the harmonization of practices by a circular prosecutors
General.
9. -Make respect existing rules, including through a joint directive and better
coordination between local authorities. Working group composed of the work
representatives of local authorities, women's associations and councils of the Union of
cities and municipalities, police and judicial authorities should continue.
10. Establish an ad hoc joint committee of parliamentarians and combining
Advice for women representatives, to put prostitution in the heart of the agenda
policy in Belgium and parliament can appropriate this issue the arm
body, as is done for France and Ireland, finally, to clearly define what we
want to sexual exploitation in the future in our country.
11. Establish a new national action plan against trafficking and trafficking in persons
humans, which takes into account the gender dimension.
12. Strengthen accountability of public and private actors, including the furniture sector,
advertising industry, the medical sector, the sector on job advertisements.
13. Allow the administrative closure of an establishment not only when he has the will
human trafficking, but now when there is sexual exploitation of others. A
new Article 134quinquies New Communal Act gives jurisdiction
Response to the mayor. It provides that, where there are serious indications that
takes place in an establishment of the facts of human trafficking, the mayor can
decide to close this property. Should be extended to the authorization of the Mayor
institutions for which there are serious indications of exploitation of prostitution
of others.

Proposition 370: Fight against economic and financial crime
Currently, the fight against economic and financial crime, especially tax fraud
and organized social, ended with very poor results. Countless records
prescribed or leading to reasonable time exceeded the observation due to failures
all levels of the criminal justice system, lack of investigators, experts, specialized judges
and available, de facto priorities lying elsewhere.
The fight against the major serious or organized social or fiscal fraud remains a priority
especially since such fraud a collective cause harm to the detriment of the population
because they deprive the state of needed resources to finance social benefits
(unemployment, disease), pensions, infrastructure and public services.
To address these findings, the CDH offers:
- Continue the fight against serious and organized tax evasion or social, especially in the
extension of the current Government Action Plan dedicated to this issue.
- Addressing multidisciplinary way the fight against serious tax evasion or social or
organized by mobilizing stakeholders. In this context, the investigation Teams
multidisciplinary (MOTEM), composed of police officers and officials from the
administrations concerned, will be established within the judicial directions, in the spring
each Court of Appeal, in order to respond more effectively to the requisitioning authorities
court.
- Maintain centrally a specialized service (OCDEFO) to assess, investigate and
provide strategic and operational support for economic and financial crime
serious or organized.
323

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
- Ensure the recruitment of specialized police officers (2+) economic, financial
and tax for the benefit of decentralized branches and the central office of the judicial police
Federal.
- Finalize, without delay, the files relating to large fiscal or social fraud
to avoid the pitfalls of the prescription and the sense of impunity.
- Strengthen collaboration floors and labor auditorats to improve efficiency
the public prosecutor in the repression of serious or organized tax or social security fraud.
- To systematize the heritage surveys and illegal profits from laundering fraud
serious fiscal or social or organized to enhance the confiscation and recovery of such
profits.

Proposition 371: Enhance awareness, prevention and repression
against robberies in homes
Although the burglary experienced an encouraging decrease in the years 2012 and
2013, this phenomenon remains a concern because of the number of facts yet committed
throughout the national territory (35 862 incidents recorded in the first half 2013).
For CDH, prevention and the fight against burglaries, especially those committed in the
private homes, remain a priority due to the persistent prevalence of this phenomenon.
Therefore, the CDH offers:
-

Encourage consultation advisors "theft prevention" that are present in each
Police area and offering free guide to residents in securing
their building.

-

Promote "local partnerships for prevention" (PLP) by encouraging citizens to get involved
active in the safety of their homes through a cooperation agreement concluded
between the inhabitants of a neighborhood and the local police.

-

Continue awareness campaigns dedicated to theft in homes through
brochures or internet (cfr. www.maisonsure.be the site that actually offers good
practices to be adopted by viewing a virtual house).

-

Constantly adapt the policing strategy dedicated to burglaries taking into account the
profile of perpetrators (homeless, drug addicts ...), the use of new technologies
(indications drawn by the authors on social networks, ...), the evolution of modes
operating and the international dimension of the phenomenon.

-

Strengthen collaboration and coordination between different actors (police, justice, services
prevention) to increase the effectiveness of actions taken to counter the burglaries.

-

Increase prevention and deterrence of burglaries through judicious guidance
police patrols, especially during favorable periods (absent during the working day
or during the holiday period) orientation based on strategic or tactical analysis.

-

Enhance international cooperation to counter homeless organizations and bands
which have a logistical base or decline abroad.

324

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Action 4. Better protect citizens against disasters
Security is also help and protect people, their property and their living space against
all types of events such as fires and natural disasters. Security passes
also by informing citizens.
The tragic events that are, for example, the Pukkelpop disaster, accidents
Buizingen rail and Wetteren, remind us how important it is to have
efficient and structured emergency services on a large scale, can help the
citizen in trouble at any time.
Members of the fire service, civil defense officers, 112 operators, the
staff planning and crisis management are all vital links
as part of the security of citizens.
It is therefore essential that this staff to be sufficient, it is formed, recognized, valued and motivated,
and it has the necessary material means and adapted to the performance of their perilous
missions.

Proposition 372: Continue and finalize the implementation of the reform of the
civil security
On May 15, 2007, a decisive law for the reform of the civil security was enacted. This text
based on the important work done by the commission and Paulus aims to replace dating rules
1963.
The reform of civil security is not just an emergency but also a duty that all
politicians have towards firefighters and citizens.
Since 2012, a significant background work has been done to boost the implementation of the Law of 15
May 2007 had unfortunately been severely delayed in previous years. This reform
civil security may not, however, developed without a real financing. This is why the
Interior Minister Joëlle Milquet, has actively promoted an increase of the envelope
budget allocated to the emergency services.
Did you know that…
In all, a total of 174 million euros was achieved in 5 years to finance implementation
the reform of civil security.
All the funds allocated by the federal government aims to immunize the finances of local authorities,
according to the rule which states that as from the Fed in expenses related to civil security
does not equal 50%, the Federal assumes all the costs of the reform. In this
optical, rigorous and unprecedented work was conducted to ensure budget neutrality
the implementation of the reform for local authorities.
Today the CDH is fortunate to have obtained sufficient and necessary financial windfall
the culmination of a project of this scale.
Did you know that since December 2013, the Act of 15 May 2007 regarding public safety:
-

allows the anticipated passage of prézones rescue areas
makes it possible, in some cases, the impact of interventions services costs
Fire
allows prézones hire staff
gives an enforceable within the special accounting / Receiver

325

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
-

-

allows future emergency zones to establish partnership agreements between them, with
police zones, with operational units of civil protection or authority
Provincial
grants regulatory powers to emergency zones
replaces the notion of "context of individuals 'by' terms of personnel"
provides an on alcohol prevention and drug policy
grants to relief areas the autonomy to develop the Staff
prézones of administrative / emergency zones

The final essential step of this reform is the development of a single status for
some 17,500 professional firefighters and volunteers in the country. This extremely sensitive issue and
complex - as it was to standardize 249 municipal statutes - could achieve, given the
numerous consultations and negotiations and the balanced compromise reached between
various protagonists, namely the unions of cities and towns, federations and unions.
Therefore, the CDH offers:
-

Run budgetary decisions taken by the Government, guarantee the neutrality
Financial reform relief for common areas and bring reform
into force no later than 1 January 2015.

-

Develop a monitoring royal decrees implementing the law of 15 May 2007.
On this occasion, the Federal Knowledge Centre for Civil Security (KCCE) must be a
front line player in the necessary work for the establishment of relief zones
but, in general, for the modernization and improvement of missions
civil security to citizens.

-

Organizing training, awareness campaigns and committees
support to facilitate the implementation of the reform by field workers.

-

Apply the new single status firefighter who provides inter alia:

-

o

The possibility of reallocating on a voluntary basis at retirement.

o

The right to leave prior to the pension for any firefighter aged 58 in 2016 or
57.5 years in 2015.

o

Clarification of grades by a function definition associated with a formation
specific and a corresponding salary scale in order to enhance each
promotion.

o

The harmonization of tariffs and organization of career prospects
wage scale for professional and volunteer firefighters.

o

The implementation of measures facilitating the transition from a voluntary agreement to
professional status.

Provide training of operational staff meet the field needs more
particularly:
o

Organize pre-recruitment tests annually for the
Federal certification aptitude.

o

Establish a regular plan of training and instruction for all
firefighters (volunteers and professionals) and throughout their career by
continuous training.

o

Provide accommodations for volunteer firefighter training
enhance the function of firefighter and enable future volunteers
engage and take the training.
326

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

-

o

Organization of a social promotion training to promote access
first officer rank for men from the middle manager with no
a diploma level A.

o

Make a comparative analysis of the training provided in other states
EU to systematically adapt the Belgian training in new
practices.

o

Amplify the practical training of fire for added safety.

Provide funding and integration of SIAMU in reforming civil security.

Proposition 373: Valuing civil protection in the landscape reformed
relief areas
The establishment of relief zones will not be without consequences for missions
civil protection. It will, indeed, change the operational organization of the emergency services on
the whole territory.
Therefore, to optimize and enhance the resources both human and material, expertise and
skills of civil protection officers, a modernization process was initiated in 2014
on how to articulate the whole civil security services.
They belong to the fire service or civil protection, all of these ways
should be, in fact, used to best serve citizens and to effectively complete all
urgent and non-urgent tasks both in the country and abroad (B-FAST).
The manner in which the means of civil protection can be mobilized most effectively
possible in the interest of citizens was analyzed, making best use of the skills
each member of the operational staff of civil defense and by optimizing synergies
with the zones.
Understanding Civil Protection
Civil Protection has 476 professional staff and 738 voluntary workers in 6 units
Operational spread over the entire territory (Brasschaat, Crisnée, Ghlin, Jabbeke,
Libramont and Liedekerke).
Agents are ready to intervene at any time during floods, storms, pollution,
earthquakes and other disasters. The units have heavy or special equipment
as well as specialized teams.
Therefore, the CDH offers:
-

Ensure that the new division of tasks between Emergency Preparedness and zones
Emergency improves the security of citizens.

-

Continue enhancement of civil protection in the new landscape of the Civil Security
by studying the possibility of further integration of the two components even under the
options tabled by the Minister of Interior.

327

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Proposition 374: Meeting the technological challenges of the project 112
"112" offers European citizens a single emergency number, available at
territory of the 28 member states of the European Union, through which they may require assistance
emergency fire services, medical staff or police. To implement
This fully integrated emergency supply, it is to ensure the consolidation and integration of
ASTRID to 100 centers.
Understanding ASTRID
ASTRID SA ensures the development, management and maintenance of a national network of
radio, a paging network and dispatch centers.
Its mission is the transmission of voice and data for the benefit of the Belgian emergency services
Security, in particular to determine the fastest emergency service and better able
intervention at the scene of an intervention.
Therefore, the CDH offers:
-

Implementing the action plan addressing the problems relating to the CAD system
Astrid / Intergraph, used in some centers 100/112 to direct the alert and the departure of
emergency services, and finalize the optimization measures as the technical platform CAD
Astrid / Intergraph as AEG / Prescom / CityGis unused by other call centers
urgent

-

Make an assessment, review the role and the opportunity to maintain the structure for Astrid
the future in terms of costs.

-

From a blank sheet to the future to rethink completely the functioning of
the agency 112, the number of the center, the role of the administration, the type of needs and responses
adapted to the type of migration and develop a new, simple and compatible system
modern with all necessary features.

Proposition 375: Improving the management of crisis and emergency planning
It is important to improve the quality, timeliness and effectiveness of mass communication for
to better prepare citizens for behavior prevention and response in case situation
emergency. The warning tools (sirens, fixed telephony and SMS) and information of the population
must be strengthened in crisis.
On this occasion, the first phase of Be-Alert project was launched in 2014 at the initiative of the
Ministry of Interior. It aims to promote a harmonized approach to the alert of the population
emergency situation. It provides a synergy between all the authorities responsible for
planning and crisis management.
Then the "Cell-broadcasting" (sending messages instead of the associated gsm) will be added.
This will enable sending SMS or "service messages" messages to people nearby
a predetermined GSM antenna.
Finally, it will be possible to send the same message to the public through various channels
both communications (social media, SMS, billboards on highways, etc.)
Following the railway accident of Wetteren, all the players, the Crisis Centre and the Centre
Federal knowledge to civil security (KCCE) have conducted a thorough assessment
Event Management to proceed, if necessary with the assistance of external experts, an
"Back" (feedback).

328

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
It is indeed important to evaluate, and if necessary, on this basis to improve the manner in
which the authorities manage crises. Based on the recommendations, if any;
various additional reforms can be initiated.
A modern warning system tailored to the needs of the competent authorities and for each type of
emergencies, through integration of all modern means of communication
existing and future will be launched in 2014. This project was named BE-Alert and will be serving
competent authorities, namely the mayors, provincial governors and the Minister
Interior.
Therefore, the CDH offers:
-

Strengthen the central coordinating role of the Federal Crisis Centre in the national management
crisis

-

Improve new technologies to alert the population and develop communication
crisis

-

Provide specific training "crisis communication" to local authorities

-

Continue operationalization and - if necessary - the update emergency plans,
Contingency planning is a continuous process and allowing the establishment of networks
useful for crisis management

-

Establish guidelines on horizontal base of experience (eg.:
the role of local authorities in the Federal phase support to local authorities without necessarily
trigger the federal stage, clarifying the different areas into a coherent well
qu'adaptable specific risk, ...)

-

Clarify, structure and professionalize the management and flow of information between
partners

329

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Action 5: An justice serving the citizen
Benefit from human justice requires to promote communication between the parties and
to prevent anyone being denied access to justice because of financial reasons. Access to
Justice is a human right enshrined in the European Convention on Human Rights and
Citizen and the Constitution. It must be guaranteed to any person.
We are therefore more than ever in a critical situation to facilitate access to justice
citizen. This access to justice is normally guaranteed for the more precarious by the people
system of legal assistance and legal aid. However an entire segment of the
population, which is just above the ceilings of these aids have tremendous difficulty
cover the costs of legal action either by asking or defending himself. From
Many measures should be taken to improve the access of all citizens to justice.

Proposition 376: Implementing and successful reform of the judicial landscape
to ensure local justice
The result of extensive study commissioned in 2007 by the Ministry of Justice to know
feelings of individuals with regard to the functioning of Justice has shown that individuals
were generally satisfied with the functioning of the judiciary, with the notable exception of
two points, namely the lack of proximity and lack of accessibility.
At a time when it comes to reforming the judicial districts, it is therefore crucial to be
attentive to these concerns. Thus, even considering the current dimensions of
judicial districts, the litigant has already feeling of lack of proximity and
accessibility. For the litigant, the key is to be in contact with justice size
human. The Federation of Justices of the Peace and the Kingdom of Belgium also argues for Police
retain the specificity of the courts and what it represents, without any idea on the
project involving the establishment of a single Court, since citizens cherish,
rightly, the idea of ​​justice close to them as humanely as geographically.
Reform of the judicial landscape has just come into force on 1 April. The next government
will realize and succeed by taking into consideration the reality of the living areas.
The CDH offers:
-

Delivering on reforming the judicial landscape including strengthening management autonomy,
specialization, modernization and computerization of the judiciary;

-

Immunize overall budget of the justice of any economy, strengthen and prepare a
project of optimizing its management and functioning like the current reform
police.

-

Ensure the maintenance of Justices of the Peace Courts and police to places where they
currently sit;

-

Ensure the maintenance of the current proximity of Justice places in order to allow all
justiciable and easily get there in a reasonable time (30 minutes maximum).

Proposition 377: Improving communication between justice and citizens
The right bit is particularly accessible to the person because of difficult vocabulary
understandable. Finally, a trend is emerging for legal information as well as
Legal and judicial texts are understandable and therefore accessible. Several associations
working on the accessibility of the language.
330

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
The procedures for obtaining legal aid and legal assistance are heavy for the litigant
already precarious. It is often difficult to collect the necessary documents and he must perform
dual procedure.
To improve this essential communication between the court and the citizen, the CDH offers:
-

Improve the legal language used in all legal documents such as text
legal, regulatory, judicial, judicial acts, to make them
understandable to all litigants.

-

Mention must in any court limits for appeals;

-

Develop educational tools litigants earnings as a perspective
IT as audiovisual tools and paper in order to understand the institutions
legal and individual rights.

-

Improve information about legal aid including the enforcement Salduz
concerning the right to consult a lawyer from arrest.

-

Part of a legal text the notion of presumption of innocence and develop a code
conduct with the media to ensure the rights of suspects, victims and
witnesses in criminal investigations in progress.

Proposition 378: Enhancing frontline legal aid
Legal aid frontline was communitarised following a recent reform of the state. This
Frontline legal help (advice for litigants without outsourcing
necessarily to counsel and without judicial procedure) is an important way to decrease
second line of legal aid application because individuals can be counseled and
possibly redirected.
To reduce the court application and provide a powerful frontline service, cdH
offers
-

Adequately fund the legal aid commissions but also associations
Course providing this front-line legal aid to reduce the aid application
second-line legal and raise awareness among lawyers in the contribution of the first line;

-

Improve coordination between the frontline legal assistance and legal aid 2nd line
to prevent lawyers from having to start from scratch in the constitution of folder items.

Proposition 379: Reform and Legal Aid refinance second line
The 2014 budget for the judiciary for the payment of lawyers component under legal aid was
decreased while the lawyers are seeking upgrading or at least stabilizing their
remuneration, the consultation of a lawyer from the arrest of a prisoner shall be ensured
Without volunteer lawyers for financial reasons, that the obligation to provide for consultation
a lawyer was extended to traffic offenses following a ruling of the Constitutional Court and
that it should be up to the ceiling of access to legal aid for the litigant. This situation
imposes urgent solutions to be found to refinance legal aid but also for
reduce the demand for legal aid.
To remedy this untenable situation and pursue the necessary legal aid litigant
the most precarious, the CDH offers:
-

Ensure adequate remuneration for the lawyer with a stable point and not dependent
number of applications submitted, provide for compensation of lawyers within the
331

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
interventions "Salduz" and use an open envelope with a sufficient budget to
ensure the sustainability of this system;
-

Promoting all modes of settlements of conflicts by allocating points rewarding
such dispute resolution.

Proposition 380: Ensure the litigant effective access to legal aid and
legal aid
Did you know that to get a totally free legal aid, the isolated individual can not
benefit of monthly income above 942 euros and the litigant with people not charging
more than 1210 euros?
Justice is increasingly inaccessible to individuals receiving average income and
can not therefore claim to legal assistance and legal aid. Often it is meant that the
Justice is for people very rich or very poor.
The CDH wants to provide access to justice for all.
To provide access to justice to the litigant average incomes, the CDH offers:
-

Review the ceilings for access to second-line legal help and to provide a mechanism
sliding scale depending on income level, taking into account the recent increase
VAT for lawyers.

-

Define new criteria for granting legal aid to help the second line
victim to meet the cost of correctional trial or sitting.

-

Grant legal aid for victims of deliberate acts of violence so that the costs
Justice should not be paid by them.

-

Promote legal protection insurance formulas ensuring tax deduction
insurance premiums.

Proposition 381: Continue to improve family law
Family law has benefited from many improvements in recent years, especially through
the resolute action of CDH in favor of the creation of the Family Court, waited for 35 years. The
cdH wishes to continue this evolution, particularly on the following:
-

To fully implement all the provisions of the Family Court by providing
both financial and human means necessary.

-

Grant the human and financial resources to implement the Act of March 17
2013 reforming incapacity schemes and introducing a new protection status
in keeping with human dignity.

-

Reforming the law of descent, deeply moved by the various judgments of the Court
Constitutional, ensuring above all to respect the child's interest.

-

Establish the Committee on food contributions under the law of March 19, 2010
on the objectification of food contributions to generate criteria
objectification.

332

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Action 6. Leave no crime without adequate response
Friendliness living spaces requires respect for them. Security is therefore both
Therefore the cause of living together and the result of consistent and comprehensive policies
reflected that constitute strong foundations to prevent criminal behavior. All
behavior that breaks the law must receive adequate response in response to this
behavior and the repair within a short timeframe.
When criminal acts were committed, despite prevention, response to these facts must be
adequate, credible, relevant, reassuring, just, proportionate and educational. She must
sanction the guilty person with the aim of awareness by the person of
acts committed, understanding and recognition of the damage caused, and a punishment
proportion of the acts committed. Furthermore, it also requires resources to promote
rehabilitation and prevent recidivism, as it is true that "one day we become all neighbors."
This particular answer must respond quickly to both the suspect and victim
and should be a clear signal for each of them and for the whole society. She has to be
proportional to the act occurs, have educational and allow reconstruction referred. This one
will be more positive as it may be accompanied by remedial measures through the
mediation.

Proposition 382: Absorb the backlog and ensure proper
functioning of the judiciary
The courts still face a problem of intolerable backlog for
litigants. The uneven workload between judicial districts between
courts in the same district and between judges is important. The laws relating to
splitting of the district Brussels-Halle-Vilvoorde, judicial districts and
management and mobility allow magistrates to answer this question. There will be
instead of checking that the entry into force and effective implementation of these new districts
Judicial and their management will be in the interest of the litigant (ie compliance with commitments
judges for the new district of Brussels, audience places preserved information
instructions and quickly conducted, more specialized litigation decided in a shorter period ...).
By cons, these reforms do not solve the major problem in some districts of
recurrent phenomenon of the backlog. For a court to be effective it must be made
within a short time. The aim should be that any case brought to be judged in the year of
introduction and also an appeal to be resolved within a year of its introduction.
To optimize the functioning of the judiciary cdH proposes:
-

Pursue urgently the computerization of the judiciary: consistently and
especially consistent among all members of the judiciary (courts, prisons, homes
justice etc.);

-

Use much more regularly to mediation rather than prosecution of
conflicts (see proposal 350);

-

Appoint magistrates having the sole objective to absorb the backlog;

-

Accelerate the pace of appointment and if necessary increase the part of staff; Guarantee
that personnel framework be completed for the seat as for the Crown and the
Registry staff essential for the functioning of the judiciary and within
each judicial district;

333

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
-

Streamline the processing of court costs (including limiting the use of expertise,
without prejudice to the parties' rights, and limiting operating costs of the centers
expertise).

383 Lighthouse Proposal: Make each criminal judgment to the maximum in
the year of introduction
To ensure proper justice in all matters and in respect of all stakeholders trial
criminal, it must be made within a short time. The victims, the suspect or the accused, the
judges, lawyers want the commission of an offense, whatever the severity,
to be tried within a reasonable time. In general terms, the objective is that all
judgment is given in the shortest possible time and if possible within one year of the facts. This is a
General purpose, application for most crimes, not an absolute rule account
Given the particularities of each file.
Did you know that…
"Between 2004 and 2008, the European Court issued almost 70 decisions in respect of Belgium
Speeds of excessive procedure from 6 years to over 20 years. "17?
Of course that justice can be expedited and must respect the rights of the defense but
also those of the victim. The defendant wish to prepare his defense with a complete and a
lawyer, the victim must have the opportunity to file complaints and gather all documents
necessary to support his complaint and the investigating judge and the trial judge will want to be
fully informed about the whole record but also all the circumstances of the
cause and the defendant. It is these elements that make justice currently takes so
time. There is therefore urgent to strengthen the resources allocated to justice at both
Investigators, prosecutors as judges. Furthermore, modern techniques
communication must be used optimally.
To expedite the processing of criminal offenses, the CDH offers:
-

Regularly assess magistrates regarding the speed to do justice and the distribution
materials per room to avoid overcrowded rooms; and provide interviews
with annual corps commanders;

-

Extend to all districts of the swift justice procedure (Article 216 quater of the Code
of Criminal Procedure), which provides that the public prosecutor may call a person by
report within 10 days of the facts and the judgment must be made within two months of
thereof. This procedure, in cases where the folder does not require a long
education, access to justice quickly made in the best interest of the author,
the victim and society as a whole while respecting the rights of the defense must be
reinforced in each district by creating a specific room.

-

Strengthening the number of investigating judges and public prosecutors with a view
accelerate instruction procedures and allow rapid judgment on the merits.

-

Extend the possibilities of appearance on Plea while
ensuring respect for the rights of defense.

-

Split of Assizes in too cluttered springs.

-

Regulate the default procedure to avoid the appearance of defects clearly
dilatory and abusive.

17

Report of the Commissioner for Human Rights CommDH (2009) 14, p. 31, § 14.

334

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
-

Sanction the violation of the presumption of innocence in relations between justice and
médias18.

-

Promote the specialization of judges.

Proposition 384: Simplify and speed up civil procedure to increase
the efficiency of judicial procedures
Too many courts still face a problem of backlog. The backlog is the
cause of condemnation of Belgium by the European Court of Human Rights and
target of criticism from the Commissioner for Human Rights.
The implementation of electronic procedures is delayed by lack of tools
IT quality throughout the judiciary. Legislative improvements
been introduced but they remain insufficient to make effective and speedy justice.
The computerization of justice must be developed in the shortest possible time. It is imperative that

compatible systems between them are adopted and implemented, to the extent that any
reorganization of justice requires, as a preliminary full computerization, unified,
performance of the judiciary. A dialogue should be held with all stakeholders in the
judiciary (magistracy, flooring, lawyers, notaries, bailiffs, transplants, houses
justice ...).
To reduce the judicial backlog in civil courts, the CDH offers:
-

Implement quickly the legislation on electronic procedures;

-

Continue urgently complete and unified computerization of the judiciary in
a whole after consultation with all the actors of justice.

-

Increase the amount involved in the litigation (spring rate) up to which it is resorted
only the trial court to unclog the courts of appeal and
encourage amicable settlement methods of conflict.

-

Forcing a clear enumeration, precise and comprehensive statement of objections in the notice of appeal;

-

Encourage protocols of good practice among lawyers, judges and prosecutors
to speed up procedures avoid delays in procedures, avoid non discounts
justified and white audiences and punish abusive or dilatory purposes.

Proposition 385: To train and evaluate judges
The law creating the Judicial Training Institute has been amended on the occasion of the law
various provisions of December 2013. It is hoped that this change will go in the direction of
best offer of training for magistrates.
During the examination of the bill relating to the discipline of magistrats19, it was recalled that
Do not confuse evaluation and discipline. The evaluation of judges made by the head of
body contains positive and negative elements and it is for the body chief
judging whether to submit an item to the disciplinary tribunal that was created. This approach is
all the more important in view of the autonomous management districts.

18
See bill supplementing Article 587 of the Judicial Code to protect the presumption of innocence, filed by Christian
Brotcorne (CDH) in the House of Representatives (Doc. 53-464).
19
Doc. 5- 1067, Act of July 15, 2013.

335

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
However, the current procedure for assessment of magistrates is not sufficiently efficient.
It is very heavy and costs in time and energy. For CDH, evaluation of judges must
not be seen as a sanction, and be associated with any monetary penalties or
disciplinary (now the responsibility of the new disciplinary court), but as a
management tool. Interviews planning and operating under Article
259novies the Judicial Code is the main positive aspect of the current system. It is appropriate to make
the focus of the assessment procedure by aiming two goals: improving
individual operation of the magistrate and improving the functioning of the organization
judiciary.
The CDH offers:
-

Monitor the adequacy of the training provided by the Judicial Training Institute with
practical training requirements prescribed in the various laws or requested by
field workers and ensure the independence of the IFJ.

-

Establish an evaluation system for judges, alongside the disciplinary tribunal established by law
of July 15, 2013 (bill CDH), designed as a management tool, and put a
particular emphasis on the elimination of the backlog.

-

Make planning and operating interviews the centerpiece of the procedure
Evaluation: focusing on training, reorientation, progression, mediation,
coaching.

-

Review the appointment of judges modes by examinations appropriate to the function and
changes in the legal world and the shortage of certain functions in order
judiciary; and ensure the acceleration of the recruitment process.

Proposition 386: Ensuring a fair accompanying the victim and
his relatives from the commission of the offense and during trial
The victim and his entourage too often seen as the forgotten of the criminal process. They
are welcomed and accompanied validly despite the efforts that have been made in
this direction in recent years (eg laws following the Special Commission or sexual abuse law
on the status of the victim). Both the human and budgetary resources are still lacking
humanize and assist victims.
In the Law on Youth Protection nothing is foreseen to allow the victim
to access the file and to obtain information on the facts and the author if it is a minor.
Nor is there no plans, as is now the case for victims of major authors, for
prevent juvenile offender to attend the neighborhood of the victim or to prevent victims
of the impending exit of IPPJ. Victims also have to take full responsibility (unless
they are in the conditions of legal assistance and legal aid) legal costs or
least of advance (civil party fees, any expertise, fresh
avocado).
To ensure the victims taking into account their suffering, the CDH offers:
-

Continue humanizing the reception and accompaniment of the victim by actions
Simple and immediate victim of police. Support services for victims
must be able to continue their aid spontaneously and regularly vis-à-vis duration
victims of the most serious acts and ensure that they receive adequate help much.

-

Provide free legal fees for victims in specific cases of intentional acts
violence or disasters and ensure the compensation funds by intentional acts
violence, including for emergency advances.
336

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Proposition 387: To review the scale of punishments, objectify and diversify
to avoid recurrence
The punishment resulting from a violation must be credible, relevant and fair. For this must be
proportional to the act produced and intervene quickly. A penalty is proportionate and fast
also educational. It is a clear signal to both the author and the victim and society at
together. It can take different forms.
The Penal Code is continually reshaped by laws which we do sometimes see more than what the wire
driver and especially what is the scale of offenses and penalties. From
dramatic events, the trend has been to increase the penalties to impose penalties
floor, extend the aggravating circumstances when violations of interests of target groups
ever larger (for example, certain offenses in relation to categories of persons
particular are punished as severely than murder then it is a homicide
involuntary ...). The proportion, consistency and value of the sanctions has sometimes been overlooked in this
process.
Result: the penalties have never been heavy, prisons never so full, without this
is linked to worsening crime. In the opinion of many experts, the current penal response
is not adequate. The Court of Auditors, in its 2012 report does not make another observation and
recommends that the policy of drafting a comprehensive plan to fight against carcérale20 overpopulation.
To adequately respond to violations and prevent recurrence, the CDH offers:
-

Rethinking the meaning and worth function of ensuring consistency between penalties
different offenses, ensure proportionality between the crime and the punishment and also
include the issue of the rehabilitation of the author to determine the level of penalty to be expected. The
cdH especially proposes to reserve prison for the most serious crimes
require removal of the company and to allow the judge to diversify other
sanctions such as probation, autonomous work sentences.

-

Rethink the concept of recidivism leaving the magistrate an opportunity to assess the effect
recidivism on the penalty to be imposed.

-

Run all the trouble, even the shorter they are legal sanctions or
administrative or transforming them into alternative punishments, either through the bracelet
electronics, while broadening the base diversification of penalties.

-

Open the possibility to combine several types of sentences, for example to allow
to impose a stay of sentence work or general interest services.

20

Report 2012 of the Court of Auditors' Measures against overcrowding "p. 11

337

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Action 7. Giving meaning to the penalty to reduce recidivism
In order for a sanction to be understood, accepted and lived in a constructive way, it must have a
direction to the offense committed. It serves no purpose to punish without this sanction
enabling a true reflection, awareness that has therapeutic effects or even
repairers. It must tend to the person, instead of back into tortious medium has
acquired the means to rebuild and continue his life in a different objective, without falling
in recidivism.

388 flagship proposal: Fostering sustainable reintegration of the prisoner in the
company by a gradual strengthening of its autonomy
Every prisoner who enters prison come out one day and will resume a place in society. The company
interest to prevent recurrence of such person and prepare his rehabilitation including through
housing and employment. This reintegration can not be done overnight. It must be prepared
during detention and accompanied to the exit. Currently, the vast majority of detainees
lies in prisons where the security level is very high. Their autonomy is minimal, the
preparation of their release is often reduced to a minimum.
Therefore, the passage between the holding and normal life is a huge change in their
living conditions. Often, ex-offenders fail to manage this transition,
fall too quickly into criminal behavior.
Did you know that 63% of people leaving prison without penalty development, are again
sentenced to five years in France? 211
Furthermore, the Belgian State must necessarily comply with the prescribed international bodies
concerning prison overcrowding by adopting a policy not consisting building
new prisons. It is appropriate to implement alternative measures to
the ever-increasing prison capacity. The Minister of Justice itself admits that
planned construction of new prisons in his "prison plan" is not enough to avoid
overcrowding, and golds already indicates that a new plan will be required ... Given the importance of
the crisis in this area, we must change course.
For the CDH, the detention time must involve a sanction reprehensible behavior at
rebuilding a sustainable reintegration into society. If the level of recommitment down
sustainably through more effective prisons reduce recidivism, it is not only
spending on prisons that will decrease but also the welfare of the whole
growing population. It is therefore important when improving the detention time and promote
a more dynamic vision of it.
To that detention is not only an opportunity to become aware of the misconduct but
also that this passage is meaningful to promote the conditions for reintegration
successful, the CDH offers:
1. Design incarceration of detainees as a journey that grants more
autonomy to the detainee as the detention time.
This trail gradually pass the highest security level to a detention center
with a normal security level. First, strict sanctionnel time would be expected
depending on the seriousness of the facts and dangerousness of the convicted. This time must be used to

21

Le Monde, "The Taubira Revolution against recidivism" 08/21/2013.

338

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
reflection, psychological and educational support as well as monitoring and
evaluation.
Gradually, if the behavior of the prisoner is adequate, the autonomy of the latter is increased. He
is offered to participate in training, training through work or employment,
access to sport. It may be transferred in a wing or a more open detention center. The
detained is granted the ability to manage a part of his life in prison, as does cooking
or washing clothes. If a prisoner shows inappropriate behavior, he regresses in this
autonomy and denied participation in activities or transfer in a wing more
secure.
The last step is to reside in an "open" prison. Detention in an environment
High security (which is also the most expensive environment to the taxpayer) will
limited to prisoners who absolutely require.
2. Provide for the conclusion of a custody plan agreed upon entry into custody. This plan allows the
held, depending on the gravity of the facts, identify future successive stages,
inform the inmate as soon as possible to the actual release date of which must be
known for months or years in advance. A continuous evaluation process must
accompany the implementation of this plan. It will empower the detainee and
build his reintegration project, instead of taking responsibility away until the release. A
psycho-social support should be linked to the conclusion of this plan.
3. Determine for each inmate a reference person who follows its path detention,
to ensure the implementation of personalized support, which enables the preparation
a realistic and tailored reintegration plan. This support should continue after the end
of detention to ensure a guideline for the detainee, by strengthening the capacity of
Houses of Justice.
4. Prioritize the construction of prison facilities and small character
Community accessible for families, lawyers and prison staff,
in accordance with the Prison Rules of the Council of Europe, as well as sections
"Open".
5. Strengthen the training of prison staff to enable them to develop their work
by educational quality work in addition to their competence monitoring and support
held for aid operations.
6. Ensure at all times and in all places of detention that respect the dignity of conditions
people.
7. Ensuring an adequate medical framework and adequately paid within institutions
prison.
8. Strengthen training opportunities in prison and distance learning.

339

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Proposition 389: Making preventive detention the exception and not the rule
The use of preventive detention is constantly increasing. Currently prisoners
preventive represent 35 to 40% of the population carcérale22.
This preventive detention is in principle provided for only in very specific cases (risk
absconding, collusion with third parties, disappearance of evidence and recurrence), but the interpretation of
these by investigating judges is very wide. During that preventive detention (sometimes very
Long), prisoners, presumed innocent, may not benefit or penalty of work, or any
Another form of detention management.
For cdH upon entry in prison, the inmate should enjoy conditions that will
meaning to his detention as convicted persons (work, followed psycho, medical, social, project
rehabilitation ...). In addition, detainees in custody and therefore not presumed innocent
can be mixed with sometimes very heavy sentences.
To significantly reduce the prison population, CDH offers
-

Awareness and responsibility urgently investigating judges about the need
reduce the use of preventive detention, including by ensuring that all
sentences will be executed and limiting pretrial detention to the most cases
which represent a serious danger to society.

-

Separate strictly those convicted of those, presumed innocent, are
under arrest.

Proposition 390: Provide places and dishes adapted to
Internees
Internees are persons who have committed offenses that were reported
irresponsible. This is currently a little more than 4,000 people in Belgium. This figure
increased significantly (+ 24%) between 2004 and 2011. In general, the internment course
begins in the prison where these people stay after their arrest. From now on,
they must wait until a sufficiently individualized rehabilitation plan and would restrict
Recidivism was developed, a vacancy in a facility or a plan
adapted from outpatient rehabilitation is developed.
Often the wait is endless. Internee four remain in prison, where he has not yet
its place. These sick people are not actually convicted criminals and it is their
impossible, in prison, to receive the necessary care and legally binding which they
can claim.
The CDH offers:
-

Adopt and implement without delay the law on the detention;

-

Build or adapt places reserved for persons detained so that they enjoy the
care they need;

-

Making depend on these institutions of public health rather than SPF SPF justice.

22

2013 Notice of the state of Belgian prison tendering system, in August 2013 report of the International Observatory of Prisons, Belgian, p. 28

340

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Chapter 3. Sharing values
"Brotherhood" is the only principle that challenges the strength of human relationships in the heart of a
new democratic project. This means that although each being has its identity
specifically, all men basically participate in the same adventure. This "brotherhood"
we want to bring the breath policy aims breakwater against the evolution of a
society of individuals bent on themselves solitudes in which add up the
indifference, selfishness, intolerance, nationalism and exclusion in all its
forms.
The construction of living together, as a collective project requires the participation of all. The
mutual respect and the right to difference are essential; whether of gender, race, age,
culture, religion, sexual orientation or disability. They are all prerequisites that
consequences of what determines our living together. The emergence of this better life together
should allow to build an intercultural society that values ​​the contributions of the dialogue
diversity and reduce fractures within society, whether social or cultural.

Action 1. Cultivating
Culture is a powerful lever of human development. It is that which unites, which is common to
a company or a group of people at a given time in a given territory: lifestyle
and thought, value systems, traditions, languages, techniques, skills and attitudes. It
allows men and women to understand the world around them, to represent the
place they occupy and the meaning they give to the relationships they forge. Culture contributes to
build an open, caring society, aware of its creative roots and potential. There
Culture is live and reinventing our company. By manufacturing the imagination, making share
unique emotional experiences, building memories, she gives meaning and creates the link.
In everyday language by cons, the word "culture" is primarily taken as meaning more
restricted practices and supply of goods and services inspired, from these value systems.
For CDH, culture is therefore both what unites, what brings but what creates it
develops. It is an instrument of social cohesion and a powerful lever for development
human. In this sense, culture is also a dynamic deeply rooted in a territory. It
brings prosperity based on knowledge, creativity, innovation and motivation.
The cultural intensity is a real lever of attractiveness and growth of our territory, source
human development and socio-economic. The strictly economic impact of culture is
significant. This sector generates substantial economic effect flows, representing 4 times
Agriculture and 2 times the catering industry in terms of GDP. It is both a source of skilled jobs
(technicians, musicians, programmers, administrators, managers, ...) and companies not
relocatable (concert halls, festivals, studios, etc ...).
Today, the power of digital media reinforces the cultural impact of coming productions
from around the world. This intensive cultural mix is ​​a factor dialogue between all beings
humans. It is also a challenge to keep the consciousness of identity, history and
its own values, especially the pluralism essential to the exercise of democracy
modern.

341

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Proposal flagship 391: Strengthen culture as development lever
human
For CDH, cultural policy must be deployed at the intersection of three major issues:
1. The urgency to act to give every human being an active access to culture and more
particularly what constitutes the cultural heritage of his own community. In this
regard, it must be stressed that maintaining cultural exception is essential as
counterweight to globalization movements.

2. Culture is a powerful force for convergence of structural policies
employment, regional development, social cohesion, the fight against violence, etc.
(the metamorphosis of the city of Medellin, Colombia is one of the examples
emblematic). In essence, the culture should be a transversal approach and be
integral to all other areas of public action, which brings implicitly
part of a response to the lack of resources dedicated to cultural policy in the strict sense.

3. Transparency of public interventions must be perfect; it postulates a
modernizing and simplifying the current regulatory dispersed in multiple
'commissions' and a strengthening of the observatory of cultural policies.
Today there is a consensus to recognize the close relationship develops between creativity
artistic, cultural and economic dynamism, entrepreneurial spirit in all fields
human activity. Culture is an engine of economic development and innovation,
well-being and conviviality. Culture, it is a job, it is a multitude of trades is the
Working ...
The role of government is not to certify the quality of artistic creations but to stimulate,
to stimulate, to create the framework for a cultural expansion. Our Regions are increasingly
called to take their destiny in hand and their territory; This assumption of responsibility must integrate
the diversity of cultural expressions broadest and most representative of our people and
our creative minds.
Culture is often treated as an elitist art form, reserved for insiders. But culture
is the common good of all the inhabitants and users of a given territory. All cultures and
artistic practices contribute to the wealth of our regions. Culture encompasses both poles
excellence and research, practical "in" amateur or '' professional projects integration or discoveries, recreational activities, old and new
disciplines / technologies / practices / consumption.
Access to culture for all citizens should be a priority as it helps forge a
individual and collective identity, but above all, the development and growth
staff. Through it, one can determine or understand its place in society. He is
therefore essential to increase the channels of production and artistic and cultural dissemination, to
integrate, build and share our ideas.
Culture is the place of the mixture, construction and meet the many identities
cultural that make the richness of Belgian society.
Culture is an artistic and intellectual activity but also an economic activity. . The boost
further, encourage, help to create and develop, as well as other initiatives
Economic is one of our priorities such as developing the artistic talents both
cultural and creative industries are a source of sustainable jobs (untouched by industry
outsourcing), more structured dissemination and wider (and reach of our artists
our Francophone culture).

342

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
Take part in cultural activities fosters personal development (self-confidence and
society, language development and creativity, enhancement of experience,
mainly in the field of new technologies) ...
Therefore, the CDH offers:
-

Support the cultural sector in times of crisis because it is potentially a part of
response to this crisis.

-

Developing a cultural policy within the European Union (which has none).

-

Support artistic creation:

1) by allowing companies to deduct up to 1% of revenue or income
taxed to finance the organization of any recognized cultural activity. To encourage
the investment of private actors in cultural prosperity, especially, action
businesses in this area, the tax is the most appropriate way. The Tax Shelter mechanism
should be expanded to other creative sectors, while strengthening control mechanisms for
prevent the system from being condemned by the abuse.
2) by giving more prominence to the criterion of artistic creativity in the support granted
by Wallimage and Bruxellimage (investment funds created by Wallonia and Brussels
support production and the creative and artistic endeavors).
-

Support small entrepreneurs in the sector through a partnership between cooperatives
activities, micro-credit and local economy wickets in creating a legal framework and
Tax for crowdfunding platforms and supporting cultural patronage. Patronage
culture is not restricted to large investors; mechanics allows digital media
today to mobilize the same modest holdings of more people,
to finance cultural projects, particularly at the local level.

-

Create a specific joint commission for trades of the event;

-

Make art and culture at the heart of public space and more precisely:

o

Multiply artist residency projects in universities, municipalities,
companies in order to support artists while stimulating creativity; create incentives
to allow coexistence between local merchants and artists, including
affecting trading floors unoccupied for cultural and artistic purposes.

o

Giving institutions, companies, operators, the mission to go out places and classic
to go to meet the people in the neighborhoods or campaigns;

o

Stimulate the creation and installation of contemporary art in unusual places or
public throughout the territory.

o

Create and propose a legislative framework to enable street art and urban of
to speak freely in public space.

-

Training at local level, a cultural advisor. Asembler facilitator, inspirer, it would
responsibilities include:

o

Supporting small initiatives, identify areas that can be made available to artists
Local and establish a link with them to help them the best in their projects;

o

Develop partnerships between artists and cultural operators and Organizations
Youth and Youth Centres, the Youth Support Services.

o

Be available to schools to support arts and cultural learning and
promote contacts of students with cultural initiatives;

343

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
-

Promoting access to culture and cultural events, reserving a percentage of
subsidies granted to the organization to a reduction in the value of a certain number of places
(as part of the harmonization of tariffs).

o

Actively support the implementation of the new decree on cultural centers.

o

Define the working relationship with the public - information, communication, dissemination as one of public service missions of cultural operators.

o

Enhance collaboration of public services with the association Article 27 and work
with operators on the establishment culture checks.

o

Ensure funding and adopt the implementing orders of the Decree of 30 April 2009 on
coaching and subsidizing of the artistic practices of federations
Amateur, representative federations centers of expression and creativity and
centers of expression and creativity.

o

Ensure maintenance of cultural budgets in areas where cultural tools are few
numerous.

o

Develop a cultural pass for young people under 25, giving access to price
reduced to the cultural offer of the FWB.

o

Generalize pass family in the subsidized cultural institutions under agreement
or scheduled contract; encourage them to private operators and users
public domain.

o

Implement incentive measures to contribute to greater accessibility
the cultural offer (subtitles, audio descriptions, equipment ...). Supporting Associations
Reference in this regard to allow free audits on events and
other one-time or permanent cultural sites; organize central purchasing and
pooling of resources and needs to reduce investment costs and make
ensure that disability is no longer an obstacle to the practice and consumption
cultural and artistic.

-

Strengthen the link between the school and the whole cultural world, what happens in practice by:

o

Organize the presence of academies and cultural associations in the school to
develop extracurricular activities within it.

o

Conclude sustainable partnerships between schools and libraries to the presentation
and making available to book in the school

o

Allow theater companies, musical groups who wish to perform
preparation and rehearsals of their shows in school infrastructure that it
lend combining maximum students

-

Give each child an opportunity to acquire a capacity for artistic expression:

o

Stimulate and promote the academies.

o

Professionalize learning the artistic practice of the nursery at the end of the obligation
school.

o

Evaluate the initiative of free museums one Sunday a month and, if necessary,
extend to children and students on other Sundays.

-

Respect and promote more local cultural identities specifically for
media. Example: inability to capture emissions Luxembourg in southern
Luxembourg.

344

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Proposition 392: Strengthening the cultural world in Brussels
The CDH offers:
- Bring the Region in the capital St'art investment funds (Walloon Region and
Federation, not Brussels) to financially support our Brussels companies;
- To review the regional cluster policy to make more visible their creative aspects and create a
cultural and tourism event cluster;
- Financial support to sustain the structures that accompany artists and designers
job seekers (type ISLANDS Schaerbeek and ACT in St Gilles);
- Develop bridges with Wallonia-Brussels Federation regarding
training and the acquisition of management skills to cultural entrepreneurs;
- Create a business incubator specifically dedicated to the footwear sector, the type that Clust'art
is in Liege;
- Create a cultural G20 informal platform bringing together the ten governments that have
a link to the ICC, as well as other operators, cultural and / or economic (Council
Brussels museums, Network-Arts Brussels KunsternOverleg, ABE, digital clusters ...). He
must also bring the cultural sector in the CA Visit Brussels, to ensure a
coordinated policy between the many stakeholders in the hybrid sector, CDH offers
creation.

Proposition 393: Widely distribute talents and cultural heritage
Wallonia-Brussels Federation
Measures should be taken to support the dissemination and awareness of the artists
FWB. They are both ambassadors internationally and inspiring creativity in our regions.
Tell our artists and our heritage, is to know the roots that form the basis of
social, entrepreneurial dynamism and quality of life that characterize our regions.
A new model must be established to ensure proper remuneration for artists and
more specifically, to trace the funds and benefits to the creative.
The cultural landscape has to be redefined in a dual objective: to ensure the volume of jobs
artistic and focus government action on impulse, support for development,
support for dissemination, which must leave more play the link between the public and the producer of
show, the cultural event of the work regardless of medium. Investments in
structures and their functioning may be at the expense of artistic creation.
Therefore, the CDH offers:
1. Defend the principle of cultural exception, particularly in the context of trade agreements
Bilateral EU.
2. Culture is largely absent in the mandatory assignment of Commons. Based on the
Focus on the outcome of Territorial Cultural Development, our action to go in the Region
meaning of this recognition alongside the current missions that are developing the
public reading, the establishment of cultural centers ... To materialize this measure,
should be imposed on local authorities mandatory cultural expenditures via the
powers of the regional guardianship.
3. Sustaining the artist status that allows the combination between an allowance of the NEO and an activity
intermittent, emerging or partial. Stimulate the rapid adoption or renewal

345

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
sectoral collective agreements and failing to institution conventions laying down the procedures
collaboration of authors and artists.
4. Finalizing the non-profit sector agreements (2011) and extended it to 'forgotten' that are
including some museums and cultural centers.
5. Delivering the cooperation agreements with Flanders (2013) by assigning budgets
specific to their implementation.
6. Better balance the cultural budgets of the Federation Wallonia-Brussels, according to sectors,
by jurisdiction and by the creation-production chain; and regularly renew
view instances to avoid collusion, this by amending the Decree of 10 April 2003 on the
operation of mind bodies working in the cultural sector to the reports
Activity instances, if appropriate grouped, be debated in parliament.
7. Modernize and streamline the aid in reserving a share to emerging and distinguishing
Grants for infrastructure on the one hand and their operations, and others involved in
artistic creation (including the specific artistic and technical jobs).
8. Support the development of infrastructure in the heart of the living areas, particularly
in the context of new projects (creation of new areas, etc.), through loads
planning. We also want to include in the contracts of management companies
Transport specific objectives serving cultural venues and events.
9. Support the cultural industry by consolidating business culture around at least five
federative poles such as letters and books, heritage and visual arts, cinema, arts
scene, audiovisual and multimedia. As clusters grouping all trades of a sector
economic activity, the cultural diffusion poles would bring together all stakeholders with a die
training to the broadcast, in order to optimize the projects and to strive
excellence.
10. Modernizing the Copyright and Related Rights to create a new balance between the fair
remuneration of creators and the protection of users:
o

Review the respective contribution mechanisms distributors / operators
network.

o

Promote consultation and conclusion of sectoral collective agreements between balanced
societies of authors and artists and cultural institutions and associations.

o

Provide an exceptional regime for educational activities youth sector
as is the case for instruction.

o

Defending perception, however small, on the rights of reproduction and ready for
feeding a support fund creation.

11. Focus support for museums to create clusters with a radiation
International.
12. Provide places of expression and exposure in places of passage, put the works of art
on the course of walkers, tourists, residents, shoppers (stations, etc.).
13. Provide partnerships of successful events, and others who have more difficulties
make themselves known (eg through combined tickets or sponsorship system or
coaching, exchange of knowledge and experiences).
14. Support the intangible heritage through tourism policy and culture
(folklore, gastronomy, dialects, ...).

346

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
15. Continue to digitize the heritage to make it accessible online on platforms
Wallonia own or FWB or by leaning against international platforms
(Europeana, Google, ...).

Proposition 394: Accompany changing media landscape: identity
and cultural pluralism
The development of new information and communications technology raises many
hopes and prospects for human development, but also many challenges,
such as media adaptation to global competition; volativité the information; There
distribution channels of propagation (amateur or professional, public or private); pressure
the immediate economic and gratuitousness of info; the increase in precarious craft
journalist and press photographer ... These challenges are, and it is therefore essential
accompany and support the media in this digital transition.
Therefore, the CDH offers:
1. Appoint a Minister of the media and not just a minister of audiovisual, responsible for
ensure media pluralism and to take concrete measures that meet the
sector needs, with a vision in the longer term.
2. Ensure cooperation between stakeholders, experts and political actors by
creating a place for opinion exchange and arbitration, we propose to call Médiagora.
This body will aim to objectify the debate and make recommendations to policy
in order to support the media of information in their digital transition (cf.
resolution tabled by the CDH following the closing of the States General Media
information).
3. Strengthening the independence of CSA, e Parliament and the European Commission say in
their guidelines, the Council of State confirms: a well regulated sector requires financing and
adequate human resources. In this sense, to deal with its exponential missions,
saw its role to stimulate this key sector or strategic, the CSA needs a
refinancing.
4. To support and empower local media, particularly local television, who
mission is to inform citizens about what is happening in their immediate surroundings. The objective
is to deepen local television the Federation missions to strengthen
synergies between them in terms of using common equipment, purchasing groups, of
common administration ....
5. Train citizens capable of understanding the journalistic content with every setback
required; adapt school curricula to digital media and mutations;
strengthen teacher training through the use of information professionals and
Communication. Confronting children to new media when teaching
fundamental equip schools and teachers integrate specific to these missions.
6. Provide more access to the media space artists. The RTBF management contract must
subject to an amendment not only imposing quotas but of broadcast formats
artists throughout the Federation Wallonia-Brussels. In consultation with the services of publishers
audiovisual, develop a strategy beyond broadcasting quotas and commitments
taken more strongly publicize the cultural heritage of the Wallonia-Brussels.
7. Master the communication networks (especially broadband) which have a structuring effect
and are disseminating cultural content structuring key to human development.

347

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
Ensure the 'must carry' missions service distributors (Voo, Belgacom, Numericable,
Telenet).
8. Open certain audiovisual public service missions to tender for a concession
precise specifications guaranteeing editorial independence and editorial freedom. Other
Publishers must be able, alongside the RTBF, fulfill public service missions in the field
educational, cultural and general interest information.
9. Integrate quality objectives more advanced in the RTBF management contract, among others
those of: 1) make public and submit "qualimat" quality surveys in the CSA
its annual control; 2) review the criteria for the selection and dissemination of
programs on cultural heritage, different ways of expression and creation
and all artistic disciplines to give them more impact on the public.
10. Improve the human resources department of RTBF and conduct an evaluation of the statutes
Personal RTBF, to promote the work and talents of all members of the
staff, to organize training and enable the development of skills
personnel within the structure.
11. Define terminology associated with program genres used in the management contract
including allowing a better reading of the content offered by the public operator.
12. Increase the minimum share of contracts with independent audiovisual producers,
whose residence, place of business or registered office is located WallonieBruxelles Federation (Article 12.3).
13. Establish a Joint Steering Group (publishers, CSA, SGAM, government) to
accompany the launch of terrestrial digital radio (DAB) and providing the impetus
indispensable to the establishment of the new radio landscape (investments,
automotive equipment, organization of simulcast ...). To ensure pluralism and
RNT economic sustainability, it is necessary to organize the deployment of four
multiplex (MUX), ensuring the balance between public and private radio services,
between major publishers and independent radio stations, community and associative and
between urban and rural areas.

Proposition 395: Enhance and strengthen continuing education as a pillar
Societal
Everyone must be able to flourish in a society; the exercise of citizenship and democracy
Participatory constitute the founding principles of human development.
Lifelong learning is therefore a major factor in the personal development and
social, offering each adult, whatever their origin, culture, social environment, its
convictions, tools or meeting places to train, learn, sharpen critical thinking,
reflect, share, compare his ideas, meet and understand.
Continuing education is an area of ​​land, relatively difficult to grasp and whose
results are not measurable in the short and medium term. Often referred to by his ungrateful
workers, it should benefit from greater attention, greater recognition
and increased visibility into actions and his thoughts.
The CDH offers:
1. Consolidate and strengthen associations active in the lifelong learning sector
through the financing of operation and employment in this sector.
348

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
2. Promote and communicate via web and media channels, citizen philosophy
Participatory lifelong learning and promote analyzes and studies
conducted within this framework.
3. Multiply the intervention periods and areas of continuing education, networking their
action to pool resources, needs and experiences of the sector.
4. Integrate European culture school cultural programs. How to
European culture if half of Europeans are considered foreigners? Us
must create the link in schools, tell it and integrate it.
5. Strengthen the role and involvement of local communities in a global program
cultural promotion and continuing education.
6. Develop Digital Public Spaces in a territorial plan to 10 years
contribute to reducing the digital divide.
7. Support literacy associations and expand training schedules for
allow learners to gradually insert the world of work.
8. Develop an extensive program of cultural mediation with universities and
operators / cultural facilities (museums, theaters, opera ...).

Action 2. Promoting intercultural
The 21st century more than ever we address the challenge of multiculturalism and active citizenship. There
Belgium has never been based on a single culture or a single community of people but
well on a mix which our country has identified and continues to meet the challenges.
Nevertheless, racism and intolerance are increasing in Europe23. Because of their religion,
their origins, their cultures, their ways of life, many citizens are affected by
new forms of discrimination, for racism on the Internet.
Interculturalism is a challenge with problems of integration and non-recovery and ignorance
but also the advantages it implies in terms of enriching our identities.
The CDH wants to contribute to the success of multiculturalism, promote respect for differences,
ban communalism, which is the refusal of dialogue and fight against isolationism and
cultural relativism, which assumes that all behavior is necessarily acceptable.

Proposition 396: Start a pact for successful diversity
Multiculturalism in our Belgian company is a fact, that is to say that several crops
different coexist. This diversity is an asset when they open up to each other.
It is through this opening to each other that citizens are able to participate in society
drawing together a common project. It's called multiculturalism.
That is why we propose to launch an inter-federal pact successful diversity
as part of an inter-cultural dialogue and inter-cult.
This pact based both on respect for differences and belonging to common values
should include various elements including the following:
1. Introduce a priority criterion in the funding of projects to mixed associations,
co-construction and is building bridges between communities. By introducing a criterion
23

European Commission against Racism and Intolerance, Council of Europe (ECRI 2012)

349

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
Incentive interculturalism, the objective is to promote structural or ad hoc cooperation
between associations of different audiences (young and old, Belgian and immigrants,
people from different neighborhoods, etc.) to develop an open mind vis-à-vis other
groups and communities.
2. Create a citizenship contract: Rewrite all our set of common values
universal non-negotiable such as respect for others, environment, interest General. This pact will promote accountability, especially that of the citizen vis-à-vis society.
The document will include the rights and obligations of all citizens, and the main principles of
our rule of law. It will be a moral, not a legal value. It will be widely distributed to
all citizens by focusing more the voluntary sector, administrations, primoarrivants.
3. Promote training in multiculturalism and intercultural mediation for the world
associative and state employees having contact with citizens.
4. Create a museum of immigration and value the place of immigrant populations in history
Belgium and Europe: to encourage the working memory.
5. Further development of cultural diversity areas: the many cultural spaces
Belgium (libraries, theaters, ...) should reflect the diversity of their
environment and our culture. Care must be taken to make these more accessible to all areas by
programming and targeting audiences of all backgrounds.
6. Encourage inter-community and inter-European initiatives. Firstly, we need
strengthen ties between Francophone, Dutch and German in
multiplying the meeting spaces and exchanges. Secondly, we must work
more to the encounter between Europeans living in Belgium and all Belgians. Brussels
as capital of Europe. Tens of thousands of Europeans working there without that
the realities of these people are sufficiently valued. We must work to ensure that these
communities meet more.
7.

Support the Barometer diversité24: The Diversity barometer refines the
various issues relating to discrimination, tolerance and participation in the market
work.

8.

Surrounding obtaining Belgian citizenship an official ceremony by the local authorities.

Proposition 397: Open school diversity
The school plays an important role in the construction of living together in learning
gestures of citizenship and the promotion of intercultural dialogue. The family, organizations
Youth, have also a role to play. Therefore, the CDH offers:
1. Train teachers on intercultural dialogue approach in the broader framework of
education for active and responsible citizenship: enhancing the training (initial and ongoing
career) teachers and educational support to intercultural and citizenship
active and responsible as cross-cutting approaches.
2. Further integrate education for intercultural dialogue, promotion of diversity and the fight
against discrimination and racism in school curricula. It should give a more
large place to the history of colonization and independence, immigration, the roles of
migrant populations in the events history of the Belgian, European and international,

24

In 2012 he tied to employment discrimination. It was followed by Housing Barometer which will give its first
results in 2014, before a barometer Education in 2016, and then start a new cycle in 2018.

350

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
and the memory of ethnic, cultural and / or religious present in
Belgique25.
3. Extend the opening program languages ​​and cultures (OLC) which aims learning
the languages ​​and cultures of students in the classroom.
4. Establish a core project for over morality and religion that allows
interfaith dialogue (see proposal 49).

Proposition 398: Promoting religious dialogue and interconvictional
The spiritual life whatsoever is fully part of the development of every person and
feeds the fabric of social and collective relationships. For the relationships between these different
beliefs mingle harmoniously, the CDH offers:
- Create a platform of interfaith dialogue and interconvictional would have four missions.
- It would be a place for dialogue and peaceful exchange between religions and currents
philosophical.
- It would be consulted on social issues and ethical issues and have a committee
view
- It would be an educational place on interconvictionnels knowledge (conferences, events
cultural, educational resources ...) ,.
- It would be a space which encourages interconvictionnelles initiatives:
- It would be a partner for discussion and consultation for executive and could
submit recommendations and suggestions and fill a role in wise
times voltages
- Provide with this advice a new consensus on the development framework negotiated
harmonious cults in our society and their impact on the socio-economic life involving
including training initiatives, clear rules for the construction and
recognition of places of worship and to the balance between religious freedom on the one hand and
the mandatory rules of our rule of law.
It should also support the ongoing reform of worship in order to introduce more equality
and transparency therebetween. This reform is about the new recognition criteria
religions or philosophical trends, harmonization of salaries and scales of Ministers
cults, structured and coherent organization of representative bodies and
the objectification of posts of ministers of religion.

Proposition 399: Promoting diversity in employment policies
We refer here to the proposed 131 Axis 2.

25

This proposal was present in the Assizes of interculturalism and the report of the Commission on Intercultural Dialogue
2005.

351

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Proposition 400: Adopt a national strategy against racism
This national strategy, coordinated by the inter-federal Centre for Equal Opportunities, associate
all relevant partners to:
1. Fight against hate speech on the internet (see proposition 401.);
2. Establish a National Institute for Human Rights: The Center for Equal
Chances will become Interfederal. It will depend on a National Institution for Human Rights (NHRIs)
in accordance with the Paris Principles adopted by the United Nations. Indeed, in 2011,
Belgium has committed to create a national institution for human rights. This Institute
Interfederal will include the Centre for Equal Opportunities and the fight against discrimination and
Racism, the Federal Centre for the Analysis of migratory flows, protection of rights
fundamental foreign and fight against trafficking in human beings, the Institute Interfederal
equality between women and men.
3. To fight against the increase in racist acts by an active policy that coordinates the action of the
Justice and police at all levels of authority. This should also go through campaigns
awareness and promotion of all existing tools of the Centre for Equal
Opportunities.
4. To fight against the trivialization populist and racist remarks in the media. By all
means, we must fight against the trivialization of populist about in the media, on
internet in the public space. The media play a fundamental role in the constitution
one's identity and cohesion of society. It is important that the media, as a
mirror of society, pass a knowledge opening message from the other and they
do not maintain the stereotypes and prejudices.

352

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Action 3. To fight against all forms of discrimination
Human development is based on respect of the other in their differences, on openness and on
the creation of spaces for dialogue and exchange. All forms of racism and discrimination
based on race or ethnic origin, religion or belief, disability, age or
sexual orientation and gender resent us to the point of any effort to combat them.
Beyond the different measures presented in Action 2 (proposals 396-400) Promotion
interculturalism, we offer extra measures below.

Proposal flagship 401: Fight against hate speech on the Internet and
social networks
Internet is a wonderful invention to connect the citizens of all ages and to share it on
ideas. Unfortunately, beyond trade and learning it offers, its interactive spaces
are also the place of racist and xenophobic discourse. It is necessary to fight ferociously
this hatred on the canvas.
"Did you know that the Internet is second as a source of racist? "
Internet participates in the commoditization of certain images and stereotypes. In 2012, the Centre
for Equal Opportunities has opened 243 cases involving media-related events, including nearly
Falls 85% of cases of hate on the Internet or cyber-hate (85%) 26.
Hate speech, what is it?
Hate speech is defined as "all forms of expression which spread, incite,
promote or justify racial hatred, xenophobia, anti-Semitism or other forms of hatred
based on intolerance "
Almost all of the files are based on criteria "racial" or religious beliefs or related to
philosophical. In fact, it is mainly of racist statements on the Internet. Cyber-hate
been a worrying increase the urgency to counter impunity often face
recognized.
Internet gives the false impression to some users that their words and deeds are not virtual
or punishable or liable to prosecution and online through anonymity, it is allowed to
standards and comply with different values.
The Minister for Equal Opportunities has tracked the different manifestations of hatred on the internet
allowing the Centre for Equal Opportunities to set up a fight against the cell
cyber-hate, now effective.
To fight against cyber-hate, cdH therefore proposes:
-

Ratify the additional protocol to the International Convention on Cybercrime.

-

Require the establishment of procedures to denounce and remove hate speech. In order to
fight against the trivialization of hate speech, it must require large net companies
like Facebook or Twitter to set up a platform or a procedure accessible
All citizens and organizations fighting against racism in order to denounce the abuses and
insults so that this speech be removed from the internet and to limit their spread.

-

Facilitate the control and removal of hate speech on the Internet and social networks: A
action should be taken at European level to legislate on the matter.

26

Annual Report of the Centre for Equal Opportunities

353

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
-

Study the action against anonymity on the Internet: A thorough study
could be launched in order to study the possibilities of developing a system requiring
people leaving messages on the internet to identify. This practice aims to break
anonymity that allows to hide to keep insulting, hateful and populist.
Other European countries have already legislated in that direction.

-

Set up a cell which teaching in schools explains the phenomena
cyber-hate and harassment.

Proposal flagship 402: Enter into a Pact for Gender Equality Interfederal hommefemme
According to a poll published on March 7, 84% of Belgian women believe that gender equality
is still relevant and 32%, there will never gender. Equality in law is
a victory for our country, but de facto equality is still to be conquered, despite significant
progress. For some years now, the cause for gender equality is less felt
as a collective priority, while inequalities and difficulties of everyday life
half of our population persist.
The CDH requires Interfederal Pact for gender equality as a priority for all
future governments. This Pact should, in particular: a transverse plane of gender
mainstreaming (integrated approach to gender equality) and gender budgeting (analysis
revenue and expenditure in terms of gender equality) in all levels of power
as the government has initiated at the federal level; zero tolerance to all forms of
violence against women, renewing a new collective plan of action on it for 4
coming years with targets; a multiannual program for reducing the gap
salary, including fringe benefits, to achieve a zero gap at the end of the year; There
continuation of the policy of quotas in places of public and private decisions; reform
Diet alimony in case of divorce; advances in social law
individualisation of rights.
Gender mainstreaming addresses a fairness and good governance concerns. At the
Belgium, the law, known as gender mainstreaming, dates back to 2007. Specifically, each member of the
Government is committed to mainstream "gender" in two of its policies
Choose from their skills.
In addition, the Cabinet also approved the draft law on the impact assessment of the
integrated regulation (AIR). This text forwarded to Parliament, can integrate all areas
for which a measure of impact of a proposed government decision is required (equality
male / female test or gender, but also administrative burden, sustainable development, etc.).
Therefore the CDH offers:
1. Establish a tighter monitoring of the implementation of gender mainstreaming in
Federal: by introducing the possibility of sanctions.
2. Entrusting the monitoring and evaluation of gender mainstreaming in the Council of State (instead of
the Institute).
3. Introduce gender budgeting and give control of gender budgeting in the Court of
accounts.
4. Implement gender mainstreaming at all levels of power: thus including the
level of the Communities and Regions.

354

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
5. Establish the institution for each minister, at all levels of power, of a sheet
drive for male / female equality within the scope of its competence: with a balance sheet
and an annual action program for the following year, as is done at the
French government.
6. Encourage the Regions to establish gender at municipal and provincial levels: with a plan
gender and road maps for gender equality for each member of the
College of Mayors and Aldermen.

Proposition 403: Continue
discrimination and sexism

There

fight

against

the

stereotypes,

the

TV series, commercials, and also children's books or textbooks,
continue to perpetuate, consciously or not, that reinforce gender stereotypes report
domination. But stereotypes are not innocent. They may lead to phenomena of
segregation and discrimination.
To fight against stereotypes, the CDH offers:
1. Support research on the subject and create a master specialized in gender equality:
as already exists in the Flemish Community.
2.

Give sufficient attention to sexism and gender stereotypes in training
initial and continued teacher, and in the training provided in the sector
media and advertising.

3.

Introduce education in well-being, social life, emotional and sex: once
basic education, in partnership with actors outside the school.

4.

Draft a code of ethics relating to the European image of women and man
in advertising and the media: with adequate sanctions. Thus, the decisions following
Complaints will be more uniform and public trust will be strengthened.

5.

Strictly regulate or prohibit Mini-miss of the competition: this contest reveals
hypersexualisation problem of our society that reinforces stereotypes about
roles of women and men and is the ideal seating sexism.

In the fight against sexism, CDH offers:
6. Fill the law penalizes the act of discrimination. The idea is to extend the notion of
harassment in the civilian aspects such law, public space, understood as "any place
publicly available ". Thanks to this legal change, victims of harassment, could -
possibly with the help of the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men - be
compensate the damage suffered. This aspect of the reform therefore concern all assumptions
harassment - sexual or otherwise - from the street to access to goods and services ...

Proposition 404: The fight against violence and discrimination against
lesbians, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT)
The discrimination against lesbians, gays, bisexual and transgender
(LGBT) still exist in our society. The CDH is opposed to any form of homophobia
wishes to support the well-being of everyone.
Moreover, instead of transgender and transsexual people in public policy is almost
existent since most decision makers are unaware of their problem or consider

355

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
as very marginal. Also, awareness should be considered as an important action point
As with public authorities and the population so that everyone is aware of
discrimination against transgender and transsexual victims.
Therefore, the CDH offers:
-

Support associations that carry out awareness campaigns to fight against homophobia
within schools;

-

Strengthen training for the reception of victims of homophobic discrimination within
police services;

-

Ensure that homophobic acts are effectively prosecuted and convicted, including
through administrative penalties.

Action 4. Ethics and Values
In our democratic society, everyone has the right to draw its own ethical convictions of its
values ​​and the profound meaning he gives to existence. This ethic among other calls for a discount
involved much deeper in our society, which sometimes makes the apology of individualism and
materialism.

Proposition 405: Allow delivery in discretion
Childbirth in discretion and anonymous births ...
Childbirth in discretion is defined as the birth of a child surrounded by a
some confidentiality: the identity of the mother and the fact of birth can remain
but discrete data on the mother (and father if available) must be
stored and accessible only child and under certain conditions.
Childbirth "under X" is defined as childbirth for which the law allows the woman to do
reveal his identity to anyone: neither to the care facility where she will give birth or to individuals
the attending or will cure nor the officer of civil status who receives the declaration of birth. In
this situation, the child will never have access to data on the biological parents.
In Belgium, childbirth under X is prohibited because the mother's name is mandatory
mentioned in the act of childbirth. However, some women facing a situation of
great distress would like their identity and the fact of their birth are kept
secrets. For this, they have no choice but to give birth and abandon their illegally
child - which endangers the child's life but also the health of the mother - or visit
abroad to give birth anonymously. The question arises of how to accompany
women in distress who wish to hide their delivery while maintaining their health and the health
their child and allowing it to find its roots?
For the CDH must:
-

allow a woman to give birth discreetly while preserving the possibility for
the child to be born in good conditions and can find its roots: For this,
must allow a woman to give birth in distress keeping secret the fact
childbirth while allowing the biological father to introduce an application for affiliation
towards the child. This child should have access to information about their biological origins
from the age of twelve, without that such access is subject to the consent of its
legal representatives. Data for the delivery should be stored in a
356

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
register, securely and keeping it must be entrusted to family court. He
necessary to provide a support by a multidisciplinary team of woman contemplating
to give birth in the discretion and, in the case of children born in the discretion of the child
and biological parents when a request for access to information is introduced and all
along this path.

Proposition 406: Improving support to couples facing the loss of a
unsustainable stillborn child or
The loss of a child during pregnancy while the child was desired by parents and by
possible other children in the family, is a harrowing ordeal for them. Fetuses
stillborn before the limit of 180 days from conception were mostly qualified time
of "hospital waste" and incinerated with other operating rooms in the hospital where was held
delivery.
The CDH offers:
-

recognize, accept and humanize the grieving couples faced with the loss of a child not
viable or stillborn below the legal threshold of 180th day from designing them
offering the opportunity to provide recognition and support, in human terms, of
their grief.

For children born lifeless from the 180th day of gestation, we propose to define the concept
Child born without life and allow parents to obtain a specific certificate "declaration
Child born without life "rather than a death certificate extract. For children born between lifeless
140th and 179th day from the date of conception, the birth must be entered in a special register created
for this purpose and held by the officer of the civil state and provide the possibility to mention the names of
the child. Regarding the dead fetuses born between the 106th and the 139th day following the date of conception,
we suggest to place a name in a special register opened up within the institution
hospital.

Proposition 407: Prohibit Surrogacy
The CDH is highly sensitive and respectful of distress related to technical failures
assisted reproduction. However, recognizing and do not underestimate the
suffering of those unable to fulfill their desire to have a child, he refuses to endorse the
voluntary programming a child to be abandoned by those who carried because this goes
against the attachment between the surrogate mother and the unborn child, and leads to
the instrumentalisation of human beings to other human beings service.
The CDH offers:
-

legislate to ban gestation practices for others;

-

rendering the services offered by illegal intermediaries: prohibit trade in
motherhood and the sale of children under criminal law.

357

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS

Change Europe!
Europe is primarily a single great human adventure in the world. A union
voluntary, based on strong values ​​and principles of solidarity and equal
Member states.
Beyond common interests, citizens and States that make up the shared heritage
exceptionally rich, common values ​​such as peace, human rights
human, democracy, fruit of our history and nourished by the tragedies that we have seen in
last century.
Europe is also an ambitious project to build a space of peace, security, welfare, prosperity and economic and social development for European citizens and for
the world.
And together for more than sixty years the Member States of the European Union are the most
largest economy in the world. Overall, Europe has allowed for considerable progress
consumer protection, for training, for the single currency, to develop
common standards of environmental protection, food safety,
transportation, police cooperation, judicial, lengthening of maternity leave and well
more!
This European dream continues to live and vibrate around the world. How to remain unmoved
when in Ukraine, European flags are at the heart of events for change and

democracy ? How to remain indifferent when the Nobel Peace Committee decided to honor
the European Union stating, "You have in Europe something precious, something
you should be proud. Do not weaken, on the contrary, enrich this great project of peace that is
Europe! "When we look at Europe from Beijing, Washington and Kinshasa, we understand that
that brings us together as Europeans is infinitely greater than what divides us.
But at the same time, we must note that even within Europe, the dream has given way to
disenchantment.
With the various economic and financial crises we have experienced, policies
European focused mainly on limiting states advocating debt
austerity policies. It is clear that this response is not adequate: the rate of
Unemployment is rising, poverty is increasing and inequalities continue to grow. The
populist movements take the opportunity to play with people's fears and assert themselves. At a time when the
national egos soar, at a time when radical parties advocating national decline and
euro exit as if it were a miracle cure, another response should be developed to
launch a new dynamic. We are now in midstream.
In this context of crisis, distrust of citizens towards the European institutions and its
policies, European elections on 25 May 2014 should be an opportunity for the Union
Europe and its citizens, to clarify the European project to radically turn away from folds
nationalist and populist who wants to break this great project, to conduct a thorough examination of
awareness to better respond to key questions are: how to re-enchant the project
European? How to restore confidence in the future and not dwell on our fears? How
build but especially how to continue together this great project?
For us in CDH, the answer is that the European project again become a dream to be done to
all citizens of a better living together artisan, a project that offers future prospects
and expansions to all and for all. The European project can not be reduced to a space

358

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS
economic competition, it should be more. Jacques Delors, former President of the Commission
European, himself, said: "We do not ask people with a single market! ".
The European project must be an area of ​​cooperative economics, an area of ​​solidarity, a
transcendence of space and collective excellence. The European project must be a space
fulfillment for human development.
The recognition of the inalienable value of the human being is inscribed in the DNA of the Union
European, and since its creation, it contributes to its strength and attractiveness. In the words of Jean
Monnet in his memoirs: "It is the development of man which is the essential object of all
our efforts. "From the beginning, when the European adventure was still in its infancy, one
the founding fathers of the European Union has not given a technocratic answer. That was the
genius of Jean Monnet. It was certainly by technical means - including via integration
economic path - a dream come true, a political dream: that of peace and of unity
Europeans. And at the heart of this project, the development of the human being is - and must resterl'essence same engine of Europe!
For us in CDH, Europe has to change course! In CDH, we, like John
Monnet, back to basics: human development! Only Europe
human development will be able to meet the expectations of citizens, the réenchantera
European project and continue the dream and ideal of the founding fathers of Europe.
It is time for Europe to define itself best to fully exist. For us, this redefinition
the European project requires a new political and democratic Union, for a hard core
Member States which, together and united, will continue to move forward for the benefit of citizens and
work for a Europe of human development.
Jean Monnet also wrote: "When an idea is needed, we should not wonder if she
is possible, we must make it possible! ". In CDH, we are convinced that Europe is
necessary. And we will do to change it and make it possible ... Now!

Our vision in three chapters and 45 proposals:
Chapter 1 (pp. 348-369). Reenchant Europe! In CDH, we want a Europe for and by
peoples. To do this, we must re-enchant the European project. We must give the citizens actors
their own change. In CDH, we believe that we must fully democratic Europe, our
Europe. In CDH, we want to create a new political and democratic Union from the
Eurozone to better advance. This new political and democratic Union assume a
new Treaty with political and institutional rebalancing that will put the citizen at the heart
the European project. In CDH, we also believe that the re-enchantment of Europe passes
also by the conclusion of a new European Social Contract throughout the euro area. It is necessary that
Europe embodies its social ambitions and progress in solidarity. This re-enchantment of
European project will further the creation of conditions for healthy competition for
Business: Europe must fight more effectively against tax competition and
Social raging within the European Union. Finally, the re-enchantment of the European project
we will require an ambitious EU budget. More ambitious than the one we
currently.
Chapter 2 (pp. 370-390). Building a Europe of human development. In CDH, we believe that
true development can only occur in an economy at the service of Human and
adapted to the challenges of our time. This requires first of all to stop giving priority to
"Fully finance". This then involves defining a new European Pact for
sustainable growth that will build and now exclusively on the Human, which will respect and make
grow the capabilities of every human being, which will aim at improving the quality of life and
well-being not only of Europeans but of all inhabitants of the planet. Finally, a

359

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS
Europe of human development mean that it is respectful of the environment and its
consumers. We must build a Europe that promotes a lifestyle, consumption and
quality production.
Chapter 3 (pp. 391 to 404). Making Europe the engine of human development globally.
Human development is a global issue. We believe that only Europe can be
engine and Human Development megaphone in the world. In CDH, we believe that
Europe has a duty to demonstrate to the whole world that another type of development is
possible. It takes an influential Europe, united and human face of globalization. The Union
Europe must therefore further affirm its leadership as a partner and actor
International.

360

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS

Chapter 1. Re-enchanting the European project!
Europe can no longer seduce. This finding is melted in our daily lives, to the exclusion of
some extreme movement - whose meteoric breakthrough within the European Chamber is
already announced at the next European elections - nobody seems to call
its existence in question.
Yet the disenchantment persists. Europe seems to have become a dull and obvious disaffection
People hinders its action. To restore a future for this project and make it again
desirable, it must be re-enchant! How to do ?
In CDH, we want to break with Euroscepticism. We want to move forward as we are
convinced that a new impetus can and must be given. A new stage can and should be
crossed. This new step, we propose to cross into a new coalisant us
Political and democratic union, hard core consists of Member States which, like us, want
go further, want "more Europe" and especially "better Europe"!
In CDH, we want the European project réechanter through a real mobilization for
human development at European level and we are determined that achievements
the next term of the European Parliament be footprints.
Réechanter for the European project, it is first necessary that Europe changes course! This course will
'Citizen' or will not (Action 1). To find favor in the eyes of citizens, it is also
conclude a new social contract for Europe to progress further in solidarity
(Action 2) and we need Europe created the conditions for healthy competition for companies
(Action 3). Finally, to achieve a political project that re-enchants the Europeans, it will provide
EU budgetary resources to match its ambitions (Action 4).

Action 1: Cap citizens!
"Once made Europe will require Europeans", once said Romano Prodi, former President
of the European Commission.
Today we have Europe, but it is still necessary that European citizens who compose
adhere to his project. There, the major challenge of Europe for the next decade: Europe
will not draw its strength from the fact that today unites 28 states ... but the fact that it brings together
Tomorrow more than 500 million citizens!
In CDH, we want a Europe "for" but mainly "by" citizens. In the eyes of ceuxci, Europe has built semi-clandestine manner. She "put the cart before the horse"
minimizing the leading role of the people in this building meant to serve them. She them
too often appears as a techno-bureaucratic together as a "brouhaha
Brussels ", which unilaterally imposes its views.
Over its successive enlargements, Europe appears to be more complex, unreadable and
often opaque, with multiple identity sometimes lacking consistency. But above all, Europe
is less loved by its citizens.
Do you know that in Belgium, EU headquarters, we are only 48% have an image
positive for the European Union?

Now it is very clear that without citizens who understand the European project, who wear, which the
criticize (but, so interested in it), Europe will lack breath.

361

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS
So how to bring citizens closer to the European design? How to fully democratize
the European Union ? How best LIVE Europe to citizens? Without the support of
public opinion, without the commitment and enthusiasm of the citizens, the European Union
can not progress.
In CDH, we want a Europe which promotes active European citizenship by informing
better and better consulting its citizens. We want to continue to better defend their rights.
We also want to do this, create a new political and democratic Union-wide
the euro and the European institutions more democratic area.

Proposition 408: Promoting active European citizenship
European citizens often feel that they are poorly informed about the EU and
in feel a sense of remoteness. With a consequent lack of emotional media
for Europe as paradoxically expectations vis-à-vis citizens of Europe have never
been stronger.
Their ensure active and participatory citizenship dimension within the European Union
a priority for us.
In CDH, we believe that we must better inform and better consult citizens on Europe.
To do this, we think it more systematically be given to citizens and
organizations of civil society the opportunity to make known and publicly exchange their
opinions. Finally, bring Europe closer to its citizens, also requires more debate
policy, greater attention given in the media, more education, and more
cultural exchange.
However, in our opinion, national referenda are not suitable tools for building
European. They are often parasitized by phagocytosis and domestic policy issues in the United
members. Just like France, which wants to organize a referendum on enlargement to Turkey
or the United Kingdom that could hold a referendum in a few years its relations
with the European Union.
In CDH, we are in favor of representative democracy and believe it is the duty of
our national politicians to weigh and assess the merits of European texts submitted to them
for assent.
However, for important innovations, such as those introduced by the Maastricht Treaty
in 1992, we also believe that the need for direct consultation of citizens must
be considered. In this case, the CDH, we believe that a referendum should
be organized across the EU as a whole. Indeed, in this
event, it is more of a majority of citizens of a Member State in particular approves
or rejects a treaty, this would be much of a majority of citizens throughout the European Union
in full. The symbolic effect will be that much stronger!
The CDH offers:
-

Simplifying the citizens' right of initiative. The right of petition is to ask the
European Commission to develop a policy in a particular field (eg,
GMOs). The main condition is to collect a million signatures of citizens
European;

-

Organize a referendum at the European Union as a whole and
not within some Member States in particular;

362

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS
-

Adopt parliamentary assent as a tool of ratification of the European Treaties.
The Parliamentary approval should become the preferred way for ratification of future Treaty
Europeans in the Member States;

-

Conduct training and large scale information campaigns on
European issues;

-

Fund more of trans-European cultural and artistic projects on Europe.
Europe must focus more on culture to better assist European citizens
ownership of the European project. There needs to be more transnational exchanges, movies,
experimental projects on the theme of Europe.

Proposition 409: Defending the rights of citizens
The struggle for the defense of citizens' rights is one of our major fights.
Europe has been built on respect for human rights and protection of rights of its
citizens. These were won and expanded in recent decades is thanks
to Europe.
Today, we must go further, particularly as regards the fight against discrimination
and equality between women and men.
The CDH offers:
-

Make it legally binding respect for the Charter of fundamental rights
all Member States. Currently, the UK, Poland and the Republic
Czech have not yet signed;

-

Extend the mandate of the European Agency for Human Rights for her to
sanction Member States not respecting the Charter of Fundamental Rights;

-

Accelerate the accession of the EU to the European Convention on Human Rights
Man (ECHR). Membership of Europe to the ECHR is a major step in the
development of human rights in Europe. Considered since the late 1970s,
this membership was made compulsory in 2009 by the Treaty of Lisbon;

-

Working for the priority of fundamental social rights over economic freedoms.
This is the spirit of the Charter of Fundamental Rights attached to the Treaty of Lisbon. This
Priority should be emphasized in a social progress protocol to be attached to the Treaties;

-

Strengthen protections for people with disabilities and fight against
all discrimination, whether based on origin, religion, beliefs
philosophical and political, sexual orientation, in employment and in the whole social sphere
and cultural life;

-

Establish a new mechanism to ensure the promotion of fundamental rights
and the rule of law within the European Union, including a system of monitoring and
resolution of critical situations at national level;

-

Putting human rights at the heart of the discussions the Commission may have
European and third countries;

-

Intensify efforts to achieve full and effective equality between men and women. It is necessary
make Europe capable of going beyond simple recommendations and ensure that gender
mainstreaming (or integrated the gender approach) is integrated into all
European policies;

363

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS
-

Promote gender equality paying attention at all levels of
policies implemented;

-

Apply the principle of gender equality on wages and encourage
female participation in the labor market (see proposal No. 417);

-

Promoting a European campaign against gender stereotypes that are increasingly
more widespread and which strongly affect women in their professional lives and
social;

-

Increase national awareness campaigns against violence against women;

-

Ask the European Commission an action plan to protect the rights
Fundamental LGBTI (lesbians, gays, bisexuals, transgender and intersex) in
the world of work, education or health care in the EU
European and a roadmap of the European Union against homophobia and
discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity.

Proposal flagship 410: Creating a new political and democratic Union
from the euro area
The current European governance, from an institutional point of view, has reached its limits. A 28 States
Member, Europe can not function as it did in its infancy. Under the weight of
number, the institutions have now become much less effective to the point that it is
become difficult to grow to 28 member states.
For us, it is unacceptable that the necessary progress of European integration are
hampered by the opposition or inertia slower. If no Member State can be forced to do
against his will participate in an integration effort, it is no longer acceptable for the most reluctant
prevent those who wish to move forward. In CDH, we do not want to deprive Europe
major projects, no more depend on the goodwill of some Member States less
ambitious Europe who want to freeze or who find their interest in a European project
stagnation!
Therefore, we want to unite us in a hard core of European states formed a priori
18 Member States of the euro area1 to better advance. We want to create a new
political and democratic community from Member States who already share the currency
unique. For, let us not forget: originally, the Monetary Union was designed to become the bedrock
a larger project intended to unite the Europeans and not as an end in itself! The citizens
Europeans are also deceived them: they are over 42% believe that the euro is the element
as constitutive for European identity.
In CDH, we want the eurozone to become not only the scope of the policy
monetary, economic, financial and fiscal policies, but also with new momentum
policy. For us, only the creation of this new political and democratic Union
will regain political ambition to offer democratic guarantees
corresponding to the highest standards and achieve real progress on
human development.

1

Member States that are already part of the euro area and that share the single currency are: Germany, Austria, Belgium,
Spain, Finland, France, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Portugal, Greece, Slovenia, Cyprus, Malta,
Slovakia, Estonia and Latvia.

364

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS
The first mission of the political and democratic Union Eurozone we propose would
consolidate the single currency and the complete economic and monetary union, conditions for
return to prosperity and employment (see Action 3 of Chapter 2).
Moreover, it is perfectly possible to coexist this integrated core with Union
28 European wider. Add the other Member States to join us later if they
are driven by the same ambition as us.
Ultimately, our project of political and democratic Union Eurozone call conclude a
Additional new Treaty, the terms of ratification shall be fixed upstream, the
consequences of rejection hanging over the country that expresses, not voluntary partners. A
Double negotiation will, moreover, possible: that of a treaty between the countries wishing to
participate in the political community of the euro and that of the 28 Member States to reform the Union
European.
The CDH offers:
-

Providing this new political and democratic community of the eurozone an executive
own which could take the form of a government. This executive will be responsible for
carry out the policies entrusted to it by arranging an autonomous budget funded
by own resources;

-

Create a Parliamentary Assembly of the eurozone within the European Parliament. This
Assembly will be responsible for monitoring the European executive and, if appropriate, to censor it. For
avoid duplication and mark the openness of the new policy and Union
Democratic eurozone vis - à-vis the European Union, the Parliamentary Assembly
Eurozone may be also composed of MEPs in Parliament
European of the European Union 28;

-

Establish an autonomous budget eurozone fed by own resources. This
budget would be financed by own resources such as transaction tax
financial (see proposal No. 426) that we advocate at European level. This budget
euro area would be likely to fund measures such as an insurance mechanism
better combat unemployment in the euro area (see proposal No. 415).

Proposition 411: fully democratize Europe
In CDH, we believe that to have the support, understanding and especially the
citizens' trust, we must make it more legitimate and European construction
democratic.
Why are so many powers still vested in the Council is the European institution
less democratic compared to the European Parliament that MEPs are directly elected
by citizens? The Council - which brings together the Ministers of the 28 Member States - its uses and abuses
veto to block significant advances for citizens: for example, the granting of
additional funding for Erasmus student exchange program, the extension of leave
motherhood or the limitation of bankers' bonuses that was blocked by the United Kingdom, The
City (leading financial center in Europe) not wanting to hear about it. Moreover, the Council
European obeys more to a "census" logic where it is the most Member States
large and wealthy who impose their views to member states smaller or less affluent!
In CDH, we want the institutional changes that would restore the balance
lost institutional and legitimize more Europe to the citizens.

365

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS
The CDH offers:
-

Strengthen the powers of the European Parliament. Parliament is the most European body
democratic European Union. Therefore, a way of democratizing Europe
is to give it more power. One way would be to assign the right of initiative
Legislative. Today, only the European Commission has the sole right of initiative
Legislative. Also obtaining a right of legislative initiative, Parliament could influence
the line given by the European Council in the waste such as taxation and
Social why it is that so far consulted. For example: during the legislature
previous Parliament, the European Parliament has found problems such as
Without banking union during the crisis ... without being able to legislate on the matter. In 2010, the
Council refused the creation of the banking union to finally create two years later,
thanks to the initiative of the European Parliament!

-

Remove the veto of member states in the Council. A 28 member states, is
inevitable: the unanimous decision taken systematically blocked progress
significant for citizens. However, the general interest of the European Union must continue to
primer. In CDH, we believe that it will be favored if we suppress voting
unanimity in the Council. Must be replaced by a unanimous decision to the
qualified or super qualified majority;

-

Elect the President of the European Commission by the European Parliament. The parliament
European, after prior adversarial parliamentary debate must designate
President of the EU executive, not merely confirm the investiture given by the
Heads of State and Government, as is currently the case;

-

Reduce the number of European commissioners, and designate a principle of equality
men women. The European Commission must remain the emanation of the general interest
European. In this light, no need of a European Commissioner per Member State as
This is currently the case;

-

Prefer Benelux consultations. Currently, Europe seems to pride to
large member states (and especially the partnership "Franco-German"). Now, at CDH, we
believe that this is not a good signal to send to the citizens. Every voice must
count. Including that of the smaller member states! With this in mind, we want
strengthen partnerships with the Netherlands and Luxembourg in the Benelux to better
influence EU decision-making;

-

Building a European constituency to better create a real debate
European that transcends national boundaries and reconcile issues citizens
European. Voters go to the polls with two ballot papers: one for
elect a national representative; the second to vote for a candidate "transnational" who
present throughout the European Union. This would vote for
candidates of a different nationality and thus bring out European personalities;

-

Involving more national parliaments (federal and federated entities) States
members in the European decision making process. Currently, the involvement of parliaments
nationals is provided for by Article 12 of the Treaty on European Union, which organizes
conference of representatives of European and national parliaments (COSAC), which meets
twice a year. Furthermore, the European Parliament already holds the national parliaments of
Member States regularly informed of its activities and parliamentary committees
European Parliament frequently invite members of national parliaments to their
meetings to discuss new legislative proposals by the Commission
European. But it should be even more involved national parliaments and
regions in the European decision making process. For example, in Belgium, should be strengthened
the role and resources of the federal Opinion Committee on European Affairs. It should

366

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS
Also, as in Germany, the Prime Minister asks before each Council
European, a negotiating mandate from the federal parliament and come back, after
each Council meeting, discuss and take stock before the assemblies. It should finally
Vice Presidents of parliamentary committees whose task is to make the link with
timeliness and European legislation. In CDH, we believe that greater involvement
upstream of national and regional parliaments would facilitate the political dialogue
and strengthen the legitimacy of parliaments in fighting the image of a Europe that imposes
its decisions.

Action 2: Conclude a new European Social Contract
With the crisis, the need to develop the social dimension of the European Union, including
the euro zone, has become even more pressing.
After successfully forge the euro steering instruments such as funds and Mechanism
European stability, launched a banking union and a major step in integrating
fiscal policies (see Chapter 2, Action 3), Europe must strengthen its European instruments
macroeconomic stabilization and answer the question of its social convergence.
But even social matters exclusively within the jurisdiction of Member States (ie
on their goodwill), "social Europe" has stalled ... then that's where focus
the expectations of citizens! The last Eurobarometer shows indeed that, for the
Europeans challenges in 2025, are mainly socio-economic. These are the
fight against unemployment, social inequality and government debt of the Member States coming
at the forefront of the major challenges in Europe!
In CDH, we do not want that social Europe is seen as the "poor relation" of
Europe. We are convinced that there can be no European project without progress
solidarities. Therefore, we propose that Europe embodies its social ambitions
concluding a new European Social Contract.
This social contract will have the ambition to create a true European labor law to protect jobs,
support access to quality jobs and the fight against unemployment, multiply and strengthen
mechanisms of solidarity and structurally improve the European social governance. We
will definitely start at the level of the euro area states.

412 Lighthouse Proposal: Create a real social law and European labor
In the current economic context, the social climate is already obscured by restructuring in
series, total or partial closures of firms and job losses. Situations
precariousness and exclusion are growing.
The legislative arsenal of the European Union already defines a number of procedures to follow
in such circumstances. Thus, Europe has already adopted guidelines on layoffs
group, business transfers, mergers, European works councils, the information
and consultation of workers.
But it must now go further and assist Member States and social partners
anticipate industrial and social changes by stimulating their creativity in management
changes in employment, careers, training while providing indispensable standards
against excessive weakening of labor relations. Without setting up a system of
effective European control, adequate and shared by all 28 Member States, the risk

367

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS
social dumping raise up citizens' mistrust of Europe will remain perceived as a
Project purely economic and commercial in nature.
In CDH, we want to create a true European labor law. He is not here to standardize,
but to set a uniform minimum set that can enable workers to defend
their rights in transnational companies and prevent companies choose a country
over another to apply less restrictive social rules.
The CDH offers:
-

Adopt a European legislative framework to deal with relocations and
restructuring. This framework should emphasize the need to act upstream through actions
anticipation but also management measures of the restructuring process and
relocation so to limit the social impact on workers;

-

Develop a quality labor inspection service to ensure compliance with rules
European;

-

Maintain the seven-year period during which a company which has received aid must
commit to keep the location of their investment;

-

Assign a specific portfolio restructuring on a European Commissioner;

-

Ask the European Commission to ensure compliance with the guidelines that apply
for restructuring and for sanctions against companies that are
contravene;

-

Strengthen the Dublin Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions, and
more specifically its European Monitoring Centre on Change.

Proposition 413: Set a minimum wage in each Member State
This true labor rights that we advocate at European level requires fixing wages
minimum in each Member State.
Currently, among the 28 member states of the Union, 21 have a minimum wage.
In CDH, we have always encouraged the establishment of a minimum wage at the level of the Union
European. In 2009 already, when the idea had been issued to the European Parliament, we voted
favorably. Unfortunately, at the time, we were in the minority and the proposal was
rejected.
But since Germany announced that it would introduce a minimum wage soon
generalized, therefore a new opportunity seems to be emerging to advance the idea of ​​a salary
European minimum ... and we intend to seize it!
The CDH offers:
- Establish a European minimum wage that serves
.

368

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS

Proposition 414: Multiply and strengthen solidarity mechanisms
The principles of solidarity and cooperation are at the heart and core of the European project.
Since 1957, the Treaties of Rome - bases of the European Union - erect them among real
founding principles of the European project.
But today, the application of these principles creates tensions that the economic crisis is
came worse. With for consequences, an increasing divergence between member states
North and South of Europe.
Whereas before the outbreak of the crisis, unemployment rates were fairly between Member States
Similar differences are huge today!
To face the crisis, the European Union has put in place mechanisms to strengthen
cohesion between states supporting the poorest regions (such as the European Social Fund or
via the European cohesion policy), but these mechanisms do not aim to respond
to economic shocks.
For us in cdH beyond mere redistribution of existing tools should be
strengthen, we must establish real instruments which provide for the objectives
convergence of socio-economic development of all regions of Europe.
For CDH, there is a double urgency: firstly, aim for convergence and solidarity
social cohesion between Member States and within them, and secondly, to ensure the
economic stabilization of Member States protecting against economic shocks.
The future of European solidarity depends on it!

Proposal flagship 415: Establish a European insurance scheme
to better combat unemployment
Do you know that today, in Europe, there are over 27 million unemployed (a rate of 11%)?
Apart from Germany, unemployment rose in all Member States: the unemployment figures
young people are even more alarming: more rates exceed 50% in some Member States.
This is the case of Spain (56%) and Greece where the proportion of unemployed youth reached 62%!
This represents a significant cost to the EU economy (over 1.2% of GDP
European), but is mostly a societal issue that requires taking radical steps and
brave to face it. Especially as, in recent years, many Member States
experiencing extreme economic distress, had no choice but
to impose draconian austerity policies.
To prevent such situations from occurring in the future, CDH, we believe it
should establish an insurance mechanism between European states to better
cushion the possible budgetary consequences of a dramatic economic turnaround
for people.
In CDH, we believe that the euro zone could establish an insurance mechanism in case
cyclical shock, such as a common eurozone unemployment insurance
and which would complement national systems. Such a mechanism would have two insurance-
objectives: first, that of creating a mechanism to counteract the strong
European recessions with automatic stabilizers. Second, that of giving a
more concrete and more human face to Europe.

369

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS
The member states whose labor markets are organized to support the operation
of the Economic and Monetary Union (EMU) could participate. This would also
to harmonize the labor market at European level and to strengthen macroeconomic cohesion
the euro area.
Such insurance-mechanism could be a priori limited in time and linked to conditionalities
and minimum social standards of active labor market and
social rights relating thereto, and that, to ensure the progressive integration of the labor markets
necessary in a monetary union.
In CDH, we believe that such a mechanism could be the building of a new stone
European solidarity for employment and constitute the beginnings of a social security level
European.

Proposition 416: Set a minimum pension in each Member State
In CDH, we want to guarantee those pensioners that in spite of changes
dependency rate, they are finally being free from the risk of poverty. By
Accordingly, pensions must be at a level enabling them to live decently.
In Europe, the systems in force in the Member States still differ greatly. For example,
the European average the retirement is around 65 years. In CDH, we believe that
must continue to work to achieve a European harmonization on the starting age
retired but not to increase the 65 threshold.
In CDH, we support the strengthening of statutory pensions based on the principle of
distribution / delivery.
We also believe that Europe must give a strong signal to citizens. We consider
Europe must bring together around an inclusive and sustainable social project. For us, solidarity
Intergenerational is essential!
We must develop a European strategy that will set the goal of pensions
legal and decent for all, in all countries of the European Union.
The CDH offers:
-

Establish a minimum pension equal to the minimum income employees. This
income should not be an absolute value at European level but should be defined
each Member State.

Proposition 417: Support access to quality employment
In CDH, we give priority to job creation. In parallel, we also require
these jobs are better because we are firmly opposed to
development casualization and wage poverty.
The responses to the challenge of access to quality employment require to take into account
a complex situation (structure of the labor market, economic context characterized by
austerity measures, etc.) but are necessary to ensure social cohesion.
The CDH offers:
-

Support job creation by focusing on investment in promising sectors
jobs such as environmental businesses and services to people.

370

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS
-

Increase employment rates, especially young people, to achieve the overall objective of
Europe 2020: an employment rate of 75% of the working age population (20-64
years). For this, we need a implementation of the Youth Guarantee initiative but also a
investing in young people with the ESF; Help further through the European Bank
Investments (EIB), SMEs that create jobs and offer apprenticeships
youth under 25;

-

Ensuring quality jobs and fight against poverty, including through wage
the introduction of a minimum income;

-

Improving women's access to the labor market both in the trades that are facing
shortages in occupations that are not traditionally female. This requires a
investment in training of women but also more investment
in personal services and the development of community services to support
reconciliation of work, private and family;

-

Apply the principle of gender equality on wages and the parity principle
in political bodies and the boards of directors of large companies. He
appropriate to set a rate of 40% women in company boards
Private by 2020 (2018 for the public sector);

-

Limit the taxation of labor through smart tax policy. We must reduce
labor taxes offset by fair taxation based on all
income and takes into account the fiscal capacity of each;

-

Set the right to decent work as a goal of the European Employment Strategy.
As defined by the International Labour Organisation (ILO), the notion of decent work
based on an integrated approach, including productive and freely chosen employment, the right of
work, social protection, social dialogue and the inclusion of the gender dimension;

-

Encouraging job mobility in Europe with the help of EURES and ESF;

-

Supporting entrepreneurship because it is an excellent lever for development
Economic. For this, we call for the strengthening of the microfinance facility
"Progress" but also strengthening the role of the European Investment Bank;

-

Establish a partnership between the world of education and training and the world of work
so that qualifications can meet the real business needs. In particular, it
Encourage the provision of apprenticeships and high quality training by
companies to address skill shortages and to facilitate the transition from education to the
active life.

Proposition 418: Set up a "demographic Fund"
Demographic changes which the European Union faces is trying to generate a
dual pressure: firstly, an aging population resulting in a dependency ratio
high and secondly, an increased need for women's participation in the labor market
requires improved reconciliation of professional and family lives. These
problems are encountered in all Member States of the European Union and will
undoubtedly enormous economic and budgetary costs.
Do you know that the OECD estimates that the expenses related to the dependence of the elderly should
fe double triple by 2050? In total, these costs already represent on average 2% of GDP
OECD countries.

371

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS
In these areas and given the principle of subsidiarity, Europe should encourage
the emergence of an incentive and support program based on an exchange of practices.
In CDH, we believe that the demographic challenge can turn into an opportunity for
all. Europe can raise awareness of these issues, assist by providing expertise
and support them in their experimentation and implementation.
The CDH offers:
-

Develop a policy and a European strategy for personal services and
households through the creation of a 'demographic fund'. Specifically, this Fund
will support efforts in the Member States and communities
Land to ensure effective and accessible services in terms of proximity and
cost. Demographic Fund will support social experimentation - Member States
may draw on the experiences of their neighbors - and the implementation of a system that
better meets their needs. Thus develop a dynamic of innovative experiences
help to develop a common European framework.

Proposition 419: Combating social exclusion, poverty and inequality
The European Union has set itself the objective of lifting 20 million people out of poverty and
social exclusion by 2020. Today, mid-term, this result is still far from being reached.

Do you know that almost one quarter of Europeans (or 124.5 million people) are threatened today
poverty or social exclusion and that this trend continues to increase since 24.8% of
Europeans were concerned in 2012 against 24.3% in 2011 and 23.7% in 2008?
In the new Regulation of the European Social Fund (ESF) for 2014-2020, the
European Commission focuses on social inclusion and the fight against poverty
dedicating 20% ​​of the ESF budget for actions in these areas.
In CDH, we welcome this development. However, we want the fight against
Poverty is integrated into an overall policy to reduce social inequalities. Us
are convinced that the fight against poverty and against inequality must be considered
as the two pillars of the same policy. This policy should aim to improve conditions
of living, housing, access to work, to health care but also to education and training
professional.
In CDH, we want to implement an innovative approach that made the fight against the
poverty and inequality a priority not only within the field of social policy
but also of economic policy, fiscal and environmental. Because we want a
Europe but also social democratic and sustainable.
The CDH offers:
-

Compile an inventory of the impact of the economic crisis in each Member State
on poverty and social exclusion to urge Member States to develop
coordinated responses short, medium and long term;

-

Develop projects that combine both the professional inclusion and integration
social. These experiences could be implemented in the ESF together the
government, associative movements and enterprises attached to the policy
Corporate social responsibility. This would help to develop an innovative approach
which could help to develop social inclusion policies for the most public
from the labor market;

372

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS
-

Implement a strategy to fight against child poverty. Today,
Europe, 25 million children are at risk of poverty or social exclusion, a
four children! For us, this is an intolerable violation of fundamental rights and
the European Union must respond. It is in our common future;

-

Developing social protection ensuring access of seniors to health care services
quality ;

-

Increase the budget allocated to the European Relief Fund more
nots. This fund aims to help the poorest citizens in all Member States
providing food and material support base. In Europe, more than 40
millions of people who can not afford a meal every other day. In CDH,
we are pleased that an agreement has been reached to allocate to this fund EUR 3.5 billion
for the period 2014-2020. However, it is essential that food aid is Fund
maintained and that its budget should be increased to ensure that Europe remains an area of
solidarity;

-

Deciding on a European strategy against homelessness and creating a
Specialized European Agency. Today, it is estimated that over 3 million people in the European Union sansabris. However, this figure is not official, it is a compilation of
data from the associations. The creation of a European agency would
collect data and promote the exchange of good practices. The European Union must

be more supportive and active to the plight of the most vulnerable.

Proposition 420: Relaunching the European social dialogue
The social partners have an important role to play at European level. For example,
social partners are at the origin of European agreements on parental leave, working time
Partial and permanent contracts. The social partner agreements concluded at
European possible to fix a common set of social rules to be observed throughout Europe and
to avoid distortions. But over the past decade, there has really been a project
legislation proposed by the European Commission to the social partners.
Result, today, social dialogue is not only down but also endangered in
many member states. It is important to strengthen the role of the social partners so that they can
more influence in the definition of European policies.
The CDH offers:
-

Implementing ad hoc legislation in favor of the defense and the promotion of
social dialogue;

-

Encourage the participation of women in social dialogue and in negotiations
collective;

-

Providing seniors to actively participate in political and social life as
full citizens, able to take initiatives and support projects;

-

To reflect on the state of social dialogue in Member States;

-

Create a Permanent Secretariat of the social dialogue within the Economic and Social Committee
European;

-

Facilitate the process of negotiating social agreements between the social partners and
foster genuine collective bargaining framework between the social partners;

373

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS
-

Give more importance to the conclusions of the Tripartite Social Summit and invite it, when
meetings, the President of the European Parliament and the President of the Commission and employment
Social Affairs;

-

Auditioning the European social partners at least twice a year by Parliament
European (Economic Affairs in joint parliamentary committees - Employment and Business
social);

-

Strengthen the macroeconomic dialogue between social partners and the Central Bank
European (ECB).

Proposition 421: Securing the services of general interests strong and effective
At European level, access to services of general interest (SGI) - covering, for example,
supply of water and energy, waste management, social services and education - must
be regarded as a fundamental right and as an integral part of the social model
European. Their role is crucial in improving the quality of life of citizens and promotion
social and regional cohesion. For CDH, between the "just state" and the "all private"
the objective that guides our action in the services of general interest, it is the quality and accessibility,
this guarantees that the service remains entirely in the lap of the public sector or be the subject
liberalization regulated by the public sector.
In CDH, we oppose a policy of liberalization "at all-will" whose implications and
the alternatives have not been carefully studied beforehand. Liberalization
postal services is, for example, carried out too early and too rapidly with
the consequences we know today. If the liberalization of telecommunications was,
meanwhile, generally positive, the results of the liberalization of the energy sector is more mixed
because involving negative costs for consumers.
At the World Trade Organization (WTO), we support the position that consists
not to present any offer of European liberalization of services of education, health,
culture or broadcasting.
The CDH offers:
-

Defend, in all circumstances, at European level to protect the interests of service
General and main principles of equality of citizens, accessibility, continuity, quality,
universality and solidarity;

-

Consider now the water as a public good. For us, the water supply must remain
under public control;

-

Define a framework directive on social services of general interest and legal framework
European on services of general economic interest;

-

Set the protection of GIS as a specific material to be assigned to a
European Commissioner determined.

374

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS

Proposition 422: Improving structurally social governance
European
In CDH, we propose to strengthen the European Social structurally governance
so that the balance is finally restored between the economic and social dimensions. The
strengthening integration
must be accompanied by a strengthening of the
social dimension, particularly within the euro area.
The rebalancing of European economic governance with a stronger social dimension
is also needed to reconnect citizens with the European project.
The CDH offers:
-

Create EuroEPSCO that would bring together 18 eurozone ministers in charge of employment and
social matters. This EuroEPSCO become the equivalent of the Eurogroup, which brings together
Currently the 18 finance ministers of the euro area and thus would adopt the euro area
a genuine socio-economic convergence;

-

Encourage European institutions to pursue a social agenda firmly oriented society
oriented toward social integration and cohesion, based on gender equality and the fight
against all forms of discrimination, based on a universal social protection system;

-

Extending qualified majority in the Council to better advance in the materials
social;

-

Consolidate and make the open method of coordination (MoC) Social visible. Once
set of common indicators, this coordination tool allows to identify good
practices of member states in social matters;

-

Promote greater coherence to the European Union speaks with one voice
in its relations with the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank (see
Proposal No. 443);

-

Generalize social clauses in trade agreements of the EU with third countries;

-

Uphold at the multilateral level, the fundamental principles and rights as defined by
the International Labour Organisation (ILO) and the ILO agenda for decent work.

Action 3: Creating the conditions for healthy competition
The frantic competition between the Member States of the European Union to adopt rules
fiscal, social or environmental favorable than its neighbor is sterile and even
destructive of the common good. But Europe must be able to avoid a vicious cycle
"Bottom" fiscal, social and environmental development among its own member states.
For example, transport companies are subject to less stringent rules and controls if
they are based in another Member State of the European Union in Belgium.
In the tax area, some Member States have chosen to attract international companies (and
profits) adopting very low tax rate on corporate profits. Suddenly,
other member states had to follow this movement to avoid business travel
economic to these countries, which has led to a general decline in the tax rate
companies across Europe, yet at the expense of necessary relief withdrawals
on work.
In addition, vis-à-vis the outside world, Europe must be able to defend themselves if companies
Foreign practice dumping, in other words, if they flood the European market

375

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS
products they sell at a price below their cost of production, forcing their competitors
out of the market and obtain an illegitimate advantage.
If the European economy is developed on basis of a healthy competition
improves the competitiveness and dynamism of the European economy requires conditions that
this competition are respected. Implying ambitious measures on tax matters
and social.

Proposal flagship 423: Countering social dumping in Europe
Social dumping means, for a company the employ of employees with
remuneration below the legal wage or normal, or with less favorable social conditions
the normal conditions of the host country. The term is also used to describe a country
including labor regulations would be less burdensome for employers and
regulations in other countries.
Do you know that Europe is increasingly affected by the case of posted workers from the
last decade? They are now more than 1.5 million. In 2011, more than 125,000 workers
were seconded to Belgium (against 90,540 in 2010).
The directive on the posting of workers allows a European company
off employees temporarily in another Member State provided they comply
labor law of the host country while remaining subject to the social security of the State
original. The detachment is part of the European project of the single market and the free
service delivery, is certainly a positive tool. But there must be more to fight box
against abuses, unfair competition and social dumping. The free movement of workers
should not become a tool for abuse of social systems.
We must enforce a basic principle: a service provided in a Member State
must meet the requirements of labor law and social State.
Therefore, the CDH offers:
-

Limiting the European principle of posting of workers in relation to the length of
services provided under foreign social security scheme, for some sectors
sensitive like construction. A benefit of several years can not be
subject to the same rules and administrative constraints that a benefit of a few days
or months. After maximum 12 months of posting, the worker must depend on the
national social security scheme, both as regards access to benefits that,
regarding the payment of social security contributions;

-

Establish a joint liability mechanism that would cover the entire
chain of subcontractors within the European Union. This rule should also be
extended to subcontractors outside the European Union when they contribute
strongly to the creation of value. It should also establish a register of companies that violate the
labor legislation and which should be excluded from public contracts;

-

Create a social Europol will network the social inspection services of States
members to exchange information;

-

Implementing ad hoc legislation to fight against social dumping. For the CDH, the
social rights should be considered alongside economic freedoms;

-

Strengthen controls services of labor inspectorates to fight the case
fraud. To facilitate this, we must put in place an electronic card containing all
business data and social security of the worker;

376

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS
-

Minimum standards clearly defined: a common set of services
basic health, common minimum pensions (see proposal No. 416) and
minimum wages in each Member State (see proposal No. 413).

Proposal flagship 424: Fight against tax competition within the Union
European
Member states have lost much of their fiscal sovereignty, ie their capacity
submit mobile factors (transnational corporations and large fortunes) to taxation
effective, these mobile factors that may particularly benefit from the tax dumping.
The tax dumping by a State involves making a significantly lower taxation
that of neighboring countries to better attract those mobile factors, particularly capital,
companies and their global profits or senior workers.
Europe can restore fiscal sovereignty by harmonizing and even, eventually, by the
centralization of the taxation of companies and financial savings. Such harmonization
tax systems of the Member States would fight effectively against the logic of the "lowest bidder"
and discourage corporate relocations.
In March 2011 the European Commission presented a draft directive aimed at creating a
common system for calculating the tax base of businesses operating in
European Union: the Common Consolidated Corporate Tax Base (CCCTB) 3 ".
This proposal is the result of a long process of negotiations achieved after several years
discussions. However, the CCCTB project is very cleaving mostly criticized by countries
use their taxes to make their economy more attractive at the expense of their partners
European. The European tax harmonization remains slow and difficult to achieve. There is a real
lack of coordination between European countries, which helps maintain competition
rampant tax.
Did you know that Ireland, which is also called the "Celtic Tiger" has a tax rate on companies
12.5%, ie well below the prevailing rates in other European countries? It encourages rates so low
relocation of businesses and tax bases to Ireland at the expense of jobs and tax revenues
the other Member States. It should be noted that despite considerable European aid plan over 45
billion, Ireland has refused to change its tax rate on corporations.

However, harmonization of the tax base would tend to make it more relevant to
comparison of rates. The convergence of the only tax base could indeed be to
resulting in increased competition on rates.
While Belgium will, from next term, starting his fiscal revolution, the level
Europe must also move forward in the direction of better tax harmonization?
The CDH offers:
-

Defend the CCCTB project at European level. This would greatly reduce
various administrative burdens and costs of compliance faced by
when companies want to develop at European level. A one-stop shop would be set up
to enable enterprises to run all of their obligations with a single
FISC administration. Harmonization of the tax base will also fight
against economic relocation and moving bases in the Member States.
Companies use tax optimization strategies that lead large
companies to locate their profits where the level of taxation is the lowest;

377

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS
-

Moving towards a "European fiscal snake" that would determine a maximum level and
a minimum level in which the corporate tax rate should fall. The only
harmonization of the tax base would tend to make it more relevant to
comparison of rates. The convergence of the tax base could indeed be to
resulting in increased competition on rates. For CDH, consider harmonization
only the tax base is not enough. The example of the currency snake model
Europe, which was decided in the 1990s before the introduction of the single currency,
could be taken to move towards a better harmonization of the European fiscal framework.

Proposition 425: Use all the levers to harmonize taxation
Following the crisis of sovereign debt in the euro area, a number of support mechanisms have been
to ensure implementation support to Member States (such as Greece, Portugal, Ireland, Cyprus
and Spain) have experienced difficulties and financial stability of their banking sector. It's about
in particular the European Stability Mechanism (ESM), which lends to Member States which are not
longer able to obtain financing from the markets and the banking union, which
harmonizes the supervision and resolution of banks.
The CDH offers:
-

Use these support mechanisms to financial stability and membership conditional on
the banking union as leverage to promote a dynamic leading to greater
convergence of tax systems of member states. There is a risk indeed that,
rebuild their economy and attract foreign capital, some countries in difficulty
choose a niche strategy pushing for tax dumping. This strategy, if it can
have a sense for the state in question is ultimately disastrous for the European project. For the
CDH, it is necessary to condition the renewal of these aid commitments
concrete for the convergence of fiscal mechanisms, especially on the factors
more mobile (corporate profits, investment income individuals).

Proposition 426: Implementing the tax on financial transactions
Many Member States introduce new forms of taxation for the financial sector,
especially through a tax on financial transactions (FTT), in order to ensure that
it participates in the fair cost of the crisis, especially as this sector has often
received massive support from the public authorities.
The European Commission has proposed to provide a framework for a tax on financial transactions
in order to harmonize the essential elements and thus avoid market fragmentation
within the financial services and the phenomena of double taxation or double nonimposition.
However, in June 2012, the ECOFIN Council could not achieve unanimity for reaching agreement
establishing a common system of FTT for the whole of the European Union as was
wished the Commission. A few months later, the Council adopted a decision authorizing 11
Member States (including Belgium) to establish, through enhanced cooperation, a system
common tax on financial transactions. Once implemented by the eleven states
members, this tax is expected to generate revenues in the range of 30 to 35 billion per year.
The CDH offers:
-

Make effective the implementation of the tax on financial transactions in the largest
number of Member States;

378

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS
-

Pour the proceeds of the tax on financial transactions in the European budget, limiting
their use in the financing of European projects in the Member States who have decided to
subscribe to this mechanism.

Proposition 427: Exchange all financial information
Do you know that fraud and tax evasion each year cost 1,000 billion euro to member states
of the European Union? Moreover, in recent years, fraud and tax evasion have
considerably strengthened.

Non-reporting and non-tax revenue significantly reduce tax revenues
countries. It is therefore imperative to significantly enhance the efficiency and effectiveness of perception
tax. The automatic exchange of information is a valuable tool in this regard.
Reducing fraud and avoidance, Member States could thus increase revenues
tax, which would also give them greater flexibility to restructure
their tax systems. Beyond additional revenue, it is also a question
Tax Fairness.
In this respect, Belgium has started negotiations with the US to reach an agreement on
the automatic exchange of information called "FATCA Agreement". This agreement will greatly expand
scope of tax cooperation with the United States.
The CDH offers:
-

Conclude an agreement type "FATCA" with Member States at European level. For us,
the CDH, it is inconceivable that Belgium exchange information with the United States
with its European Union partners;

-

Conclude an agreement type "FATCA" with Switzerland. It should be noted that Switzerland has already concluded
such an agreement with the United States. We therefore ask that it be the same with the Union
European;

-

Generalizing internationally automatic exchange of information relating to all
types of income. In this context, the CDH, we support the Commission's initiatives
European for the automatic exchange of financial information in the standard
European.

Proposal flagship 428: Eliminating tax havens and financial centers
offshore
The financial crisis has highlighted the role played by tax havens and financial centers
offshore in the weakening of the global financial system. The existence of tax havens
indeed contributes significantly to the tax loss for EU Member States and
undermines tax fairness. In addition, these tax havens have attracted capital whose opacity
strongly contributed to the instability of the international financial system.
This led the authorities of member countries of the G7 and OECD to strengthen and coordinate
their work for a normalization of the weak links in the global controller.
But we must now go further.
The CDH offers:
-

Monitor capital flows to financial centers offshore (tax havens) in
resorting to the capital marking;

379

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS
-

Make effective banking transparency obligations in tax havens and
regulating their activities throughout the European Union;

-

Revise the EU Directive on the taxation of savings to apply to new
products and a wider field of actors.

Action 4: Giving Europe the means to match its ambitions
The European budget (also called "MFF") has political importance
major: it is simply condition the level of ambition of common policies that
EU wants to implement and the solidarity it may wish to manifest as
with respect to its Member States in respect of the rest of the world. This is the budget which is, in reality,
very heart of political action. Much more than the finest speeches and other statements
intentions, it is he who embodies the priorities and policies that Europe wishes to
artwork. It is through him that we can promote growth and investment to enable
Europe out of the crisis. Finally, it is he who allows Member States to withstand shocks
asymmetric in times of crisis. Let us not forget either that more than 93% of the EU budget
annually up to the Member States in co-financing ...!
Unfortunately, in recent times, the amounts vested in the European budget fished by
lack of ambition. But it is in the efficiency and credibility of the Union. In CDH, we do not want
not this Europe on the cheap.
We are in favor of a budgetary autonomy of the European Union, budget
European funded by own resources such as the tax on financial transactions (see
Proposal No. 426). It also seems important to clarify that these own resources do not go increase the tax burden on citizens. Instead, they have two purposes: increase
parliamentary control at European level and avoid dependence the EU budget good
wisdom of member states and their purely national logic.

Proposition 429: Adopt an ambitious European budget
For the 2014-2020 fiscal year, the total budget of 959.9 billion euros
commitment appropriations is 3.39% lower than the 2007-2013 financial framework, a
decrease in the budget of 34 billion euros. This is the first time in history that the budget
Europe is thus reduced! This represents a budget capped at 1% of gross national income
the European Union. But cdH, we do not want this downward trend. In cdH we
want an ambitious budget to better re-enchant the European project that benefits 500
million citizens!
In 2017, under the budget revision clause that has been decided, we will be given opportunity
revise the budget year midterm.
On this occasion, the CDH will propose:
-

Increase the share of real own budgetary resources of the European Union;

-

Getting to a maximum of 40% of the EU budget dependent on national contributions.
Currently, we are at 75%. We must reduce this dependence budgets
nationals. For us, this is the only way to end the haggling which States
Europe gratify members at each meeting of the Council dealing with the European budget: some
defending the policies that they are exclusively favorable (regardless of interest
general European), the other threatening to wield the weapon of the veto if a discount is not their
granted;

380

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS
-

To ensure that the annual budget of the European Union is never less (in credits
commitment) to 1.05% of the total GNP of Member States. This threshold
floor represents, in our view, the minimum acceptable minimorum;

-

Reconsider the possibility of including in own resources of the Union, part of the tax
on savings income levied in the Member States, provided that such tax
would be linked to a decline in domestic taxation to avoid increasing the tax burden in
Belgium.

Proposition 430: Ending waste
We at CDH, are very clearly in favor of a Europe that is "anti-gaspi".
Whether this is the age-old MEPs back and forth between Brussels and Strasbourg
for lack of a single seat of the European Parliament (these events cost every year between 50
and 200 million euros) or the fraudulent use of Structural Funds in some part of the
Cohesion policy of the European Union, the European institutions need to know if
the billions of euros that pass through are used wisely. They must be able
to impose sanctions in case of proven fraud.
Do you know that among the poorest member states, the European Structural Funds may represent
up to 5% of their GDP? Do you also know that in the 2007-2013 budget, these funds were, in themselves, 347
billion, or about one third of the EU budget as a whole? If we add the
agricultural subsidies, the relevant amount represents approximately 75% of the total EU budget.
It is therefore essential to properly manage this colossal financial windfall and manage the
The most effective way possible.

Furthermore, fraud and abuse are all too common, especially in Member States where
weak government institutions can not control their distribution.
The CDH offers:
-

Decide on a single seat of the European Parliament in Brussels to no longer multiply and forth
and constant feedback between Parliaments in Brussels and Strasbourg. In October 2012, 78%
MEPs voted in favor of a single seat in Brussels. Sadly,
this issue also requires unanimity of Member States in which it is affixed France
who has no desire to yield. In CDH, we propose that the current European Parliament
Strasbourg becomes a European university or a European forum for debate and
confrontation of ideas on the model of the College de France. Europe's image would
further enhanced;

-

Better control the allocation of European funds and reallocate more effectively
funds that have not been allocated in their entirety, such a Fund dedicated to
youth training;

-

Strengthening the Budget Control Committee of the European Court of Auditors working
strengthening transparency and monitoring regarding funds
European.

381

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS

Chapter 2. Building the Europe of development
human!
In CDH, we believe that real development can take place only if it is put to the service
of the Human and it aims to improve the quality of life rather than quantity of goods
produced and consumed.
Our vision is positive, future-oriented and the many potentialities that Europe can
(yet) bring. For us, Europe must stop giving priority to finance (Action 1).
We need to define a new European pact for growth that will build and now
exclusively on the Human (Action 2), which will respect and build on the capacity of each being
human, which will aim at improving the quality of life and well-being of Europeans. It is necessary for this
do complete the monetary union because the consolidation of the single currency will be the condition of
return of prosperity and employment (action 3). Finally, we need a Europe which respects
the environment and consumers. A Europe that promotes a way of life,
consumption and production quality as human development can only take place if
is durable, that is to say, if it conserves resources of the planet and biodiversity for
future generations (Action 4).

Action 1: Replace the river of finance in bed
Europe can no longer ignore the serious imbalances that have settled over the years - especially
in a world after the bankruptcy "Lehman Brothers" - and that could permanently weaken.
In CDH, we want Europe now gives priority to growth and employment rather
that "fully finance" as observed in recent years.
For us, Europe must be able to provide an appropriate level of regulation and control
even globalized financial markets. Europe, if it has already worked globally with
its G20 partners to establish a financial reform program in particular as regards
Financial re-regulation should now be able to have a stable financial system and
for growth and economic activity.
In CDH, we ask that the construction of the financial and banking regulation is amplified and
completed as soon as possible.
The CDH offers:
-

Implement without delay the regulation program proposed by the Union
European and globally coordinated aimed at making the financial system more
resistant. The system plans to toughen the prudential rules for banks and institutions
financial, in particular as regards the financial strength requirements; define a
framework for crisis management, regulation and infrastructure markets
Financial and regulation of credit bureaus which conflicts of interest have helped
the financial crisis and to strengthen supervision of markets and financial actors by
public authorities;

-

Protect consumers and investors. For us in CDH, this measure is
capital! We must increase the transparency and communication by requiring information
markets is reliable, clear, easily comparable and accessible for consumers and
investors. We must strictly regulate the complex financial products and
dangerous. We must have a comprehensive legal framework to assure consumers
Europe the best possible advice when they use financial services. He is

382

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS
also imperative to increase the accountability of advisors or intermediaries
Financial. Finally, we must enable and facilitate the prosecution of business practices
Deceptive and unfair contract terms;
-

Regulate financial transactions by framing derivatives sales
overdraft and credit default swap contracts and introducing a tax on
financial transactions (or "Tobin" tax) including the fight against speculation
HF Financial;

-

Align the interests of banks and bankers in the public interest. In this regard, it must frame
pay and bankers' bonuses, limiting and conditioning the health
sustainable institutions and financial operations. It should also facilitate the
effective resolution of banks, by implementing in advance the operational mechanisms,
the legal framework and the necessary authorities. It must also ensure that the resolution of
banks do bear the cost of shareholders and financial investors protecting
small depositors and small investors. Finally, it is also important to separate the
speculative activities of banks' business activities, so that losses
due to speculative activities do not affect the safety of deposits and credit to
the economy;

-

Implement without delay a real banking union at European level (in
minimum of the euro zone) that is protected from the interference of the Member States. As such, it
Banks need to establish supervisory and resolution organizations that are
truly European, rather than national, with competent, completely
independent and with extensive experience in financial markets. Should be encouraged
banks to increase their strength by increasing their capital rather than a reduction
credit to the economy. Finally, we must establish a deposit insurance fund and
Resolution of European banks that are (at least in the euro zone) and not
nationals.

Action 2. Define a new European Pact human growth
With a global economy increasingly based on knowledge, human capital
the fundamental strategic instrument of the European Union in order to ensure its success.
However, Europe has lost considerable ground in the race to the knowledge economy.
Despite some encouraging progress and victories over the last twenty years,
ability of the EU to generate growth and employment, and hence to improve the
standard of living, remained well below expectations.
Faced with increasing competition from emerging and developed economies, the European Union
must engage in a new ambitious program of reforms aimed at greater efficiency
Economic both to serve human development and through it.
In CDH, we advocate an ambitious recovery policy through a Plan
investment of 2% of European GDP for ten years. Instead of imposing programs
sanitation which, by their insistence on spending cuts, undermining growth,
investment and employment, CDH, we want to develop instruments to
stimulate and support job-creating investments.
We still have some way to go to establish true sustainable and balanced growth which
we need. But we can not procrastinate: it is necessary for sustainable growth. Europe
has to do this, a major advantage: that of being one of the largest markets in the world
population (the third after China and India) with a density of 115 inhabitants per km² and
good transport and communication infrastructure, the European internal market offers

383

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS
significant opportunities for European companies! However, this single market is now
failure. Indeed, many barriers still hinder the emergence and diffusion through
Europe of innovative products and services, the digital economy is lagging and businesses
struggling to establish itself in high-tech markets and added value.
It is necessary that the entire Europe and deepen its single market through policies
strong sector for the future competitiveness of the European Union in particular as regards
education and training, research, energy policy and transport.
We advocate an increase in the potential for growth in Europe and for
Europe put on competitiveness, quality and innovation through the revitalization of the Strategy
2020 or even the establishment of a new global strategy of human development and
the implementation of structural measures (see proposals below).

431 Lighthouse proposal: Establish a Global Strategy
human development
The challenges of the current economic crisis and its impact on the market
employment, require redoubled efforts in the areas hitherto covered by the so-called
"Lisbon Strategy".
In 2000 the Lisbon Strategy set itself the goal of making the European economy
2010 "the most competitive knowledge economy and economy in the world,
capable of sustainable economic growth with more and better
better jobs and greater social cohesion ".
However, its implementation has not achieved all the desired results. The objectives of employment rates,
growth, spending on research and development (R & D) have not been met. Three factors
may partly explain this setback: firstly, the Lisbon Strategy was based
only on performance requirements but was totally devoid of obligations
means (and, once will not hurt, Member States were not very willing to leave
'Brussels' management of their socio-economic policies); second, Strategy
Lisbon was considered too uniform and has not sufficiently taken into account the specificities of States
members. Finally, the occurrence of the economic and financial crises have led to cuts
drastic in national budgets, overshadowing the objectives of the Strategy.
In 2010, the strategy was revised in new '2020 strategy for smart,
sustainable and inclusive growth ". To not fall into the pitfalls of the Lisbon Strategy, the CDH, beyond the necessary revitalization of this new strategy, we believe that we must go
farther away !
In CDH, we consider that the objectives of growth and employment can not be envisaged
as part of a global strategy of human development only guarantor of the balance between
the various pillars (social, environment and economic growth and employment). The OECD
reminds herself: one, economic growth is not enough to solve the problems of our
planet. It takes an interconnection of economic, social and environmental. Of
measures must therefore be adopted and implemented under close coordination
between the different pillars.
The CDH offers:
-

Distinguish in budgetary control measures Member States, spending
consumption and investment spending. We must avoid any slippage Finance
public, which transfers the financial burden on future generations. By against the
Capital expenditures are critical to reviving the activity and coping

384

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS
future challenges. This distinction is therefore essential to ensure the success of a
Human development strategy.
-

Ensure measuring the sustainability of public finances of Member States
is not only dictated by the wealth produced annually, but also the
long-term sustainability based on measures of inequality, social cohesion,
education, health, natural resources, etc. This measure of sustainability
must result in a range of complementary indicators to GDP;

-

Ensure that the Europe 2020 Strategy and its objectives on employment, education,
R & D, environment and the fight against poverty are better integrated into the semester
European and are the backbone of economic policy coordination;

-

Strengthen coordination and monitoring of employment policies to achieve
objectives of the Europe 2020 Strategy Strengthening the Role of Employment Ministers in
the development and implementation of Strategy 2020 is a prerequisite for
its balance and its ownership by all stakeholders of the company, conditions,
essential to its success;

-

To address the climate challenge and the need to green the economy, to ensure that a
guideline and a specific indicator be retained as regards the
development of green jobs;

-

Introduce additional flagship initiative on demographic Fund (see
Proposal No. 418) and the theme of the extension of the life time, major challenge
is sorely lacking in the current Strategy 2020;

-

Provide incentive mechanisms at EU level to ensure that Member States adopt
policies that ensure compliance with the objectives of the Strategy and Guidelines
2020.

Proposal flagship 432: Support education and training
In a globalized economy, Europe can maintain its quality of life and performance
its economy if its population is formed.
Access to quality education and training throughout life not only promote
employability but also social inclusion, democratic participation and development
staff. And there is no doubt that one of the main causes of youth unemployment is
skills mismatch.
Do you know that in 2013, nearly 6 million young unemployed, 30% were unemployed for
more than a year and 7.5 million were neither working nor in school or training?
In this regard, it is necessary to modernize education to transform it into an instrument
decisive for the future of youth and adapting the curriculum to the needs
current and future labor market.
The CDH offers:
-

Continue to boost exchanges between young Europeans. We propose to provide
additional funding to allow more young people to benefit from these
programs. For example: "Erasmus +" (the new framework program for the period 20142020) brings together all existing European programs in the fields of education,
training throughout life, youth and sports. It provides for an increase of 40%
budget compared to the 2007-2013 period. This significant increase in the budget is
therefore an important step forward;

385

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS
-

Develop and support student mobility in the field of education and
training (VET) through the creation of an Erasmus program for apprentices. Current
program for education and training throughout life - and in particular the sub-program Leonardo Da Vinci VET - has already helped 500,000 of VET learners and 225 000
Students in higher education enjoy a work-based training in another
Member State, giving them the opportunity to develop transferable skills
corresponding to that sought by employers. Increased mobility of students
increases the mobility of the workforce and contributes to the creation of a labor market
performance;

-

Establish a compensation fund for intra-European student mobility which would be
powered by all European states. Each Member State may benefit from this
Fund and, for example, to compensation if the number of foreign students on its
territory is greater than the number of students making their studies abroad;

-

Set in the Europe 2020 Strategy, a target figure for lifelong
of life (including a participation rate of 15% for workers aged 25 to 64 years), or
increase vocational training opportunities and to ensure growth
really smart and quality jobs;

-

Ensuring access to quality education for all and reduce early school leaving. Good
progress has been made, the objective of reducing the school dropout in
below the 10% bar is still far from being achieved in many Member States.
For us, it is important to focus on the partnership approach by involving the educational world,
companies, social partners and especially the associations, the social economy and
social enterprises;

-

Promoting the acquisition of basic skills to facilitate job search and
participation in the life of society. Young people who leave school without obtaining a
basic degree, are the first to suffer unemployment and exposure to social exclusion;

-

Promote learning because it can play a major role in the transition from school to
work. For example, be aware that Member States which have programs
learning (such as Germany, Austria, Denmark and the Netherlands) are the most
performance in terms of transition school / work. Indeed, in most programs
Learning that are in place, the majority of apprentices are employed immediately
after their training period, an average of 60-70%; in some cases the rate is
90%;

-

Recognize the role of non-formal learning and establish mechanisms
validation of skills;

-

Ensure better coordination for the equivalence of diplomas and better
optimization of the ECTS (European Credit Transfer System).

Proposition 433: Boosting research and innovation
The well-being of our European societies largely depends on their capacity to ensure
sustainable growth, it is essential not only to continue to invest in research and
innovation, but also to strive for efficiency of resources invested by overcoming
compartmentalisation of national research policies. However, the 2013 report on the ERA
Research shows that Member States and regions have not yet sufficiently reformed
their respective research systems to achieve a homogeneous space within which
researchers, scientific knowledge and technology circulate freely.

386

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS
To make Europe more competitive, to ensure that more young people choose
technology and science, the CDH offers:
-

Erecting the research, development and innovation policy priority for Europe and its
Member states ;

-

Achieve the objective of 3% investment in research and development (R & D)
2020 as a priority and long term. Europe is far from enough: in
2012 she spent only 2.06% on R & D;

-

Create a "Pact for Research and Innovation 'in Europe via a promotion of
culture of innovation, the proper use of public and structural funds markets
and the development of European technology platforms;

-

Encourage Member States to increase the funds they allocate directly to research and
to 1% in appropriations by 2020 (in 2012, Europe invested 0.64%); in all
least maintain or even increase tax incentives for companies, universities and
research organizations, notably via the withholding tax reduction measures
professional, and also investment deduction measures for research
businesses ; fight against the brain drain by improving the financial status of
researchers and their working conditions and mobility, in particular through a better status,
better career opportunities, easier mobility and better equipment
scientific;

-

Allocate more funding to R & D as part of the Horizon 2020 Strategy;

- In the public research funding, increase the share spent on research
Europe and transnational initiatives strengthen interoperability programs
national or regional research;

-

Be careful that European funds allocated to Research are implemented
so as to promote the best convergence of national research policies;

-

Allocating EU funds while respecting the balance between three pillars: cutting-edge research
(focusing on the criterion of excellence), R & D in businesses and succession of major challenges
societal such as aging and climate change;

-

Develop European infrastructure well coordinated world class
promote research and networking knowledge (such as CERN or
the European Southern Observatory);

-

Encourage interconnections between the public and private sector, including promoting
University-Business cooperation in the training of PhD students and better prepare
holders of a doctoral degree at the University of outside employment market;

-

Simplify administrative procedures for granting and monitoring aid for
researchers and businesses;

-

Establish a coordination of research and innovation policies at
European;

-

Make effective enhanced cooperation on the European patent and to the Court
European Patent on track. In CDH, we have always advocated
harmonization of patenting practice in the European Economic Area and
creation of a single Community patent valid in all Member States. This patent
Single European, in gestation for over thirty years, was approved by Parliament
European in December 2012. It is aimed at strengthening the protection of inventions in
the EU and reduce the cost of six filing a patent.

387

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS

Proposition 434: Supporting entrepreneurs
Do you know that, in Europe, small and medium enterprises (SMEs) employ over 75 million
people and provide up to 80% of employment in certain sectors?

By their flexibility and dynamism, SMEs are the main element of cohesion
economic and social of the country. As such, they must necessarily enjoy broad
support.
The European Union must do everything possible to encourage their emergence, their growth,
financing and transmission. On the other hand, in all legislation it adopts, the Union
must ensure that the legislative body does not unnecessarily impede the development of SMEs by
unnecessary constraints.
For CDH, it is time to anchor, once and for all, the needs of SMEs at the heart of policy
EU and recognize their essential role in the European economy. It is necessary
give priority to activities carried out within the European Union and devote
European preference in the economic and trade policies. It's time to take
concrete steps to enable them to fully unlock their growth potential
Job!
The CDH offers:
-

Developing a European preference in the context of trade policies and
European economic, especially regarding economic diplomacy
European, customs policy, European public procurement, etc.

-

Improve the framework conditions in which European companies operate, stimulating
innovation and R & D, ensuring healthy competition in Europe, and facilitate access to
new third markets for European products and services;

-

Support the development of SMEs under the Small Business Act for Europe,
including strengthening the 'Erasmus for young entrepreneurs ". For these
exchanges, new entrepreneurs and those aspiring to become one will benefit from
border mobility and increase their experience and knowledge by spending
time in an SME of another country;

-

Better inform SMEs grant opportunities arising from European funds
called "cohesion", particularly for innovative or friendly products
the environment ;

-

Encourage Member States to facilitate private sector development and address the
specific needs of SMEs, including through easier access and expanded capital
border risk and short and long-term funding at reasonable rates. He
should promote new financing models for SMEs, including through
European Investment Bank;

-

Emphasize the importance of SME clusters around technology parks,
public laboratories or universities that create dynamic environments in Europe,
able to exploit scientific knowledge and to create jobs based on
knowledge (eg "clusters" of businesses but especially the "pole
competitiveness "created in Wallonia);

-

To better support entrepreneurship, quickly give a second chance
entrepreneurs who have experienced a non fraudulent bankruptcy.

388

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS

Proposition 435: reindustrialise Europe
In Europe, the industrial sector is currently being challenged by the crisis we
known since 2008 and its consequences cascade in all sectors and
production. But the industry is as much if not more difficulty setting by problems
more structural, combined with globalization that sees the rise of new players
such as China, India and Brazil.
Did you know that nearly 3 million manufacturing jobs (a loss of 10%) have been removed
between 2008 and 2012 in the European Union? Did you also know that the European industrial sector
employs over 34 million people (nearly 60,000 and in Wallonia) represents 3/4 of
European exports, totals over 80% of expenditure on R & D and private sector provides
about 1/5 of world production?
In CDH, we are convinced that a modern and vigorous industrial sector is essential to the
health of the whole European economy. Without strong and sustainable industry, without
productive and innovative economy (which is the only way to ensure the well-being of the greatest
number), it is illusory to think truly successful recovery and redeployment
European business.
In CDH, we believe that Europe needs a strong industrial base to create
Growth, jobs and enable our economies to continue to innovate. The need for
comprehensive industrial policy at the level of the European Union, is now becoming more and
more at all. We must act !
The CDH offers:
-

Defend more at European level the need for a real industrial policy
coherent and ambitious by involving the social partners;

-

Respect the objectives presented by the European Commission to trace production
in industrial value creation in Europe of 15% to 20% by 2020;

-

Consider integrated industrial policy as a key component of the Strategy
2020 or a more comprehensive strategy for sustainable development;

-

Make it more clear and predictable legal framework to encourage investment;

-

To promote "Made in Europe" at the level of industrial production (eg
steel material). In other words, promote the productions that take place in Europe by
trade, customs and economic policies of the European Union (also at
design or final assembly);

-

Imposing reciprocity in trade relations between the EU and its
partners;

-

Develop, at European level, a strong policy of "clustering" and poles
competitiveness, with the main objective to strengthen partnerships between poles and
the inter-cluster activities but also be selectively poles or
leaders pole groups worldwide, especially in a limited number of sectors
keys and promising;

-

Budgetary support (including through the support of the European Bank
investment) structuring projects and / or innovative industrial material through
throughout Europe;

-

Develop an integrated and coordinated approach to European industrial policy
through each of the various sectoral competences of the European Union;

389

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS
-

Ensure that the appropriate synergies and joints are implemented between
industrial policies and each of the other European policies (eg
cohesion policy, competition, energy, internal market, trade
international, etc.);

-

Reassess the system of state aid for the latter can better take into account the
relevance of aid granted to clusters and their structures
organizational -in particular in the context of such a European industrial strategy
including the European Union wants to acquire.

Proposal 436-Phare: Conduct an energy policy and transport
unifying and visionary
In CDH, we believe that environmental and energy transition that is ahead
not a constraint but an opportunity to give a collective horizon create acceptance
People stronger and make Europe the first eco-continent on the planet.
Europe still she must provide the means!
Do you know that, in Belgium, the energy dependence rate reached 74% (the average
European amounting to 53.3%)? Do you know that in 2012, domestic production of primary energy
amounted to 794 million tonnes of oil equivalent, 29% from nuclear energy, to
renewables (22%), solid fuels (21%), gas (17%) and crude oil
(10%)?
In CDH, we want an energy transition that attaches clear objectives: connect and mesh them
territories respecting their specificities, intermodality, development Transportation
highest technological and environmental level to serve citizens and businesses.
We want an ambitious policy in terms of logistics and freight routes
urban, peri-urban and local. We want to rethink supply chains maritime / road
Irons / highways in complementarity and not in competition, by giving food chain
logistics by setting eco-responsibility. We must transform the current patchwork of roads,
railways, airports and canals into a unified European transport network!
It is now that we must engage in the energy transition. And it must do so
taking decisive action to ensure, ultimately, energy independence 28 states
members to diversify their sources of production by focusing on renewable energy,
reducing our consumption, encouraging new energy storage technologies
intermittent and encourage new interconnection policies of networks and
Trans-European mobility.
The CDH offers:
-

Create a single energy market in Europe to reduce dependence
Energy continent, increase energy efficiency and improve the quotation
advantageous;

-

Establish a "European Energy Community", in other words,
enhanced cooperation made possible by the current Treaties which will enable the development
industrial profitability;

-

Act in a concerted and consistent manner between security Member States
energy supply and market organization. Both internally and at
European Union (with increased support for policy-mix, renewable energy and

390

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS
Examples of interconnections) and externally (to ensure that the European Union speaks with
one voice with its main international suppliers) (see proposal No. 443);
-

Implement all the means necessary for the energy transition (public policy,
regulations and taxation);

-

Conduct a genuine European strategy for mobility, freight transport, to
development of alternative networks by fostering networking and interconnection
energy networks, transport (rail, river) and telecommunications;

-

Develop infrastructure that assume important industrial sectors and services
Public network - including energy and transport services such as networks
trans-European rail and electronic communications such as access to top
flow, throughout the territory of the European Union because they are levers for
competitiveness, growth and employment;

-

Favor alternatives to road and air transport modes as well as to more
low environmental impacts and prioritize optimization of existing networks
rather than building new infrastructure;

-

Encourage infrastructure projects in the 2014-2020 financial framework and integrate
transportation by inland waterways in multimodal corridors, especially the
Corridor North Sea. The main objective is to build the channel between the Seine and Scheldt
will connect the Belgian river water with the north of France;

-

Strengthening of budgetary resources allocated to the Executive Agency Trans-European Network
Transport (TEN-T) which ensures the implementation and the technical and financial management
Program trans-European transport network;

-

Continue current efforts to achieve the target of 10% energy
renewables in transport by 2020. These efforts are mainly located on the
establishment of a stable legal framework and at the same time based on evolving
technological developments in the field, and support mechanisms to stimulate
development of biofuels of the second generation of greener
the environment and the food chain;

-

Creating a Euro-Mediterranean Energy Partnership that focuses on the development of
renewable energies.

391

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS

Action 3: Completing the Economic and Monetary Union
The European Economic and Monetary Union (EMU) was established in 1992 following the
Treaty of Maastricht. The Union consists of two 'spaces': the area
euro including Member States (18 in total, including Belgium) sharing a currency
common - the euro - and that of the European Exchange Rate Mechanism II (ERM II) which stabilizes
currencies of countries without the euro, under the authority of the European Central Bank (ECB).
The benefits of the euro are numerous: besides facilitating the lives of Europeans traveling, he
brought stability and growth while ensuring low interest rates and
disappearance of exchange fees. At the macroeconomic level, the single currency even wore
EU among the world's leading trading powers through currency
strong and international trade facilities.
But in recent years, the economic crisis has shown that even if the euro could act
shield to external economic shocks, a single currency was not
sufficient to cope with the violence of the economic and financial storms.
Proof is: at the height of the crisis of sovereign debt, member states - meeting within the
European Council - have had to make decisions on economic governance in all
emergency.
He had, in the space of two years, both pay-broken pots of "pre-crisis" (eg in
to restore Greece afloat after closing the eyes for years on complacency
Athens on fiscal policy); they had, in the heart of the crisis, deal with the most
pressed and overcome the shortcomings of European economic governance intrinsically
low (because, following the Maastricht Treaty, while European leaders agreed to a
common currency, they also wanted to retain their national sovereignty in
economic, budgetary and fiscal. Why, in 2003, in the absence of sanctions, France and
Germany have not felt obliged to respect their commitments to the budget) and
they had to anticipate the "post-crisis" (improvising the creation of management mechanisms and
crisis resolution which hitherto were still lacking in the euro area, negotiating with forceps
a new Treaty of economic and budgetary consolidation, etc.)
The least one can say is that all these decisions have not proved timely:
thus, the austerity policies have not worked and were far too strong in
Many countries where human and social consequences have been dramatic but mostly, they
did not allow the revival of investment policy as expected. But in times of crisis,
this is where the problem lies and that we must act.
In CDH, we consider that it is now crucial to strengthen the euro area whose contributions
were essential to avoid the complete wreck of some Member States. We must endow
European governance tools necessary for effective economic policy. As such,
the introduction of a European insurance mechanism against unemployment (see our proposal
flagship No. 415) would have a countercyclical effect allowing Member States who suffer a shock
significant economic preserve their unemployment compensation system and develop
their employment policies. It also means to cross the threshold of political integration which,
alone, will give the eurozone the same leeway now enjoys,
eg China and the USA, the largest economic partners of Europe. For
us, the choice is clear: either the Member States of the euro area decided to transfer
sovereignty as we advocate. Either they are condemned to impotence and therefore to the
disintegrating under the pressure of their internal differences.

392

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS
The CDH offers:
-

In the framework of the European Stability and Growth Pact, the Commission set
Eurostat and European common and rigorous definition of investment
productive. As has always been the Stability Pact has proven fundamentally flawed. He
does, for example, no distinction between current spending and spending
investment. However, investment is an essential component of strategies to
increase the growth potential of the European economy;

-

Strengthening the European Stability Mechanism (ESM). We must entrust the mandate of the ESM
differentiate the Member States facing the challenges of solvency or liquidity challenges. He
must increase its financial resources and make his fight against the most effective speculation;

-

Give the European Central Bank lender of last resort for the mandate
Creditworthy states. In the 1990s and under pressure from Germany, the Maastricht Treaty
had explicitly forbids the ECB to act as "lender of last resort" in respect
Member States, a role that is yet traditionally devolved to central banks.
Moreover, no substitution mechanism had been expected. Result: when the crisis
public debt broke out, Europe had to decide in a hurry and has created a European Fund
financial stability. But, by the time the fund is established and can gather
necessary financial and technical resources, the liquidity crisis turned into a crisis
much more devastating solvency. In CDH, we believe that investing the ECB's new
mandate would be an effective firewall against speculative attacks on
sovereign debt of Member States. This mandate can be implemented either by endorsing the
OMT mechanism (monetary transactions involving securities) current, or by providing the MES (Mechanism
European Stability) a banking license;

-

Give more space and means of action to the European Central Bank to can act. In this context, it is important to give the ECB a broader mission that is
not only to control inflation but that is more attentive to employment, growth
sustainable and social progress (and in particular, the promotion of employment);

-

Facilitate coordination of developments in competitiveness of Member States of the euro area,
encouraging social dialogue at European level and by framing the dialogue of
Analysis of wage and productivity developments in the different Member States
Eurozone;

-

Enjoy the negotiation of the new Pact for Growth we want (Chapter 2,
Action 2) to create a true economic government of the euro area. The states
Members must be able to define together the broad guidelines of economic policy,
Budget and Finance in Europe;

-

Pooling eurozone debt in Member States. Large-scale pooling
debts of Member States of the euro area is a decisive step in the integration
European and embodies some form of solidarity between European peoples. It
would reduce the burden of debt of the euro area countries and facilitate their
adjustments and fiscal consolidation while supporting household consumption
and therefore the recovery of the European economy. It will include the issuance
Eurobonds (or Eurobonds) which will enable Member States of the euro area, making
face difficulties financing their debt, be able to rely on Europe and its
financial strength and to access funding at better rates. The terms say
techniques of this system, for example their short maturity (called "Euro-bills") or long,
for all or part of the national debt should be defined to promote
convergence within the euro area, economic, social, and fiscal models
human development. In practice, this involves the use of indicators not only

1 393

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS
economic growth, but also of complementary indicators of quality of life and
environment.

Action 4. Respect the environment and consumers
Short-termist, productivist, inequality, pollution, unsustainable short, our growth model
Current is breathless! For decades, our lifestyle and consumption
Western, which is spreading across the planet, destroying our environment, biodiversity and
endangers future generations.
Now, living in harmony with its environment is essential for human beings
can flourish and find a real balance both individually and collectively. In cdH we
want a Europe more respectful of the environment and consumers.
We need a Europe that sets ambitious climate targets, which fight against
environmental dumping, which is a guarantee of health for all, protecting biodiversity, which
European consumers better defend and support a quality agriculture and
development of territories (see our suggestions below).

Proposition 437: If set ambitious climate targets
In climate terms, a global agreement was reached to limit the average increase in
temperatures to 2 degrees compared to pre-industrial levels, a threshold beyond which the effects resulting
climate change would be irreversible and unpredictable.
To give a chance to do this, industrialized countries - the European Union in mind - have
pledged to reduce by 80-95% their emissions of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by 2050 compared to
1990 level.
In CDH, we believe that to make the necessary investments efficiently, it is
essential that efforts are planned to be provided gradually over time and setting
intermediate targets for 2030 and 2040 horizons.
We also believe that any climate policy in the medium and long term can not
conceived without a coordinated energy policy, whose aims join and strengthen
measures taken to reduce our GHG emissions.
These are the reason why we consider the cdH the gradual evolution of our
economy towards a low carbon economy as a unique opportunity to reduce our
energy dependence vis-à-vis third countries, to develop our own resources
(mainly renewables) to reduce our consumption and therefore our
invoices and to create hundreds of thousands of non-relocatable jobs on our continent
in promising sectors of green energy and energy efficiency.
To encourage investment, both private and public, needed to modernize our
energy system, a clear trajectory with medium and long-term targets is
absolutely essential. We need a clear framework which will provide regulatory certainty necessary
to bring investors into these sectors, thus reinforcing, through technological innovation,
our role as world leader in research and development in non-energy
carbonaceous.
Along with these goals, we want to modernize networks and energy infrastructure
and electricity, in order to better absorb without unnecessary losses, energy growing
consistent from renewable sources. It should also focus subsidies and

394

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS
Public support measures on energy sources whose technological development does
yet allows them to be competitive in the energy market.
The CDH offers:
-

As part of the Energy Package / Climate 2030, provide the EU targets
to be achieved in terms of reducing greenhouse gases, renewable energy, energy mix and
energy efficiency that can put us on the path of long-term goals. In
Indeed, the objectives contained in the framework of the 2020 strategy (which aims to achieve 20%
reducing greenhouse gas emissions, 20% renewable energy and 20% energy efficiency
in 2020) will be achieved (or even slightly exceeded regarding GHG and
renewable energy and almost achieved for energy efficiency). It will
translate these new European targets into national targets for each Member State, in
according to their own abilities, both financial and technological. Must be reduced by at
50% our greenhouse gas emissions, introduce a share of 35% renewables in our mix
energy and aim a drop in our energy consumption by 40%.

-

Act at European, national, regional and local levels to adapt to the effects of
global warming. We must prepare now to the impacts of
projected climate change for the coming decades. The question is not
Unfortunately "whether" the temperatures will rise so
significant but rather "when" will be achieved in Belgium caps of 1 ° C, 1.5 ° C or 2 ° C
3 ° C or more compared to the current average temperature, and "how" these
increases will result in terms of rainfall, seasonal and
climatic events. It must be implemented at local, regional, national and
European 'agendas in 1234, "that is to say, multi-year action plans, including
measures in the areas of regional planning, mobility, health, of
housing or agriculture, to adapt to higher temperatures or 1,2,3
4 ° C. These plans will be adjusted according to the new projections calculated by the experts
scientists. They will be developed on a participatory basis, to evaluate the acceptability of measures
Population;

-

Complete the sooner the European energy market (see proposal No. 436);

-

Immediate improvement interconnections intra European networks;

-

Modernize our energy and electricity transmission networks;

-

Encourage local and regional initiatives to develop energy sources
renewable.

Finally, to reduce its GHG emissions, the EU is equipped with a system of exchange of
emissions trading (ETS), a sort of European carbon market, whose efficiency was, however,
affected by the economic crisis. Therefore the quota surplus due to lower our activities
industry in recent years of economic crisis has significantly dropped the price of the
tonne of carbon. The extremely low price of carbon on the European market does not encourage
businesses to invest in reducing their GHG emissions, preferring to buy allowances to low
price.
However, avoid carbon leakage (relocation and European companies
are strongly emitting GHG into non-regulated countries in the matter), which are
nor beneficial for our competitiveness and the environment of our planet.
In CDH, we also want to better distribute the GHG emission reduction burden
between different economic sectors. Currently the sectors subject to the ETS represent
approximately 40% of total EU GHG emissions. 60% of these emissions come from so

395

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS
sectors not subject to the ETS, and that the reduction targets are lower than those facing
the sectors subject to the European carbon market.
The CDH offers:
-

Structurally reform the trading system of emission allowances that would
gradually reduce the number of allowances put on the market and adapt
automatically to economic fluctuations and therefore industrial activity of our
Continent;

-

Provide a clear timetable enabling companies and investors anticipate
future changes in production conditions;

-

Maintain exceptions and free allowances for certain industries until agreement
Global GHG reduction does not guarantee healthy competition and context
regulatory equal in this respect in all countries of the world;

-

Adopt largest reduction targets at EU level initially spread
between Member States then submitted for non-ETS sectors in order to spread so
fairer GHG emission reduction efforts.

Proposition 438: The fight against environmental dumping
Environmental dumping is the act of establishing less stringent environmental rules
than those that apply in the countries where its products are exported to produce at lower cost
and thus promote local companies in relation to their competitors located abroad.
In CDH, we do not ever want to oppose the economy and competitiveness
the environment. On the contrary, the environmental requirement can be used as a
lever for fostering economic activity and employment, improve the well-being and
reduce social inequalities.
To fight against environmental dumping, CDH offers:
-

Gradually strengthen the European standards regarding the conditions of production of
products and harmonize these standards at the level of all Member States to prevent
any competition environmentally-called least in the European economy;

-

Tighten progressively in a multi-annual plan established and quotas identified
emission of industrial and transportation sectors, accompanying this development by
accompanying measures regarding the search for greater efficiency
energy for these activities, as well as ensuring the specificity of these;

-

Establish social and environmental locks the borders of Europe (cfr. Proposal
below);

-

Defending at European level the maintenance of agricultural market management tools
(restriction on market access, import quotas, tariffs, etc.) insofar
they are justified on environmental issues and public health;

-

To support the implementation of recommendations contained in the report of 27 Caspary
September 2011, in particular as regards the systematic insertion of a series of standards
environmental in all free trade agreements that the EU negotiates
with third countries.

396

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS

Proposition 439: Ensuring the health of all
In CDH, we want to move towards a Europe of health.
For us, it is essential to combat inequality and restore more solidarity between
health citizens. We need a European collective framework for health care
make a tangible and effective the principle of solidarity.
We want to develop a comprehensive European Strategy Health with
watchwords are: universality, accessibility, durability and quality. This European strategy
would focus on the fight against cancer, quality of care and safety, flow management
health professionals, the organization of disease prevention at European level,
Management of the fight against health hazards and the safety of the environment in which
we operate.
The CDH offers:
-

Advocate for a European policy of prevention of disasters and epidemics;

-

Develop better coordination of social security schemes focusing policy
the adoption of texts by a qualified majority;

-

Creating a European legal framework for mutual societies would help to recognize and
promote mutual as an alternative economic model, a model that has proved
resilient in times of crisis;

-

Revise the Directive on the rights of patients in relation to access cross-border care
adopted in 2011. This directive reinforces the cooperation between Member States in the
field of health care. However, it maintains the use of a dual procedure
reimbursement for care abroad, and therefore comes complicate problems
Access to care and case management by social security agencies;

-

Create a European Agency for determining drug prices. Creating a
such an agency will provide a clear and simple information for patients and
the establishment of a single price of the drug in the European Union;

-

Adopt new policies and strengthen existing policies to protect
European citizens and nature, including pollinators, such as bees,
harmful effects of chemicals. Particular attention should be paid to
SVHC, endocrine disruptors, the cocktail effect
chemical combinations and nanomaterials;

-

Adopt measures to reduce the use of pesticides and substances
Drug problems for health and the environment in Europe;

-

Implement mandatory substitution of hazardous chemicals;

-

Establish a legal business coaching through an approval procedure and
control for plant protection products and fertilizers (nitrogen and phosphorus);

-

Approve, by 2015, a new policy designed to reduce the overall level of pollution
air, both internally and externally;

-

Develop a comprehensive and dynamic policy framework for products and waste
transform the market, encourage innovation and will shift spending
Consumers now allocated to raw materials and products and intensive process
energy towards products and effective processes and high technology;

-

Strengthening European standards of air quality so that they are better
aligned with the recommendations of the World Health Organization;

397

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS
-

Support the emergence of new European instruments that guarantee citizens and
environmental associations the right of public access to information, participation of
public decision-making and access to environmental justice;

-

Oppose the exploration of shale gas. In CDH, we deplore the operational framework
fragmented and increasingly complex within the European Union. Some Member States
like the United Kingdom, Denmark, Poland and Romania are already developing projects
exploration. In CDH, we consider that one of the major risks of fracturing
Hydraulic will always be contamination of water resources. Emissions
methane if they are not picked up, can also affect the quality of ambient air. We do
want to jeopardize the health of citizens!

Proposition 440: Protecting Biodiversity
The CDH offers:
-

Accomplish the strategic objectives of the European Union in terms of biodiversity;

-

Fund the fight against the erosion of biodiversity worldwide;

-

Implement the Nagoya Protocol on biodiversity;

-

Prevent the decline of the European network of protected areas;

-

Ending the trade in illegal timber by ensuring the proper implementation of
Regulation of the European Union on timber and addressing loopholes
current;

-

Preserve the cleanliness and healthfulness of fresh water in Europe and the world by restoring
good ecological status of rivers and lakes in Europe, protecting and restoring
marine ecosystems, promoting sustainable water management in the world;

-

Effective protection of Natura 2000 areas at sea with concrete management plans;

-

Pursue the goal of ending overfishing and adopt protective legislation
marine wildlife. According to Eurostat, 68% of fish stocks in the European Union
overfished. This figure rises to 80% in respect of the fish stocks
Mediterranean;

-

Combat illegal, unregulated and unreported;

-

Prohibit the practice of fish at sea of ​​rejection due to their species or their
size since most of these discarded fish die at sea;

-

Establish sustainable fishing quotas. In other words, the fishermen will respect the
'maximum sustainable yield', that is to say do not fish more than what a given stock may
produce in a given year. The objective is to restore and maintain stocks
fish beyond levels of maximum sustainable yield;

-

Prohibit deemed highly destructive to the seabed trawls, that is to say fishing
intensive using a net several meters in deep areas. In CDH, we believe
the deep water fishing is not sustainable because of the fuel consumption
beyond comprehension (half a liter of diesel per kilo caught!), fish stocks
do not have the time to regenerate, etc.

-

Making Europe urges neighboring countries with whom it signed a share agreement
stocks, such as Iceland and Norway, to advocate a more sustainable fishing.

398 
HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS

Proposition 441: Better defending European consumers
European consumers are now more than 500 million. The preservation and protection
properly contributes to improving their quality of life.
Single Market issues continue to evolve with the development of "e-shopping" and
new technologies incorporated in the food system. European legislation must
accompany these changes in the consumer interest that they remain confident
in the market.
In CDH, we want to ensure that consumers are adequately protected against
unfair or abusive commercial practices against products that pose a risk their
health or safety.
Do you know, for example, that because of the exorbitant costs of using a mobile phone
abroad Europeans use their phone less when they are away from home? A survey
Eurobarometer indicates that half of them do not send any e-mail with the phone when
located in another Member State. Only 9% of Europeans send and receive emails as often
in their country. In CDH, we absolutely want to reduce the cost of "roaming"!

Another issue of importance to us is the fight against planned obsolescence of
products consumed. How many of you have already bought a printer, a mobile phone
or a dishwasher, and lamented they were defective after a limited number of uses?
In CDH, we want to condemn the practice of planned obsolescence. We want
Europe emits a strong signal on the sustainability of products!
The CDH offers:
-

Protecting consumers belonging to vulnerable groups (such as children and
elders). It is absolutely essential that vulnerable consumers benefit
better protection, especially in transport, financial services,
energy and ICT. Measures should be taken at EU and
Member States to provide adequate safeguards to protect;

-

As for Internet commerce, we must ensure the quality, safety,
traceability and authenticity of products, ensuring the absence of any dishonest practice
or unfair and respect the rules on data protection
Personal, ensuring, where appropriate, the consumer has made an informed
and explicit exploitation of personal data;

-

Ask the European Commission to legislate to purchase digital content
in the digital environment and promotion procedures for the sale of goods and
services in the digital environment to enhance consumer confidence and
so that they know how to defend their rights and to initiate proceedings
litigation when they acquired a service or a product of poor quality;

-

Pay particular attention to the protection of consumers in the sector
short-term loans for those who contract these financial products are becoming aware
their obligations and risks;

-

Eliminate roaming charges with regard to mobile telephony;

-

Establish a legal framework for European collective redress;

-

Better fight against counterfeit products. At present, counterfeiting is 5 to 9
% Of world trade (including 12% of the global toy market, 10% of world market
perfumery and cosmetics and 5-10% of the European market for spare parts
automobiles);

399

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS
-

Strengthen the capacity of the European Counterfeiting and Piracy Observatory;

-

Require the display of the life of the products and, on an experimental basis, a price
year-round use;

-

Prohibit programmed obsolescence strategies apparatus put in place by the
industrial;

-

Impose the extension of minimum guarantees appliances;

-

Facilitating access to spare parts for the repair of a product;

-

Establish a European Observatory on planned obsolescence of products.

Proposal flagship 442: Supporting quality agriculture and
development of territories
Agriculture is primarily nurturing. It is fundamental both in its component that livestock
Culture: it conditions access to quality food and sufficiency for all beings
human present and future. Therefore, for CDH, agriculture remains an industry first
essential economic that can become the object of speculation of a few large conglomerates
through technologies, land grabbing or pressure industries
Agri. Agriculture should, through dialogue and structured consultation,
find its place as a respected player in the food chain. International commerce
agricultural products must also be framed by rules and specific rules
promote independence food sovereignty of each region of the world and prohibit
deadly financial speculation. Finally, agriculture must live in harmony with nature: it
is a key player in the maintenance and preservation of our natural environment. This one
conditions the sustainability of agriculture.
Reinvesting in the farmer also means defending the agricultural sector. They do not
are now more than 2.5% of the workforce. A sharp decline in the cost of
work should help stabilize or even recreate and boost employment in this sector, to ensure
decent income for farmers, and to promote, downstream of agricultural production, the creation of
new jobs. Besides the current European markets, we must encourage the development of
short circuits (including through cooperatives and from clean and quality standards
differentiated) and diversification of agricultural activity that can reconnect between
producers and consumers to benefit as each other. It should also
continue efforts to increase the added value of the food industry in Federation
Wallonia-Brussels, also generating growth and jobs.
The CDH in this respect confirms its adherence to all the objectives of creation of agricultural policy
Common (CAP), namely:
-

Ensuring a fair standard of living for the agricultural community, in particular by increasing the
individual earnings of persons engaged in agriculture;

-

Increase agricultural productivity by promoting technical progress;

-

Stabilize agricultural markets;

-

Ensure security of supply;

-

Ensure reasonable prices for consumers.

400

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS

Do you know that over 24% of British adults are obese, and 23% of Irish and
22% of Luxembourgers against 16% of Spaniards, 15% of Belgians and Germans, 11% of French and
only 8% of Romanians?

Agricultural production minimizing external inputs, organized a family scale
consumed within a reasonable distance, is likely to contribute to a healthy diet. In CDH,
we want to promote changes in our consumption patterns and reducing our
ecological footprint linked to food.
To curb this trend, the European Parliament voted, during the previous legislature,
several initiatives on food labeling to better inform
consumers on the nutritional composition of foods. Europe also prohibits
These misleading claims on certain goods, "no added sugar" for juice
fruit containing saccarine, 'dietetic' for products that maintain confusion
between diet foods and those for diabetics, etc.
The CDH offers:
-

Uphold the "agricultural exception" regarding trade between major
country blocks to ensure every region of the world food sovereignty for
ensuring sufficient quantity and quality to feed its people and the respect of his
ethical choices (human health, antibiotic use, animal welfare, etc.);

-

Establish at international level, with strict rules to prevent purely games
speculation on food crop production, in line with the G20 initiative and
its International Agricultural Market System on the transparency of public data
pricing, production, crops and inventories;

-

Implement new EU rules on market organizations and
competition, in particular in order to facilitate the grouping of producers; these organizations
should be allowed to determine their own production capacity in the medium and long
terms and to collectively negotiate sales price references with a weight equal to that of
agribusiness;

-

Protecting the Community acquis in respect for human standards, social,
environmental and monetary;

-

Strengthening the rights of farmers to use, exchange and sell their seeds, the
protect genetic contamination and biopiracy and access the full diversity
reproducible seeds freely available;

-

Pending the establishment of true social and environmental locks to
Europe's borders (see proposal No. 449), maintaining direct aid to farmers
as negotiated for the 1st pillar CAP, including coupled support to the beef sector;

-

Continue to take into account, the amounts allocated by the CAP, the agronomic value
land (disadvantaged areas) and prices of agricultural land (variable by country
regions);

-

Continue to guarantee public rights to vital resources and ensure their respect,
without yielding to the call for an increase in their commercialization. It should also ensure
that new European policy frameworks and regulations can promote
economic production system based on the management and common use, instead of
focus only on sales and patents;

401

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS
-

Strictly supervise the private rights over the selection of species and varieties and guarantee
accessibility to all individual farmers seeds and breeds constituting
a "public good";

-

Rebuilding the procedures of the European Agency for Food Safety (EFSA) and the
technical protocols used to evaluate applications for authorization of GMOs and new
biotechnology in the European Union. For the CDH, the current system of authorization
is not strict enough to protect consumers and farmers against risks
as potential environmental, health and economic; pending reform
EFSA, a moratorium for any new application of GMOs, both imports and
culturing;

-

Increase the financial contribution of the EU to new programs
Independent research to improve crop yields
biological and to lower cost of organic farming;

-

Involve the European Parliament in the GMO authorization procedure. The parliament
represents European citizens and it is more than 61% of Europeans say they do not want
of GMOs in their plate. A sensitive issue that GMOs must always be subject to
the approval of MEPs;

-

Greater consumer awareness, thanks to clearer labeling
(identification of GMO ingredients, traceability of meat in prepared dishes ...) and
support citizens' initiatives in favor of sustainable agriculture and food;

-

Supporting European food sovereignty, encourage the development culture
protein in short circuits and facilitate the commercialization of agricultural products to
local and regional markets.

402

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS

Chapter 3. Making Europe the motor
human development globally!
Do you know that the European Union is the largest donor of development assistance and the second
greatest military power in the world? And it also represents one of the first power
commercial world (with a quarter of world trade), with a market of more than 500
million consumers with a combined nominal GDP of its 28 member States (estimated at 15.9 billion
dollars), is now the highest in the world (surpassing that of the United States)?

The European Union is struggling to assert itself as a political power. Europe seems to seek and
struggling to find. Internal divisions prevent his influence events that shook the
world and be taken seriously. Until recently, Europe was very divided at the time
to intervene in Mali, Syria and fell silent before the revelations of Edward Snowden on
the existence of a monitoring network by the National Security Agency.
Worse, Europe risks weigh much less heavy in the future. Because the world order as we
have known for centuries, is taking another turn. With
the emergence of new economic powers, the world today is very different and will
further tomorrow. For example, in 20 to 30 years, no European country will sit at the G8
which brings together the leading economic powers of the planet. France or Germany, this
time, will account for less than 1% of the world population.
How about it? Today, no country can no longer meet the challenges of itself
21st century. Either we become stronger together or we will be weaker in isolation.
Let alone Europe and its member states. This is the great challenge of the 21st century: achieving organize
genuine international cooperation among all peoples and States worldwide for
better together find peaceful and lasting solutions to global issues such as
poverty, nuclear proliferation, energy and food security, the depletion of some
resources, etc.
Based on this observation, the political weight of Europe on the international scene must be affirmed.
The European Union needs to bring real added value internationally, is thinking
as one of the poles of a multipolar world, assume its global interests and redefine itself
consequence. Because together - whether with the 350 million citizens of the euro area (which
comparable size in the US and a GDP remains higher than that of China) or 500
Millions of Europeans of a European Union of 28 - we have the means to weigh more
politically.
To face this new globalized world, in CDH, we want foreign policy
Europe is based on the vision of an international order based on effective multilateralism and
Democratic in favor of human development. For us, Europe must help to play a
Role engine and convey the values ​​of peace and human development globally. It
Of its responsibility as a major player in the international community but also
the future of its citizens.

403

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS

Action 1: A humanist foreign policy
If Europe wants to weigh on the world stage, it must exceed the current paradox in which his
capacity for action and influence remains small compared with its economic weight. In cdH we
believe that it is thanks to a strong foreign policy and European security and humanist
that Europe can best promote its values ​​and interests in a globalized world.
The main objective of foreign and EU security policy (CFSP) is
help build a stable international environment, prosperous, inclusive and sustainable basis
on an effective and democratic multilateralism.
The Lisbon Treaty has recently strengthened the CFSP dimension of Europe by claiming the role of
High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy and creating Service
European External Action, a true EU diplomatic corps.
In CDH, we believe that the EU should make better use of resources to it
would maximize its potential to become a true global player. Europe must
further unify its external representation, it should lay the foundations of a European defense,
increased support democratic changes outside of Europe, strengthen its
solidarity with developing countries and reconnect with a trade policy
just (see our suggestions below).

Proposition 443: Standardize the external representation of the Union
European
European influence within international organizations continues to decline. The Union
EU is not perceived as a major player at international level because it
do not speak with one voice and that its external representation is fragmented.
In CDH, we believe that ensuring that Europe make its voice heard is not an issue
prestige or idealistic whim. Its voice is the way to live in the future,
the choice of expensive company to Europeans such as, for example, gender equality, the
human development and the preservation of the environment.
If we want Europe pulls its weight and door loudly values
human development globally, it must do so by standardizing its
external representation and decision-positioning.
We must make the European Union capable of speaking with one voice within organizations
international and multilateral forums. It is thus the pledge of its credibility and its
political influence globally.
Regularly mentioned, the unification of European representation in organizations
International has never been achieved except within the World Trade Organisation
(WTO) that the European Commission will negotiate on behalf of all Member States.
The CDH offers:
-

Decide on a single seat for the euro area within the International Monetary Fund (IMF).
At the IMF, there are 24 directors, including seven Europeans. The dispersal of votes Europeans
reduces the weight of the euro zone at a level well below its share in the economy
global and international trade. Now, to negotiate the necessary reform of
international monetary system, the eurozone would carry more weight if it consisted of his rights
Voting at the IMF and was expressed by a single representative on the Board of Directors;

404

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS
-

Work harder to build a common European position within the Council of
UN security. Currently, two Member States of the European Union
permanently represented in the UN Security Council: this is France and
United Kingdom. It should further build the European positioning upstream and promote
consensus among the member states to better avoid diplomatic cacophony;

-

Prioritize the community approach in procurement negotiations
energy and raw materials also serve the interests of all
European citizens. For, in this case, the European Union still largely dependent
Outside: 60% gas and 80% of oil imported from Russia, Norway, Algeria and
Qatar. Russia's Gazprom alone providing more than a third of gas imports in the Union
European! In CDH, we believe that to ensure security of supply
energy and a fair price for their imports, European states should rather
that acting in a disorganized, favoring a community approach in their negotiations.

Proposition 444: Paving the way for a future European defense
Although defense remains a prerogative of Member States, it remains a component
essential for a credible international strategy.
For cdH if Europe hopes to become a credible actor on the international stage, this
must pass through the area of ​​defense. Europe must be able to define a true
European defense, Europe must be able to "produce" the security not just
to benefit.
The European Union must lay the foundations for a future European army. Europe can not just
rely on the US and NATO to protect themselves. It must be the means of his
own protection.
If Europe wants to gain credibility on the international level, it must demonstrate its ability to
develop an autonomous defense to better contribute to international security. But the last
European Council in December 2013 devoted to the defense of Europe was particularly illustrated
by its lack of ambition and political will on the matter.
Assert themselves militarily and defense will allow Europe in a world increasingly
unstable, to assume its responsibilities for international security, particularly vis-à-vis
its immediate neighborhood.
Do you know that: Currently, European military assets represent 10% of capacity
US, 40% of their expenses? In recent years and in all Member States,
all defense budgets have been cut in their funding. As a result, Europe has
distanced made by the United States and China. In 2012, Europe spent $ 286 billion
against $ 302 billion for East Asia and 682 billion for the United States.
In CDH, we believe it is important to have a common vision and long-term on the
European defense. We must deepen the strategic reflection that the European Union
adapts to new global geostrategic environment. We need to define together new
tools combining prevention and crisis management, military planning and intervention, financing and
aid conditional on universal principles. And above all: learn from the reactions
contradictory among the member States of these last years when it came, for example,
to intervene in Libya and Mali!

405

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS
The CDH offers:
-

Create a European army. This European army might, at first,
take the form of enhanced structured cooperation that would constitute the core
a future European army. This structure should not exclude any Member State but
no member country should prevent those who want to go faster and further in the
matter;

-

Establish a European headquarters. We need a permanent structure for the
defense operations planning at European level;

-

Develop a "White Paper on European Defence" to establish an inventory and
long-term strategic vision for security and defense in Europe. This
framework for EU external action will need to be updated regularly.
The current security strategy of 2003;

-

Create a true European pillar within NATO. Europe must further develop a
autonomy of decision in relation to NATO. We need the Member States of the Union
to better coordinate European NATO summits before, to speak there with one voice;

-

Encourage the implementation of joint projects capability and acquisition of equipment.
Indeed, Europe has strategic gaps (in particular transport,
refueling and intelligence) and no Member State alone can not remedy these deficiencies.
Only a pooling of efforts will deal with them. These efforts need to intervene
both in the industrial development of future capabilities in pooling and
sharing (also called "pooling and sharing") of existing capacity;

-

Multiply industrial collaborations in the field of defense under the aegis of
the European Defence Agency. We must streamline and harmonize industrial capacity.
Similarly, it is necessary that the planning of national defense investments or
integrated into a European reflection medium term;

-

Strengthening of coordinated specialization of European armies with a view
develop all the necessary skills. Indeed, no European country will still
able to develop its own capacity in all areas. New choices
will be made by each. Belgium has, for example, already specialized in niches
Excellence as air operations, mine clearance, the fight against piracy and care
to burn victims;

-

Multiply the pooling and sharing (pooling and sharing) of existing capacity
considered by the informal meeting of defense ministers during the Belgian Presidency in Ghent
2010. For example, the European Air Transport Command directs the use of means of
transport and refueling of Belgium, France, Germany and Luxembourg (and will
More soon be joined by Spain and Italy);

-

Increase bilateral or plurilateral collaborations between European states to combine their
military capabilities to strengthen the tools available for EU operations on
model of the Belgian-Dutch naval cooperation;

-

Making the European Defence Agency one of the engines of European defense.
The European Defence Agency (EDA) is to identify military capabilities and
coordinate joint industrial projects. Currently working on drones
recognition of flight refueling, communications satellites and capacity
cybersecurity that are, after all, small-scale projects. It takes a
refinancing of the EDA and complementarity between it and NATO;

406

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS
-

Develop a real defense market by stimulating research, harmonizing
industry standards, improving SME access to this area because they are a source
important key to innovation;

-

Create a common fund to finance military operations in which all States
members give their agreement without taking part. The establishment of this Fund
would resolve the issue of funding of military operations;

-

Promote the use of "Battle groups" and deploy them in the peacekeeping missions
peace. Battle groups are deployable battalions of 1,500 soldiers in fifteen
days and military compounds from several Member States. They have been operational since
2007, but have never been deployed on the ground;

-

Strengthening the deployment of European civilian capabilities. To contribute effectively to the
conflict resolution and best assist populations in conflict zones, options
Members must be accompanied by a civilian dimension. Currently, twenty
European civil missions are ongoing. These humanitarian operations peacekeeping
contribute to regional stability;

-

Building a European diplomatic academy to shape a diplomatic culture
common and strengthen joint training of armies;

-

Give more powers to the European Parliament's foreign policy and
(ESDP). The European Parliament should be able to formulate guidelines
binding and decisive in forming partnerships and agreements
Association;

-

Strengthen European tools in cybersecurity. The information technology
and communication have become major issues. Europe must be at the forefront
this field and encouraging the sharing of experience between Member States;

-

Refinance and strengthen the European civil protection mechanism which should enable
respond faster to natural disasters.

Proposal flagship 445: Supporting the democratic changes of wills
outside Europe
In CDH, we believe that the answers provided by the European Union to tensions and conflicts
who recently enameled its immediate neighborhood (as the Arab Spring, the war in Syria
and the Israeli-Palestinian conflict) are still insufficient.
It is necessary that the European Union says more and implement more ambitious strategies
respect of these conflicts.
We must also use systematically targeted economic sanctions against
responsible for anti-democratic regimes and disrespectful of human rights, outside
Europe. For example, vis-à-vis Ukraine, Europe must implement a support strategy
the requirements of the Ukrainian people who demand more democracy. The European Union must
consider sanctions against those responsible for the violence, repression and excessive
violations of human rights while facilitating the search for a solution through mediation
and the resumption of a political dialogue.

407

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS
The CDH offers:
-

Supporting democratization in the southern Mediterranean by creating a global process
focused on the political, economic and human rights;

-

Influence the Israeli-Palestinian peace process to give itself the means to
implementing its common position: namely, a solution based on the coexistence of two States,
with the State of Israel and an independent state, democratic Palestine, in one piece and
viable, coexisting in peace and security;

-

Resolving called "frozen" conflicts in Europe. Europe must become more involved in the
search for a resolution of protracted conflicts in the Central European countries and
eastern (as in Cyprus, Transnistria, in the Nagorno-Karabakh, South Ossetia and
Abkhazia);

-

Support the democratic demands of the people in the east of Europe notably through
the development of an enhanced Eastern Partnership (including with Ukraine).

Proposition 446: Strengthen solidarity with the countries of
development
The European Union is, to date, the largest public donor of development aid (ODA)
in the world. In 2011, Europe has provided more than half of global development aid
(55%), totaling 55.2 billion euros.
The development is a factor of peace and stability in the world. A safe environment
contributes to the fight against poverty and economic and social well-being reduces the risk of conflict.
But do you know that the official development assistance continues to decline in many states
Member? In recent years, the economic crisis and austerity policies in Europe were
a negative impact on levels of official development assistance, which resulted in a decrease
more than 8 billion euros compared to 2011. The collective EU ODA declined in 2011
represents 0.43% of EU GDP. Belgium it in 2012 devoted 0.47% of its GDP to cooperation.

But the challenges are many: launched in 2000, the Millennium Development Goals
(MDGs) form a mobilizing agenda for all those who want a more just world where each
person would have access to health, education and come out of poverty. But the results are still
now highly unsatisfactory: 1.2 billion people still live in extreme poverty,
on less than $ 1.25 a day.
To these issues came to add the guarantee and protection of "global public goods" (BPM)
such as environmental protection, the fight against climate change, the issue of
water pollution, air. Pollution, climate, diseases are carried across borders approach
more solidarity is necessary. The welfare of developing countries is also
ours.
In CDH, we believe that development cooperation, it is not only a matter
transfer money, skill or policy. Development is a global process, and
policies other than development can impact on important
developing countries. It is therefore necessary to ensure that a policy, whether
commercial or otherwise, does not annihilate the efforts in development. It takes both
reduce contradictions and build synergies with other policies that have an impact on
policy cooperation for development in partner countries. This is
called policy coherence for development.

408

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS
In CDH, we promote international cooperation based on international solidarity
solid, credible, legitimate and grounded in human rights.
The CDH offers:
-

Strengthen the coherence of EU policies and Member States against country
in development. We must strengthen the mechanisms in place to ensure better
overall consistency of European policies for development. By
example, it is necessary to organize joint meetings of European ministers in charge of
Agriculture and Cooperation or Trade and Cooperation. Furthermore, studies
impact should be systematized, especially concerning food security
the South. Europe must also promote greater consistency in
world, particularly with new donors, such as China;

-

Better coordination of development programs financed by Member States,
European Commission and European NGOs. Currently over and over on the ground, too
programs are "duplication". Each Member State which has also its own
specificities in terms of development assistance, these programs benefit from better
coordinated from their niches, both sectoral and geographical. For example: The
Belgium has recognized expertise on health programs,
governance / decentralization or water purification;

-

Focus development cooperation on the protection of global public goods. Access to
a quality environment, peace and security must be guaranteed for everyone.
Protect BPM requires minimal international consensus of all countries
planet. This consensus also includes representatives from sectors not
government, such as NGOs, trade unions, local authorities, the movements
citizens ;

-

Supporting and strengthening the role of women as central players in development. The
Women must be at the heart of all development policy. It should also
reaffirm the importance of gender equality and to end discrimination against
women, and ensure how budgets take account of these dimensions;

-

Strengthen partnerships between the European Union and other integration examples
regional in Africa, for example, the Economic Community of States
West Africa, to better work towards regional integration of both sides of
continents in economy, institution building, rule of law and
democratization;

-

Respect the European commitments of 0.7% of GDP on development cooperation;

-

Create a calamity fund to help developing countries face
natural catastrophes ;

-

Promote the fight against the so-called fund "vultures" that seek to be reimbursed
State debts totally redeemed at very low prices;

-

Promoting the cancellation of "odious debts" at international level, that is to say debts
contracted by dictatorial regimes in the name of their state, and that States in transition
Democratic continue to repay;

-

Implement a support mechanism for solidarity citizen initiatives. In Europe,
many citizens are mobilizing for projects aimed at helping communities
southern countries. This support mechanism will promote networking, facilitate
tax deductibility of donations while avoiding red tape and transfers
Financial migrants by reducing transaction costs.

409

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS

Proposition 447: Enforcing human standards, social and
environmental border of Europe
Globalization has profoundly changed international trade and has led to the segmentation
International production process. Firms relocating certain stages of manufacture
products, particularly low-wage developing countries, regardless of
human standards, social or environmental. These choices distort
competition caused by a human dumping, sanitary, social and environmental. Products
who arrive on the Belgian market at low prices to the detriment of European businesses and
local workers can not be tolerated. It takes a fair trade.
Guarantee the respect of human rights, the interests of customers and consumers, fight
against corruption, protecting the environment, respecting healthy competition rules
as many concepts that must be considered to penalize foreign products.
In terms of intra-European trade, companies are subject to the rules and
specific legal constraints that require them to respect human rights, the interests of
customers and consumers to protect the environment, fight against corruption, etc. This
is not always the case for international trade. We must therefore ensure compliance
Human standards, social and environmental and a better balance between the interests of
States and citizens on the one hand, and those of the other investors.
For the CDH, the restoration of fair trade goes through tariffs on
Products that do not meet these international standards. This will build a
responsible globalization. This system can avoid unfair competition for products
can be found on our territory, while guaranteeing standards of human, social,
international environmental and health.
The CDH offers:
-

the introduction by the EU of a tax mechanism locks on products
not respect human standards, environmental, health and social Europe.

An international organization linked to the WTO, certify the companies' production processes,
base including various environmental international standards (Kyoto, Copenhagen ...)
social (Core Labour Standards ILO), but also health (REACH ...). This
locks tariff mechanism will operate in both directions, via premiums and taxes, related to
a level set by the institute.

Proposition 448: Reconnecting with a fairer trade policy
Do you know that if we exclude intra-EU trade, the EU now accounts for almost
15% of world merchandise exports (ie 1.686 trillion euros), almost 25% of exports
global services (ie 640 billion euros) and 57% of foreign direct investment flows (ie
222 billion euros)?

The European Union is thus the first trading power in the world, ahead of China (14%
of world merchandise exports and 6% of world exports of services) and
USA (11% and 18% respectively). But its share in world trade decreases, the benefit
the Asian giant and emerging countries.
Moreover, globalization has profoundly changed international trade and has led to the
international segmentation of production processes. Firms relocating certain stages
manufacturing products, particularly low-wage developing countries, regardless
account human standards, social or environmental. These choices distort

410

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS
competition caused by social and environmental dumping. The products entering the
Belgian market at low prices to the detriment of European businesses and local workers
can be tolerated.
In terms of intra-European trade, companies are subject to the rules and
specific legal constraints that require them to respect the rights, interests
customers and consumers to protect the environment, fight against corruption,
environmental protection, etc. This is not always the case for international trade.
Moreover, the European Commission is currently negotiating with the US a
Free Trade Treaty to develop joint rules, improve access to markets and
reduce non-tariff barriers. In CDH, we want that future transatlantic free trade treaty reflects our commitment to fair trade, founded on respect for human rights, the
democracy, social progress and environmental protection.
In CDH, we believe that multilateral governance of the global economy remains
still insufficient and fragile even more so in international trade.
We therefore believe that the role of the EU as a trading partner
needs to be better defined. In CDH, we want Europe to continue to promote a
economic and social model more just, inclusive and sustainable in commercial matters
internationally. We therefore want to ensure respect for human standards, social and
environmental and a better balance between the interests of states and citizens on the one hand,
and those of the other investors.
For us, the restoration of fair trade goes through tariffs on
Products that do not meet European standards. This would build
responsible globalization. This could avoid unfair competition for products
who find themselves on our territory, while guaranteeing standards of human, social,
international environmental and health. It could take the form of a tax
carbon at the borders of Europe to urgently raise standards in terms
environmental.
And the European Commission have exclusive competence in trade,
Europe has the means.
The CDH offers:
-

Establish a tax mechanism of social and environmental locks on products
not respect human standards, environmental, health and social Europe
(see proposition 447.);

-

Work towards the strengthening of reciprocity in trade. The Union
Europe must ensure that trade takes place in a context of
enhanced reciprocity, in particular as regards access to European public procurement,
concerning customs duties or foreign investment;

-

Open new markets for European goods and services;

-

Have effective trade defense tools for dealing with commercial practices
Unfair distorting healthy competition from third countries;

-

Continue to conclude bilateral trade agreements - such as the European Union has
more recently with Japan and Canada - to the extent that such agreements are
compatible with the principles and commitments agreed within the World Organization
(WTO);

-

Within the WTO, require compliance with standards defined by the fundamental Conventions
the International Labour Organisation (ILO) standards to fight against global warming

411

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS
climatic, technical and health standards for the protection of European consumers.
It takes, in terms of social norms, getting the equivalence of the ILO rules on
trade;
-

Strengthening links between the World Trade Organisation (WTO) and the Organisation
International Labour Office (ILO);

-

Making an international organization linked to the WTO, qualified to support the
certification of corporate production process, including on the basis of different
environmental international standards (Kyoto, Copenhagen, etc.), social (Core Labour
ILO standards) but also health (REACH). This mechanism locks
tariff would work in both directions, via premiums and taxes, related to a level set by
this organization;

-

In the definition of the negotiating mandate of the European Commission's
conclusion of business partnerships, better reflect European values ​​and
Societal EU environmental, health, labor law,
power, protection of privacy and rest the Treaty principle of
while ensuring reciprocal cultural exception; give rise to a real debate
democratic in the European Parliament and discussion with the social partners
better clarify, define the tags and ensure transparency of the negotiating mandate and
strengthen the safeguard clauses and reciprocity to ensure fair trade.

Action 2: Europe guarantor of justice and freedoms
Proposition 449: Better defending European values
One of the challenges of the next European elections will, without doubt, the rise of populism
in Europe.
Periods of economic crisis are usually fertile ground for movements
extremists and nationalists. Exacerbating the fears of citizens, their populist exploit
the weaknesses of our system to better undermine and unravel the work done by Europe since
more than sixty years. Euroscepticism is so easy! How many are there who, to calm
concerned constituents face the challenges of globalization, facing the rise of terrorism or risk of
relocation, do not hesitate to presenting Europe as being at the root of all evil and
"Brussels" as part of the problem and not the solution? We must make a difference
between criticizing European policies and wanting to improve criticize the European project
As such wanting scuttle. Even those ignorant of history.
In CDH, we believe that the values ​​of democracy, openness, dialogue, respect,
brotherhood, freedom, solidarity and justice constitute the DNA backbone and purpose of the project
European. We also believe that if one is fully aware of the fragility of these principles,
can not be loving the European project to its fair value, since he is the guardian.  We must remain vigilant because if these values ​​and our rights have been many advances,
some are sometimes tempted to trample foot. For example, in 2012, Prime Minister
Hungary, Victor Orban tried to revise the Hungarian Constitution in a non-compliant way
the Rights of Man. A few months earlier, it was the turn of Silvio Berlusconi who wanted
monopolize the media in Italy threatening the freedom of the press in the Italian peninsula. From
Such situations which threaten the European ideal must be systematically denounced high
voice. In CDH, whenever fundamental rights are endangered, we
immediately called for Europe to penalize offenders, and that, far from any logic
partycratic.

412

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS
The CDH offers:
-

Without hesitation activate the procedure provided for in Article 7 § 1 of the Lisbon Treaty that allows
suspend the voting rights of Member States who are guilty of violations
of proven human rights in the Council. The Council, the European Parliament and
Commission must seize the capacity given to them to punish States
Members who violate the fundamental rights of their citizens;

-

Create a group of high level in the European Parliament to monitor compliance
values ​​of the European Union in all Member States;

-

Provide the European Union with instruments to meet the standards violations
European observed in the Member States;

-

Revise the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament and integrate conditions
creating a political group, the fundamental values ​​of the European Union.
Currently, only numeric and geographic conditions are required to form a
political group in the European Parliament;

-

Ask the European Parliament Conference of Presidents to create a cordon sanitaire
to better counter the xenophobic political groups that constituerons within
the European hemicycle after the elections. In CDH, we want the Conference of
Presidents of the European Parliament, which includes the presidents of the political groups and
President of the European Parliament, takes a firm discourse vis-à-vis MEPs and
political groups that contravene the fundamental values ​​of the European Union by
words and / or anti-racist or discriminatory acts, for example by cutting off their
means of financing.

Proposition 450: Living in a genuine area of ​​security and justice
As more and more Europeans use their right to move within the EU
personal or professional reasons, the need for cooperation without stops
growing between the police, customs and national judicial institutions only
grow.
For the EU, the challenge is to build a genuine area of ​​security and justice.
The CDH offers:
-

Fight against trafficking and sexual and economic exploitation of human beings;

-

Strengthening the exchange of information to the police officer level by facilitating access
reciprocal national police databases;

-

Strengthen judicial cooperation in criminal matters and implement recognition
mutual decisions imposing a ban (eg prohibition of work
with children after conviction for pedophilia) that the persons referred to
do not escape these restrictions by traveling on European territory;

-

Further harmonization of national legislation on the rights of defense material and
especially apply to free legal assistance to strengthen mutual trust
in national legal systems and thus improve judicial cooperation;

-

Strengthen Europol and Eurojust by increasing their powers in coordinating investigations
and prosecutions;

-

Improve judicial cooperation in civil and commercial matters;

413

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS
-

Establish a coordinated legislation and harmonization of civil proceedings yet
more complete and more accessible;

-

Develop alternative dispute resolution;

-

Promoting e-Justice at European level;

-

Establish the creation of a European enforcement order for uncontested claims
eliminate any control over the decisions of another Member State:

-

Extending the rules on mutual recognition and enforcement of all
Decisions on parental authority;

-

Facilitate the exercise of cross-border access rights within the European Union;

-

Adopt a clause of solidarity within the European Union in cases of terrorism;

-

Finalize the negotiation of the Directive on data protection in the police sector and
court to give a solid basis to instruments on the exchange of information and ensure
a high level of protection of privacy of citizens;

-

Make effective the implementation of the principle of availability, which aims to ensure that the police
of a Member State to have access to data available in another Member State in the
framework of a criminal investigation precisely as if they were a police force of that second State
member;

-

In this perspective, we must continue to develop mutual access to banks
data, including allowing police to know simple consultation
IT if a person is known by police services of another Member State, any
by referring to direct contacts for more information (this is the system
"Hit / no hit");

-

Oblige Member States to supply Europol information so as to make
links between cases of organized crime or terrorism;

-

Give the European Union a legal framework for the collection by Member States
data on air passengers as part of the fight against organized crime and
terrorism (or "European PNR");

-

Revise the European strategy against violent radicalism to reach and adapt
to new challenges. We must develop support tools (training, brochures,
libraries against speech) to the policies of prevention that must first be
carried out at local level;

-

Integrating the fight against radicalism in the EU's visa policy and
foreign policy to limit the impact of this radicalism in third countries on the
European territory (eg regarding the radical preachers, chains
satellite hate) and support at the same time preventing radicalism
third countries;

-

Jointly develop a dialogue with major Internet players to better fight
set against radicalization on the Internet;

-

Develop an integrated approach to border police cooperation and instruments
so as to track the movements of dangerous people without touching the
freedom of movement and taking into account the fact that these movements involve both
Europeans (eg the phenomenon of European fighters in Syria) that
third-country nationals;

414

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS
-

Strengthen the sidelines of the European Union, which is not directly competent, the
cooperation between European intelligence services and improve the flow of information
intelligence between industry and the police and judicial sector.

Proposal flagship 451: Conduct of asylum and immigration policies
respectful of all
Today, crisis and political tensions, economic and social confront the Union
European in significant migratory pressures at its external borders.
At present, millions of refugees fleeing Syria war to neighboring countries, thousands
migrants, mostly from Africa, perished at sea while trying to reach the coast
European risking their lives.
Do you know that since 2002, more than 3,300 migrants have died trying to
by seas join the Italian island of Lampedusa?
In CDH, we consider that the creation of a common area without internal borders is one
the finest achievements of European integration and we believe that this must be based
on close operational cooperation between Member States in a spirit of solidarity
and shared responsibility.
We believe that a responsible management of our borders and flows
migration to the European Union requires close partnerships with countries of transit and
Original to open legal migration channels, offer prospects of integration
Professional their citizens and support the development of partner countries while
fighting against illegal migration, pathways and trafficking and human trafficking.
Asylum, progress has already been made in the establishment of a common system
European asylum. Today, it is important to reorient asylum policy towards its dimension
external, for example in dialogue with third countries more.
In CDH, we believe the migration policy of the EU must ensure both full
respect for fundamental rights at a global vision that takes into account the particular component
"Development cooperation".
The CDH offers:
-

Transpose and implement current legislation enshrining the common asylum system
European and proceed with its evaluation;

-

Support mutual recognition of decisions on granting and transfer of protection
International by working for a real convergence of practices of Member States;

-

Examine the feasibility of joint processing of applications for international protection
outside the European Union;

-

Strengthening cooperation with third countries which are indispensable partners for
effective management of migration flows. This cooperation should be based on
particular interests of Member States and partner countries' needs. It can be done
with third countries adopting mobility partnerships;

-

Evaluate and improve the current legislation on legal migration to achieve
more coherent and efficient migration policy;

415

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS
-

Intensify the fight against trafficking and human trafficking. As such, it must continue
implementation of the EU strategy for the eradication of trafficking in
human beings for 2012-2016. We must develop a cross-border approach
allowing countries to better cooperate in research and protection of victims and
provide clear information to victims regarding their rights. We must continue
more active offenders by strengthening collaboration with Europol and
Eurojust and implement an EU-wide information exchange system to
respond effectively to new criminal practices;

-

Strengthen external border controls to better fight against the chains and
illegal immigration in particular by increasing the resources of the Frontex Agency
coordinate border surveillance and rescue operations at sea. Frontex
the European Agency for border surveillance of Member States. She must
to have effective means of intervention to monitor borders in full
respect for fundamental rights and international conventions, and ensure operations
rescue if required.

Proposition 452: Verification of compliance with the membership criteria more in
on enlargement
The European Union must remain a pole of stability and attractiveness for the European continent. It
can not be folded onto itself, or be a "club" closed to other European states.
The prerequisite for opening accession negotiations must also remain strict
compliance with the 'Copenhagen criteria'. The Copenhagen criteria were set in 1993: all
candidate country for EU membership must have achieved stability of institutions guaranteeing democracy,
respect the rule of law and protection of minorities, have a functioning market economy capable
integrate the single market and the flap of the acquis communautaire, and adherence to the aims
political, economic and monetary union.
However, some of the latest enlargements sometimes being made "in a hurry", we
that European enlargement policy is more demanding. You have to be stricter in
control and compliance with the Copenhagen criteria the candidate countries for accession. This is the future
Democratic our continent depends on it.
The CDH offers:
-

Add political purpose to the Copenhagen criteria which are currently now
insufficient. The Copenhagen criteria are economic and legal. We must add them
political purpose, a purpose of joining a project and values;

-

Remind qu'élargissement and deepening policies go hand in hand;

-

Confirming the European vocation of the Balkans (such as Bosnia, Serbia, Montenegro,
the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and Albania);

-

In case of failure of the accession negotiations, to propose a special association agreement.

416

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

AXIS 1
Encourage the best in everyone
through education
Chapter 1. Supporting the personal development of each child and
each young ............................................... .............................................. 1
Action 1. Develop skills and parenting resources for education
enfants.......................................................................................................................... 8
Proposal 1: Give time to the birth and help parents to be more available ........ 8
Proposal lighthouse 2: Move more fathers to get involved in the daily life of
children ............................................................................................................................................. 9
Proposition 3: Allow each parent to be accompanied at birth of a child .... 10
Proposition 4: Supporting vulnerable parents (and their children) appropriately .... 10
Proposal 5: To fight against child poverty and social and educational inequalities .................. 11
Proposal 6: To support parents in their educational role ........................................ ................. 11
Proposition 7: Ensure that in case of separation, each parent assumes its share
for the education and maintenance of children ........................................ .......................................... 12
Proposition 8: Supporting parents in their adopted projects ...................................... ........ 13
Proposal 9: To recognize fully the educational role of foster parents ........................... 13
Proposition 10: Recognizing Social kinship ........................................... ................................ 14

Action 2. Invest heavily in the home of early childhood ............................... 15
Proposal flagship 11: 10,000 Create quality care places for children under 3
year 2018 ................................................................................................................................. 15
Lighthouse Proposal 12: Valuing Children Welcoming ........................................ ................ 16
Proposition 13: Diversify early childhood home types ..................................... ........ 17
Proposal 14: Create mobile teams of welcoming (s) .................................... .................. 17
Proposal 15: Make more accessible childcare places ....................................... ................ 18
Proposal 16: To better integrate children with a disability in host environments .. 18
Proposal 17: To professionalize the home of the Child ....................................... ....................... 18

3. Action Plan for each child a warm welcome before, during and after
school ......................................................................................................................... 20
Lighthouse Proposal 18: Create schools open .......................................... .............................. 21
Proposition 19: Extend service vouchers to childcare after school .............................. 23
Proposal 20: Invest more in homework schools ........................................ ............ 23
Proposal 21: Organise affordable and fulfilling activities during
school holidays ....................................................................................................................... 24
Proposition 22: Funding inclusive projects for disabled children (s) ........... 25

Action 4: Strengthen support for youth at risk and in trouble ............... 26
Proposition 23: Detect and act quickly for children and troubled youth. 26
Proposal 24: Strengthen support for children, youth and their families ............ 27
Lighthouse Proposal 25: Encourage foster care children and youth in difficulty or
danger............................................................................................................................................ 28
Proposal 26: Strengthen the management of young people who have committed offenses ............. 29

84

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Action 5. Focus on young people as full participants in society .................... 30
Lighthouse Proposal 27: Start a transaction with youth "Generation 2025" .................... 30
Proposition 28: Securing infrastructure welcoming children and young ..................... 31
Proposition 29: Ensuring children and youth camps as places .............. 31
Proposal 30: Encourage the voluntary engagement of young ........................................ ... 31
Proposal 31: Give more resources to youth organizations and youth centers
....................................................................................................................................................... 32

Action 6. Educating through sport ........................................... .......................................... 33
Proposition 32: Increase and diversify the sports activities in schools .................... 33
Proposal 33: Support sports clubs to ensure adequate support of
young people ............................................................................................................................................ 34
Proposition 34: Increase opportunities for youth to play sports ................................. 34
Proposal 35: To make the sport financially accessible to all children ........................... 35
Proposition 36: Fight against inappropriate behavior in sport ............................ 35
Proposal 37: Create the conditions for high performance sport Federation WallonieBruxelles ........................................................................................................................................ 35

Chapter 2. For a school to open and creative service excellence
individual and collective ............................................... ................................ 37
Action 1. Preparing young people to knowledge and skills necessary for the 21st
siècle........................................................................................................................... 40
Proposal flagship 38: gradually Lower the compulsory school age to 3 years .................. 40
Lighthouse Proposal 39: Building a learning trajectory of excellence for each
student until the end of the 1st degree high school and establish a common core strengthening
learning basic skills ........................................... .................................................. . 41
Proposal 40: Organise sitting on the challenges and goals of learning and
assessments in the 21st century ............................................................................................................ 42
Proposal 41: Establish a tray at the end of secondary ........................................ ........................ 43
Proposition 42: Better articulate the different levels of education to promote
transitions...................................................................................................................................... 43
Proposal 43: To improve the learning of French language education ..................... 43
Proposition 44: Bring more students' actual knowledge of a modern language
....................................................................................................................................................... 44
Proposal 45: Strengthen the science awareness ......................................... ................................... 45
Lighthouse Proposal 46: Enter the compulsory education in the digital age ...................... 46
Proposal 47: Develop a sense of effort, entrepreneurship and initiative in
élèves............................................................................................................................................. 47
Proposal 48: Support citizenship education, promoting interculturalism, the
respect for others .......................................................................................................................... 47
Proposal 49: Develop a common core for all the philosophy courses ................... 48

Action 2: Bringing the school of business ....................................... ......................... 49
Lighthouse Proposal 50: Pass the synergy between school centers and the company ....................... 50
Proposal 51: To learn more by calling the students and players
institutionnels................................................................................................................................ 51
Lighthouse Proposal 52: Create a technological process .......................................... ...................... 51
Lighthouse Proposal 53: Deploy alternating teaching and immerse youth
business for easier access to a business .......................................... ......................... 52
Proposal 54: organize training courses related to promising businesses
future, in each area of ​​teaching ........................................ ........................................ 53

Action 3. Give each student a place in school ..................................... .................. 54
Proposal flagship 55: Achieving the goal of 50,000 new places in 2020 ........................ 54
Proposition 56: Adapt the registration decree ........................................... ................................... 55
85

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
Proposal 57: Ensure free education ........................................ ....................... 56
Proposal 58: Strengthen collaboration between special education and teaching
ordinary ........................................................................................................................................ 57

Action 4. Orient, accompany and support each student in his career .............. 58
Lighthouse Proposal 59: Linking the collective framework of the class with an accompaniment
personalized for each student to progressively build its orientation .................. 58
Proposition 60: Organize in each school of immediate remediation teams ............. 59
Proposal 61: Strengthen guidance as a continuous process of support for people
throughout their lives ................................................................................................................. 59
Lighthouse Proposal 62: To help teachers address the specific needs of each
student .............................................................................................................................................. 61
Proposal 63: Fostering general school hooking ....................................... .. 61
Proposal 64: Create a school climate serene, secure, conducive to learning and to
live together .............................................................................................................................. 62
Proposition 65: To strengthen the alliance between the parents and the school .................................... ............. 62

Action 5. Support and trust the school actors ........................................ ... 63
Lighthouse Proposal 66: Empowering schools, directions
schools and teachers .......................................................................................................... 63
Lighthouse Proposal 67: Delete the organizing power of the network of competence
Wallonia-Brussels Federation and equalize funding for subsidized networks .............. 65
Lighthouse Proposal 68: Strengthen teacher training and support early career
....................................................................................................................................................... 65
Proposal 69: To support and enhance the teacher in his career and the exercise of his profession. 67
Lighthouse Proposal 70: Support school principals ........................................ ....................... 67
Proposal 71: Invest in intermediate actors, structures and tools
intermediaries to improve the quality of education ......................................... .............. 68

Chapter 3. Enhancing the quality of higher education ....................... 70
Action 1. Ensure better funding of higher education to ensure
his Excellency ............................................................................................................. 70
Lighthouse Proposal 72: Refinance Higher Education ......................................... ............. 70
Proposal 73: Establish a compensation fund for intra-European student mobility
....................................................................................................................................................... 71
Proposal 74: To inform students and families of the real cost of higher education ....... 72
Proposal 75: To review the financing of operating costs in the artistic ES ........... 72

Action 2. Improve the quality of training .......................................... .................... 73
Lighthouse Proposal 76: Invest in research and scientific personnel ................... 73
Proposal 77: Create teaching support functions ....................................... ........ 74
Proposal 78: To improve collaborations between higher education and businesses
....................................................................................................................................................... 74
Proposal 79: To strengthen the position of our higher education at European level and
international .................................................................................................................................. 75
Proposal 80: Strengthen language learning in higher education ............ 75
Proposal 81: Support of new forms of learning ........................................ .......... 76
Proposal 82: Support Libraries ............................................ ...................................... 76

Action 3. Better support students in their journey .................................... 76
Proposal 83: To facilitate the transition of students into higher education ........................ 77
Proposal 84: Strengthen the aid operations to the success available to students ............... 77
Proposal 85: Support access to higher education ...................................... ..... 78
Proposition 86: Count more precisely the student working hours ..................................... 79
Proposal 87: Set up the conditions for an inclusive higher education for
disabled students .................................................................................................................... 79

86

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
Proposal 88: Strengthen the transition between Universities and High Schools ................................ 80
Proposition 89: Provide student housing supply accessible and quality ................. 80
Proposal 90: To increase student mobility ........................................... ................................ 81
Proposal 91: Create flexible teaching forms encouraging the resumption of studies. 81

Action 4. Promote good governance institutions ..................................... 82
Proposal 92: To evaluate the implementation of the decree landscape and stabilize teaching
superior ....................................................................................................................................... 82
Proposition 93: Fight against administrative overhead and improve service
Administration ............................................................................................................................. 82
Proposal 94: Strengthen the management of the High Schools ......................................... ........... 83

87

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

AXIS 2
Put the economy at the service
of the human
Chapter 1. Working for oneself and for others ........................................ ... 84
Action 1. Create the job .......................................... ................................................ 87
95 flagship proposal: Reduce to 0% social contributions on minimum wages .................. 87
96 flagship proposal: Reduce to 0% of contributions on young people who begin their first
professional experience ........................................................................................................... 88
Proposition 97: Simplifying aid measures for employment ..................................... ....................... 89
Proposal 98: Create a strong activation measures for young unskilled ................... 90
Proposition 99: Pairing a training plan for temporary employment aids ....................... 91
100 flagship proposal: Increase the employment rate of older workers ................................. 91
Proposition 101: Developing social workshops for people far removed from the market
employment ..................................................................................................................................... 92
Proposition 102: Strengthening support for social economy ....................................... ................. 93
Proposition 103: Developing employer groups ......................................... ............ 93
Proposition 104: Promote local employment in fragile areas ...................................... . 94

2. Undertake Action .............................................. .................................................. 94
Proposition 105: Stimulating entrepreneurship ........................................ ............................... 94
Proposition 106: Supporting female entrepreneurship and women returners ......................... 95
Proposition 107: Strengthening the "Air Bag" Plan ........................................ .................................... 95
Proposition 108: Supporting job seekers who start a self-employed 95
Proposition 109: Improving the social status of self ......................................... ........... 96
110 flagship proposal: Facilitate the creation, growth and transfer of businesses ...... 97
Proposition 111: Facilitate access to financing for SMEs, SOHO and project leaders 97
112 Lighthouse Proposal: Strengthen access to credit by financing companies
participatory (crowdfunding)............................................................................................................ 98
113 flagship proposal: Reduce the time for payment of invoices, especially those dependent
of State ......................................................................................................................................... 99
Proposal flagship 114: Assign each company a reference person within
Administration ........................................................................................................................... 100
115 flagship proposal: To support companies in difficulty and to encourage the management of the
Second chance ........................................................................................................................... 101

Action 3. more people access to employment ...................................... ............. 102
Proposition 116: Fight against job traps ....................................... ........................... 102
117 Lighthouse Proposal: Strengthen the rapid and customized support for applicants
d’emploi....................................................................................................................................... 103
Proposition 118: Developing the Youth Guarantee for shared responsibility ................ 105
Proposition 119: Continue to strengthen the effectiveness of Actiris and FOREM ............................... 106
Proposition 120: Require all companies to provide their services to job offers
regional employment .................................................................................................................. 106
165

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
121 Lighthouse Proposal: Create centers of excellence in promising sectors .............. 107
Proposition 122: Fight against shortages and anticipate the skills needs ............. 107
Proposition 123: Recognize the skills and experiences .................................. 108
Proposal flagship 124: Making alternating the royal road to learning a trade. 109
Proposition 125: Reach 30,000 placements per year ........................................ ........ 109
126 Lighthouse Proposal: Make lifelong learning a law ......................... 110 worker
Proposition 127: Encourage the mobility of workers .......................................... ................ 111
Proposition 128: Foster transmission of experience ........................................ ............... 111

Action 4. Observe the worker ............................................ .................................... 112
Proposition 129: Promote the well-being at work ........................................ .............................. 112
130 flagship proposal: Strengthening gender equality at work ................................... 113
Proposition 131: Promoting diversity in companies ......................................... ............. 114
Proposition 132: The fight against social dumping linked to the secondment ...................................... 115
133 flagship proposal: Impose criminal joint liability companies to donors
orders ....................................................................................................................................... 115
Proposition 134: Better frame the temporary work .......................................... ................... 116
Proposal flagship 135: Rethinking work organization to enable better
reconciling work and private-life ............................................ ...................................... 116

Chapter 2. Creating and innovating ............................................ ............................ 118
Action 1. Develop business tomorrow .......................................... ............... 118
136 flagship proposal: Adopt a third in Wallonia Marshall Plan ................................ 119
137 flagship proposal: Adopt as part of a deployment project BXL2025 Pact
ambitious economic (businessbxl2025) ............................................. ..................................... 120
Proposition 138: Create unique enterprise agencies and innovation in Wallonia and
Brussels ...................................................................................................................................... 121
Proposition 139: Valuing the Walloon and Brussels territory ......................................... ............. 121
Proposition 140: Devoting 3% of GDP on research ....................................... ........................ 122
Proposition 141: Making the most attractive research profession ........................................ ......... 123
Proposition 142: Ensure high-speed connection in the entire territory .......... 123
Proposition 143: Making a digital capital Brussels ......................................... ........... 124
Proposition 144: Boosting exports ............................................ ........................................ 125

Action 2. Develop personal services .......................................... ............... 127
145 flagship proposal: Increase of services to people by reducing the cost of
working ........................................................................................................................................... 127
146 flagship proposal: Do not increase the price of securities services and expand into
New activities ....................................................................................................................... 128
Proposal flagship 147: Strengthen subsidizing of non-market sectors ........ 130
Proposition 148: Creating a Business Angels network in the social sector ............................ 130

3. Action environmental challenge of human development lever ............ 131
Proposition 149: Implement an efficient climate policy ............................... 131
Proposition 150: Adapting to climate warming up to "1234 calendars"
..................................................................................................................................................... 132
Proposition 151: Developing circular economy .......................................... ......................... 132
152 flagship proposal: Invest heavily in the rational use of energy and
develop green jobs and eco-construction sector ..................................... ........ 134
Proposition 153: Continue the development of renewable energy ............................ 135
154 flagship proposal: Implement wind farms along highways and at sea ............. 136

Action 4. Favour .......................................... local economy ............... 137
Flagship proposal 155: Valuing the products of our land ........................................ .......... 137
156 Lighthouse Proposal: Strengthen local exchange systems ....................................... ... 138
Proposition 157: Support of common purchasing organization (GAC) ..................................... ..... 138
166

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
Proposition 158: Train near shopping .......................................... ................. 139
Proposition 159: Guaranteeing merchants quality business environment ......... 139
Proposition 160: Increase the occupation of commercial premises ..................................... 139
Proposition 161: Building "tourist clusters" in Wallonia and Brussels ................. 140

Action 5. Reinvesting in agriculture .......................................... ............................... 141
Proposition 162: Regulating agricultural markets ......................................... ........... 141
Proposition 163: Recognize and protect genetic resources ....................................... 142
Proposition 164: Strengthen the link between agriculture and food ........................................ 143
Proposition 165: Encourage high quality production ......................................... ........... 143
Proposition 166: Ensuring sustainable access to agricultural land ........................................ ...... 144
167 flagship proposal: Ensuring fair income for farmers ...................................... 144
Proposition 168: Supporting farmers against risks and crises .................................. 145
Proposition 169: Empowering farmers ........................................ 145
Proposition 170: Promoting our land ............................................ .................................... 146

Chapter 3. Respect people and nature ......................................... 147
Action 1. Respect the consumer ............................................ ............................. 147
Proposition 171: Ensuring safe products for consumers ..................................... 148
Proposition 172: Protect consumers from financial products ............................ 148
Proposition 173: Remove the markup on books ......................................... .................... 149
Proposition 174: Regulate advertising ............................................ ............................................. 149
Proposition 175: Ensure the transparency of energy prices ...................................... .......... 150
Proposition 176: Ensuring security of supply at the lowest cost .......................... 151
Proposition 177: Ensure access to quality water at the right price for all citizens .... 152
Proposition 178: Stimulate more competition in the telecommunications market. 152
Proposition 179: Enable consumers to be heard .................................... 153

Action 2. Put the financial system at the service of the economy ................................... 153
Proposition 180: Complete the construction of the European Banking Union ............................. 153
Proposition 181: Separating banking businesses in Europe ........................................ 154
Proposition 182: Increase the transparency of the Belgian banking system ................................ 154

Action 3. Promote fair trade ........................................... ............................ 156
Proposition 183: Introduce social and environmental locks the borders of Europe
..................................................................................................................................................... 156
Proposition 184: Establish a Corporate Social Responsibility label companies ..................... 157
Proposition 185: Ensuring good corporate governance ......................................... ... 157
Proposition 186: Promoting socially responsible and sustainable investment ............... 158
Lighthouse Proposition 187: Guarantee equity of private companies competing in a market
public ........................................................................................................................................... 158

Action 4. Respect the environment ........................................... ............................... 159
Proposal flagship 188: Preserving biodiversity as a global public good ......................... 159
Proposition 189: Amplify the policy of reducing the use of pesticides and biocides.
..................................................................................................................................................... 160
Proposition 190: Raise awareness and educate citizens to the protection of nature ................... 161
Proposition 191: Amplifier and diversify the protection of Nature ....................................... ... 161
Proposition 192: Enhancing the animal welfare ......................................... ................................ 162
Proposition 193: Purify the air we breathe ........................................ .............................. 162
Proposition 194: Develop a cadastre noise in Brussels and Wallonia .............................. 163
Proposition 195: Ensure monitoring and the establishment of a preventive risk management
Health ..................................................................................................................................... 163

167

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Axis 3
Conclude a new contract
of society
Chapter 1. Redefining tax ............................................ ...................... 164
Action 1. The taxation of citizens ........................................... ..................................... 168
196 flagship proposal: Reduce by 100 euros per month in personal income tax ....... 168
197 flagship proposal: Better take account of dependents in the calculation of tax 169
Proposition 198: To help speculators ........................................... ......................... 170
Proposition 199: Enforcing human standards, social and environmental .......... 170
Proposition 200: Fight against tax fraud .......................................... ............................... 171
Proposition 201: Facilitate access to housing ......................................... .................................. 171
Proposition 202: Adjust the tax rate for school buildings ...................................... 171

Action 2. The business taxation ........................................... ................................ 172
203 flagship proposal: Reduce the corporate tax rate and eliminate interest
Notional .................................................................................................................................... 172
204 Lighthouse Proposal: Stimulate investment and innovation of our companies ......... 173
Proposition 205: Supporting SMEs and job creation ...................................... ................ 174

Action 3. The European convergence ............................................ ............................ 174
Proposal flagship 206: Harmonize corporate tax at European level ........................ 174
Proposition 207: Condition financial aid to the tax cooperation ............................ 175
Proposition 208: Continue the implementation of the tax on financial transactions (FTT) ...... 175
Proposition 209: Ensure the transparency of financial investments ....................................... 176

Chapter 2. Modernising solidarity ............................................ ................ 177
Action 1. Financially support all families .......................................... ........ 178
210 Lighthouse Proposal: Make family allowances Right of the Child ............................. 178
Proposition 211: Provide financial support for single-parent families ................................... 179

Action 2. Social security, social integration ...................................... ..... 180
212 flagship proposal: Allowing long-term unemployed to realize benefits
public interest ............................................................................................................................ 180
Proposition 213: Do not penalize twice excluded unemployment ...................................... ... 181
Proposition 214: Engaging seniors in the community .................................... 181
Proposition 215: Support the return to work of workers with disabilities ............................ 182
Proposition 216: Moving towards social and personal rights ..................................... 182 tax

Action 3. Allow seniors to choose their place of living ...................................... ........ 183
217 Lighthouse Proposal: Create a self-insurance ......................................... ................. 183
218 Lighthouse Proposal: Strengthen the role of trust referent to coordinate services
to people ............................................................................................................................. 184
Proposition 219: Developing home business .......................................... ........................ 185
Proposition 220: Diversifying the supply of accommodation for the elderly ......................... 186
Proposition 221: Supporting caregivers ........................................... ................................ 186

Action 4. Improve the living standards of pensioners ........................................ ........... 187
222 flagship proposal: Increase the pension replacement rate ............................. 187
Proposition 223: Enhancing and lowest pensions ......................................... ................ 188
209

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

Action 5. Adapt Healthcare offers new needs ............................... 189
Proposition 224: Developing ambitious prevention policies .................................. 189
225 Lighthouse Proposal: Strengthen the first line of care ........................................ ............ 190
226 flagship proposal: Adapt and diversify the provision of care to meet changing
besoins......................................................................................................................................... 192
Proposition 227: Taking better account of new diseases ..................................... 193
Proposition 228: Acting preventively against the "female" disease .......................... 194
Proposal flagship 229: Framing the cost of health care for patients ......................... 195
Proposition 230: Valuing intellectual acts as the technical acts .................. 195
231 flagship proposal: Reduce consumption of drugs ...................................... 196
Proposition 232 Lighthouse: Strengthen care for the most vulnerable patients ............... 197
Proposition 233: Enhancing the attractiveness of the sector ....................................... heart ......... 197
Proposition 234: Improving the fight against addictions ......................................... ............... 198
Proposition 235: Accompany people in later life ........................................ .............. 199
Proposition 236: Overcoming obstacles to donate organs ....................................... ............................ 200

Action 6. Promoting the integration of people with disabilities ........................................ ..201
Proposal flagship 237: Improving disabled guests in great situation
addiction ................................................................................................................................. 201
Proposition 238: Enjoying the reform of the state to create a co-management with real actors
..................................................................................................................................................... 202
Proposition 239: Integrating the needs of persons with disabilities in housing policy
..................................................................................................................................................... 202
Proposition 240: Supporting parents from discovering the disability of their child .............. 203
Proposition 241: Developing the reception and education of disabled young ..................... 203
Proposition 242: Enhance the access of people with disabilities to employment and training ... 204
Proposition 243: Encouraging participation and well-being of disabled ........... 204

Action 7. Combating precariousness ............................................ ..................................... 205
Proposition 244: Emphasize a preventive approach to poverty ...................................... 205
Proposal flagship 245: Fight against homelessness through the Housing First .............................. 205
Proposition 246: Encourage social participation of people in precarious situations ... 206
247 flagship proposal: To support food aid initiatives ....................................... ..... 206
Proposition 248: Making the banking system more inclusive ......................................... ............... 207
Proposition 249: Improving access to water ....................................... .......................................... 208

210

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

AXIS 4
Gather the territory
Chapter 1. Meet ............................................. .................................................. 209
Action 1. Create the towns, neighborhoods and villages human .................................. 212
250 flagship proposal: Build one or more new towns ........................................ 213
Proposition 251: By 2030, locate one of 3 new home in new neighborhood
urban and rural ......................................................................................................................... 214
Proposition 252: Foster Wallonia urban and rural land consolidation to revitalize
hearts of towns and villages ............................................ .................................................. ...... 215
Proposition 253: Strengthening the role of CITYDEV and create Walloon agencies
Territorial Development ........................................................................................................... 215
254 Lighthouse Proposal: Create a citizens' savings estate investment ................ 216

Action 2. Involve all stakeholders in the development of the area ....... 218
Proposition 255: A true strategy for each catchment area: up to contracts
territory! .................................................................................................................................... 218
Proposition 256: Require developers to build utilities ....... 219
257 flagship proposal: Consult citizens much earlier, in the context of major
urban and real estate projects .............................................. .................................................. 219 ....

Action 3. Allow each citizen to enjoy a clean living environment ............. 221
Proposition 258: Develop genuine education activities to cleanliness in schools
..................................................................................................................................................... 221
Proposition 259: Promote the use of reusable or recyclable packaging .................... 222
Proposition 260: Punishing stronger environmental offenses .................... 222
Proposition 261: Make a creative resource our waste ............................... 223 jobs

Action 4. Make the most "intelligent" territories ........................................ ............ 224
Proposition 262, "Objective: WIFI-free capital and 50 smart cities and towns." 224
Proposition 263: Empowering older people through new technologies:
alliance Hab-IT-A (Habitat-Intelligence-Territorial Autonomy) .................................. .............. 225

Action 5. Enhance the tangible and intangible heritage ......................................... 226 ....
Proposition 264: Establish a trust fund for the sponsorship support to the restoration ............ 226
Proposition 265: Create a "Googlestreet" Heritage of ........................................ ............... 227

Chapter 2. Living in a quality habitat ......................................... .......................... 228
Action 1. Allow everyone to have access to quality housing ............................. 228
Proposition 266: Fight against vacancy ....................................... buildings .............. 228
Proposal flagship 267: Enable youth to own for less: the
formula "J" ................................................................................................................................ 229
268 flagship proposal: Spread the registration fee of 5 to 10 years on the first
home .................................................................................................................................... 230
Proposition 269: Encouraging private investors to finance social housing and
means by the dismemberment of the property ........................................... ............................ 230
Proposition 270: Reforming the mortgage law to better guide





264

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

.................................................................................................................................... 234




..................................................................................................................................................... 236






.......................................................................................................... 238
..................................................................................................................................................... 239
Proposal flagship 280: Lift the sanctions imposed by the social legislation of new forms of vivreensemble ..................................................................................................................................... 239
Proposition 281: Supporting projects of shared and intergenerational housing and create
plots "kangaroo" to build a second housing ........................................ ... 240
Proposition 282: Create a charter to give visibility to the quality of student housing
..................................................................................................................................................... 241
Proposition 283: Developing the community social housing .......................................... ... 241
Proposition 284: Transform some nursing homes in intergenerational villages ..... 242
Proposition 285: Reforming the rental lease to reassure owners and tenants ....... 242
286 Lighthouse Proposal: Create a rental guarantee fund ........................................ ............. 243

Chapter 3. Better move ............................................ ............................................ 245
Action 1. Reduce our travel needs .......................................... ................. 245
287 Lighthouse Proposal: Stimulate teleworking to reduce mobility needs ................ 246
Proposition 288: Allow workers to adjust their schedules ................................... 247

Action 2. Streamline our roads ............................................ ......................................... 248
289 Lighthouse Proposal: Create RECO: Express Carpooling Network ............................... 248
290 Lighthouse Proposal: Create the flexi-card mob 'to offer more flexible mobility in
pay packages ....................................................................................................................... 249
Proposition 291: Regulate the delivery of goods in urban centers ................. 251
Proposition 293: Doubling the length of pedestrian-friendly roads, cyclists and two
Motorcycles ........................................................................................................................... 252
Proposition 294: Ensuring seamless mobility at the crossroads of three regions .......................... 253

Action 3. Encourage the use of public transport ........................................ ......... 254
Proposition 295: Beat the RER to 2019 and create the REB (Réseau Express Brussels)
..................................................................................................................................................... 254
Proposition 296: Implementing the REL Express Network Liegeois ....................................... ... 255
Proposal flagship 297: Exceeding 80% of satisfied commuters SNCB ......................... 255
Proposition 298: Establish a management contract in the Public-Private TEC ............................. 257
299 flagship proposal: Extend the metro lines and continue tramification in Brussels: the
program "STIB 2021" ........................................................................................................... 258

Action 4. How to make our journeys safer and more user-friendly? ............... 259
Proposition 300: Renovating and equipping our roads for more security and usability ........ 259
Proposition 301: Treat the side barriers on all roads where the speed limit
is greater than 50 km / h ............................................................................................................ 260
Proposal flagship 302: Multiply the number of fixed radars and fight against offenders
the road ........................................................................................................................................ 261
Proposition 303: Fighting against drink driving ........................................ ............................... 262
265

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
Proposition 304: Provide Sufficient free parking facilities nearby
home ................................................................................................................................ 262
Proposition 305: Recognize the taxi as a complementary offer to soft mobility and
to public transport .............................................................................................................. 263

266

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL

AXIS 5
Build togetherness
Chapter 1. Be ............................................. citizen .................................. 264
Action 1. Encourage participation in community life ........................................ ........... 266
306 Lighthouse Proposal: Create a Citizen Service .......................................... ................................. 266
Proposition 307: Encourage all forms of volunteerism ......................................... ............ 267
Proposition 308: Set up citizen panels ......................................... ......................... 268
309 flagship proposal: Provide the organization of popular consultations .................................. 269
310 Lighthouse Proposal: Delete the box head and alternates to empower
electorate .......................................................................................................................................... 269
Proposition 311: Strengthening gender equality in politics ...................................... .......... 270
312 flagship proposal: Fully implement the voluntary charter ................................. 270
313 flagship proposal: Implement the federated model of social protection ....................... 271

Action 2. Strengthen the ethics of public action ...................................... .................... 272
Proposition 314: Strengthen the rules to prevent conflicts of interest and cumulation ...... 272
Proposition 315: Criminalize Bribery committed by individuals against individuals
exercising a public function ............................................. .................................................. . 272
Proposition 316: Strengthen the rules of conduct applicable to elected ................................. 273

Action 3. Rely on a flexible, modern public service ................................. 274
Proposition 317: Enhancing the service to users .......................................... .............................. 274
Proposition 318: Valuing the role of agents of the Public Service ...................................... 274 ....
Proposition 319: To ensure performance and transparency in recruitment procedures .... 275
320 flagship proposal: Promote effective and efficient administrations .................... 276

Action 4. sized institutions .......................................... ............................ 277
321 flagship proposal: Provide human development indicators and governments
federate all governments behind these new targets ......................................... ........ 277
322 flagship proposal: Start with the project "BXL2025" a new convergence strategy
in Brussels ....................................................................................................................................... 278
Proposition 323: To stabilize and energize the new Belgian federalism by deploying the
cooperation and convergence................................................................................................... 279
Proposal flagship 324: Optimize and streamline structures and strengthen public
Partnerships between them ................................................................................................................... 281
Proposition 325: Supporting common in their proximity function ................................... 282
326 flagship proposal: Leave the body to the Metropolitan Community ................................ 283
Proposition 327: Enhancing the quality of life of the periphery ....................................... ................ 283
Proposition 328: Establishing privileged connections between the Walloon Region, the Community
French and German Community ............................................. .................................... 284
Proposal flagship 329: Concentrate European action on a core .................................. 285

Action 5. Opening to the world .......................................... ................................................. 286
Proposition 330: Support democratic change of wills in our neighborhood
immediate ......................................................................................................................................... 286
Proposition 331: The fight against terrorism and radicalism internationally ............... 286
Proposition 332: Strengthening Multilateralism for a more human world and redefine the
priorities of the Belgian international policy ............................................ ...................................... 287
358

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
Proposition 333: Promoting international trade respectful of human development
......................................................................................................................................................... 288
334 flagship proposal: Focusing development cooperation on the protection of property
global public ............................................................................................................................ 289
Proposition 335: Laying the foundations for a future European army ...................................... ........ 291
Proposition 336: Optimize the Belgian Defence ........................................... ................................... 292
Proposition 337: Contribute to maintaining or restoring peace ................................... 292

Action 6. Develop a comprehensive migration policy, responsible and caring ......... 293
Proposition 338: Provide a real European policy on migration and asylum ...................... 293
Proposition 339: Ensuring the right to respect for private and family life in situations of
migration ......................................................................................................................................... 294
Proposition 340: Provide adequate protection for seriously ill ........... 294
Proposition 341: Ensuring a welcome and protection to vulnerable groups ........................ 295
Proposition 342: The fight against fraud and abuse while ensuring respect for human rights
Fundamental ................................................................................................................................. 296
Proposition 343: .......................................... better frame the economic migration ............... 296
344 Lighthouse Proposal: Create a mandatory home course for newcomers from
non-EU countries .................................................................................................................................... 297
Proposition 345: Organize the return based on a humane and sustainable solution ...................... 298
Proposition 346: Support programs for the integration of Roma and Travellers 299
Proposition 347: The fight against trafficking and human trafficking ..................................... ..... 299

Chapter 2. Respect the collective rules ........................................... ...... 301
Action 1. Prevent crime and incivility ......................................... .......................... 302
Proposition 348: Creating a common network of prevention services for improving efficiency
......................................................................................................................................................... 302
Proposition 349: Fight against incivilities ........................................... ....................................... 303
Proposition 350 flagship Seek mediation to resolve disputes .................................. 304
Proposition 351: Making the first mediation way to resolve family conflicts .. 305

Action 2 Optimising the functioning of police to a nearby police
effective ..........................................................................................................................306
Proposition 352: Continue the minimum recruiting 1,400 candidates per year .......................... 306
Proposition 353: Enhancing police presence on the ground by focusing on their missions
tasks essentielles........................................................................................................................... 306
354 flagship proposal: Attach a maximum standard response time for service
Police to ensure quick assistance in case of emergency call ................................... ...... 307
Proposition 355: Reform the selection and recruitment procedures to better meet
needs of the different services of the integrated police ......................................... ...................... 309
Proposition 356: Adapter police training to operational requirements and expectations
personnel......................................................................................................................................... 310
Proposition 357: Enhancing motivation ............................ police personnel 310
Proposition 358: Successful reform of optimizing the Federal Police .................................. 310
Proposition 359: Reform, optimize and refinance local police ....................................... ... 312

3. Action Fighting targeted against new criminal phenomena .............. 313
Proposition 360: Adopt a comprehensive security framework for 2015-2019 ................................ 313 Note
Proposition 361: Fighting against violent radical movements ......................................... ...... 314
Proposition 362: Ensure efficient management and better protected police information
......................................................................................................................................................... 316
Proposition 363: Fight against cybercrime and ensure the security of cyber space ........... 316
Proposition 364: Reforming the landscape of national security and intelligence services
......................................................................................................................................................... 317

359

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
Proposition 365: Ensure compliance officers of the police and punish violence
police ......................................................................................................................................... 318
Proposition 366: Protect children against all forms of violence ................................ 319
Proposition 367: Fight against elder abuse .............................. 319
Proposition 368: Continue the fight against domestic violence and sexual violence
......................................................................................................................................................... 320
Proposition 369: The fight against sexual exploitation and prostitution ...................................... . 322
Proposition 370: The fight against economic crime and financial ....................................... 323
Proposition 371: Enhance awareness, prevention and repression of flights
qualified in the home .......................................................................................................... 324

Action 4. Better protect citizens against disasters ........................................ 325
Proposition 372: Continue and finalize the implementation of the reform of civil security ...... 325
Proposition 373: Valuing civil protection in the landscape reformed relief areas .... 327
Proposition 374: Meeting the project's technological challenges ........................................ 112 .......... 328
Proposition 375: Improving crisis management and emergency planning ................................ 328

Action 5: An justice serving the citizen ......................................... ........................ 330
Proposition 376: Implementing and successful reform of the judicial landscape to ensure
local justice ......................................................................................................................... 330
Proposition 377: Improving communication between justice and citizens ................................. 330
Proposition 378: Enhancing frontline ....................................... legal aid ............... 331
Proposition 379: Reform and Legal Aid refinance second line .................................. 331
Proposition 380: Ensure the litigant effective access to legal aid and legal assistance
......................................................................................................................................................... 332
Proposition 381: Continue to improve family law ........................................ ................. 332

Action 6. Leave no crime without adequate response ........................................ .......... 333
Proposition 382: Absorb the backlog and ensure the proper functioning of the device
judicial .......................................................................................................................................... 333
383 Lighthouse Proposal: Make each criminal judgment to the maximum in the year of
introduction ..................................................................................................................................... 334
Proposition 384: Simplify and speed up civil procedure to increase the effectiveness of
legal proceedings ..................................................................................................................... 335
Proposition 385: To train and evaluate judges .......................................... .............................. 335
Proposition 386: Ensuring a fair accompanying the victim and his relatives at the
commission of the offense and throughout the trial ....................................... .............................. 336
Proposition 387: To review the scale of punishments, objectify and diversify in order to avoid
recidivism ............................................................................................................................................ 337

Action 7. Giving meaning to the penalty to reduce recidivism .................................... 338
388 flagship proposal: Fostering sustainable reintegration of the prisoner into society by
gradual strengthening of its autonomy ............................................. ...................................... 338
Proposition 389: Making preventive detention the exception and not the rule .............................. 340
Proposition 390: Provide places and dishes adapted to the internees ..................... 340

Chapter 3. Share values ​​............................................ ...................... 341
Action 1. Cultivating ........................................... .............................................. 341
Proposal flagship 391: Strengthen culture in human development lever .............. 342
Proposition 392: Strengthening the cultural world in Brussels ......................................... ................... 345
Proposition 393: Widely distribute talents and cultural heritage of the Federation WallonieBruxelles .......................................................................................................................................... 345
Proposition 394: Accompany changing media landscape: cultural identity and
pluralism ........................................................................................................................................ 347
Proposition 395: Enhance and strengthen continuing education as societal pillar .............. 348

Action 2. Promoting intercultural ........................................... ................................ 349
360

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS 2014 LEGISLATIVE AND REGIONAL
Proposition 396: Start a pact for successful diversity ........................................ ................... 349
Proposition 397: Open school diversity ........................................ ......................................... 350
Proposition 398: Promoting religious dialogue and interconvictional ..................................... 351
Proposition 399: Promoting diversity in employment policies ...................................... ... 351
Proposition 400: Adopt a national strategy against racism .............................. 352

Action 3. To fight against all discrimination .......................................... ................. 353
Proposal flagship 401: Fight against hate speech on the Internet and social networking ... 353
Proposal flagship 402: Concluding a Interfederal pact for gender equality ................ 354
Proposition 403: Continue the fight against stereotypes, discrimination and sexism .... 355
Proposition 404: The fight against violence and discrimination against lesbians, gays,
bisexual and transgender (LGBT) ............................................ .................................................. ..... 355

Action 4. Ethics and values ​​............................................ ............................................... 356
Proposition 405: Allow delivery discreetly ........................................ ............ 356
Proposition 406: Improving support to couples facing the loss of a child or unsustainable
mort-né............................................................................................................................................ 357
Proposition 407: Prohibit Surrogacy .......................................... ............................. 357

361

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS

Change Europe!
Chapter 1. Re-enchanting the European project! ............................................. 361
Action 1: Cap citizens! .................................................. ........................................... 361
Proposition 408: Promoting active European citizenship .......................................... . 362
Proposition 409: Defending the rights of citizens .......................................... ........................... 363
Proposal flagship 410: Creating a new political and democratic Union from the
eurozone ..................................................................................................................................... 364
Proposition 411: Democratizing the full .......................................... Europe ....................... 365

Action 2: Conclude a new European Social Contract ......................................... 367 ....
412 Lighthouse Proposal: Create a real social law and European labor ................................. 367
Proposition 413: Set a minimum wage in each Member State .................................... 368
Proposition 414: Multiply and strengthen solidarity mechanisms ...................................... 369
Proposal flagship 415: Establish a European insurance mechanism to better
combat unemployment ..................................................................................................................... 369
Proposition 416: Set a minimum pension in each Member State ................................ 370
Proposition 417: Support access to quality employment ..................................... ....................... 370
Proposition 418: Set up a "demographic Fund" ....................................... ....... 371
Proposition 419: Combating social exclusion, poverty and inequalities ........................... 372
Proposition 420: Relaunching the European social dialogue .......................................... ................... 373
Proposition 421: Ensuring strong and effective services of general interests .......................... 374
Proposition 422: structurally improve the European social governance .................. 375

Action 3: Creating the conditions for healthy competition ....................................... ....... 375
Proposal flagship 423: Countering social dumping in Europe ....................................... ............ 376
Proposal flagship 424: Fight against tax competition within the European Union .. 377
Proposition 425: Use all the levers to harmonize taxation ....................................... 378
Proposition 426: Implementing the tax on financial transactions .............................. 378
Proposition 427: Exchange all financial information .......................................... ...... 379
Proposal flagship 428: Eliminating tax havens and offshore financial centers .......... 379

Action 4: Giving Europe the means to match its ambitions ..................................... ..... 380
Proposition 429: Adopt an ambitious European budget .......................................... ............... 380
Proposition 430: Ending wasteful ........................................... .................................... 381

Chapter 2. Building the Europe of human development! ............................... 382
Action 1: Replace the river of finance in bed ...................................... ......... 382
Action 2. Define a new European Pact human growth ......................... 383
Proposal 431-Phare: Develop an overall strategy for human development .... 384
Proposal flagship 432: Support the education and training ...................................... ....... 385
Proposition 433: Boosting research and innovation ........................................ ......................... 386
Proposition 434: Supporting entrepreneurs ............................................ ................................. 388
Proposition 435: reindustrialise Europe ........................................... ...................................... 389
Proposal 436-Phare: Conduct an energy policy and transport and unifying
visionary ................................................................................................................................... 390

Action 3: Completing the Economic and Monetary Union ........................................ ..... 392
Action 4. Respect the environment and consumers ....................................... 394
Proposition 437: If set ambitious climate targets .................................. 394
Proposition 438: The fight against environmental dumping .......................................... ......... 396
Proposition 439: Ensuring the health of all .......................................... ...................................... 397
Proposition 440: Protecting biodiversity ............................................ ....................................... 398

417

HRC PROGRAM FOR EUROPEAN ELECTIONS
Proposition 441: Better defending European consumers .......................................... 399 ..
Proposal flagship 442: Supporting quality agriculture and regional development
..................................................................................................................................................... 400

Chapter 3. Making Europe the engine in terms of human development
worldwide !..................................................................................................... 403
Action 1: A humanist foreign policy ........................................... .................. 404
Proposition 443: Standardize the external representation of the EU ................. 404
Proposition 444: Paving the way for a future European defense ...................................... 405 ..
Proposal flagship 445: Supporting the democratic changes of wills outside Europe .. 407
Proposition 446: Strengthen solidarity with developing countries ............... 408
Proposition 447: uphold human standards, to social and environmental
borders l’Europe.................................................................................................................. 410
Proposition 448: Reconnecting with a fairer trade policy ...................................... 410

Action 2: Europe guarantor of justice and freedom ...................................... 412 ....
Proposition 449: Better defending European values ​​.......................................... ................ 412
Proposition 450: Living in a genuine area of ​​security and justice ................................ 413
Proposal flagship 451: Conduct of asylum and immigration policies that respect all 415
Proposition 452: Check greater compliance with membership criteria for
enlargement ........................................................................................................................... 416

418
