2014 federal program



Contents

A1. Fiscal policy, economic policy and full employment
A.1.1. A tax justice to support economic growth and foster
labor income
A.1.1.1. Decrease in tax rates
Proposal No. 1: Remove tax benefits applicable to quelquesuns
to lower the rates for all
A.1.1.2. Amplifier solidarity
Proposal 2: Increase the "net" at 100 € per month for pocket
lowest paid employees
Proposal 3: Operate a gradual shift of taxation from labor to
taxation on consumption
Proposal 4: To offset the impact of this shift on the purchasing power of
low-income households through targeted direct aid
Proposal 5: Reduce the inheritance rights of people with
financed the purchase or renovation of housing for their heirs
A.1.1.3. Erase anomalies and unexplained differences
Proposal 6: Evolving to an individualisation of rights through
gradually established the separate taxation of spouses
Proposal 7: Create a neutral tax in relation to choice of domicile
Proposition 8: Delete the difference in treatment between "children
rich "and" poor children "in the tax benefits for dependent children
Proposal 9: Submit an aviation tax system, common in
European, via a tax on its fuel
A.1.1.4. Less taxing work
Proposal 10: To operate a shift of taxation from labor to taxation
Environmental
Proposal No. 11: Taxing less work and more precisely real estate
Proposal No. 12: reforming inheritance
Proposal 13: Introduce the principle of recording rights portability
A.1.1.5. ... Encourage some behaviors and discourage others
Proposition 14: Reinstate the green loan and tend to zero rate
Proposal No. 15: Taxing pollutants that damage
1

Environmental and health
A.1.1.6. Supporting popular savings
Proposal 16: Reform the taxation of capital income
A.1.1.7. Reforming corporate taxes
Proposition 17: Delete to align the notional interest rate
ISOC on the average of the European Union, or 23.5%
Proposal 18: To defend the European project to harmonize the base
ISOC
A.1.1.8. Stepping up the fight against tax fraud
Proposal 19: Strengthen cooperation at European and international level
Proposal No 20: Improve tax risk management
Proposition 21: Empower justice improve technical
investigation and the judicial treatment of crime of fraud
Proposition 22: Consolidate fiscal and social control administrations
facilitate the realization of versatile controls and reduce the costs of control
Proposal No. 23: Acting more deeply into the causes of the tax burden
(see ABOVE: evolving towards a single rate of VAT, lower
rate of corporation tax and personal income tax ...)
A.1.2. Full employment
A.1.2.1. Reducing labor costs
Proposal No. 24: Reducing the cost of labor at the average
European
Proposal No. 25: Transforming the targeted reductions in employer contributions
a general reduction on low wages
A.1.2.2. Supporting those who choose to create their own jobs
Proposition 26: Delete payroll taxes the first year for those
who create their own jobs
Proposal 27: Give the status of "independent candidate" for a
maximum of 3 years for the boxes beginners
Proposition 28: Simplify, simplify, simplify!
Proposal No. 29: Index all wages up to € 3500 gross per month
A.1.2.3. Bringing the world of education and training than the
working
Proposal No. 30: Focus on company training
Proposal No. 31: Simplifying multiple existing formulas
Proposition 32: Invite all potential partners to respond to the call of
EU for youth
Proposal 33: Adopt a quality framework for traineeships
Proposition 34: Propose volunteer opportunities
A.1.2.4. Personalized support for job seekers
Proposal No. 35: Provide personalized support to each
job seeker
A.1.2.5. Fighting against discrimination in hiring
Proposal 36: Develop tools to the attention of job seekers
Proposal No 37: Better fight against discrimination including
language hiring
Proposition 38: Guiding jobseekers whose degree is not
Belgium to the recognized skills validation process
Proposal 39: Strengthen controls and sanctions
2

A.1.2.6. Employment of seniors: lower the cost of labor and share the
Proposal No. 40: Rethinking the cost of labor at European level to better
consider the "seniors"
Proposal 41: Encourage the creation of employer groups
A.1.3. TOWARDS ECONOMIC GROWTH
A.1.3.1. Support scientific research
Proposal No. 42: Invest in research to achieve the target set by
EU
Proposal No. 43: Valuing the Francophone Research
A.1.3.2. Developing growth sectors
A.1.3.3. Preserving local shops
Proposal 46: Encourage the adoption of a "local for trade"
Proposal No. 47: Providing business management tools
Proposal No. 48: Propose practical short courses
Proposal No. 49: Fight against empty shops
Proposal No. 50: Limit the nuisance caused by public works
A.1.3.4. The steel sector still has a future
Proposal No. 52: Enter Wallonia in the action plan for the sector
Steel presented by the European Commission and develop the division's Centre
Arcelor Mittal research
A.1.3.5. The airport sector must continue off
Proposal No. 53: Supporting economic development in and around
regional airports of Charleroi and LiègeBierset in compliance with the rules
competition imposed by the European Commission to increase
Walloon logistics sector
A.1.3.6. Consider Walloon agriculture as an economic hub
major
Proposal No. 54: As part of the pillars of the CAP (Agricultural Policy
common), require the Walloon Region:
support meaty and dairy sectors to maintain aid
returned ;
support investment aid and installation as a farmer.
Proposal No 55: Promote the recovery of farms by young
farmers in particular by:

the implementation by the Walloon government of installation aids
young farmers under the CAP;

the development of micro financing by the general public
Proposal No 56: Promote training of young farmers in partnership,
particularly with provincial economic offices and the Federation
Young farmers (FJA)
Proposal No. 57: Strengthen the role of the APAQW as structure
unique promotion of Walloon agricultural products and support approaches
local distribution and short circuits
Proposal No. 58: Strengthen the role of the Walloon Research Centre
Agricultural (CRAW) as a pole of development for the future of
agricultural sector, particularly in the field of agribusiness
Proposal No. 59: Reducing agricultural land pressure in the next code
Walloon agriculture through the creation of a specific regime "young
farmer "
3

A.2. Real and effective social protection
A.2.1. A modernized social security
Proposal No. 60: Ensure equal pension for all at least 60% of the
average career earnings
Proposal No 61: Better to consider extending the life
Proposal No. 62: Delete the solidarity contribution
Proposal No. 63: Provide individual insurance against unemployment
Proposal No. 64: Make a family allowance child's right
A.2.2. Modernize the health care system
A.2.2.1. Health care
A.2.2.1.1. An optimal management of chronic diseases, rare and orphan
Recognizing the special needs of patients with chronic diseases,
rare and orphan and able to respond adequately is an issue
paramount.
Proposal No. 65: Improving accessibility of care for the benefit of patients
Proposal No. 66: Early detection of the disease for better
results
Proposal No 67: Specific training of experts for these diseases
Proposal No. 68: Better patient care through a team
multidisciplinary
Proposal No. 69: Encourage the medical and scientific world to participate in
research programs and exchange
Proposal No. 70: recentralisation psychiatric centers on their trades
basic
Proposal No. 71: Developing community-acquired structures
Proposal No. 73: Improving conditions for repayment
Proposal No. 74: Supporting scientific research for Alzheimer
Proposal No. 75: Adequate Support for the disabled
developing mental disorders Mental Health
A.2.2.1.2. Optimal care for AIDS patients
Proposal No. 76: Fight against the exclusion of patients
Proposal No. 78: Encourage scientific research on treatments
to fight against resistant viruses
Proposal No. 79: flat-rate compensation to the victims of the contamination
Following a blood transfusion
Proposal No. 80: Ensure the decline of the disease through prevention
A.2.2.1.3. An optimal management of hepatitis C.
Proposal No. 81: A real support for hepatitis C
A.2.2.1.4. An optimal management of cardiovascular diseases
Proposal No. 82: Working upstream of disease through prevention
Proposal No. 83: A more active role of mutual and general practitioners
in patient information
Proposal No. 84: Consolidation and expansion of the Global Medical Dossier
A.2.2.1.5. An optimal management of cancer
Proposal No. 85: Support trades of the first line for broadcast
efficient information
A.2.2.1.6. Recognition of the status of helping close
Proposal No. 86: Recognition of helping close status
Proposal 87: Ensure maintaining different rights for caregivers
4

Proposal No 88: Adapt AP work schedules
Proposal No. 89: Implementation of training for AP
Proposal No. 90: Strengthen the role of the general practitioner
Proposal No. 91: Expand forms of respite care
Proposal No. 92: Improving communication visàvis AP
A.2.2.1.7. Insurance autonomy
Proposal No. 93: Introduction of a self-insurance for taking
special care burden related to loss of autonomy
A.2.2.1.8. Patient home support
Proposal No. 94: Delaying the patient institutionalization
Proposal No. 95: Erase the price difference between aid
Family and aideménagère
Proposal No. 96: Removing discrimination against persons
become disabled after age 65
Proposal No. 97: Develop better monitoring of elderly patients
A.2.2.1.9. Control the food chain
Proposal No. 98: More controls in supermarkets
Proposal No. 99: Legislating for better monitoring and implementation of
Disincentives
Proposal No. 100: Coordinate controls in the food chain
European
Proposal No. 101: Improving communication between EU countries
A.2.2.2. Healthcare providers
A.2.2.2.1. Numerus clausus
Proposal No. 102: Repeal of numerus clausus system
Proposal No. 103: Review of hospital leadership standards
Proposition 104: Open the outskirts of training places
Proposition 105: Extending the placement test prior to registration
Medicine, dentistry and physiotherapy
Proposal No. 106: Make decisions based on reliable information and
Concrete
A.2.2.2.2. Strengthening trades first care line
Proposal No. 107: Developing primary care from a perspective
simplification and integration
Proposition 108: Revaluate trades the 1st line in the curriculum
academic
Proposal No. 109: Delegating tasks performed by GPs
to nurses
Proposal No. 110: Strengthening the training of general practitioners
psychology
Proposal No. 111: Making the nursing profession more attractive #
Proposal No. 112: Set up a call center 24h / 24h
Proposal No. 113: Create a decision-making point of contact
Proposal No. 115: Rework premium installation Impulseo
Proposal No. 116: Establish an intermediate number, like "code
competence 'for GPs
A.2.2.2.3. Recognizing non-conventional practices
Proposition 119: Establish a legal framework regulating the exercise of
unconventional practices
5

Proposition 120: Reimbursement of care through supplementary insurance
Proposal No. 121: Professional organization for each of the practices not
Conventional
A.2.2.2.4. Care Institutions
Proposition 122: Focus on home support
Proposal No. 123: Support the private sector on a human scale
Proposal No. 124: Planning efforts to accomplish MR & MRS for
Proposition 125: Exit moratorium convert to beds in TB beds
MRS
Proposal No. 126: Design standards for the viability of small
nursing homes
Proposal No. 127: An affordable prices
Proposal No. 128: Refusing forfaitarisation of physiotherapy
Proposition 129: Free access for francophone seniors services
Dutch
Proposal No. 130: Better define our social policy accompanying the
persons with reduced autonomy #
Proposal No. 131: Promoting networking of different institutions
A.2.2.3. Funding
A.2.2.3.1. Optimal financing of health care and cost control #
Proposal No. 132: Develop a model more suited to landscapes and
Current constraints
Proposal No. 133: Strengthening the role of general in the first
line care
Proposal No. 134: Working with healthcare professionals who are not
specialists
Proposal No. 135: Reduce maternity stay
Proposal No. 136: Do not tolerate hospitalization comfort
Proposition 137: Redirecting means to the real needs
Propositions 138: Chronic illness, hospitalizations and comorbidities
should be part of the public health priorities
Proposal No. 139: Avoid competition between hospitals
A.2.2.3.2. Better health care accessibility
Proposal No. 140: Improved information on existing aid
Proposal No. 141: Invest primarily in other sectors, such as
housing, education, sports facilities ...
A.2.2.3.3. Mutual
Proposal No. 143: The mutual societies should focus on their missions
base
Proposal No. 144: A better use of information held by
mutual
A.2.2.3.4. More transparency of prices
Proposal No. 145: A better tariff transparency
Proposal No. 148: Promoting responsible care consumption
Proposal No. 149: Establish quality objectives in hospitals
A.2.2.3.5. The administrative simplifications
Proposal No. 152: Relief paperwork and forms of all kinds
Proposal No. 153: Development of national e-health platform
A.2.2.4. The drug policy
6

A.2.2.4.1. Generic drug prices and policies
Proposal No. 155: Continue to promote drug policy 'good
market "
Proposal No. 156: Continue the reduction of the fee on sales
Business of reimbursable drugs
Proposition 157: A level of impeccable quality drugs
Proposal No. 158: Encourage pharmaceutical companies to make
investment in R & D
Proposal No. 159: Establish an effective system of consultation between the
pharmaceutical, health care and policy providers
A.2.2.4.2. Reimbursement and innovative medicines
Proposal No. 161: Assign an annual percentage of the budget
medicines to reimbursement of innovative drugs
Proposal No. 162: Making the most drug reimbursement policy
transparent
Proposal No. 163: Raising awareness of the futility of the practice of automation
the prescription
Proposal No. 164: Allow pharmaceutical companies the opportunity to choose
their medical representatives
A.2.2.5. Research and development
Proposal No. 165: Increase the budget for basic research
awarded to the universities and the SNSF
A.2.2.6. Prevention
Proposal No. 166: Sharpen the information campaigns
Proposal No. 168: Putting the citizen in control of their own health
Proposition 169: awareness among different actors in relation to their role
in the context of good prevention
Proposal No. 170: Work closely with the European Commission
A.2.3. The fight against social exclusion: priority to safeguard the cohesion of the
company
A.2.3.1. The fight against poverty
Proposal No. 171: Getting the federal state gradually increases
reimbursement rate of integration income and social assistance
equivalent
Proposal No. 172: Remove the linear measures of unemployment exclusion
Proposition 173: Insert the automaticity of individual rights
Proposal No. 174: Create a universal fund and enforce maintenance claims
direct maintenance payments by the employer
Proposal No. 175: Fight against excessive debt and strengthen service
Mediation debts
Proposal No. 176: Set up a framed allocationloyer
Proposal No. 177: Adopt a common plan to fight against poverty between
Wallonia and Brussels with a common definition, common indicators and
a joint observatory
A.2.3.2. A global social project for people with disabilities
Proposal No. 178: Establishing a multiannual plan for creation of childcare places
Proposal No. 179: Integrating the person with disabilities on the market
employment
Proposal No. 180: Encouraging diversification opportunities
7

Hosting
B.1. Justice and security
B.1.1. A functional and quick justice
B.1.1.1. Proposal 1: To judge any litigation in the year of the introduction of
the cause
B.1.1.2. Proposal 2: recruit judges to deal with the backlog
B.1.1.3. Proposition 3: establish the 80/20 allocation key language in
Brussels courts
B.1.1.4. Proposal 4: to establish and make the workload of public
courts
B.1.1.5. Proposition 5: pay the experts, translators, etc., working for the
Justice within three months of benefits
B.1.1.6. Proposal 6: accelerate the process of computerization of Justice
B.1.1.7. Proposition 7: Justice to provide analysis of its effectiveness tools
B.1.1.8. Proposition 8: create a collection of ethical obligations of
Magistrates
B.1.2. A nearby Justice Citizens
B.1.2.1. Proposal 1: encourage alternative dispute settlement,
particularly mediation and conciliation
B.1.2.2. Proposal 2: improve the compensation of victims by creating
a fund for their make advances
B.1.2.3. Proposition 3: make justice accessible to the entire population
B.1.2.4. Proposition 4: Paying correctly pro bono lawyers, guarantors
access to justice, or 30 euros point
B.1.2.5. Proposition 5: integrate the administrative courts in order
judicial
B.1.2.6. Proposal 6: to preserve the judicial function Palace
Justice must Brussels
B.1.3. Better executed sentences
B.1.3.1. Proposal 1: Run any conviction to fight against
Impunity
B.1.3.2. Proposal 2: create the "plead guilty"
B.1.3.3. Proposition 3: Erecting confiscation self worth
B.1.3.4. Proposition 4: imprisoned in prison authors
major crimes must be a
B.1.3.5. Proposition 5: Preventive detention must regain its function
first
B.1.3.6. Proposal 6: reforming parole
B.1.3.7. Proposition 7: substantially modified the new legislation on
criminal transaction
B.1.3.8. Proposition 8: widespread alternative sentences
B.1.3.9. Proposal 9: to give Belgium a mapping population
prison
B.1.3.10. Proposition 10: ensure a minimum service in the prisons
B.1.3.11. Proposition 11: Run the principles of the Law of 12 January Dupont
2005
B.1.3.12. Proposition 12: treat people with mental disorders
in institutions
B.1.3.14. Proposition 14: Improving the management of sex offenders
8

must be improved
B.1.4. Concretely establish security and safety for everyone!
B.1.4.1. Proposal 1: list the priorities for criminal policy
in the long run
B.1.4.2. Proposal 2: quickly organize a Standing Conference of
Public security authorities in the Brussels Region
B.1.4.3. Proposition 3: ensure effective policing through
the presence of the district officer
B.1.4.4. Proposition 4: Proposal No. 258: rebuilding solidarity between areas
Font
B.1.4.5. Proposition 5: KUL update the standard to better distribute the manna
Financial between police areas
B.1.4.6. Proposition 6: the federal government must refinance police zones of
Brussels Region in particular through subsidies EUROTOPS
B.1.4.7. Proposition 7: Engage quickly almost 1,000 police officers in Region
Brussels via federal grants
B.1.4.8. Proposition 8: Mitigate the lack of recruitment of police officers
B.1.4.9. Proposal 9: to ensure the accuracy and completeness of the statistics in
safety
B.1.4.10. Proposition 10: generalizing the fast track courts in
all the countries
B.1.4.11. Proposition 11: Restoring the previous threshold of 16 years for the application
of municipal administrative sanctions
B.1.4.12. Proposal 12: To improve the coordination and funding of the fight
against cybercrime
B.1.4.13. Proposition 13: fighting illegitimate violence of security forces
B.1.4.14. Proposition 14: Belgium must acquire the necessary means
to fight against illicit drug trafficking
B.2. In a controlled and coherent immigration policy
B.2.1.1. Proposal 1: Plan the immigration policy on the basis of
needs of Belgian society
B.2.1.2. Proposal 2: mandating the citizenship path for all
the non-European nationals
B.2.1.3. Proposition 3: process applications for asylum and residence in less than a year
B.2.1.4. Proposition 4: clarify in law the criteria for regularization
illegal aliens
B.2.1.5. Proposition 5: ensure rapid and objective procedure for asylum
Human rights defenders
B.2.1.6. Proposal 6: objectively process requests for adjustments
for medical reasons
B.2.1.7. Proposition 7: make exceptional detention of foreign children
closed centers in Belgium
B.2.1.8. Proposition 8: better protection for unaccompanied minors
B.2.1.9. Proposal 9: Belgium must put an end to bilateral agreements
extradition in case of major risk of torture
B.3. For a tolerant and pluralistic Belgium
B.3.1.1. Proposal 1: Devote secularism of the Belgian State in the Constitution
B.3.1.2. Proposal 2: Establish a national human rights institution
the man
9

B.3.1.3. Proposition 3: Establish a Ministry of Women's Rights in
federal level
B.3.1.4. Proposition 4: Belgium equip a Special Representative forhuman rights
B.3.1.5. Proposition 5: Belgium build a national plan against racism
B.3.1.6. Proposal 6: ratify Protocol No. 12 to the European Convention
Human Rights providing for a general prohibition of discrimination
B.3.1.7. Proposition 7: Designate as soon as the competent body to fight
against discrimination based on language
B.3.1.8. Proposition 8: To systematize the appointment of policemen and magistrates
reference in the fight against racism, discrimination and
homophobia / transphobia
B.3.1.9. Proposal 9: Develop tools for collecting and analyzing
Data on intolerance and discrimination based on sexual orientation and
gender identity
B.3.1.10. Proposal 10: promote tolerance and mutual respect visàvis
Homophobia and transphobia
B.3.1.11. Proposition 11: Reported to illegal organizations
incite hatred, racism and discrimination
B.3.1.11. Proposition 11: strengthen the fight against anti-Semitism and
Islamophobia
B.3.1.12. Proposition 12: Extending the duty of memory in the Act
denial to all genocides and crimes against humanity
B.3.1.13. Proposition 13: The government should allow the measurement
Affirmative action in the fight against discrimination
B.3.1.14. Proposition 14: Put human rights at the heart of strategies,
policies and development programs
B.4. Various
Proposal 1: Belgium must ratify and implement the Convention on Istanbul
prevention and the fight against violence against women and violence
domestic
Proposal 2: To reaffirm the right to abortion
Proposition 3: Belgium must better control the final destination of its
arms exports
B.5. Energy policy
Proposal No. 295: developing the necessary infrastructure for transportation
energy (in particular to deal with the increase in imports
gas exports)
Proposal No. 296: Phase out nuclear power and investing in
development of alternative energy
Proposal No. 297: Nuclear pension increase from 550 million to 1 billion
euros until the end of plant operations
Proposal No. 298: investing the proceeds of the nuclear rent in R & D
new, more efficient and cleaner technologies and specifically in
the renewable energy sectors to develop value chains
competitive and potential for jobs in Belgium
Proposal No. 299 to flatten the wind energy file and commission a study
European on the whole Belgian wind farm
Proposal No. 300: implement a rationalization plan number
10

intermunicipal distribution system operators
Proposal No. 301: Developing an audit on the management bonuses
B.6. National defense policy
Proposal No. 302: Keeping the Defence funding level for
meet the EU targets
Proposal No. 303: Rejuvenate the defense staff in particular via the
targeted recruitment for critical functions
Proposal No. 304: Making more attractive military art, especially via
knowledge of languages
Proposal No. 305: Ensuring linguistic distribution to parity
Dutch and French for general officers and grades
superior to the functions of management and decision, as well as for
international functions
B.6.1. Meeting the needs of components
Proposal No. 306: Keeping the level of investment resources
material and human resources within the land component
Proposal No. 307: Replace by our F16 multirole combat aircraft
and Europe by combining our Belgian industry
Proposal No. 308: Reorient the missions of the marine component and adapt
his navigation equipment over new threats
C.1. THE FUTURE OF FEDERAL BELGIUM
C.1.1. Revision of the Constitution
Proposal No. 309: Expanding the powers of the Constitutional Court
all the provisions of the Constitution and changing its composition
Proposal No. 310: Allow Parliamentary Ombudsmen to make
recommendations Equity
Proposal No. 311: Revise Article 195 of the Constitution on the procedure
Revision of the Constitution
Proposal No. 312: Register in the Constitution the right to water and supply
Energy
Proposal No. 313: Register in the Constitution the right to be able to sue
justice and defense in his language in all courts in the country
Proposal No. 314: Devote in the Constitution the principle of secularism
State policy
Proposal No. 315: Enter the terms in the Constitution Referendum
decision-making at all levels of government respecting their remit
Proposal No. 316: Enter into the Constitution by the requirement to recruit
coucours in public administration
Proposal No. 317: Create an administrative court by province
Proposal No. 318: Expand comprétences of the Court of Auditors
Proposal No. 319: Reaffirm the federalist project FDF
Proposal No. 320: Require bilingual services at the airport
BruxellesNational and strengthening its federal character
C.1.2. Financing of the Federal State and the federated entities
Proposal No. 321: Empowering Walloon and Brussels Regions:
Proposal No. 322: Establish an objective study of South transfers / North during the
period 1830/1960, by independent experts
Proposal No. 323: Ensure the adverse effects of increased tax competition
between Regions after autonomy granted to regions
11

Proposal No. 324: Allow partial taxation of PPI at the point of
work in order to operate in a sustainable manner the structural refinancing of the Region
Brussels
C.1.3. The judicial district of Brussels
Proposal No. 325: Delete any discretion if asked
Language change
Proposal No. 327: Increase the cadres of French courts
the judicial district of Brussels, to suit their actual load
working
C.1.4. Rights of National Minorities
Proposal No. 328: Allow francophone voters from the periphery "without
facilities "to elect their representative in the House
Proposal No. 329: Create a special status for the 6 municipalities with facilities and
Voeren
Proposal No. 330: Ratify without reservations and implement without delay the
Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities
Proposal No. 331: Require the ratification of Protocol 12 to the
European Convention on Human Rights which widens the scope
the principle of nondiscrimination
Proposal No. 332: Allow the child to francophone district
subscribe unreservedly in a French school for six municipalities with facilities
Proposal No. 333: Allow the Federation subsidize WallonieBruxelles
unfettered cultural Francophone associations or other established
Brussels periphery
Proposal No. 334: Enforce the rules on language facilities
Proposal No. 335: Confirm the right of municipal councilors to speak
in their language in municipal councils of municipalities with facilities
Proposal No. 336: Removing the distinction between common tell
"Great facilities" (Kraainem, Drogenbos, Linkebeek and Wemmel) and
common so-called "small facilities" (and RhodeSaintGenèse
WezembeekOppem)
Proposal No. 337: Allow the free choice of the language of the proceedings before
the Council of State
Proposition 338: Designate the mayors of the six surrounding municipalities
by direct election
Proposal No. 339: Assign administrative supervision over the six communes
facilities to the Federal Government
Proposal No. 340: Require strict linguistic parity in the appointment of
Executive committee chairs SPF
Proposal No. 341: Review the composition of the Senate to respect parity
linguistic and in which the Brussels Region and the Community
German would be represented
C.1.5. Status of the Brussels Region
Proposal No. 342: Require the constitutive autonomy of the Brussels Region,
the same conditions as those accorded to other regions and
Communities.
Proposal No. 343: Require the effectiveness of the Communauté métropolitaine:
Proposition 344: Delete the representation mechanism guarantee to
Dutch speakers in the Brussels parliament, the rule of consensus within the
12

Brussels government, relax the rules of double majority
Proposition 345: Apply the principle of "bilingual services
unilingualism agents "applicable to local public service
Proposal No. 346: Strictly respect the legal test volume
cases handled in the establishment of linguistic staff of the Ministry and
pararegional and delete language parity prevails at all levels
Executive jobs for the Ministry of the Brussels Region, the
pararegional, Brussels and local services
Proposal No. 347: Putting odonnance on the same footing as Decree
Proposal No. 348: Rejecting categorically any merger of Commons
Brussels
Proposal No. 349: Delete the Joint Community Commission
transfer his skills to either the Brussels Region
Proposal No. 350: Restore the language census
Proposal No. 351: Require bilingual services at the airport
BruxellesNational and strengthening its federal character
C.1.6 Reform provinces and intermediate power levels
Proposal No. 352: Refocus provincial interest missions around
four main functions:
Proposal No. 353: Streamline intermunicipal development
economic
Proposal No. 354: Reforming the provinces according to the principle of good
governance
C.1.7. Monarchy
Proposal No. 355: Keeping the King's powers as they are
now enshrined in the Constitution, in terms of punishment and
promulgation
Proposal No. 356: Reform the civil status of the royal function:
C.2. THE FEDERATION WALLONIEBRUXELLES
C.2.1. The Parliament of the Federation WallonieBruxelles
Proposal No. 357: Amend the current composition of Parliament
WallonieBruxelles Federation to develop common policies
between the two regions
Proposal No. 358: Establish a monitoring mechanism by the Court of Auditors
on the prohibition of cumulation between the mandates of federal deputies, regional and
Community and more than one paid executive mandate
C.2.2. The Government of the Federation WallonieBruxelles
Proposal No. 359: Build the Government of the Federation
WallonieBruxelles twelve ministers
C.2.3. Structural and financial functioning of the WallonieBruxelles Federation.
Proposal No. 360: Identify places decision to streamline, plan and
assess
Proposal No. 361: Create a WallonieBruxelles Research Agency
Proposal No. 362: Provide the full WallonieBruxelles Federation
fiscal capacity
Proposal No. 363: Assign the Federation WallonieBruxelles
skills whenever the public interest must prevail
Proposal No. 364: Establish a policy for true mobility
the network WallonieBruxelles Federation by rail in order to make a
13

essential element of economic restructuring
Proposal No. 365: Make the French Community Commission (COCOF)
The founder of institutions in Brussels in its areas of
competence (culture, sport ...)
Proposal No. 366: Create a botanical institution with a scientific
International WallonieBruxelles in the Federation, to compensate for the transfer to the
National Botanic Garden of Flanders.









14

A. SOCIO-ECONOMIC ISSUES


Introduction: FDF are social liberals


Liberal and social. Both words have their value. We also know the drifts. Each measures
the harmful effects of unbridled liberalism, uncontrolled. And everyone knows the impasses of a
doctrinaire socialism.

Liberals and social, we are more liberal than the right individualistic and more social
the collectivist left. And that translates very concretely in our program.

Freedom of choice is at the heart of our proposals.
● we do not want to penalize lifestyle choices such as marriage, celibacy or
cohabitation through taxation;
● We want to facilitate the choice of professional career fighting against failure
school, or facilitating the installation and the lives of those who choose to create their
own job;
● we are to preserve the freedom to choose care providers and enabling people
which are not fully autonomous to be able to make the choice to stay at home the
as long as possible.


Social justice and solidarity guide our choices in socioeconomic terms. Here 3
Examples:
● we want greater fiscal justice. In this spirit, we must remove
benefits granted to quelquesuns for help broaden the tax base and back
to lower tax rates for everyone;
● we want a more just social security. Allocations must gradually
move towards individual rights, which are more dependent on social status or the
family situation ;
● we want to consolidate social security. And this calls for reform so that it can
still play an essential role as a safety net protecting those who, faced with
vagaries of life have had to suffer.

Here, in a nutshell, the main orientations taken by the FDF. They are available in this
first part of our election platform.



15

A1. Fiscal policy, economic policy and full employment




A.1.1. A tax justice to support economic growth and
promote labor income


Our tax system is complex. The very high level of the tax burden, mainly
on labor income, is one of the causes of structural unemployment.

Tax reform for what purpose? One imperative is to sustain growth. Alleviating
tax burden on labor can stimulate growth and employment. Our proposals
Innovative want in the following areas:
● the personal income tax (PIT);
● corporate tax (I.S.O.C.);
● the T.V.A .;
● environmental taxation;
● the fight against tax fraud.



A.1.1.1. Decrease in tax rates

Proposal No. 1: Remove tax benefits applicable to quelquesuns
lower rates applicable to all

The Belgian tax system has dozens of tax loopholes. These exemptions and exceptions
transforming the tax base in a real Swiss cheese! A shortfall estimated at 60 billion
euros. Compensation is effected by high rates in order to ensure revenue for the State.

The Belgian tax system is characterized by high rates and a narrow base. We must reverse this
logic. For comparison, a point decrease (from 42-41%) the charges on labor (tax
personal and social charges paid by employees) would cost 1.9 billion
euros.





A.1.1.2. Amplifier solidarity

Proposal 2: Increase the "net" at 100 € per month pocket for the employees
lowest paid
FDF intend to establish an increase in flat-rate professional expenses
deductible for low wages. This will result in a tax reduction. If the difference between
Tax base and tax reduction thus obtained is negative, this amount will be converted
tax credit. This advantage would be given 100% to all workers whose wages
less than € 1,200 net per month. It would then be:
● 80% for workers earning between € 1,200.00 and € 1,400.00 net per month;
● 60% for those earning between € 1,400.00 and € 1,500.00 net per month;
16

● 40% for those earning between € 1,500.00 and € 1,700.00 net per month;
● 30% for those earning between € 1,700.00 and € 1,800.00 net per month.

This measure would cost $ 2.3 billion and would apply to workers and holders
professions.

Proposal 3: Operate a gradual shift of the tax burden on labor towards the
taxation on consumption

First, we support the reduction of the range of rates
VAT which goes from 6-21% to then move towards a single rate to be fixed between 12% and 15%
(maximum).

Proposal 4: To offset the impact of this shift on the purchasing power of
low-income households through targeted direct aid

This measure is related to the previous one to fund the other.

The existence of reduced rates of VAT (21, 12, 6%) has the consequence that VAT revenue
Belgium are among the lowest. It costs us a little more than 9 billion euros. Gold,
they benefit all taxpayers without exception: low-income households pay
almost twice as many indirect taxes relative to their gross income senior households
income, while the basic consumer products are subject to a reduced VAT.

The proposal to gradually move towards a single rate should allow, on the long term,
drastically reduce this social injustice. The recovered amount will be allocated half to
the granting of subsidies targeted on low wages (increase of benefits: unemployment, income
pension and social integration), and half to the increase in net wages for low wages
(see Proposal 2).

Proposal 5: Decrease inheritance of those who financed the purchase
or renovation of housing for their heirs

This is to help young people acquire housing. The proposal aims taxpayers who
co-financed minimum height 25% the purchase or renovation of housing for their heirs
lineal or collateral, up to the 3rd degree (arrièrepetitsenfants, nephews, nieces ...). A
Such measures will encourage and avoid the need to resort to complex tax arrangements.




A.1.1.3. Erase anomalies and unexplained differences

Proposal 6: Evolving to an individualisation of rights through
gradually established the separate taxation of spouses

Currently, citizens of life choices (marriage, legal cohabitation, celibacy, divorce,
separation ...) give rise to differentiated tax treatment, including the application or
not the marital quotient in the calculation of tax.
We want to reform the IPP so that it is neutral with respect to lifestyle choices. The FDF
17

hear and move towards the individualisation of rights and greater respect for the choice of
life of every citizen.


Proposal 7: Create a neutral tax in relation to choice of domicile

This proposal comes in two steps:
● gradually eliminating the inequalities created by refunds of fees
transportation, and tax advantages for company cars;
● facilitate the acquisition of urban housing via the establishment of a public guarantee
for the payment of registration fees.

The personal income tax, unfair to the citizens, contribute to the urban exodus. Moreover,
it is harmful to the environment (this observation was developed and analyzed in a statistical study
Bernard Clerfayt, entitled "For a tax for development of
Cities ") Our observations:
the capping of deductions for repayment of mortgages penalizes
dwellers whose homes cost more;
● deductions this system penalizes even doubling the cities in that it has
only to purchasers owners, while the property market is
mainly rental in town. It is also socially regressive because it benefits
and owners and not tenants;
● Donors are more urban than rural taxed donors because the RC (income
cadastral) is higher in the city than in the country, contributing to higher
Rents in the city;
● the system of reimbursement of travel expenses as organized penalizes
city ​​dwellers because of their movements domicilelieu
Labour cost the least.


Proposition 8: Delete the difference in treatment between "rich children"
and "poor children" in the tax benefits for dependent children

Currently, the composition of the child's family unit involves tax treatment more
favorable to high income than low income. What for ?
● The tax exempt quota supplements apply to low income while
deductions for alimony payments apply in the high income;
● The deduction mechanism decreasing the tax base and thus reduces income
taxed in the highest brackets. Example: the tax benefit of taxpayers
income is taxed at the marginal rate of 40% is less than that of taxpayers
whose income is taxed at the marginal rate of 50%. The children of affluent taxpayers
therefore provide a tax benefit than those of less affluent taxpayers.

FDF want to transform the deductions (for alimony) and supplements
tax exempt quota reductions and / or tax credits.


Proposal 9: Submit an aviation tax system, common in Europe,
via its taxing fuels
18


It is curious and paradoxical that the fuel used by aircraft is completely exempt
excise and VAT. Moreover, no VAT is levied on the intra-European flights,
whereas the use of a passenger car to carry the same path will result in
payment of a significant amount of VAT and excise on fuel consumed and
luimême on the vehicle when purchased.
For the FDF, the écofiscales developments need to end discrimination
detrimental towards less polluting modes of transport, particularly transport
train or boat. Air transport is growing strongly and by far the most polluting.

The European Union must insist that the reduction targets for industry emissions
Aviation are incorporated in December 2009 Copenhagen Agreement (conference
parts) and that an international agreement is approved on the basis of joint work of ICAO and
IMO.

It is important to find, eventually, a European consensus to submit to a regime Aviation
tax, including through a tax on fuel and / or airline tickets. This tax should
be worded per kilometer traveled, modulated according to the total trip distance.



A.1.1.4. Less taxing work

Proposal 10: To operate a shift of taxation from labor to taxation
Environmental

This shift must take place through two measures:
● gradually harmonize excise duties on petrol and diesel;
● gradually align the favorable tax on company cars that of
Wages: in a first time, remove some benefits such as fuel card,
increase social contributions "employees" solely on this advantage.

While the work is surcharged, there is too little revenue from environmental taxes in
Belgium over comparable countries: charges on energy, transport and pollution
amount to about 2% of GDP and 4% of revenues, against 6% for the average
European. We must rebalance this trend and make more efficient use taxation to encourage
citizens and businesses to adopt more positive attitudes in terms
environment.

Proposal No. 11: Taxing less work and more precisely real estate

It will generate new revenues by upgrading the housing stock. Today,
perception from property tax remains partially incomplete. Many buildings have
experienced various transformations to improve comfort and have not seen their cadastral income
evolve. An adjustment work must take place. This is an issue of tax fairness. It is important to
regularizing tax and submit the tax just the thousands of subdivided buildings
illegally. Our philosophy is to be made, wherever possible, a transfer
taxation on labor to real estate taxation.

19

The FDF, however, are opposed to the taxation of rents for buildings used for housing,
measure likely to generate "perverse effects". "Small" owners of rental
of real property is the only income or an important supplement, would be unfairly
penalized. This is particularly true for some older people and for people who have lost their
Job ... A measure of this nature may make them falling into poverty:
● Owners may be tempted to pass on the tax increase on
tenants. So should "frame" rents. How? In witch way ? TO
Brussels, where the proportion of tenants is especially high (60%), an increase
rents (already high) risk of reinforcing the exodus of the middle classes to the
periphery;
● there is also a risk of adverse effect on the supply of social housing via Agencies
social property (AIS).





risk.
the State.

The FDF also want "zero-rate" work at regional level, and move the collection
the tax collected, including the Brussels area, on individuals
(additional to PIT) to real estate (via a revision of the cadastral database). This
proposal puts into practice social liberalism whose claim to TOT.

This reform is completely budget neutral as it is a shift of the tax
from labor to land. It would prove beneficial to people who own their homes
as well as renters (since the decrease in tax on labor can not be
passed on a property tax they do not pay).

ar against, owners who are not domiciled where their property is located, as
those who do not pay income tax in Belgium, will see their tax
Real increase. Economic actors (businesses, shops ...) will also
support a slight increase in PRI if they own a property but may
continue to deduct this charge as is currently the case.


Proposal No. 12: reforming inheritance

These two terms as FDF proposing to abolish inheritance tax between
spouses and cohabitants in Brussels. This is done since 1 January 2014 and we can
Today we rejoice but would have loved to be heard earlier and the opportunity
to do the same in Wallonia.

Furthermore, the various slices of hand on which to apply the inheritance tax
were no longer indexed since 1981. However, the amounts from 1981 no longer have the same value
today. As for housing prices, it has seen a significant rise and more
30 years. Inheritance tax is a progressive tax per slice, the relative tax burden
20

increased considerably.

To better match the realities and inheritance taxes are levied more
fairly, FDF propose to annually index the various limits and slices
hand, exemptions, reductions, deductions and limits or limitations to the index price
consumption.


Proposal 13: Introduce the principle of recording rights portability

Tax competition between Flanders, Wallonia and Brussels is a reality.

The registration fee in Brussels are the highest in the country with those of Wallonia.
Certainly the exempt portion of the first tranche is likely to make attractive Brussels
for the purchase of a first well below € 240,000. But when reselling this first well,
registration fees paid in Brussels are higher than in Flanders that has the
mechanism of the portability of registration duties.

Wallonia does not have one, but the average purchase price is much lower than
Brussels: it is 50% lower compared to Wallonia Brussels for homes, and 25%
lower for apartments. Even with higher registration fees in
Wallonia, it weighs less in the household budget. In addition, the supply of quality goods is
more abundant.

In Flanders, portability is an attractive mechanism. Apartment prices is similar
to that practiced in Brussels, but the houses are still much cheaper than in Brussels.

Specifically, apply a registration tax portability rule implies that the
household pays only once the registration fee due for the acquisition of a residence
main. In other words, any acquisition of a new home to change residence
main come true deduction of registration fees paid when purchasing the
first home.



A.1.1.5. ... Encourage some behaviors and discourage others

Proposition 14: Reinstate the green loan and tend to zero rate

Any individual homeowner who contracted a loan to finance a
investment to save energy should be entitled to a right to
interest subsidy borne by the State. This means that households are-subscribers
gain in the short term, by investing at lower cost, and long term, benefiting from gains
significant on their energy bills.

The expenditure referred should be: the replacement of old boilers,
installing a solar heating system for sanitary water, of photovoltaic panels
and double glazing, the roof insulation, walls and floors, the valves installation
Thermostatic or clock room thermostats or finally spending for the
conducting an environmental audit of the dwelling.
21

Such a measure was introduced by the Secretary of State for Environmental Taxation,
Bernard Clerfayt, sometime in 2009. It showed its full efficiency.
While the fiscal situation is poor, the regions are the choice of an operator
groups - such as 'one stop shop' which households can go to pre-finance the
Energy renovation of their homes. For the FDF, we must emphasize partnership
Publicprivate with the banking sector. This type of action has the advantage of costing little the
community (30 million euros).

Proposal No. 15: Taxing pollutants that damage the environment and
the health

The use of such products is not without environmental impact and health and
is a significant cost borne by the community, especially for the decontamination of water.
In Sweden, taxation has reduced the risks to the ecosystem and biodiversity and
helped encourage sustainable farming practices. Accompanied by other policies, this
measure has reduced by 65% ​​the use of pesticides over a period of 18 years.
This example invites us to introduce a tax on plant protection products (pesticides) that
tax revenue would represent an estimated 32 million.



A.1.1.6. Supporting popular savings

Proposal 16: Reform the taxation of capital income

The goal: better respect the free choice of taxpayers: if all investments were treated
in the same way, the tax no longer influence the choice.
The reform that we advocate is to:
● apply a single rate of 25% on all of the interest and dividends;
● broaden the tax base to PlusValues
● remove the tax reduction for épargnepension
● extend the exemption from the first tranche of investment income to all forms of
investments, including pension savings.
● increase the exempt amount to € 2,850
● establish the payment of social security contributions at the same rate as social contribution
Personal employees on real and personal income.

A reform of this kind has many advantages, including legal
since it responds to the condemnation of Belgium by the Court of Justice of the Union
European with regard to exemption of 1,900 euros in interest on savings accounts. For
FDF, it is above all a way to support people's savings, leaving the
freedom of investment choice to citizens: booklets, term deposits, government bonds,
épargnespensions, investments in SMEs ...
This form of globalization of income via the statement to the IPP and the establishment of payment
social contributions on real and personal income, responds to the concern for justice
social. All investment income would be affected; the declaration would prevent the IPP
fraud linked to the increasing number of savings accounts and recipients of capital income and
Real participate in this way to the financing of social security.

22



A.1.1.7. Reforming corporate taxes

The reform of corporate tax (ISOC), proposed by the FDF, has two objectives:
● alignment with the EU average;
● simplification.


Proposition 17: Delete the notional interest rate to align on the ISOC
average rate of the EU is 23.5%

The corporate tax rate applied in Belgium amounted to 33.99%, against a rate
using the euro area to 26.1% and an average rate of the EU at 23.5%.
ISOC is complex. The exemptions, reliefs and reductions involve a loss of
revenue for the state, which reached 15.6 billion euros in 2010, including 5.3 billion loss
win because the notional interest which certainly had the merit of encouraging
recapitalization and thus the creditworthiness of companies, but have generated perverse effects. The
dismissing enterprises collectively benefit and multinationals locate
their activities in Belgium to house their profits and avoid paying taxes.
These notional interest greater benefit to large companies: 56% of SME's
use against 65% of large companies. Better therefore turn them into a
tax cut for all businesses.


Proposition 18: Defending the European harmonization project based ISOC

Objective: To significantly reduce the administrative burden for companies wishing to
deploy within the EU. Included are costs of compliance and uncertainties
Legal which they currently face to comply with not less than 27
national rules when establishing their taxable income. Establish a common base
would use a one-stop shop system for filing tax returns and
consolidate the gains and losses recorded throughout the Union. The companies concerned
will benefit from an overall saving of around 1 billion euro and this system would
end tax strategies shopping large multinational groups.




A.1.1.8. Stepping up the fight against tax fraud

FDF advocate a dozen steps in this direction.

Proposal 19: Strengthen cooperation at European and international level

● Defending the European project aiming to extend the automatic exchange of information
all income: in addition to exchanges previously established from early 2015 (on
earned income, attendance fees, assurancesvie, pensions and income
Real), providing exchanges on dividend income, PlusValues, other
Financial income, account balances ...
23

● Defending the European project to promote the automatic exchange of information
as not only European standard, but also in International
transparency and exchange of information in tax matters.
● Set up standard forms for these income issuers.
● harmonize certain tax rates, including corporate taxes, among others.


Proposal No 20: Improve tax risk management

For the sake of solidarity and simplification, we want
● create measurement tools of fraud to identify the sectors and
tax provisions that are problematic. This implies to modify the provisions
legislative issues;
● take measures and adequate sanctions against fraudsters and make a
evaluation of the effectiveness of measures.


Proposition 21: Empower justice improve investigative techniques and
Litigating the crime of fraud

Proposition 22: Consolidate fiscal and social control authorities to facilitate
the realization of versatile controls and reduce the costs of control


Proposal No. 23: Acting more deeply into the causes of the tax burden (cf.
ABOVE: evolving towards a single VAT rate, lower rates
corporate tax and personal income tax ...)

To identify tax evasion, the underground economy we must understand that there is
closely related. However, the information on the underground economy, the black economy and
tax evasion is difficult to obtain because the individuals engaged in such activities
obviously not wish to be known.

According to Friedrich Schneider, the shadow economy is 16% of GDP to his account in Belgium.
The amount defrauded therefore fluctuate around 25 billion euros, which is the
Belgium in 16th place on the list of European countries, the European average of 18.5%.

An effective fight against this phenomenon involves taking preventive measures and
repressive. Given the globalized environment in which we operate, take measures
National is far from enough.

It is necessary to defend the adoption of common European standards for sharing
information. This would avoid a disparate situation in which Member States
EU could lead and conclude their separate, separate bilateral agreements
with the United States and other third countries. The measure also would allow all States
members receive additional information and to better assess and collect
taxes due on their territory. The European Union would be in a better position to
negotiate and promote the adoption of more stringent standards for information exchange
tax at global level.
24











25



A.1.2. Full employment



We believe that full employment is defined by an unemployment rate below 5%.
How to get there ? By actuating various levers at each level of power:
support for job seekers, reduced labor costs, improved
qualifications ... We need to take every opportunity to exploit sources of jobs.



A.1.2.1. Reducing labor costs

Proposal No. 24: Reducing the cost of labor at the European average

Belgium is the bad European student in terms of labor costs.





Source: "Tax burden of the employee lambda within the EU," Molinari Economic Institute, June 2011.


The situation described in the table handicaps the competitiveness of our businesses, motivates
relocation and soustraitances abroad. It is imperative to be at least in the
26

European average. Recommended measures on taxation should be widely
contribute. We complement them with two other measures:

Proposal No. 25: Transforming the targeted reductions in employer contributions to a
general reduction on low wages

The employment policy combines the targeted reductions in employer contributions: young,
seniors, unemployed long-term, 3 first recruited workers ... This makes
complex legislation and creates perverse effects, such as when an employer deviates
candidate only because he did not stay long enough for unemployed
to benefit from the measure. Apply a single measurement, focusing on low wages. This is
also track the most "profitable" in terms of jobs according to the Bureau. Loaded
to study several scenarios corresponding to a decline in revenues of 0.5% of GDP
throughout the simulation period (about 1.5 billion the first year), he concluded
the payroll tax reduction option employers targeted on low wages is the
After more positive for activity and more job creation: between 34,000 and 60,000 jobs
are created after 7 years depending on the assumptions.



A.1.2.2. Supporting those who choose to create their own jobs

Freedom of enterprise is at the heart of the economic program of the FDF. And that translates
in the full program by a seventy measures to create a favorable context
for investors to SMEs, entrepreneurs, traders and, in general, all
those who, through their work, contribute to economic growth and general welfare. In
Examples:


Proposition 26: Delete payroll taxes the first year for those who create
their own jobs

The beginnings are often difficult for those who want to create their work. They must invest
while they do not yet stable earned income. And they must pay
social contributions. During the first year, we need to pay 684 euros
quarter (amount 2013).

FDF intend to contribute to the boost that contributes to success, this "tone more»
for all who are willing to undertake. We want to remove payroll
for independent who settle for the first time and this for a year. They
benefit, of course, the compulsory insurance "health care" and, for retirement,
they will be able to regularize their situation in order not to be penalized in a career
incomplete when calculating the amount of their pension.


Proposal 27: Give the status of "independent candidate" for a period of 3
years maximum for the boxes beginners

The principle is simple: you must register with a social insurance fund from the beginning
activity in order to benefit from the same protection as that guaranteed to all
27

independent. The fee shall be payable only when earnings reach the professionals
guaranteed minimum wage. This status is reserved for those who are determined to increase their chances
of success. Also, you must:
● or do business in one of the trades labor shortage;
● or demonstrate a financial plan it is possible to use futures
between 1 and 3 persons;
● or move to an infrastructure that provides professional support to
As of recognized incubators.

Proposition 28: Simplify, simplify, simplify!

What constraints on citizens who create jobs!
These are all levels of government that increase red tape and design
of laws whose execution is never controlled! And there is an abundance of
subsidies, though scattered and complex that they benefit only a few insiders.

● A key word, a requirement to simplify and thus make life easier for those who have
willingness to undertake a series of measures including the following are examples:
● drastic simplification of aid to enterprises, too complex and often
inconsistent, both in Wallonia than in Brussels Region;
● establishment of a "smart regulation" at every level of power. She must
include a prior impact assessment of any new regulation on SMEs;
● establishment of a database "on web" with all data
known to the administration, the entrepreneur should not only communicate
Once each datum and all operators (federal or regional) should be
their access to pre-forms;
● a single source file and by whatever route it in
administration.

Proposal No. 29: Index all wages up to € 3500 gross per month

FDF believe that we must maintain the indexing of all wages. However, it must
qu'audelà to see a certain threshold, the indexing is not used to consume
more goods and services; it does not contribute with the same impact on wellbeing.

Therefore, it would cease to apply from a threshold that should be subject to
accurate simulations, but should turn around 3,500 euros gross per month. 70% of the
population is Endeca this threshold and therefore continue to benefit fully from
indexing. The measure that we advocate would reduce labor costs on
higher wages.




A.1.2.3. Bringing the world of education and training that
work

Proposal No. 30: Focus on company training

28

We must be able to attend school or vocational training while having the possibility
to practice in a company or a workshop:
● in technical and vocational education;
● in the formation of the middle class;
● and vocational training.

We can not tolerate that young people learn trades on obsolete equipment
which are not used by businesses. It is important to change attitudes in both the
world of education than in companies that too often feel that taking
apprentice or trainee is a charge which can happen.

Proposal No. 31: Simplifying multiple existing formulas

FDF agree favor the most efficient formulas, such as training
individual enterprise professional (FPIE). This makes it easier for entrepreneurs and
results are convincing in Brussels since in 85% of cases, it leads to a contract
indefinite period.

Some conditions detailed in the full program of FDF must be met. By
example, for each sector should be to initiate a "round table" with industry
Economic concerned, allowing to target functions, targeted business ...


Proposition 32: Invite all potential partners to respond to the EU Call
For the young

We must conclude a WallonieBruxelles pact for youth training.
Governments, businesses, unions, chambers of commerce, institutions
education and vocational training, youth representatives, services
jobs ... all must take firm and specific commitments. These programs designed
mutual agreement must pursue two objectives:
● increase learning opportunities and quality;
● support tutors in training and support for apprentices.

Covering both Wallonia and Brussels will open more opportunities: there is no
probably more difficult to find an internship in industry or in a craftsman in Brussels
Wallonia. For cons, the service sector dominates in Brussels can offer more
opportunities for young Walloons. These programs are expected to submit applications
support from the European Social Fund.

Proposal 33: Adopt a quality framework for traineeships

The known pitfall is to use trainees as cheap labor. It is to overcome
because it is harmful and could lead to a vicious circle of precarious jobs instead of lead
a decent and sustainable work.
The European Commission is preparing a quality framework for traineeships; Federation
WallonieBruxelles should be inspired. This framework should at least include rules
to remuneration, social security, work experience and prevention
29

risk replacement of existing staff.


Proposition 34: Propose volunteer opportunities.

To expand the supply of initial experience to young people, municipalities and CPAS should take
an inventory of opportunities for volunteer placements. It is possible to volunteer activity
for a non-profit association, a sports club, a public service, a public interest organization, an institution
of organized education, recognized or subsidized by a community, a cultural center,
a youth.

Furthermore, we must promote at European level the opportunity to offer young people (18-25
years) to perform in their country a citizen type of service for a period of 3 to 6 months. These
programs should enable an exchange between MemberStates to encourage immersion
another language and discover other cultures.

These opportunities must in all cases offer a first rewarding experience. The
employers are sensitive to the fact that the young refuse idleness and is willing to invest. It is therefore
a "plus" for those who do not find a job right away.



A.1.2.4. Personalized support for job seekers

All job seekers are not alike: they have qualifications, courses,
different personalities. It is therefore absurd when offer support
"Standard".

Proposal No. 35: Provide personalized support to each applicant
Job

Propose a first interview in the month following registration, which is still far from being the
case. Objective: To orient each job seeker to the type of support to it
appropriate. Rights and duties ! Because in each case it must commit to begin a series of
steps to seek employment.

● If the job seeker needs of individual support, we will offer him
a "professional Project Agreement" incorporating
a series of steps to be taken
(additional training, responding to a particular job, to benefit
help writing a CV ...).
● If it is sufficiently autonomous to engage only in a search, a "Contract
job search "has to give him the right to resort to advisers so
punctual, to have a basic equipment from a local insertion operator
professional (internet, word processing, printer, phone).
● If the job seeker needs a more specific support, for example
to formulate a project, select the jobs, learning to occur, it must
propose a "Companion Agreement".
Once the contract is signed, the job seeker has to deal at the same advisor
along its route.

30





A.1.2.5. Fighting against discrimination in hiring

The hiring discrimination are unjust and socially devastating since they undermine
the motivation of jobseekers still face it, whatever their efforts.
To remedy this, we must continue to raise awareness among employers and
that social dialogue has already resulted, for example, the adoption of a proper code
driving. However, the FDF want to go further ...

Proposal 36: Develop tools to the attention of job seekers

● A practical guide to inform them of their rights, practical advice
(how to detect and react to discrimination, useful addresses ...).
● A to the attention checklist of those who believe they have been victims of
hiring discrimination. This should allow to estimate if there actually has
evidence of discrimination and if the law has been respected.

Proposal No 37: Better fight against discrimination including language
hiring

● A public operator responsible for handling this type of discrimination to be designated. Neither
Centre for Equal Opportunities and the Fight against Racism, or the Institute for
equality of women and men have been entrusted with this mission that we
judge to be essential. There has so far been no majority to recognize the
problem and take charge.
● The assessment of the knowledge of languages ​​in the workplace must be
objectified. We propose to develop language courses focusing on trades;
the goal is to communicate in other languages ​​mastering vocabulary
his own future profession. And very often it involves the mastery of a vocabulary
sharper, but less extensive. After these courses, a language proficiency test
objectify must allow the level of knowledge. The successful examination, recruiters
could no longer claim insufficient knowledge of a language to deny
commitment.


Proposition 38: Guiding jobseekers whose diploma is not recognized
Belgium to skills validation process

This device is designed to formally recognize the professional knowledge and knowhow
endehors acquired classic tracks: insertion internships, volunteering, seminars ...
A range of different skills and can already be recognized (eg. Aidecomptable,
tiler, mason, technical auxiliary show, gardener ...). FDF propose extending
these possibilities and know.
We must integrate this approach in the socio-professional integration program so
that without a diploma, the students to practice a profession listed in the process
31

receive a credential.
Proposal 39: Strengthen controls and sanctions
● If necessary, seek employment inspectors who have a monitoring mission
control. They can draw the conclusion of the offenses and conduct hearings,
Investigate workplaces, access to information material ... This
Collaboration is expected to conduct a survey of employers
"Doubtful" and.
● If a significant conclusion, should be obtained for the victim compensation
fixed pecuniary damage (eg. 3 months of gross remuneration).




A.1.2.6. Employment of seniors: lower the cost of labor and share the

Proposal No. 40: Rethinking the cost of labor at European level to better reflect
account the "seniors"

When the wage pressure is high between the "young" and "seniors", the employment rate
the latter is lower. This is the case for Belgium, where the employment rate is 5564 years
37% (against 70% in Sweden and 54% in the Netherlands for ex.). Wage tension between
5059 years and 3039 years from us is 121% (against 105% in Sweden to 107%
Netherlands). We must bring down this salary tension along the pace of work
for seniors. The experience of the Scandinavian countries are inspiring others MemberStates
to make work more attractive for senior citizens by easing social legislation.


Proposal 41: Encourage the creation of employer groups

The requirements are too strict. It should expand. Today, the group
can recruit only job seekers precarious in its immediate environment
(employability of the area), or experts, such as, for example, a
chemist working for a number of pharmacies that can not recruit each
chemist ...

Extend the formula would allow seniors to work "à la carte" by putting their experience
service employers that could not afford to hire them alone. Of
sectoral groups of employers could, for example, offer tutoring
business know-how to transmit to the young.









32



A.1.3. TOWARDS ECONOMIC GROWTH



A.1.3.1. Support scientific research

Research is a factor of growth and social progress. The European Union
recommends that each member shall devotes at least annually 3% of its GDP,
1.5% devoted to basic and applied research funded by the public sector. This
to be achieved by 2020.
The TOT program devotes an important part to the Francophone scientific research,
which here two flagship proposals.

Proposal No. 42: Invest in research to achieve the goal set by the EU

In 2011, Belgium has broadly invested 8.2 billion euros: this represented 2.21% of
its GDP.
These figures mask a significant divide between Flanders and the Federation
WallonieBruxelles: alone, Flanders invests € 1.2 billion a year, against 600
million for Wallonia and met WallonieBruxelles Federation, and 40 million
Brussels. Together, the Federation and its two regions should focus their investments
in public research support to 1 billion euros / year (program to be implemented over 5 years).

Proposal No. 43: Valuing the Francophone Research

Specifically, the FDF want:
● harmonizing had the status of young researchers to remedy the precariousness of their status
early career;
● promote business PhD jointly funded by the university, the Region,
Community and especially by the company that undertakes the researcher for a period
determined (eg 4 years.) and can retain ownership of the exploitation of results;
● promote the popularization of science (eg. Through specific clauses in
specifications) ;
● promote multidisciplinary approaches (centers of excellence, working seminars
common, specific grants ...).




A.1.3.2. Developing growth sectors

Proposal No. 44: Create 50,000 new jobs in Wallonia 2020

Employment can not be decreed by public authorities, but can create conditions cellesci
favorable to their creation by attracting investors, including foreign investors.
The Government accredits the creation of 46,000 jobs in clusters, with
the involvement of different stakeholders 1252, since the introduction of different versions
successive Marshall Plan.

33

These clusters supported for the realization of investment projects, research
and development (R & D) or training as part of a positioning strategy
competitive certainly are an essential lever for economic redeployment of the
Wallonia.

In this respect, if the issues emerged globally in the right direction, there is still no
true track for industrial redeployment although it can be glad that the Marshall Plan
2022 focuses on:
● the need to promote research and innovation at the enterprise level with
some interesting tracks such as the insertion of clauses in innovative markets
public;
● administrative simplification in the creation of SMEs;
● the desire to develop innovative sectors parallel to the social economy.

FDF wish to amplify the Marshall Plan by introducing a genuine policy
industrial. Six clusters associating companies and training organizations were
selected and defined in successive versions of the Marshall Plan:
● life sciences;
● agribusiness;
● mechanical engineering;
● transport and logistics;
● aeronautics and space;
● sustainable chemistry and molecules.

Ceuxci must be assessed as of now.

FDF intend to continue on this path by studying the possibility of supporting other
sectors, such as wood, threatened by emerging countries, or glass,
rubber, ...
He is not to grant subsidies, but to build a strategy in consultation
with these clusters.
This can lead to a change in legislation, a public / private partnership,
development of data banks, on an adaptation of the training offer.
Adapting a strategy to wood pole could, for example, be to develop products
competitive finished with us, rather than exporting the raw material, to consider a partnership
public / private to replant conifers, to promote the use of wood in
construction ...

Proposal No. 45: Create at least 10,000 new jobs a year in Brussels by
2020

There are reasons to be optimistic: the Brussels region has some 650,000 jobs,
making it the largest country in the employment area. There is reason to be worried: if we create only
not 10,000 jobs a year in Brussels by 2020, the region has an unemployment rate of 36% and
will have about 224,000 job seekers instead of 76,000 in 2010, as reflected
a study carried out by Professor Andrew Lambert, the ADRASS (for the Association
Development of Applied Research in Social Sciences).
FDF refuse fatality. We intend to make every effort to infuse new
dynamic from our resources because, fortunately, the Region still harbors
34

sources of employment:

● in clusters, such as ICT, green technology,
green building sectors ... These developments are expected to continue
promising;
● in the Horeca and trade;
● in tourism;
● in local services and health. For example, if one is based on projections
DULBEA demographic, it will create between 6,000 and 10,000 jobs by 2020
in the early childhood sector in basic and secondary education, and
in residential care for the elderly;
● in Heritage Skills;
● in the waste treatment sector;
● in the port area, which is expected to create some 300 jobs in the sector
transportation and logistics;
● in the events industry: more is needed to position the capital of Europe
as a convention center and other professional events;
● in the security sector.

Representatives of these sectors are seekers of "helping hand". Alas, training
desired not always available (eg. in the trade sector). We must invest in
research (eg. in the waste sector) or in infrastructure and better
to highlight our strengths (in the events industry).

It is high time to identify all sources of jobs that contains the Brussels Region,
to estimate their potential to create jobs and implement the requirements for
exploit them immediately.



A.1.3.3. Preserving local shops

The Brussels trade consists of 9,871 sales outlets, usually located in a
the 104 commercial centers: this represents 59,000 jobs (48,000 employees and 11,000
Independent). Retail trade turnover reached 15.8 billion or 9.6% of
Brussels GDP.

The Walloon Trade consists of 25,800 outlets. It represents 120,000 jobs
(90,000 employees and 30,000 independent). Retail trade turnover reached
8.1% of Walloon GDP.

Beyond its economic weight, local shops is a quality of life factor
Daily for all citizens. And it is for this reason that the FDF intends to defend it because it is also
a social link and we want it to be strengthened. The challenge is to be met, both in Brussels and
Wallonia. Alarm signals must not discourage us. But they are present.
During his recent inventory of Walloon businesses, the UCM has developed a yet
grim diagnosis: the sector is declining.
In four years, the number of independent there fell by almost 5%, the average age increased from
46 years and 9 months to 47 years and eight months; the age of 35 are only 14%: the cell count
Empty is 13.5%, with peaks of 20% in some areas of the provinces of Liege and
35

Hainaut, interviewed by phone, they are 48% to say threatening.

Proposal 46: Encourage the adoption of a "local for trade"

Cities and municipalities can indeed operate many levers to create a
favorable environment for the development of their businesses. Let us make us a list hereinafter
not exhaustive, provided that such plans must be developed in consultation with the
key stakeholders.

Mobility
● Increase frequency of public transport to and around
commercial centers, including early evenings, at weekends, days
Shop opening on Sundays ...

● Encourage deliveries by small tonnage vehicles by creating,
Outside the cities, transhipment areas to smaller vehicles.

● Establish a traffic plan for each commercial core, if necessary
synergy with neighboring entities.

● Better coordinate interventions in case of breakdown, accident, fire
deficient signaling.

● Punishing the more double parking.

● Adopt a progressive parking fee with free 15 min. for
favor small purchases of proximity.

● Although indicate parking areas and monitor.

● Regulate necessary areas and delivery schedules.
Cleanliness
● Create a "green brigade" to respond quickly to local acts
vandalism, the garbage overflowing and other problems
cleanliness in commercial cores.

● Place a sufficient number of bins and ensure that they are
regularly emptied.

● Maintain a clean street furniture and in working order.
security
● Maintain sidewalks in good condition to avoid accidents.

● Place the fairly low lighting and choose a warm light to strengthen
the feeling of security.

● Encourage traders to adopt perforated shutters and illuminate their windows
evening in the crowded cores, eg for institutions
HORECA and cultural activities. City or region could usefully
negotiate a rate reduction with electricity suppliers.

● Illuminate parking.

● Strengthen friendly police presence (eg. Tours on horseback
promote contact, highly visible antennas, eg. a glass bubble, the
center of a commercial center ...)

● To discourage certain types of shops in commercial centers
traditional (eg. sex shops, lunaparks ...).
● Encourage grouped aesthetic façade renovations that achieve
economies of scale from a single entrepreneur, with the help of
city ​​or region.

● Adopt a Lighting Plan to highlight the heritage points
green ...

● Focus on sobriety and respect the aesthetics of stores and
area (eg., avoid harsh neon).
36



●



●

Limit the size of stores starting with delete
gradually panels of 20 m2 and preferred location
Endeca from the balcony of the first floor.
Encourage the renovation of facades "pooled" for
advantageous terms from a contractor.




Proposal No. 47: Providing business management tools

Traders are by nature independent. They do not seek assistance, or
mandatory training, but the tools to launch and manage the best
their trade.

Here are the tools proposed by the FDF:
● manage a perpetual inventory of infrastructure and commercial space available,
accompanied by occupying tips: these identify the type of business or service
which should ideally complement the offer already present in each core
shopping. To this end, we need to identify which shops or services

missing by commercial core;
● offer training seminars tailored to merchants (cf. infra);
● provide a "showcase" of trade in the city through a data portal
could, if necessary, make the connection with the databases that already exist here and there
at municipal level.


Proposal No. 48: Propose practical short courses

There is no specific training for small traders. However, they are
face competition from retailers who master all the sales techniques.

FDF offer:
● entrusting Bruxelles Formation and the FOREM with the task of developing a cycle
formations of very short duration, having essentially no practical advice
only in sales but also in IT (eg. managing a client file for
send them an email regularly use social networks), marketing (ex.:
what are the possibilities to become known in the area and at what price,
how customer loyalty ...) in the development of commercial space ...;
● set up a "BES management of Sale" quality in social promotion,
with practical experience in store.


Proposal No. 49: Fight against empty shops

To be attractive, a shopping center should be thriving; an empty detrimental to trade
the entire commercial core.
However, most of the commercial buildings remain empty for over a year: for example,
Wallonie according UCM, the rate of empty cells is 13.5%, with 20% peak in
37

some parts of the provinces of Liège and Hainaut.

FDF propose two approaches:
● systematically put a tarp on the window of the vacuum to illustrate the trade or
businesses that have to / for / t ideally move to this place because customers
attending the kernel feel the need (information to be provided by the Agency
commerce);
● encourage, in particular through an adapted property tax, the revaluation of
Heritage can be allocated to local shops (with maintenance of accommodation
floors and separate access).


Proposal No. 50: Limit the nuisance caused by public works

When public works of a certain size, businesses whose turnover is
freefall may have to lay off staff or even disappear.

Three steps should better support:
● better coordinate the work so as not to disrupt the activity of shops too
long or too often;
● enter into a "charter" at major public works that may have
consequences on attendance shops, with the aim reduced
nuisance, better information for traders, a consultation on
measures to limit the nuisance ...;
● adopt a more flexible legislation in order to adapt working time to the activity
Trade. Thus, when the merchant receives a minimum decrease of 20%
its turnover following the business for longer than a month, the
worker could go part time. He would receive an allowance of "unemployment
technical "equal to 60% of the corresponding loss of salary and until the end of
work.


Proposal No 51: Develop a comprehensive plan for the Horeca
Horeca account 56 580 establishments in Belgium, corresponding to 7.4% of total
companies. This high unskilled labor intensive sector plays a social role
appreciable.
Unfortunately, the crisis is also felt it: in 2012, nearly 2,000 bankruptcies were
recorded an increase of 28% in 5 years. This is an all-time record! 1141
cafes and restaurants and 804 hotels have disappeared.
The first statistics in 2013 are bleak since the portal
"Economy" refers to the federal bankruptcy over 600 institutions
Horeca between January and August 2013.
The "scoops" stimulus taken by the government Di Rupo is insufficient for doping
our economy and, especially, labor-intensive sectors such as lumber Horeca. The
The largest item of cafes and restaurants in our country in terms of costs, the
38

staff in this are the energy costs that increase the profit margin.
FDF propose an overall plan comprising the following measures: further reduce
Social contributions and expenses on overtime;
● allow annualization of working time in order to match schedules
Staff with the opening hours of the establishment;
● set up a coordination system for energy purchases.




A.1.3.4. The steel sector still has a future


Proposal No. 52: Enter Wallonia in the action plan for the steel sector
presented by the European Commission and develop the division of the Research Center
Arcelor Mittal

Steel can not be managed only at the national level and even less at the Walloon level.
In such a globalized economic environment, 20% of steel plants located
Europe present overcapacity. Consider a resurgence of
"European Steel Community" to gather a significant number of countries
Industrial Union members, including ours.
Through this plan, the Commission aims to encourage the demand for steel, especially in the sector
automotive and durable construction, and improve access to foreign markets, while
trying to ensure affordable energy costs. The Walloon Government must quickly
will follow to implement this strategy in Liege industrial basin.
FDF opposed any nationalization Site Arcelor Mittal and are convinced that
the steel tool must above all be redeployed at the research and development.
The Arcelor Mittal Research Centre, which works closely with the University of
Liège, must, more than ever, be valued as a pole of development and innovation
in the Liège basin.



A.1.3.5. The airport sector must continue off

Proposal No. 53: Supporting economic development in and around airports
Regional Charleroi and LiègeBierset, respecting competition rules
imposed by the European Commission to increase the Walloon logistics sector

FDF are convinced that the airports of Charleroi and Liège can be tomorrow the
essential vector of economic development in Wallonia, because in addition to jobs
the site (some 3,500 people in Charleroi), airports contribute to develop
activities in the hotel industry, in transport shuttles, but also in
touristic.
More broadly, said airports "regional" give an attractive image of Wallonia.

Companies wishing to settle in the aeropole and Charleroi Airport should
soon welcome a new boarding unique structure in Europe.
39

Charleroi airport estimated its potential to 9 million passengers by 2020, enough
increase employment of 1,500 people. An investment of € 80 million is programmed
for the terminal.

Bierset, meanwhile, saw pass 674,000 tonnes of cargo in 2011, while Brussels
Cargo did not pass as 480,000 tons, proof that the freight sector is dynamic
Wallonia on the airport map, and must continue to be supported.
Furthermore, as regards the socalled unfair competition made against the airport
Zaventem by the Walloon regional airports under European law, it must be remembered
a study conducted by a firm of international experts on behalf of the Region
Walloon considered in 2006 that EU law still allows some
flexibility to support the growth of regional airports, including funding
investments and public character missions.

In a WallonieBruxelles perspective, the FREE report (Forum for Research and
encouraging entrepreneurship), apolitical and independent organization that
recalled in 2012 the need to remove obstacles to the development of synergies between the two
Regions, says that in addition to economic benefits (including tourism) in Brussels,
development Charleroi airport is likely to develop local employment (3000
posts in 2011) and have an impact on the whole of Wallonia.

Wallonia has made the space of Liege Airport, sixth cargo airport
Europe.
FREE also emphasizes the implementation of CAREX TGV Fret project level
European airports.



A.1.3.6. Consider Walloon agriculture as a real pole
major economic

The utilized agricultural area (UAA) (note: statistical tool that assesses the territory
dedicated to agricultural production, consisting of permanent grassland, arable land and
perennial crops (orchards), without understanding the woods and forests) covers 722,000 hectares,
representing not less than 43% of the Walloon territory.
In Wallonia, 22,000 people are employed in 13 500 farms for production
annual 1.5 billion euros.
This means that agriculture remains essential to the proper socioeconomic balanced society
and can contribute to the structuring of the territory and of rural areas.
Farmers remain major economic actors, especially in
rural areas of the Walloon Region with the recent development of new activities
Service (farm tourism, sale of local products, educational farms).
In this case, the farm can become purveyors companies
sustainable jobs.

Proposal No. 54: As part of the pillars of the CAP (Common Agricultural Policy)
require the Walloon Region:

support meaty and dairy sectors to maintain aid
returned ;
40



support investment aid and installation as a farmer.


The agricultural world is facing, first, to a market liberalization which suffers
sector and, secondly, to difficulty in the renewal operations.
It is also very dependent on decisions taken at European level (the CAP, including the flap
2014/2020 was voted last November to the European Parliament).

His defense now passes mainly through the intervention of the European level, first and
International but the Walloon authorities must continue to support the sector singularly
in the process of promotion of agricultural products and new service activities
agriculture makes to society.
FDF are concerned about the CAP deficiencies that, despite the importance of the budget are
devoted, no longer sufficient to ensure continuity in income and occupation
farmers.

It is urgent to deal with the ultra-liberalism that threatens international markets
safeguard our agriculture on the European continent.
CAP "post 2013" which led to an end in March 2013 agreement in the Council of Ministers
Europe has allowed in any case to maintain the priority support for family farms.

FDF ask the Walloon Region to ensure maintaining adequate levels of income and
Decent to Walloon farmers and, in this perspective, that the Walloon Region put in
a proactive policy in line with European requirements.


Proposal No 55: Promote the recovery of farms by young
farmers in particular by:

the implementation by the Walloon Government aid for young farmers
farmers under the CAP;

the development of micro financing by the general public

According to statistics of the FWA (Walloon Federation of Agriculture), the agricultural sector
Walloon lost from 1980 to early 2010, more than 2/3 of its operations. Employment
Farm also regresses a little over 3% a year.
This process is far from being halted, even if it is not isolated in Europe.

FDF propose to consider the financing system by the general public (crowdfunding)
which is to raise funds from the public, often through the Internet, to fund a project
specific. To collect these funds, the project proponent presents the proposed transaction and
indicate the amount needed for this project.
In agriculture, considering the collective economic interest, such financial arrangements may
be investigated.


Proposal No 56: Promote training of young farmers in partnership,
particularly with provincial economic offices and the Youth Federation
farmers (FJA)

Continuing education is certainly a challenge for the future of the farming profession.
41

The evolution of business requires new technical skills so farmers
can improve their economic productivity, while ensuring preservation
the environment (eg. choice of rotations in crops, calculation of rations
animal feed…).
FDF believe, for example, the provinces, through their provincial economic offices,
could establish mentoring and internship modules structures, while
also enhancing training among farmers "tutors".
In this respect, the FDF consider that these courses should consider the profession in its
whole (access to aid criteria, optimizing the operation at the technical level,
agronomic, environmental).


Proposal No. 57: Strengthen the role of the APAQW as promotion structure
single Walloon agricultural products and support distribution approaches
proximity and short circuits

Short circuits are now an important source of diversification
Walloon agriculture.
They consist of direct farm sales, baskets, cooperative stores, but
also by the availability of local products in supermarkets.
This must be reinforced through, inter alia, APAQW, regional public operator
must serve as a showcase to raise with the Walloon consumers want to buy
Walloon local products.


Proposal No. 58: Strengthen the role of the Walloon Centre for Agronomic Research
(CRAW) as a pole of development for the future of the agricultural sector more
particularly in the area of ​​agribusiness

Currently, 70% of Walloon agricultural production are absorbed by industry.
In this regard, the Walloon Agricultural Research Centre of Gembloux Faculties
(CRAW) must be upgraded in order to serve as a development pole for both new
farming techniques and for the food industry which is one of the poles
current competitiveness in Wallonia.


Proposal No. 59: Reducing agricultural land pressure in the next Walloon Code
agriculture through the creation of a specific regime "young farmer"

Regionalization of effective farm lease made by running the sixth state reform
must afford not to undermine household transmission through farms,
including family transfer or privileged assignment.
The Walloon Code of Agriculture, part of the DPR, will translate this desire not
increasing pressure on land that remains a barrier to young farmers and
provide legal and financial arrangements which can alleviate that pressure.




42






43



A.2. Real and effective social protection



A.2.1. A modernized social security

Social Security does not reflect our society. It was designed at a time when the husband,
Father was the main financial support of the household. Social status was linked to status
professional. We gave great importance to the distinction between workers, employees,
independent, officials ...

Today women work, family units are blended and life choices
have diversified, unstable jobs are increasing, workers are often more qualified
that administrative employees, independent claim rights equivalent to those of
employees ... Anyway society has evolved.
Social security must adapt: ​​it must gradually move towards individual rights.

For the FDF, this development must be in compliance with the fundamental principles that have
guided its development, namely:
● freedom, for example the freedom to choose his doctor, his mutual ...;
● solidarity, eg between active and retired people, between citizens in
healthy and sick ...;
● human dignity, delivering benefits to live in dignity.
equal rights.


Proposal No. 60: Ensure equal pension for all at least 60% of the average
the career earnings

We must gradually erase the differences between the current regimes towards this
common goal. To do this, it is essential to reform the way funding
pensions. A portion of the premiums paid by workers and their employers shall,
in future, be placed (such as by purchasing buildings, government bonds) and provide
income (eg. interest, rents ...). In this way, the financing of pensions
not based solely on more work.
Our proposals are based on what is already practiced successfully in other countries as
the Netherlands, where the average pension reached 1,600 euros. For comparison, the pension
Belgian average is 1,200 euros.
The proposed reform would preserve vested interests and would not enter into force until 2020
for those who would begin their professional careers.


Proposal No 61: Better to consider extending the life

The number of working years is too short PRESTE Belgium: 32 years, while the average
European is 35 years. Start by extending the period of effective career
then from 2025 gradually raise the minimum legal age of retirement
up to 67 years. Meanwhile the system must be flexible, afford to start later, or
44

interrupted his career and work later. It is also designed to "regularize" the
missing years to qualify for retirement, paying more than necessary, or
working longer. Thus introduces a possibility to "manage" his comptepension
a more flexible manner than today.
Finally, once the completed full career (currently 45 years), the activity of pensioners
would be allowed without any income limit. A pensioner who works continues to fund the
Social Security pays more taxes and consume more.

Proposal No. 62: Delete the solidarity contribution

Since the introduction of this contribution by the Government Dehaene in 1994, the FDF have
fought for it too penalizes pensioners who have worked all their lives etcotisé.
Only the lowest pensions are exempt (less than 2222 euros gross per month for a
isolated and less than 2.569 euro for a household). We ask a pure suppression and
simple.

Proposal No. 63: Provide individual insurance against unemployment

The current system is complex. The regime "ordinary" unemployment benefits has
27 and 27 different minimum amounts and maximum amounts. This is in addition to the
seniority supplements even more complex since for cohabitants, are distinguished
- 58 years and + 58 years ... It is virtually impossible to calculate the oneself
amount of the monthly allowance to which you are entitled.

The current system is incoherent: the unemployed receive lower allocations to income
social integration (RIS). The better informed unemployed know that if they meet the
requirements, it can be financially more profitable to be excluded from unemployment and
to knock on the door of CPAS: their active job search is no longer controlled. From
Moreover, they will be entitled to the benefits that the unemployed do not receive (and which vary from
SEDA to the other, eg.
free transport in common, -sport checks,
chèquesculture ...). People who have worked hard and contributed end up with a
Revenue decreased drastically at the beginning of unemployment (65% of the last salary, but
capped at 2466.59 euros). Conversely, people who have hardly worked or
paid in Belgium are entitled to unemployment "for life". Indeed, overseas work is taken into
consideration, and just "work" officially two hours to be entitled in Belgium
Unemployed.

Finally, to depend on a social allowance of a family situation is less
acceptable. In addition, it weakens them financially dependent persons from their partner,
a situation in which women are still often victims.
The potential for fraud is no longer acceptable. Control of household composition
is, indeed, rare and inefficient because a simple declaration on their honor enough. Control
only intervenes in cases of suspicion. Moreover, in case of proven fraud, allowances
wrongly paid are often very difficult to recover.

The proposed reform by the FDF is in particular to:
● maintain a gradual decrease, but ensuring that unemployment benefit is
still above the RIS;
45

● phasing out of single status and head of household to retain
an individual right;
● increase the link to the last wage during the first three months to avoid
too drastic and brutal drop in income;
● keep the increases for people who have worked at least 20 years;
● if punishment no longer excluded but reduce unemployment allowance: pass
when package has not yet achieved and an amount equivalent to the RIS when it was
achieved.

Proposal No. 64: Make a family allowance child's right

In Belgium, workers, officials and independent each have their own scheme
family allowances. However, they follow fairly similar rules: allowances
increase with the age of the child and there are 'ordinary' allowances and
allowances "increased". For employees, the basic family allowance amounted to:
● Euro 90.28 for the first child,
● EUR 167.05 for the second child,
● 249.41 euros for each child from the third.

There are also age supplements, orphan allowances, allowances
child placed in a private and supplements, for example, for children under
21 years suffering from an ailment.

The amounts of allowances for the self are identical to those of the regime
"Employees", except for the first child who qualifies for a lower amount.
For officials, amounts and scales applied are the same too, but they
rely on family allowance specific to them.

Currently, a child is not equal to a child. The transfer of competence to the
Regions (Cocom for the Brussels Region) will further aggravate the situation because the regimes
may differ depending on the Region where the child is domiciled.

FDF intend to establish an individual right for every child to not hold
account or the professional status of the parent, or the rank of the child. The amount of the allowance
basic family must be fixed in consultation with the social partners. FDF take
act of estimating the League of Families, which offers individual allocation 160.00
€ per child, with an age supplement of around 50.00 from 14 years. The possibility of
provide a supplement for each child modest income parents must be considered.
Increased allowances for disabled children and orphans, and the allocation of
birth would be unchanged.




A.2.2. Modernize the health care system

Health is one of the first concerns of our population because the preserve is synonymous
increase quality of life.

46

According to the FDF, access to health care must be broken down into several principles:
● freedom of choice for patients;
● freedom of health care providers' actions;
● affordability, without excluding the possibility of specific actions at certain
public.

For them, health is also an essential part of any project of life and is a major challenge for the coming years and that, especially with medical progress,
the average life expectancy increases. It is 82.9 years for women and 77.8 years
for men. At the international level, Belgium is very close to the EU average
européenne1. We can therefore say that, overall, the Belgian are doing well.

More generally, the Belgian are happy with their care and thus their doctors.
The percentage of satisfaction passes the threshold of 94 2% for specialists, GPs and
dentists.



Our health system is characterized in fact by the excellence of training providers
and by the speed of access to care.

However, major efforts are still needed at various levels.

Prevention is still sousdéveloppée such as, you know, one euro invested in
prevention helps to save much more in the curative sector! But the quasitotalité
yet still budget is dedicated to him.
1

The evening http://www.lesoir.be/199609/article/actualite/belgique/2013-02-28/l%E2%80%99esp%C3%A9rance-vie-franchit-cap-des80-ans-en-belgique
2

This is the conclusion of an online survey of 200,000 members of the Christian Mutuality. - "There
MCC distributes its good and bad notes ", p.2," Specialist - News medical specialists ", No. 13-12,
3-31 July.

47


Another example, now we have a total lack of vision in the medium to long term because
not only health is managed in annual budgetary terms but decisions are
Also taken without any prior study has been conducted. Even the existing data
are underexploited ...

Size of improvements must be made by daring to rethink his health
human and social dimension.

For the FDF, the role of government is not to take decisions instead of
citizens once they are affected by the disease, but to give them the tools they
need to be able to make the right choices at the right time (ie, before being
ill).



A.2.2.1. Health care



A.2.2.1.1. An optimal management of chronic diseases, and rare
Orphan

It can be estimated that a significant percentage of the Belgian population (eg. 2.5%, or 300,000
people for fibromyalgie3) is reached by one of these diseases, sometimes little known.
Without adequate treatment, pain and lack of quality of life can lead to
wish euthanasia as was the case for this woman of 48 years, fibromyalgia reached
which after six years of suffering, was euthanized in Ostend 20134.

Recognizing the special needs of patients with chronic and rare diseases
Orphaned and able to respond appropriately is a key issue.

Proposal No. 65: Improving accessibility of care for the benefit of patients

There are, in some cases, for treatments which can have a positive effect in people
sick, but their costs are so expensive that not everyone can access them.
In this respect, the FDF have the ambition to improve the accessibility and quality of care
benefit of these patients.

Proposal No. 66: Early detection of the disease for better results

The consequences of these diseases on the patient's quality of life can be substantial:
inability to continue his professional activity, physical disability, addiction
others ...
But for some of these diseases, so from the start, the diagnosis is well posed and coupled to a
treatment as well as adequate support, in some there is maintaining a
satisfactory mobility, a fulfilling social life, work in conditions
3

Its syndromes are characterized in particular by musculoskeletal chronic pain.

4

http://www.rtbf.be/info/societe/detail_lorsque-la-fibromyalgie-mene-a-l-euthanasie-faute-d-un-traitement?id=7949921

48

adapted ... which subsequently leads to a lower demand for care and to a
significant reduction in public health costs. Early detection allows
as often can find alternatives to hospitalization or placement in
institutions (helping close, home care ...).
And better support upstream enables better results and lower
downstream costs.

FDF therefore encouraged to invest in early detection and screening devices
by strengthening in particular trades primary care and giving
providers the time, space and resources to properly meet the needs of patients.
This requires longer consultations and compensation that accompanies it. A
revaluation of the intellectual act and allow more time to
patients.

Finally, to promote the early diagnosis, the FDF propose to conduct
Disease information campaigns targeted to all health actors,
but also to the general public and to stigmatize them.


Proposal No 67: Specific training of experts for these diseases

One of the first problems is the lack of doctors in training
the identification and treatment of these diseases. The shortage of people (doctors, nurses
and paramedical) trained and competent in some areas is dramatic.

To systematize the patient's care in a holistic approach, teaching and
the training of doctors, nurses and paramedics must promptly adapt with
Expert training.


Proposal No. 68: Better patient care through a team
multidisciplinary

Knowledge and consultation between general practitioners, specialists and multidisciplinary teams
must be facilitated. Indeed, although it is recommended that the patient load
within a multidisciplinary team, most specialized centers are too few and
waiting times for obtaining a rendezvous far too long.


Proposal No. 69: Encourage the medical and scientific world to participate in
Research and exchange programs

Also in order to improve treatments, support of scientific research is
essential. We need to encourage the participation of the medical and scientific world to
research programs and exchange of information on these diseases.

A.2.2.1.2. An optimal management of mental disorders increasingly present
in our society

49

Socio-economic crises in Western countries have changed realities
social and caused serious consequences: unemployment, insecure hardware, new poverty,
racial discrimination, increasing violence, disorientation and erosion of confidence
in traditional values.

The constant complexity of our society and the growing pressure it exerts on
individuals require resistance and individual resources increasingly important.
Thus, various enquêtes5 show that about 26% of Belgians do not feel good about themselves
skin, including more than half with a fairly sérieux6 psychological problem, and the number
forced admissions increased by 42% between 1998 and 2008, before the crisis.
WHO predicts exponential growth of mentale7 health problems and considers
depression as an "illness of the twenty-first century".

Suicide is also increasingly common among young people and the elderly and
some 58,000 people commit suicide each year in européen8. This is also a
the leading causes of mortality in Belgium. With 3 daily suicides, Belgium ranks
in the first 3 in Europe.

The growth of mental health problems caused not only a strong
increased demand for mental health care, but also the emergence of new
forms of supported applications more difficult and multifaceted. Thus, according to the latest
health survey by the Scientific Institute of Public Health, the consumption of
psychotropic drugs affects 16% of older respondents 15 years and older. 10%
take sleeping pills, tranquillizers 7% and 6% of antidepressants. 12% of the population
has ever seriously thought about committing suicide during his life and 5% has already been a suicidal gesture.
Already in 1990, five of the ten leading causes of disability worldwide were disorders
psychic, namely depression, alcoholism, manic-depressive disorders,
schizophrenia and obsessive disorders.

What this rising issue that mental health is new challenges
require new forms of versatility, the development of specific projects and
strengthening of a working strategy involving all stakeholders in the field of
mental health.

Proposal No. 70: recentralisation psychiatric centers on their core business

Recently, there has been a 10% increase in the number of hospital admissions
5

"15 worrying figures on mental health in Belgium", 08.19.2013, Mylène Vandecasteele,
http://www.express.be/business/fr/economy/15-chiffres-inquietants-concernant-la-sante-mentale-en-belgique/194492.ht
m
6

"Organisation and financing of mental health care in Belgium," Federal Public Service Health,
Food Chain Safety and Environment Directorate-General of the organization of institutions
care and hospital management accounting service, November 2011, p. 4.
7

WHO Mental health: strengthening mental health promotion, Geneva, 2001.

8

"Organisation and financing of mental health care in Belgium," Federal Public Service Health,
Food Chain Safety and Environment Directorate-General of the organization of institutions
care
Service
accounting
and
management
of
hospitals,
November
2011
p.
4.
http://www.google.be/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&frm=1&source=web&cd=2&ved=0CDYQFjAB&url=http%3A%2F
2Fhealth.belgium.be 2Finternet2Prd%%%% 2Fpublic 2Fgroups% 2F% 2F%% 40public 40dg1% 2F% 40datamanagement
2Fdocuments 2Fie2divers%%% 2F19073085_fr.pdf & ei = gVfVUpDnD8GW0AWDvYDYBA & usg = AFQjCNGbru0DKF8tW
yX229Cm7gZKbEN3Qw

50

psychiatric, especially in Flanders. Belgium is the world leader and the number of
psychiatric beds per capita: she has between 152 and 180 per 100,000 population against
100 for other countries OCDE9.

At present, too many psychiatric consultation centers have become venues. He
they should focus on their core businesses. The role of psychiatric hospitals must
be strengthened and all of them must be specialized in a specific field to do
treat the cases in which they have expertise. The aim would be to treat the hospital
periods of crisis of patients with ultra short stays, limiting, as
possible, the duration of hospitalization which is not beneficial for anyone (neither the patient nor
for state coffers).
Hospitalization should be considered a last resort, for care
highly specialized.
This system would also help to reduce the number of beds in hospital units
Psychiatric which would become more human scale.

Finally, it would be interesting to review the rules of the amenities that are psychiatric hospitals
exceeded long ago.


Proposal No. 71: Developing community-acquired structures

To achieve recentralise psychiatric centers on their core businesses, it would
strengthen multidisciplinary teams of specialists, but also improve the
Work network, particularly in terms of mobile crisis teams. Thus, once the crisis
completed, the patient would be facing another more suited to his state structure (home,
protected housing, psychiatric home ...).
Therefore, we must develop community-acquired structures in a solid network where everyone
work closely.
An output of the moratorium imposed in 2005 and would quickly convert 30% of beds
MR (rest house) in MRS beds (nursing homes and care). Same for beds
MSP (psychiatric nursing homes), the number should be increased, as the
sheltered housing, to offer more alternatives to patients who leave hospital
psychiatric in which they no longer have their place.

It is in this framework that the FDF offer to provide a specific framework by integrating
maximum care in life everyday to keep the patient in the process
socialization and avoid as much as possible admission to specialized institutions.
In order to relieve families with the care of a person with dementia, it is
also essential to encourage the creation of "safe houses" ensuring the integration
load of the patient. Indeed, helping to close is not an easy role to play as it is
often confronted with a feeling of helplessness, revolt, or guilt in relation to
ill. The setting up support programs for families would also
a great help.


9

The
Evening
"
There
Belgium
number
from
number
from
beds
psychiatric "
7.8.2013,
http://www.lesoir.be/294907/article/actualite/belgique/2013-08-07/belgique-numero-du-nombre-lits-psychiatriques

51

Proposal No. 72: Establishment of a real health prevention policy
Mental

The number of long-term psychological problems for patients increased from 74,000 in
2007-93000 in 2011, an increase of 25% in 5 years, according to figures from the Inami10.
With a rate of 34%, the mental state is the first cause of long incapacity for work
durée11 Belgium. An increase in the Inami explained by the growing number of cases of
chronic fatigue.
Thus, the burnout that generally touched the fifties, now reaches
More and more young people. According to Inami, from 5-6 years of work disability due to
mental disorders significantly increase in all OECD countries.

According to the Green Paper from the Commission of European Communities, "poor health
mental affects one in four citizens and it is estimated that over 27% of adult Europeans
know at least one form of mental ill health during any one year. There
poor mental health severely strike the economic, social, educational,
penal and judicial. "12 The overall cost of mental illnesses in Belgium is estimated at 4%
PIB13.

Therefore, a real support for this issue is a double challenge:
patient's suffering as such but also the economic impact it generates,
particularly in terms of absenteeism in companies.

There is currently a deficiency at the level of understanding and investment in
Prevention of mental health and its disorders and a lack of support from these visàvis
suffering people.
The population is indeed too often wrong or too narrow view of this
problematic. Therefore, the health actors are still too frequently the only oasis
listening and care in a family desert, social or even professional, or even the only
people who keeps the socialization process.
However, there is evidence that the work including, where possible, is an element of treatment.
But companies are reluctant to hire or retain someone who suffers from
psychological disorders.

The FDF and advocated the study and development of a real prevention policy
mental health and mental suffering, in order to sensitize staff
caregiver, parents, teachers, social service providers, and especially the great ...
public. FDF therefore propose to develop awareness and training programs
to allow rapid screening coupled with early diagnosis and treatment favoring
healing and / or the autonomy of the person and the welfare of his family.

Also as part of prevention, it seems essential to assess FDF
Regularly changing fort issue of mental health and achieve Maps
10

The
Evening
"The
number
from
sick
long
duration
explodes "
7.8.2013,
http://www.lesoir.be/294848/article/actualite/belgique/2013-08-07/nombre-malades-longue-duree-explose#anchor_2949
07
11
According to the conclusions of the report of Itinera think tank, released in July, on mental health care in Belgium.
12
EEC: Green Paper: Improving the mental health of the population: Towards a strategy on mental health for the EU, 2005
13
Frank Vandenbrouke, mental health care: the ways of participation and consultation, policy note
General of the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Minister of Public Health, 2001.

52

regular expressions.

Proposal No. 73: Improving conditions for repayment

It should provide for reimbursement of the acts for the diagnosis of dementia and
Cognitive rehabilitation programs but also the adaptation of conditions
refunds inhibitor drugs that are not reimbursed.


Proposal No. 74: Supporting scientific research for Alzheimer

In Belgium 150,000 people with dementia including 85,000 by disease
Alzheimer. This is the most common disease of the years when the weight is felt.
It now affects more and more people and concerns mainly people
elderly. This disease often begins after age 65 and reaches less than 2% of the population
between 65 and 69 years and over 15% of people over 80 years. Ageing will make this disease a
real social problem that deserves special attention.
Alzheimer's is very stressful for the patient who sees his abilities
cognitive deteriorating day by day, but also for the environment. In 96% of cases, a
Person of the close family circle of the patient becomes the primary caregiver.

This disease does not yet inevitable. Scientific research is
currently underway and will probably eventually cure or even eradicate this
disease. We must support them.

Proposal No. 75: Adequate Support for people with learning disabilities
developing mental health disorders

In our country, 3% of people with intellectual disabilities, and 40%
moreover they suffer from mental illness. This concerns 110,000 and as many
famille14.
Current standards (personnel and area) are too weak to deal in
patients optimal conditions. Work overload linked to staff shortages causes
problems of "burnout" of transfer requests responsible for a loss of experience,
with, the direct consequence, a significant increase in duration of hospitalization.

In Brussels there is currently no Diagnostic15 Double unit for the reception
adults. These patients are referred to specialized units of Bierbeek and Manage, which
must accommodate the patient base in addition to the "local". The waiting lists so reach
several months, creating dramatic situations for families and places of life, with
often a remedy to chronic hospitalization, inadequate, and very expensive
completely contrary to the spirit of "Section 107". The data collected by the cells
mobile intervention show that 50% of cases of decompensation are subject to a call for
a hospital unit while the latter occurs only when all resources
community-acquired failed.
14

Memorandum ANAHM policymakers about the therapeutic management of people
mentally handicapped developing mental health problems.
15
Dual Diagnosis (DD) is the combination of a mental disability and mental illness causing unrest
serious behavior.

53


The lack of adequate care is to highlight. Therefore, we
support the ANAHM16 in its request for establishment of a bilingual dual diagnosis unit
Brussels, as well as putting in management standards in line with the needs
psychomédicosociaux units 100% dual diagnosis such as Bierbeek and Manage.

Finally, as raised many times in this program to the whole of the sector
health, you have to make a register of institutions specialized in this sector in Belgium
define appropriate territorial coverage with the new standards.



A.2.2.1.2. Optimal care for AIDS patients


In 201 217 1227 HIV infections have been diagnosed in Belgium, which corresponds to
3.4 new diagnoses per day on average. This figure is up slightly, 3.4%
since 2011. Over the last 26 years, the number of new HIV infections
diagnosed in the country has fluctuated between 1.9 and 3.3 new diagnoses on average
day. The highest incidence was observed in 2010 with 1198 new cases diagnosed
during the year. At December 31, 2011, and since the beginning of the epidemic, a total of 25,855
persons were found infected with HIV.

Proposal No. 76: Fight against the exclusion of patients

A key point in the eyes of FDF lies in the problem of exclusion linked to the disease. He is
indeed important to make every effort to ensure that people living with
HIV / AIDS are not excluded from society, they have the same rights and
responsibilities as other citizens. The prejudices are pushing indeed often refuse
counseling, testing and care, and such an attitude only exacerbates the epidemic.

FDF offer every effort to fight against the exclusion of patients. In this
Indeed, they wish:
● encourage home care programs and mutual assistance among sufferers
HIV / AIDS;
● introduce measures mitigating the economic losses due to the disease;
● set up a system of assistance for relatives of sick people.

Proposal No. 77: Ensuring accessible care for the sick

The traitements18 are reimbursed at 100% once registered, ie after
received legal permission marketing. This remains a barrier to access to care.
Belgium is one of the slowest countries in registration Europe: it exceeds the
180-day period provided principle between registration at European level and availability
the drug nationwide. Meanwhile, celuici is not available in Belgium
National Association for Aid to Mentally Disabled
"Epidemiology of AIDS and HIV infection in Belgium Situation at December 31, 2012" Service infectious diseases
Within the general population, Scientific Institute of Public Health: http://www.wivisp.be
18
Belgian Chamber of Representatives, Special Session 2010, 5/10/2010, "Proposal for resolution
the intensification of the fight against AIDS ": http://www.lachambre.be/FLWB/PDF/53/0274/53K0274001.pdf
16
17

54

and if it is acquired abroad, it is not refundable.
It should also be aware that the reimbursement does not take into account all
aspects of the disease, including the treatment of diseases "opportunistic" 19, developing
when the immune system can not fight off attacks (viruses, bacteria, etc.) which
the body suffers.

At accessibility of care level, the FDF would ensure care accessible to all
patients by ensuring that their cost is not an obstacle and ensure
marketing and faster reimbursement of treatments available through management
efficient registration procedures.

Proposal No. 78: Encourage scientific research on treatments for
fight against resistant viruses

develops more deadly effect in the population. But even if AIDS is treatable, it does
19

Infections that occur when the immune system is too weak and can not react to stress (virus,
bacteria, etc.).
20
House of Representatives of Belgium, "Draft law establishing a compensation scheme in favor
of people infected with hepatitis or HIV following a blood transfusion, "3/02/2011, filed
including Damien Thiery, MP: http://www.lachambre.be/FLWB/PDF/53/1163/53K1163001.pdf

55

still not healed.

This also reflects a generation effect: AIDS is less present today
daily youth and all of which are less informed about the risks of transmission and
means of protection.
The emotional and sexual education programs that include the distribution of this
type of information is not available to a party of young people of school age in
especially in technical and vocational education.
Finally in a minority, some general fatigue with regard to the "preventive action" is
meeting and even a sense of rebellion against the norm established by prevention.

FDF propose to make every effort to ensure the decline of the disease, ensuring the
dissemination of necessary information about the modes of transmission as well as treatments
available.



A.2.2.1.3. An optimal management of hepatitis C.

75% of people with hepatitis C are unaware, leading to degradation
Early in their health. Yet this disease is four times more prevalent than HIV
affects nearly 100,000 Belgians. Projections showed that mortality from hepatitis C
triple by 2015 (up to 240 000 new cases every year since the early
1990) 21.

Proposal No. 81: A real support for hepatitis C

Hepatitis C is a scourge that holds the attention of the FDF, in terms of both
prevention at the level of care that are needed for those infected.



A.2.2.1.4. An optimal management of cardiovascular diseases

In our countries, cardiovascular disease remains the leading cause of death (+ /
40,000 deaths per year followed by + / 30,000 deaths from cancer) 22. Beyond factors
biological and socioeconomic which must also take into account, it is necessary to emphasize the
awareness on the fact that lifestyle also determines health.

Proposal No. 82: Working upstream of disease through prevention

Cardiovascular disease as a whole are associated with risk factors
intermediate (high cholesterol, obesity, high blood pressure) resulting themselves
including poor diet, lack of physical activity, smoking and
the harmful use of alcohol (WHO 2011). The environment (including stress and pollution
air by the fine particles) may also promote myocardial myocarde23.

Roche Belgium: http://www.roche.be/portal/roche_be_fr_V2/hepatitis
Figures 2010: "Spring Health" 02.03.2010.
23
Site "Sustainable Development Indicators"
http://www.indicators.be/fr/indicator/maladies-cardio-vasculaires-deces-dus-aux-maladies-cerebro-vasculaires?detail=
21
22

56

This is mainly because it is prevention well before it takes work to get
results.
Therefore, the FDF propose to improve the knowledge and motivation of each via
awareness campaigns so that we remember the importance of a diet
balanced, practice a sport, the harmful effects of alcohol and tobacco but also the role ...
vital to the practice of regular screening.


Proposal No. 83: A more active role of mutual and general practitioners in
Patient Information

Mutual should have a much more active role in information and prevention.
It is also essential for FDF doctors, specifically doctors
GPs, are involved and aware. In fact, their role is predominant in the
transmission of information because they are better able to make prevention "on
measure, "essential for this pathology.

Proposal No. 84: Consolidation and expansion of the Global Medical Dossier

We recommend that the Global Medical File (DMG) 24 be systematized and expanded. While
the patient is between 45 and 75 years, the GP who runs his DMG may charge
once a year a prevention module. This means that once a year, the doctor runs
with the patient, based on a checklist, preventive measures that could be useful
25
. But prevention affects everyone. It should therefore expand this intervention to all
patients, regardless of age.



A.2.2.1.5. An optimal management of cancer

Cancer is still the second leading cause of death behind cardiovascular disease
with 29% of deaths in Belgium is 26,000 / year. In addition, each year, 55,000 new cases
are detected and the number is steadily increasing.
Indeed, following the aging population and improved survival following
other diseases, including cardiovascular, cancer incidence is increasing. The
cancer represents one of the challenges of this century.

Proposal No. 85: Support trades of the first line for efficient distribution
Information

As for cardiovascular disease, we propose to direct our action
mainly on prevention and support professions that carry a first line
essential work through awareness and dissemination of information. It's in
effect well before that we must work to get results since the WHO estimates that no
24

The Global Medical File (DMG) contains all patient medical data (operations, chronic diseases,
ongoing treatments ...). It allows a better individual support and better coordination between doctors. If a
DMG a patient asks his GP, it will be refunded up to 30% more for the consultation (the firm or
for a home visit). The repayment rate obtained thanks to the DMG depends on the category of the license holder under
10 years, 10 to 75, over 75, chronically ill, palliative patient.
25
INAMI website: http://www.inami.fgov.be/citizen/fr/medical-cost/santh_4_2.htm

57

less than 40% of cancers could be prevented with effective prevention strategies.



A.2.2.1.6. Recognition of the status of helping close

Helping a dependent, sick, elderly or disabled often proves to be a real
cassetête for organizing everyday life.

Statistiquement26, it is estimated that, at international level, a tenth of the population takes the
function of helping close, with varying intensity, duration and strenuousness according to the
situation for the necessary help near. The association "Caregivers Close" assesses that this concerns
660,000 persons in the Flemish Region and 440 000 in the Walloon Region, and German Speaking
Brussels. People in dependency needs (whether institutional or
not) represent, meanwhile, just over 4% of the population27. And aging will
more than likely to change this figure to rise in the coming years.

Proposal No. 86: Recognition of helping close status


A first step towards this recognition has been made since a preliminary draft law has been approved
22 March 2013. But this text aims at defining the concept of helping close
to identify individuals who make up this TargetGroup. We must now go
much further in the process especially in terms of rights, benefits and
protections. Actions materializing this recognition must be implemented.


Proposal No. 87: Ensuring the maintenance of rights of various AP

FDF have long advocated the granting of a status close to the caregiver
devotes his time to the care and accompaniment of a sick relative and
dependent. So far, they had no status, which is totally unfair because it
social role should be enhanced. It is indeed important that society recognize the
time invested by one person at one point in his professional life. It is equally important
to recognize its economic value.
These citizens, aware of their responsibilities, are involved with their family or
environment and the widespread idea that helping others is a free gift of self and normal is not
egalitarian. For some, give without counting is quite obvious but, even if this
willingness to help, there is also a need for recognition and a need for a place
these people into society by promoting greater dedication, including a point
social and économique28 view.

The dependence of a relative is both financial and human cost that this status caregiving
26

Memorandum "Caregivers are indispensable resources for families. They also remain always in your invisible
socio-political project?, Election of May 25, 2014, Caregivers close association.
27
"A first step towards the recognition of" caregivers "," interview with Philippe COURARD Secretary
of State for Disabled People:
http://www.courard.belgium.be/fr/un-premier-pas-d%C3%A9cisif-vers-la-reconnaissance-des-%C2%AB-aidants-proches-%
C2% BB
28
"Caregivers close: a first step towards recognizing" Luke Detavernier interview, the expert Insurance Funds,
Stephanie Brison in Health Forum, June 2013, No. 14.

58

close must guarantee to workers who decide to terminate their careers
to care for a dependent, maintaining, throughout the period of care, their
rights to social security, and the enhancement of their services, including visàvis
their pension rights. It should also define the conditions for financial assistance
specific.


Proposal No 88: Adapt AP work schedules

We should adapt measures concerning time credit and leave the specific needs of
helping hand. Indeed, who today manages to combine the demands of work,
his family and coaching so followed by a sick relative, disabled,
old ...?
To avoid, wherever possible, to have to leave his job, it should be possible
adapt the AP working hours by making its recognition more flexible working time.

Proposal No. 89: Implementation of training for AP

FDF advocate of setting up new training for caregivers
to give them the tools necessary for the exercise of their new activity.


Proposal No. 90: Strengthen the role of the general practitioner

Although never substituting the networks of health professionals, helping close
will be a key partner. This complementarity between professionals, and helped the
the caregiver will indeed essential. Therefore, we should do everything possible to facilitate
including strengthening collaboration in the role of the general practitioner who will detect
needs and link with the (s) Specialist (s) 2nd line.
The GP will also play a preventive role in helping close visàvis
so it is not exhausted or not depressed, the risk of becoming a person luimême
help ... We forget too often, in fact, how difficult it is to accompany a somebody
suffering every day and, in some cases, such as cancer, by slow fire ...


Proposal No. 91: Expand forms of respite care

In his close aid relationship, everyone should have the right, the delegate of choice
or not. A support and service offering should be provided by expanding the forms of
respite care (day care, night, short stays ...) or developing institutions
after which the aidantsproches could meet peers, get a
individual coaching support or informative ... This would enable them to be discharged
temporarily and thus to postpone the transfer of the rest house to the parent and care
as late as possible.


Proposal No. 92: Improving communication visàvis AP

It would make information and communication more efficient visàvis caregivers
59

so they can easily be aware of the resources, assistance and support
available in their area. It is in this context that, in particular, social coordination
CPAS must be met in relay, for example, the organization of
home maintenance ... The network should be strengthened to allow maximum
communication, support, and information.



A.2.2.1.7. Insurance autonomy

If current demographic trends continue, there will, in fifteen years, 90
elderly 100 for potentially active. The need to cope with the increase
of life will thus be considerable.

In order to meet part of the problem, the Flemish Community has implemented since
Already in 2001, a self-insurance plan that allows people with
reduction of their autonomy to enjoy, regardless of their age, a monthly income of
nonmédicaux help and services. Nothing like this has been established for the Federation
WallonieBruxelles.

While such insurance cher29 costs, but allows for savings in other
budgets, too heavy, like hospitalization and nursing homes
and care. The self-insurance would also help to create jobs in the sector
helping people while improving the quality of life of beneficiaries who prefer more
often stay at home or with their proches30.

Proposal No. 93: Introduction of self insurance for the management of
Special care related to loss of autonomy

The FDF proposes to introduce a insurance for the self-care support
Special-related loss of autonomy.

For the FDF, "dependence" is a risk that should be covered and financed at
by federal social security. However, following the sixth State Reform, and regret
FDF, this skill will be taken over by the Federation WallonieBruxelles.
This requirement, legitimate, would avoid discrimination between Belgians in support of
dependence, as celleci result of aging or disability, but also linked to
nonremboursement services performed by people, by associations or by
Unauthorised institutions based on community or linguistic criteria.

In addition, an agreement between the various communities and regions and a guarantee
European is needed in this area.
This would ensure the maintenance of rights to services (zorgverzekering) for those,
Belgian and non-Belgian, who after being subjected to a compulsory contribution in Flanders want
live in Belgium or elsewhere in Europe while remaining affiliates.

In Flanders, the annual amount is € 25 / year, except for the people who benefit from an increase
Compensation under health insurance; the amount is € 10. Depending on the care recipient
affects between € 95 and € 130 / month.
30
FDF doctrinal Congress - Workshop "Social Health Issues."
29

60

Finally, the social coverage would also allow patients who preach positivity
their affection to their boss to be protected, supported and assisted in case of dismissal.



A.2.2.1.8. Patient home support

Living at home, the right to continue his life without being cut off from its roots, its
memories is keeping his habits. But all this can be questioned if difficulties,
due to age, for example, prevent the person to perform daily tasks
must be undertaken alone. The services of housewives and homemakers nevertheless allow
the elderly to stay at home in good conditions.

Proposal No. 94: Delaying the patient institutionalization

Everything should be done to the patient, and the elderly in particular, is kept at its
home and avoid as much as possible to send to the hospital or nursing home. And contain
overcrowding of hospitals with older people, the stakes are high for Belgium
because our life expectancy gets longer every year. Yet too many people
elderly, failing appropriate services come too early in rest homes while their
dependent situation does not warrant it. However, maintaining the patient at home is not
only the least expensive formula for the state, but above is mainly the
patient's preferred solution.

But it is clear that some forms of care, less cumbersome than the investment
nursing home, is not sufficiently exploited (alternative care, day care center,
shared service center ...). There are few alternatives care to delay entry into
rest home. There is no common service center whose mission would
to support older people in their desire for autonomy.

In addition, major efforts are still needed in the reimbursement of costs
engendered a home care because at present, it is cheaper for the patient (in
terms of care, equipment ...), or his family, to be placed in institutions than to stay
House. Between the budgetary aspect and the stress that can represent the accompaniment of
dependent person for the family, the choice is unfortunately sometimes quickly, and patient
is then placed in an institution for the wrong reasons.

It is therefore important to adopt without delay legislation that promotes patient autonomy in their
offering a range of appropriate and affordable services: assistance and home care, center
common services, days of care center, supported housing, prevention of falls ...
The goal is to avoid admission to nursing home as physical autonomy
person exists.

The FDF also call for the development of a multi-year plan for deployment
support and care for the elderly. This multifaceted scheme will aim
first delay - as it can be - institutionalization.

The FDF finally propose to develop better monitoring of elderly patients, especially after a
accident or illness, with greater recognition of the importance of
physiotherapy, osteopathy ... in preventing new accidents.
61



Proposal No. 95: Erase the price difference between a caregiver and a
aideménagère

FDF believe that governments have a responsibility to enable everyone
access to family and aides. But this is not always the case.
Since the introduction of titresservices system, the difference between the cost of a
homemaker and a aideménagère can be significant and often leads to the use of
titresservices system while the situation rather require the presence of a homemaker.

So in order to strengthen home care services such as homemaking and
aidessoignantes, FDF wish to grant such a tax deduction for
blur the difference in price between a caregiver and a aideménagère
(subsidized by titresservices).

Proposal No. 96: Removing discrimination against people become
disabled after age 65

There is still discrimination currently affecting become disabled persons
after 65 years. Indeed, an intervention request for material (white cane,
walker ...) brought by a disabled person over the age of 65 years
time of introduction of the application, will be refused unless the facts are on a
disability before age 65 found. This problem is of increasing concern to the extent that
the number of elderly people is constantly augmentation31.

Just like home care, the care of the necessary equipment for keeping
home (device to enable reading the newspaper, walker, ...) seems essential for FDF.
Therefore, the FDF suggested deleting discrimination against persons
become disabled after 65 years32 because they do not benefit from all the regional aid
promoting their autonomy (Phare, AWIPH).
This discrimination affects the very foundation of autonomy and inclusion of the person
in society.



A.2.2.1.9. Control the food chain

In Belgium, The Federal Agency for the Safety of the Food Chain (AFSCA) ensure
food chain safety and food quality to protect the health of
humans, animals and plants. Despite these controls, abuses exist, as we have
proved the horse meat found in beef lasagna last year. This
case took a European dimension and questioned a very food chain
complex.

It shows that significant improvements need to be made to the process
production and control.
31
32

Collectif 65 +
Collectif 65 +

62


Proposal No. 98: More controls in supermarkets

FDF advocate proceeding, at the end of food chain, more than spot checks
in all supermarkets and in all sectors. It is indeed at the
content, and not at the level of labeling, it can be seen that if fraud.


Proposal No. 99: Legislating for better control and implementation measures
dissuasive

It would be interesting not only to legislate for better control in practices
veterinarians working in the audit of the food chain process but also
in disincentives to set up against fraudsters (see case lasagna
by horse).


Proposal No. 100: Coordinate the controls of the food chain in Europe

It would not only push the food chain controls in more depth but
also to increase the frequency.
To do this, it is recommended to the process, coordinate the checks at
European and at all levels of production, either in slaughterhouses or during
transfers.


Proposal No. 101: Improving communication between EU countries

At European level we suggest to improve communication between countries as
news has shown us, now seems not yet efficient enough.

Finally, the FDF want to fight effectively against misleading advertising in particular
against the allegations not based on any scientific basis.



63

A.2.2.2. Healthcare providers



A.2.2.2.1. Numerus clausus

Says numerus clausus system aims to limit the number of medical graduates
having no RIZIV number once they graduate. The INAMI number, sesame
essential for the exercise of the profession, is indeed subject to quotas imposed by the
fédéral33. Thus each year the number of candidates who have access, at the end of their
first six years of study, training leading to the title of general or médecin34
medical specialist, is limited by royal decree. This nombre35, valid for the whole country,
is 975 for 2013, 1025, 2014 and 1230 per year for the years 2015-2018.

But minima were also set to foster vocations in some
less accrued specialties such as general medicine, geriatrics, psychiatry
child and adolescent, oncology, or emergency medicine.
These minima are however not always achieved and universities are struggling to find
enough candidates, as is the case in general. It seems indeed difficult
to compel a student to follow a specialty he has not chosen.

Proposal No. 102: Repeal of numerus clausus system

This shortage, which already now forced hospitals to call on doctors
foreigners, likely to increase since studies conducted scientifiques36 37 at the
planning of the medical offer provide for important needs in medical personnel in
coming decades, partly due to the general demographic trends, the
luimême aging medical profession, its feminisation, a better hope
reconciling work / life, the complexification fi cation practices and equipment
medical, the resurgence of some diseases, ...

For UCM, the supply restrictions is causing the current shortage of doctors. For others,
it is mainly the lack of attractiveness of the trade that is involved. The doctors lifestyle
campaign because this is where the shortage is most important, is much less attractive. The
Young people today no longer accept as easily as their elders work schedules
too lourds.38

33

"Numerus clausus: a necessary but provisional and incomplete answer, according to Caroline Persoons", 22/10/2008,
http://fdf.be/spip.php?article2144
34

Currently, once we finished the course, students are graduates DOCTOR; they are no longer
generalist office. To hold a title of general practitioner or specialist, they must complete a master
Complementary (specialty) in general medicine (3 years) or specialist (3-6 years).
35

Do not forget that this increase follows a smoothing system: ie a number of recovery
we distribute to the previous years supernumerary students.
36


http://www.google.be/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&frm=1&source=web&cd=4&ved=0CEgQFjAD&url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww
.mr-pcf.be%2Fmedia%2Fcms%2FDoc_89_09-10Prop_resol_CP_JB_contingentement_medecins_dentistes_kine.pdf&ei=0ns

37


38
64

These changes, including demographic, will affect the entire force
work, but the magnitude and evolution of this impact in the future remain unknown.
Moreover, to date, the estimated number of doctors needed was essentially
based on a model centered on the medical offer and based on the idea that trends
observed in the past will continue.

For the FDF, limitations of access to medical and paramedical professions can not
based only on sound science, which is not currently the case.
That is why they want to repeal the numerus clausus system at both
doctors, dentists as kinésithérapeutes39.

Proposal No. 103: Review of hospital leadership standards

Another theory about the shortage of doctors would be certain to ask whether some
this lack is not just artificial. Indeed, it may be partly created by
some hospital supervision standards that require working with a defined number
physicians. If these rules are out of date, can one do not need to create a
superficial or misleading application?

The case of emergency doctors, for example, typical of this shortage by certain qualified
of "artificial". An emergency must indeed be permanently present in each service
emergency, even when there is not enough training places to train.
To overcome this problem, the proposal of the Belgian Association of Medical Unions
seems worthwhile, in that it proposes to set up teams of others
specialists under the direction of one or two emergency physicians, instead of the five emergency
currently required for a complete schedule. It is indeed not always necessary to
use of over-qualified people who have a specialization in six years, while specialists
Acute Medicine (whose duration is three years) would be quite competent. 40
This system would also have the advantage of weighing less heavy in healthcare spending
health.

It would be wise to focus on hospital coaching standards to
whether they are or not, any news yet and we should not consider the
edit.
The same approach should be performed at nursing homes, kindergartens, schools ... in order
the Federation and WallonieBruxelles Cocof know their annual requirements
medical professionals to meet the standards they set.

Proposition 104: Open the outskirts of training places

Solutions must be found regarding the lack of doctors in training places
training. Indeed, following the decree Colla which defines the criteria for tutors,
the number is reduced so that the requirements are difficult to meet especially for
doctors working full time in the periphery. The 2018 so-called "double cohort" (the
last 7 years and the first in 6 years) is also problematic because it will find
39

Article of the Free, "Physician Shortage: 5 remedies"
http://www.lalibre.be/actu/sciences-sante/penurie-de-medecins-5-remedes-51b8f2dfe4b0de6db9c850c1
40
Article from La Libre
http://www.lalibre.be/actu/belgique/en-cas-de-penurie-de-medecins-finis-les-quotas-51b8f188e4b0de6db9c806f7

65

courses for each student and given the current number of tutors, it will
impossible.
It is therefore imperative to review the order to open Colla outskirts places and internships
avoid catastrophe announced 2018.

Proposition 105: Extending the placement test prior to enrollment in the medical
physiotherapy and dentistry

FDF propose extending the prior placement test for enrollment in medicine
physiotherapy and dentistry. This test is mandatory but non-binding, ie that
the student who fails can still enroll in the faculty of choice. The purpose of such a
test is to evaluate the knowledge needed to follow their chosen course and, if
failure to decide to follow a preparatory year for a refresher or to
redirect. Its advantages are many. It must now be adapted according to
observations harvested this year, using the results to improve its operation and,
above all, determine where resources should be invested in priorité41.


Proposal No. 106: Make decisions based on reliable and practical information

The FDF also advocate not only to assess the actual need by performing
regular studies, both quantitative and qualitative, as is already the case in the Netherlands and
France, but also to achieve a detailed and comprehensive register of occupations covered. A vision
realistic situation will indeed make decisions for the future based on
reliable and concrete information.

The FDF also propose to set up the tools to determine
precision required, these data are still missing to present.



A.2.2.2.2. Strengthening trades first care line

The first line of care need to be strengthened, including the doctor's role
GP and nurses. Indeed, the hospital gradually became the heart of the sector
care instead of the latter, which tend to clog including emergencies. Gold,
International studies show that GPs can help decrease the number
unnecessary hospitalization or number of transactions as they are not
necessary. So it is the GP who should be at the center and manage device
the patient record.

Proposal No. 107: Developing primary care from the perspective of
simplification and integration

The first line land developments inevitably lead these actors to change their
how to practice medicine. More than ever, the development of the frontline
Care must be developed with a view to simplification and integration.
This finding held even as aides and administrative organization of the 1st line
41

"Input test" students have their shirts wet "," The doctor of the newspaper, 06.09.2013, p.6.

66

care is increasingly fragmented. All structures have indeed their own logic
is not coordinated with other institutions. The result is a lack of knowledge of
aids and structures.

It is therefore important in supporting the vital role that GPs play in ensuring
the link between the progress of science and technology and patient care. The role
future of general practice is immense as it is brought to meet in the field of
many challenges.

Proposition 108: Revaluate trades first line in the academic curriculum

To strengthen the first line of care (GPs as nurses) and correct the
shortage problem, the FDF offer to upgrade these professions and to redefine the profiles,
particularly in the academic curriculum within university faculties.
It should also develop a culture of interdisciplinarity by developing synergies
between medical and paramedical academic sections. This will enable students
Medicine to learn to communicate and work with other stakeholders
Health (specialists with generalists).

For nurses, in addition to improving training at the academic level, the FDF want
promote better support students and graduates by increasing
the number of makers of their accueil42.
Training must be ongoing to ensure the highest quality of care. He
should be a minimum of days per year required by replacing the field
nursing training.

Proposal No. 109: Delegating tasks performed by GPs to
Nurses

A series of traditionally performed by general practitioners should be tasks
delegated to enable them to focus on aspects of the care they
provide real capital gain.
Therefore, the FDF offer to delegate these tasks to nurses and aidessoignants
whose role should be expanded. This approach revaloriserait dice in these professions in the
leveling up and making them more attractive.
Furthermore, the fact of working with healthcare professionals who are nevertheless
specialists would be less costly.

Proposal No. 110: Strengthen training of general practitioners in psychology

General medicine evolves: different practice, aging medical profession shortage
increasing the numbers of trades the 1st line, lack of motivation, reduced the attractiveness of the
profession feminization and increasing the excessive workload.
At the same time, primary care specialize in a practice increasingly complex,
apprehending the patient as a whole, including his suffering and his experience, touching
prevention and promotion of health awareness screening, management of
42

More information about the proposals of the FDF on the training of nurses in the program
Higher Education.

67

acute pathologies, the development and monitoring of chronically ill.
Increasingly, general medicine must focus on the essential characteristics that the
define the center of the health system.

Faced with this reality ground, in particular to provide answers to distressed patients,
FDF propose strengthening the training of general practitioners in psychology and better
manage some difficult emotional aspects. Indeed, they are the primary care patients
face psychological difficulties, despite the lack of training in this field
during their studies.

Proposal No. 111: Making the profession of nurse more attractive43

The trades of the first line of care is a major issue for the future. But
such as general practitioners, nurses sector seems to encounter difficulties.
The question of what is the most serious problem regarding nurses
in health facilities called only one answer: it is undeniably the
constant shortage of nurse practitioners in the labor market. This shortage is in large
partly due to the difficulty to get people to embrace the nursing profession and maintain
nurse practitioners in the profession.

A study of the Itinera Institute44, health care facilities are deficient
May-July structural care providers, which often reaches 20% of the total staff. In
85% of organizations, the workload is high to very high. 70% do not feel
supported by the vision and the government's strategy to reduce these deficits. The majority
believes that the basic training of care staff is of poor quality and that without
More drastic measures, it is the same quality of care that is jeopardized,
as 21% of health care facilities are already experiencing.
In addition, the aging population will exacerbate the problem by increasing the
demand first-line care.

To make this profession more attractive, the FDF to explore the following tracks:
the reduction of working time in the end without loss of career, increasing
irregular premiums for benefits, and the general increase in salaries, with
remuneration based on the quality of work and level of responsibility, financed
its fair value.
They also argue for career development by building a system
function of differentiation, wherein the nursing could develop other careers
that line, or by recognizing general nursing training as a
specialization in its own right and the skills acquired through experience and track
ongoing training.

Proposal No. 112: Set up a call center 24h / 24h

To relieve emergencies and sometimes time-consuming visits to the GP, the FDF

43

Belgian Association of the art of nursing practitioners, "In 2012, all Belgian nurses and nurses claim
the same things! "http://www.infirmieres.be/17_propositions.php
44
www.itinerainstitute.org and blug of Nursing in Belgium, "Grosse shortages in health care
Belgium "http://infirmiere-infirmier.be/2012/10/grosse-penurie-dans-les-soins-de-sante-en-belgique/

68

propose to set up a call center 24h / 24h45, 7 days / 7, given by specialists
Health (experienced nurses), as is the case for example in Sweden since of
many years. This service would be incentive but not mandatory.
This would somehow the equivalent of our "100" for emergencies, but dedicated
to everyday ailments because, very often, advice by phone enough. Thus, this service
also help to sort between cases that need to head for the emergency, to
a general practitioner or should not consulter46.
Furthermore, in addition to allowing to limit considerably the costs, the system would solve
problem of the availability of information about the local supply and to overcome the deficit
knowledge and active support structures in the health sector, and by filling
synthesizing information on the matter.
Indeed, there is a serous deficiency in this field since the institutional landscape
Health (deals offered by non-profit organizations, CPAS, mutual societies, physicians, care centers ...) is not
clear and, thus, very accessible and understandable to the common man.


Proposal No. 113: Create a decision-making point of contact

To meet the new challenges before the first line of care, support FDF
Also the idea of ​​creating a decision point of contact for the different actors
first line to coordinate a unique and strategic for bilingual Brussels. It should
nevertheless ensure that this Council has a real capital gain compared to what already exists and
it is not simply whether an additional body among others. For the sake of
speed and efficiency in decision making and proposals, the FDF want this
new tool is composed of a limited number of stakeholders.

Proposal No. 114: Improve the register of health professions

FDF believe a full and detailed register of trades 1st line should be achieved.
This is an indispensable tool for planning health professionals.

The increase already constant intensity and complexity care faces
resources and supervision standards that have not experienced a similar growth rate. He
seem that in some nursing supervision services no longer meet the standards
quality and sécurité47. But despite this, it is clear that we still have
not in Belgium of a nurse Maps worthy of the name ...

FDF want an operational organization more efficient by improving care
Current Maps of the nursing profession. Having a correct statistical information
would know precisely the number of nurse practitioners in the art, their field
activity, their status. And according to the identified needs, it would be wise to increase
"The shock 6 yards Onkelinx" sudpresse, p.20, 09.12.2013.
This service is already active in some areas of Belgium (therefore covers not all), but only active
at night and on weekends. This is the 1733
http://www.rtl.be/info/belgique/societe/853978/namur-luxembourg-un-nouveau-numero-pour-joindre-les-medecins-de-g
arde
47
"Notice of the nursing problem in healthcare institutions," National Council of Settlements
Hospital, 11/6/2009,
http://www.google.be/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&frm=1&source=web&cd=2&ved=0CDMQFjAB&url=http%3A%2F%2Fww
w.health.belgium.be%2Feportal%2FHealthcare%2FConsultativebodies%2FNationalcouncilforhospitalfaci%2F19061950&ei=
ElZBUsXvL-ne7Ab4r4CoCA & usg = AFQjCNFsQdw8IF3ePP5tJNbpoWUHKaTY5g
45

46

69

quantitative and qualitative staffing standards at both institutions
Seniors at the level of hospitals.


Proposal No. 115: Rework premium installation Impulseo

FDF offer to rework the premium Impulseo facility that can benefit
general practitioners. Indeed, there are a plethora of other areas and this shortage and, in
same commune. Currently, the cutting is effected on the basis of three criteria, namely
areas where medical density is low or at risk of becoming, in the demarcated areas
part of the policy of large cities because of the precariousness of criteria and areas to
spécifique48 geographical area.
FDF advocate, in consultation with the medical sector, objectifying card
scientifically needs in general practice based Maps of implantation
really existing medical. Indeed, for example, under the said areas "precarious"
notably to include Brussels, Châtelain district (rue du Mail, street Page Street
the Tabellion ...) which, in reality, is a relatively prosperous area. In this context, why
établiraiton is in a rural area in the province, glaring poverty and lack of doctors
general, while encouraging is identical for implantation in the neighborhood "trend"
Chatelain in Brussels?

Moreover, to find a solution to recruitment difficulties in certain regions,
FDF propose expanding the premium Impulseo installation, currently dedicated to doctors
GPs only, nurses also.


Proposal No. 116: Establish an intermediate number, like "code competence"
for GPs

Currently, GPs who do not have enough "patient contact" and does
may justify enough guards (eg doctors working in the middle of
School preventive medicine), risk losing their INAMI number. While it makes sense
a minimum of practice to be asked, it seems absurd, however, that once this issue
lost, doctors can not prescribe.
The FDF therefore propose to set up an intermediate number, like "code jurisdiction."

Proposal No. 117: Implement international political under
Recruitment of Nurses

In recruitment for the FDF, it does not seem appropriate to use the
nurses from abroad. However, if it is to occur, they wanted to establish
an international policy actively managed, particularly for checking skills
nurses trained abroad and requiring a minimum of an exam that proves
sufficient knowledge of the language of the workplace community.


Proposal No. 118: Proportional representation of the nursing profession in
http://www.riziv.fgov.be/care/fr/doctors/specific-information/impulseo/area.htm

48

70

Committees and Commissions

FDF wish to consider a proportional representation of the profession in
Committees and Commissions (intra institutional commission MRMRS ...).




A.2.2.2.3. Recognizing non-conventional practices

The unconventional practices are flourishing and increasingly popular with the
population. This is osteopathy, acupuncture, homeopathy and chiropractic.
In 200149, 11% of respondents had consulted an unconventional therapist
Over the past twelve months. The 2008 health survey reported a percentage of 12%
more than one in ten. Following a 2009 study by the Federal Centre
expertise in health care, it appears that one in three has already consulted a therapist
unconventional at least once in his life and in the twelve months. 7%
had consulted an osteopath, homeopath 6%, 3% and 2% an acupuncturist a
chiropractor.

But, at present, these professions are not protected, ie that anyone
can improvise chiropractor or acupuncturist. In osteopaths (a Royal Decree for a
recognition of this practice, as in homeopathy, is currently underway, although
that blocked Ministerial will), for example, there are physical therapists (83%) of
practitioners with an osteopathic training (12%), doctors (1%), but also
herbalists, acupuncturists and chiropodists (4%) ... these untrained
in the matter.

Yet at the university, it has been 10 years now that osteopathy is taught. Real
cooperation, exchanges and discussions between doctors and osteopaths are permanent and
allow, sembletil, to advance this discipline50.


Proposition 119: Establish a legal framework regulating the exercise practices
Unconventional

The Patient Protection and quality of care provided to it are essential in the eyes
FDF.
Therefore, in view of the figures stated above, the FDF think it is
imperative to set up a legal framework (training level, different definition
professions, controlled acts or not, ...) regulating the exercise of practices not
conventional. This framework will enable competent practitioners trained and validly exercise
their art within a legal framework known and recognized by all. Such transparency will also
patients to distinguish between professionals and others. Nevertheless, it is
49

House of Representatives of Belgium - February 19, 2013 - Exchange of views on the advice of the Joint Committee
"Unconventional practices" and rooms created for each of unconventional practices, rendered
Under the Act of 29 April 1999 on unconventional practices in the fields of medical art, art
pharmaceutical, physiotherapy, the art of nursing and allied health professions.
50
"Unconventional Medicine: students and alumni Osteopathy ULB react"
http://osteo.romain-loussert.net/debat-reconnaissance-la-reponse-des-etudiants-en-osteopathie-ulb/500

71

also essential that this legal framework continues to allow practitioners to treat their
patients in their entirety.


Proposition 120: Reimbursement of care through supplementary insurance

A well-defined framework should also be established for the reimbursement of such care through
supplementary insurance so that regulations are well defined previously.


Proposal No. 121: Professional organization for each of the practices not
Conventional

FDF wish that a professional organization for each of the practices not
conventional is created. She would have the task of verifying the obligations of each of
defend the interests of the profession but also to develop a code of ethics, code that
should be established by practitioners of the discipline. The rules of professional conduct
should be in line with the practice of the profession and the medical code of ethics
conventional. Such a body would be the guarantor visàvis of the population, the quality of
care and professional behavior of practitioners. 51




A.2.2.2.4. Care Institutions

By choice or necessity, sometimes the elderly, among others, must leave home
to live in an institution. Services residential homes, nursing homes (MR), ....
is the alternative to life in his personal home.
But unfortunately, there are few possibilities to delay the entry into house
rest. Consequently, the elderly, in the absence of appropriate services, come too early
institution while their dependency situation requires pas52. Currently, there are
more than 4,000 people deemed independent in nursing homes even though there is a
shortage of places in the area.

Proposition 122: Focus on home support

Given the cumbersome nature - including costs - FDF call for the privileged services
that prolong the independence of the elderly so as to delay the institutionalization
(entry into home care) of these.


Proposal No. 123: Support the private sector on a human scale

The table below shows that from 20202025, MRS needs beds (nursing homes and
care) in Brussels will be exponential. The home for the elderly will be
51

House of Representatives of Belgium, Special Session 2010, October 6, 2010, Proposal law establishing
a College of physiotherapists.
52
Press conference, "The grandma-grandpa boom and its impact on the reception and support policy
elderly in the Brussels Region ", Didier Gosuin and Michel Colson, 03/14/2012.

72

subject to demand exceeding current supply. This will be especially true for Wallonia
index reached + / 185 + / 150 Brussels.



Analysis of the future demand for beds for MRS Brussels


Extract from a note of the Union of Municipalities and Communities

Analysis of the future demand for MRS beds in Wallonia


Extract from a note of the Union of Municipalities and Communities

Therefore, in terms of capacity, the FDF want to support the private sector
human scale, not to the lucre and for whom the social dimension remains a priority. He is
illusory to believe that the public and the associations only meet the growing need for
childcare places. Close collaboration between the two sectors will have to be organized.

Proposal No. 124: Planning efforts to accomplish MR & MRS for

Solve the shortage problem implies heavy investment which should therefore
today to prepare. Although the phenomenon is predictable, lack of global vision
73

in this area is something of concern.
Thus, this growth in demand is for medium to long-term policies to be
projected into the future. It is important to concretely measure needs to cover services
different from home help to nursing home placement and care.

Belgium should expect to multiply its range of support services and
Home of elderly people. From 2025 to cover the needs involve creating
new and more medicalized structures. Given the time needed to create such
infrastructure (± 8 years), FDF now wish to set a standard cover
needs (as of early childhood are related) to plan in time,
efforts to accomplish.
In this context, the FDF want a detailed study of the existing offer of
services for the elderly as well as its ability to evolve.


Proposition 125: Exit moratorium to reconvert MR MRS beds beds

Brussels underwent since 2005 a moratorium on the MR offers beds (nursing homes) and
MRS (nursing homes and care). The offer has stagnated, demand evolves, new needs
are not covered, the range of services offered is incomplete and institutional context
"Messed up" and threatening the sector.

The table below also highlights the significant growth of + 80 years
calls a suitable offer, more specialized and medicalized. Addiction is
correspondingly linked to the age of the person.

Evolution trend of + 80 years to 2050
Year
Population 80+
% Population
2010
538730
5.18%
2020
608609
5.87%
2030
748199
7.16%
2040
982342
9.14%
2050
1134667
10.39%

The table below indicates, meanwhile, future needs, mainly MRS beds. The
problem is less in Brussels, but depends on the existing offer or its capacity
reconversion.

Evolution trend of + 80 years Region by Region 2050
Area
2050
Flanders
60.9%
Wallonia
31.9%
Brussels
7.2%

Finally, these studies show that there is a demand for services increasingly medicalized thus
MRS in beds. And as the current trend is to delay entry into nursing home
up to an advanced stage of addiction, low dependence MR beds are no longer the priority.

The final 2011 report of the federal health care expertise center concludes by all
74

scenarios to the need to open between 1800 and 3500 beds per year for the three Regions. And
Currently, there are over 7000 MR53 beds occupied in part by the elderly yet
valid and autonomous default adapted services. FDF therefore plead for the release of
moratorium imposed in 2005 to quickly convert 30% of MR MRS beds beds.


Proposal No. 126: Design standards for the viability of small houses
rest

Once autonomy is not possible, prepare the nursing home entry
so that everything goes for the best.

FDF think we should develop building standards, planning and
staff so that the viability of small homes, with a
Alternative very close to life in the private housing of the elderly.


Proposal No. 127: An affordable prices

On the cost side, the FDF want the price of accommodation in rest homes or
nursing home and care remains accessible to all. They also want to ensure
transparency and supplements the amounts claimed and better readability
bills.


Proposal No. 128: Refusing forfaitarisation of physiotherapy

FDF refuse forfaitarisation physiotherapy care that nursing homes
opposes freedom of choice of the patient.


Proposition 129: Free access for francophone seniors services
Dutch

It is clear that there is still discrimination against the elderly
Francophones in institutions recognized by the Flemish Community.

FDF therefore want free access for francophone seniors and home care
only Flemish reception and hosting institutions approved by the Region
Flemish (CPAS, day centers, day care centers, flatservices, houses
Community, nursing homes and rest homes and care) equally and without
linguistic discrimination.


Proposal No. 130: Better define our social policy accompanying the
persons losing autonomie54
53
54

MR and MRS on 15 403 beds, 52% of MRS beds and 48% of MR beds
Information Centre for Popular Education http://www.mocbxl.be/IVRepitCentresdejour.html

75


It seems that even flaw realize many efforts in terms of carrying capacity of
day, especially to support caregivers. In effect, these structures provide especially
for people with dementia to be hosted for the time needed to rest
the family that supports them.

In this respect, it should be a synthesis of existing devices of Hospitality
temporary help to caregivers to better define our accompanying social policy
people with loss of autonomy (health, age, disability, ...).
Coordination and mobilization of the offer will consider increasing capacity
day centers but also to establish the criteria and quality standards in the sector.


Proposal No. 131: Promoting networking of different institutions

It should also promote the networking of these institutions (Mr, MRS,
day centers, ...) in order to ensure continuity of care patients.




76

A.2.2.3. Funding



A.2.2.3.1. Optimal financing of care and cost control santé55

On the cost side, it appears from the figures of the Social Security that spending on health care
Health Belgium amounted to 24.07756 billion euros in 2011, which is a
up 1.251 billion compared to the previous year.
Medicine and clinical biology (29%) were the first items of expenditure, before the
hospital admissions (22%) and pharmaceutical services (18%).
Between 2009 and 2010 the increase in spending on health care was significantly less
significant (€ 705 million).
General way, health spending accounted for 10.9% in Belgium 57 GDP
2009, slightly above the average of industrialized countries (9.5%), which leads to
a range comparable to that of its nearest neighbors, according to data released in June
2011 by the OECD. These expenses are thus comparable to those of the Netherlands (12%) of
France (11.8%) and Germany (11.6%).

Health expenditure therefore continue to outpace growth
economic in most OECD countries, continuing the trend observed since
the 70's.

Thus, reading these figures, it is likely that health spending will experience a
much higher growth rate than in the past (aging population,
chronic disease development, progression of new technologies synonymous
investment ...) and must, therefore, always be mastered.


Proposal No. 132: Develop a model more suited to landscapes and constraints
Current

Currently, the budget of the calculation follows a very mechanical sense: we start spending
last year to set a level of spending policy remains unchanged, which is added
clean growth standard in each area. If economy to achieve or means
Additional remaining share, the distribution is often very arbitrary.

One consequence of this approach is a flagrant lack of long term vision. In
Indeed, the sectoral approach our budget does not allow to develop a real project
health taking into account all parameters, including the level of prevention whose
allocations are quite inadequate or insignificant. In effect, the prevention is not
a political priority and is therefore widely sousdéveloppée. The budget is quasitotalité
devoted to healing with 10% of GDP compared to 0.1% devoted to preventive. Now a euro
55

Spring 2010 health.

56

Le Soir, "health care spending increased by more than a billion," December 13, 2012,
http://www.lesoir.be/137481/article/actualite/sciences-et-sante/2012-12-13/d%C3%A9penses-soins-sant%C3%A9-en-hau
ess-plus-d% E2% 80% 99un billion
57
DH, "Health expenditure in Belgium comparable to its nearest neighbors," June 30, 2011,
http://www.dhnet.be/actu/societe/les-depenses-de-sante-en-belgique-comparables-a-celles-de-ses-proches-voisins-51b7
7f1ee4b0de6db97e64b8

77

invested in prevention makes it possible to save more in the curative sector!

At another level, for example, to this day, an innovative drug is not refunded when
the specific budget for these drugs is exhausted, even though it would reduce the
frequency and duration of hospitalizations, and thus the overall cost of health care!

Our current system of health care financing comes at an end and proves unsuitable face
the new challenges of the coming years. We will have to dare to rethink the system and implement
a model more efficient and adapted to current constraints and landscapes.


Proposal No. 133: Strengthen the role of general practitioners at the frontline
care

For the FDF, we must strengthen the role of GPs in the first line of care in
favoring collaborations between providers, especially multidisciplinary approaches
centered on the patient and their GP. The latter's tasks
to guide the provision of care towards an integrated offer by addressing simultaneously prevention,
primary care, hospital care and home care.


Proposal No. 134: Working with healthcare professionals who are not
Specialists

The FDF proposes to make greater use of health care professionals who are
nevertheless not specialists and are therefore less expensive.
The general, and it is here mostly rural areas, could work well in tandem with
a specialist nurse who would call only when necessary. This nurse could
be qualified to go much further in care (palliative care for example)
managing simple ailments.
During pregnancy, midwives could also carry echoes instead of
doctors, as is already the case in some European countries.
Contrary to what one might think, it is not a medicine at a discount. Sweden
has established very early of a corps of professional midwives. A choice that has been pruves!
Research shows that it results in a sharp decline in female mortality in childbirth
since today is one of the lowest in monde58. Less than 6 children in 1000 and less
one woman out of 100,000 die during childbirth.


Proposal No. 135: Reduce maternity stay

In case of vaginal delivery, and when this is possible from a point of view
medical, proposen FDF to reduce the maternity stay in alignment with the average
European and, from the second birth, with a home monitoring by the
midwives to ensure continuity of care.
In 2012, when vaginal delivery, a young Belgian mother was staying in
58

"Equal access key to the health of the Swedish"
http://www.sweden.se/fr/Accueil/Travailler-vivre/Faits/Services-de-sante/

78

average 4.5 days in the hospital, is the longest duration of 12 European countries studied by
the OCDE59. Belgium ranks well ahead of France (4.2 days), Spain (2.5 days), the
Sweden (2.2 days), Denmark (1.6 day) and RoyaumeUnis (1.5 day). In the US, the day
Hospitalization is so expensive that women give birth, spend a night in the hospital, and
then leave. So they stay less than 24 hours ... Without going to this extreme situation,
no medical reason can justify such a difference between countries.
Furthermore, the reduction of the stay in motherhood would jeopardize neither the health of the mother, nor
of his child. By cons, it would make huge savings in
the Health Care Insurance. Considering that about 120,000 births take place over a year
for an average price of € 275 per day, a reduction of one day of hospitalization
would, by itself, to save 33 million euros by an60, which should amount
to deduct the cost of home care teams to implement, but which will be lower
that hospitalization.
Besides, childbirth is the most common medical procedures in hospitals, reduce
stay on maternity necessarily involve reviewing the funding policy
hospitals.


Proposal No. 136: Do not tolerate hospitalization comfort

In general, we should educate health experts for compliance with a line
conduct that would aim at keeping patients overnight in cases of extreme necessity to
no longer tolerate hospitalizations comfort.
Control spending, not contribute to the waste of public finances. This
philosophy should permeate all stakeholders in the health system.


Proposition 137: Redirecting means to the real needs

Numerous measures have been taken to extend maximum coverage to new
population categories. We can rejoice, but that implies that the criteria for
reimbursement of services are increasingly based on income (OMNIO61, BIM
62
, Maximum facturer63, the third party payment social64 ...) and not depending on the severity of the
disease. We are witnessing, little by little, to a transformation of our health insurance system to
a welfare system.

FDF wish to develop budgets based on the patients and their pathology, redirecting
the means to real needs that is to say to the people who need it most
(such as the chronically ill and this, whatever their income) rather than expand without
stops the categories of beneficiaries of the increased intervention of insurance, regardless of the state
health. Indeed, by dint of ensuring the patient according to his income, the risk is high
59

"33 million savings without an epidural?" The Specialist - news medical specialists, 08/28/2013, No. 13, p. 8.

60

"Reducing the one-day stay in maternity: a good idea gone by the wayside?" Nathalie Renna, Health Forum,
the magazine of the National Union of Independent Health Insurance Funds Quarterly, December 2013, No. 16, p. 22-23.
61
Protective measure extends the right to the preferential tariff applied for medical care to insured from
of households with low incomes https://www.inami.fgov.be/citizen/fr/medical-cost/SANTH_4_5.htm
Beneficiary of the intervention plus http://www.inami.fgov.be/citizen/fr/medical-cost/SANTH_4_4.htm
The maximum billing offers each family the guarantee that it will not spend more than a specified amount (ceiling) for
its health care. https://www.inami.fgov.be/citizen/fr/medical-cost/SANTH_4_3.htm
62
63

64

https://www.inami.be/care/fr/doctors/specific-information/social_paiement/faq.htm

79

sliding gradually towards a system of social assistance in place of a safety system
Social and while obviously taking into account the situation of the poor.
Moreover, at present, 99% of the population belge65 is ensured, but differently,
depending on the income.


Propositions 138: Chronic illness, hospitalizations and comorbidities must
part of the public health priorities

A étude66 showed that three elements are the source of high spending on health care
reimbursed. This chronic disease comorbidity (be achieved more
chronic diseases) and hospitalization. Thus, 10% of Belgians induce 72% of expenditure
reimbursed.
Together, the chronically ill induce 64.3% of spending, or 2.3 billion euros
a total of 3.6 billion euros. The most common chronic conditions are also
those that generate the most significant expenditures for compulsory insurance. Spending
Annual average for a chronic condition without person is 859 € and 5.076 € for
a chronically ill. Some conditions may result in expenditures of over 200,000
€.
In addition, the average number of hospitalizations is greater among the chronically ill
as they are on average three times more than other hospitalized patients. And stays
Hospital induce very large health care expenses.
In terms of medical consultations, without a chronic disease patient sees about 2 times
a year and a generalist specialist while a chronic patient sees a GP
6 times a year and a specialist four times a year.

Finally, more than one third of chronic patients (34%) have more than one pathology and induce 56%
of all reimbursed health care expenditures. These patients cost about 2.5 times
more than the chronically ill with one condition.
This accumulation plays a major role in the concentration of expenditure and diseases
Chronic represent a considerable weight in the healthcare portfolio.

Therefore, they, as comorbidities and hospitalization, should be part
of public health priorities. The management of each of these conditions should be
studied to determine how more efficient healthcare pathways exist.
Regarding trips from soins67, refunds should be and should forfaitaires68
extend the system to other chronic diseases, such as chronic pulmonary disease
obstructive or cancer care. Not to mention that the right to care journey should be
automatic, as with other existing systems (DMG, BIM69, OMNIO, maximum
billing …).
65

Jean Hermesse, General Secretary of the Christian Mutual Societies, "Joint Managing powers transferred in Region
Brussels: an opportunity to extend social coverage of the population in poverty, "meeting organized by the?
CBCS association, 01/28/2014.
66
A study of Insurance Funds presented in the article "Three factors concentration of expenditure care
health, "Health Forum - National Union of Free Mutual Societies, December 2013, No. 16, p.7.
67
A care path organizes and coordinates the care, treatment and monitoring of a patient with a chronic disease. He
is based on a collaboration between the patient, the GP and the specialist physician. The journey begins after care
the signing of the "contract care journey" by these three parts and lasts 4 years. http://www.inami.fgov.be/care/fr/infos/tdszt/index.htm
68
"We should develop new care pathways", Interview with Alain De Wever, Professor Emeritus ULB - School
Public Health, Health Forum - National Union of Independent Health Insurance Funds, December 2013, No. 16, p.15.
69

http://c4.agora.eu.org/spip.php?article1169

80

Furthermore, in order to fight more effectively against these diseases which represent a party not
significant health expenditures should be investing more in prevention. Some
chronic diseases are indeed recognizable as the consequences of a lifestyle:
eating, physical inactivity, stress, smoking, excessive alcohol consumption ...
An efficient system of prevention therefore prevent a variety of diseases and in
term, help reduce costs are hospital management. Therefore, the FDF
propose to reassess the financial resources allocated to prevention and promotion of
health to appeal to less curative thereafter.


Proposal No. 139: Avoid competition between hospitals
FDF wish to avoid competition among hospitals. At present, almost all
can provide any treatment because there is no centralization.
Everyone should specialize in a particular area by ensuring a business volume
sufficient in the treatment of a specific pathology. Indeed, it is universally recognized
the quality and results of procedures performed are directly proportional to
caseload. Also, in the case of specialized interventions or treatments or highly
complexes, FDF advocate increased use or systematic, reference centers
in which expertise would centralisée70 (at least 20 or 30 interventions per year
example) to ensure quality while achieving economies of scale, perspective
shared by the INAMI. Mergers could thus be envisaged to centralize expertise
in smaller but more specialized centers.
Hospital institutions not having enough expertise in specific areas,
such as stent placement or treatment of rare diseases,
would do well to refer patients to these reference centers. It is then a
cooperation rather than competition among hospitals that would be established, which would be
beneficial not only for the quality of care but also for use
judicious use of financial resources.

This same approach can also be extended to other more specialized areas that
hospitals. Indeed, some psychiatric centers would, too, to refocus on
their core competencies and to specialize in a specific area to treat only cases
for which they have expertise.

The purpose of these budget cuts, let us not forget, is to ensure quality medicine
coupled with social protection for all!



A.2.2.3.2. Better health care accessibility

The evolution of our vie71 comfort remains fragile. Many of the patients who delay
important health care for financial reasons. Indeed, 14% of Belgians would experience
difficulty paying their GP. These figures rise to 20% among specialists, the 39%
dentist and up to 47% to the psychiatrist.

70

"Yes to the transparency on the quality of care but also on costs," Mutual insurance Libres, 17 June 2013,
http://digibook.digi-work.com/Digibooks.aspx/Get/MLOZ/971/communiqu_de_pressepdf
71
See Introduction

81

The most frequently reported treatment is shown in the graph below.

The Top 5 care report



It's basically people on disability (31%), unemployment (28%) or people
isolated with children (23%). The younger and / or less qualified have a higher risk
See important duty of care for financial reasons.

Health status is also unfortunately linked to socioeconomic levels. Indeed,
the least qualified more often report being in poor health and suffering from a
disability or chronic illness.
Social inequalities are therefore a key determinant of health: education,
access to non precarious jobs and quality housing determine the health status
population.
However, people in social and financial difficulties insufficiently resort to care first
line to prevent or cure diseases at the onset of the first symptômes72.
People living social integration revenue want to hedge costs
Additional (medication, consultation with a specialist ...) they fear not being able
assume. Yet there are unknown aides73 patients who do not use them. This
finding is doubly unfortunate because the total cost of health care for the most people
precarious is higher than the average of the population precisely because of the postponement of
some basic preventive care, implying that the disease progresses to an advanced stage
and therefore more expensive to treat.


Proposal No. 140: Improved information on existing aid

FDF is important for improving access to care for the most disadvantaged in the

72

Results of a survey conducted by the Christian Trade Unions and published in the Evening of 5/9/2013, "The minimum income
resort sore medical profession. "
73
Such as lower co-payments for this target or to charge a maximum beyond which all
user fees are covered by compulsory health insurance.

82

advising on all existing aid such as direct payment social74, folder
Medical global75 or free consultations to the dentist up to 18 years.

This patient information has to go through a more efficient labor at mutuals
and care providers themselves.

Proposal No. 141: Invest primarily in other sectors, such as housing,
education, sports facilities ...

Everyone knows the important contribution of housing, education, the eduction of the
culture, the working environment in the establishment and maintenance of good health, but no
policy has never really considered before.
Therefore, the FDF think it must primarily invest in other sectors,
such as housing, education, sports facilities ... so that there is less
social inequalities in the population's health status, with an overall result
beneficial both for citizens and for public finances. Indeed, to reduce
health inequalities, much of the effort required to intervene in the area
extrasanitaire. Therefore, other sectors must be involved in the implementation and
in achieving favorable to health policy.




A.2.2.3.3. Mutual

At present, everyone must be affiliated with an insurance body, such as the
mutuals, in order to benefit under the control of the INAMI, the compulsory insurance
health care.
The insurers also play a social role of insurer through their products
free and complementary insurance.


Proposal No. 142: More transparency from mutual

Mutuals have the task of informing their members about the services and products within
ellemême mutuality, but also and especially at the systems set up by the
public authorities (Global Medical File, OMNIO, BIM, maximum invoice ...) so that the
health care quality and remain accessible to all. However, currently, only 40% of
1.8 million patients who are entitled to know the paying agent. This is little…

It must therefore find that some mutuals do not play the role of transparency and
the dissemination of information as they should.
For example, January 1 201 276, a new law made it mandatory membership in
74

This system is for the GP to send his care certificate directly to mutuality, which
immediately refund. The minimexé patient only pays € 1.5 for co-payments.
75
By requesting a comprehensive medical record (DMG) to the authorized general practitioner of their choice and
committing itself to consult the priority, all patients receive the following benefits:
a reduction of 30% granted by the mutuality on which party is financially dependent patient (consultation visits +
home)
the centralization of all medical data, which prevents, for example, undergo unnecessary examinations.
76
"Des
thousands
from
Belgian
cheated
by
their
mutual "
There
Free,
25/01/2012:

83

complementary services, ie, compulsory additional insurance. Mutuality has
therefore obliged to charge more for its members to cover services
such as welfare (homeopathic care, equipment ready in case of disability, ...) and more
basic insurance.
However, many Belgians now pay a more expensive premium without
know precisely what it is. Some insurers have indeed not
comply with the obligation to inform their customers and many of them have only one
only minimal information contained in the brochures.
With as more disturbing corollary that, with little information about their
coverage, members may have to pay twice for the same type of health insurance.
It is very likely that certain Belgians are found automatically affiliated with
additional services they had previously contracted with a private insurer.

FDF therefore request that mutual societies play their role of informer and bring more
transparency on services and products offered but also on the general care system.
They have in fact a far greater contribution to patient information,
improving access to care and the development of prevention (vaccines,
screenings, attitudes for a healthy life, ...), working actively and targeted with
care and service providers, repositioning, including the services of the first line
center of the health care system.

Finally, many of aid are unknown to the general public and the rates charged by
caregivers are often very unclear. Reasons plead FDF
for the introduction of the automaticity of these rights.

Proposal No. 143: The mutuals must refocus on their core missions

It is overwhelming to see that some mutuals completely away from their missions
base.
Indeed, some organizations offer benefits and services in the tourism sector
(discounts with certain tour operators, plane tickets, car rentals and
vacation homes, holidays in thalassotherapy or winter sports ...) or offer
special conditions for subscriptions to magazines or loyalty cards from
leisure stores.

So it seems more than obvious that mutual societies must refocus on their core missions,
without playing the role of tour operator or leisure organizer.


Proposal No. 144: A better use of information held by
mutual

Existing health data are either underutilized or incomplete.
Nevertheless it seems that a bloated body of information exists and that, within
mutuals and more precisely at the Intermutualiste Agency (IMA), which recently put
up a comprehensive data base, the structure is similar to that of the sample
permanent, but that covers 100% of the population, and whose history dates back until 2008 (
http://www.lalibre.be/actu/belgique/des-milliers-de-belges-trompes-par-leur-mutuelle-51b8e453e4b0de6db9c532a5

84

patients remain "anonymous"). Neither INAMI nor the Federal Knowledge Centre (KCE) has access
Direct to the database. But couple the data we already have those
mutual societies, currently inaccessible, would draw a public health plan
develop official recommendations, based on epidemiological data
undeniable and not only on fiscal criteria, with the clear aim to improve our
health system.

Currently, the INAMI has a permanent sample covering 1/40 of the population
General (1/20 for more than 65 years). Patients are "anonymized" and the sample covers
demographic and social data, services provided, hospitalizations,
drugs delivered ... This sample contains no diagnostic data, results
exams, etc. However, it is sometimes possible to indirectly identify certain diseases
From this information (eg if a patient regularly use the insulin it
can deduce that is diabetic). This sample does not contain information about
benefits and not reimbursed by health insurance medicines. Yet these
information available to mutuals.

A procedure for obtaining such data exists, but it takes some time (+ / 1.5 years)
which has the effect of making the already almost obsolete even before starting school and ...
This does not include the exorbitant costs that are charged. Indeed, public funding of this
sample is of the order of 200,000 euros per year (maximum amount fixed by royal decree).

For FDF it is essential that these data are made provisions agencies
public as part of the studies and analyzes necessary to improve
our health care system. Rapid regularization of the situation must occur.



A.2.2.3.4. More transparency of prices

When one looks closely at the cost of benefits, 8% of people do not know how
they will pay with their GP. This percentage increases to over 30% and the gynecologist
oncologist, 40% for the ophthalmologist, cardiologist and orthopedist and even 60% in the
dentiste77.

Same thing for hospital rates. Since 2004, allows the admission form
Normally the patient to know in advance the relevant financial conditions in
of the hospital in which it is allowed. Nevertheless, in 2013, relating to a enquête78
conditions in which this statement is signed admission showed that 68% of
patients sign this document on the day of admission, which does not leave them time
understand all the information, 40% do not understand what the consequences
financial of their choice and 88% of doctors give no explanation on the cost of
intervention.

In addition, some hospitals have a list of doctors who agree to treat patients
according Inami rates, but, on the patient's request only. That is to say that the latter
77

MCC distributes its good and bad notes ", p.2," Specialist - News medical specialists ", No. 13-12,
3-31 July.
78
"Reducing the number of invoice for the patient", "Specialist - News medical specialists", No. 13-12, 3-31
July, p. 5.

85

must be aware of the existence of this list.

Proposal No. 145: A better tariff transparency

FDF advocate transparency of tariffs. To do this, they feel that both physicians
hospitals need to play the card of transparency and provide all information
necessary in terms of costs. Mutuals, which is the role, must also
enormous efforts to inform patients about the rates charged by providers.
Moreover, it would empower professionals to systematize the display
mandatory for contracted practitioners, the rates charged in the waiting rooms,
as médicomutualiste agreement provides each year.

It would further increase transparency about the cost of a consultation by reducing
complexity of co-payments and taking a series measures under the "law
accessibility. " The automatic nature of the rights of OMNIO type BIM, DMG, ... should also be
rigor.

Proposal No. 146: Improving the admission statement in hospitals

The admission declaration must also be improved. Hospitals must:
● Provide a more complete picture of the financial consequences of hospitalization and
different choices, like the room, which are available to the patient.
● Provide a cost estimate for the most important positions such as the costs of
stay, pharmaceutical costs, fees and the cost of medical equipment. Us
talking of course an estimate that could not account for changes
that would occur during hospitalization.

Proposal No. 147: A better cost estimate and legibility of bills

It is not uncommon after being hospitalized, the patient receives several invoices often
complicated to decipher. The patient then experiences an additional difficulty to get
an idea of ​​the total cost of hospitalization and has, in addition, not always the certainty of having
fully paid the full amount due.

FDF propose that hospitals centrally perceive physician fees
hospital to produce a single invoice for all services of the same
stay. The patient will thus have an overview of the different amounts due from it.
An additional invoice will still be sent, all the data are not always
available during the first billing, but the patient must be informed in the first
document.
A better tariff transparency will in particular people in financial difficulty
orientate their choice of providers according to their capacity.

It must be the same when a patient arrives to the hospital. The latter may, by
example, be directed either towards palliative care, either to intensive care. Even in this
context, it should be possible to give an estimate of the cost to the family so that it can be
a preview of what it will have to carry on hospital costs and allow him
to make arrangements. How many families receive invoices after death
a close and is now in a very unpleasant financial discomfort. It is a requirement
86

transparency.

Proposal No. 148: Promoting responsible care consumption

There is a total lack of empowerment of citizens in our health system.
The current policy is focused on structures, packages, but does not care, or very little, of
patient's wishes, which are mostly patronized. Preference is given to assistance
responsibility.

FDF are convinced that empower citizens through a better understanding of
costs, will promote responsible consumption and care will encourage
lifestyles "healthy" and better personal management of their own health.


Proposal No. 149: Establish quality objectives in hospitals

In the idea of ​​promoting the quality of care, the FDF also want to develop
clinical guidelines, implement ongoing evaluations of the technology
health and occupational physician practices, or establish procedures
Accreditation of hospitals and health institutions by establishing quality objectives
comply with a penalty system in case these criteria are not met. Do
more be confined to the renewal of existing approvals.

Proposal No. 150: Legislate on hospitalization insurance premiums

The government has reduced the hospitalization bill removing supplements in
2-bed rooms. Fees supplements are now banned in rooms
common or doubles.
This removal was not given to the patient as one might think, but rather to
Insurance companies that have not reduce their insurance premiums
hospital ... It is unacceptable that the money saved by this measure benefits ultimately
exclusively to insurers ...

So should legislate quickly on these bonuses so they are reduced for
it is good, in the end, the patient who benefits from savings and not the company
insurance.

Proposal No. 151: Legislating for honorary supplements

Following the provisions for the removal of supplements in 2-bed rooms, one
notes that hospitals already sousfinancés have increasingly tended to claim
supplements of more than 100% in single rooms to offset pertes79.

And now we talk about the 100% limit fee supplements rooms
Special! With such a measure, one may wonder if the authorities are not currently
trying to strangle hospitals in their profitability. Indeed, their financial margins
79

"Limiting supplements:" Pure insanity "" The Specialist, news medical specialists, July 2013, No.
13-12, p. 8-9.

87

are already very close (2% to 3% when positive) and are essential for
continue developing quality medicine.
Such a measure would thus undermine the financing of hospitals and, above all, at the
quality of care provided. Many surgical advances are made available to the
patient, as long as they are not taken into account by the assurancemaladie, that through
hospital supplements. Limiting supplements will therefore create a leveling sector
from below.

For the FDF, it is not possible to implement a new regulation limiting
once again the fee supplements. These supplements are acceptable, but in a
some Range: between 100% and 200% for example, excluding the 400% charged in
certain cases.

It is also suitable for FDF to properly analyze the impact of these limitations, as it does
seem wise to continue on this path. Consideration should be concretely how
can compensate for these losses in the budget of hospitals and address the problems of the sort
set out above.

Finally, we should avoid differences in treatment between an employee and a doctor doctor
Independent through academic hospital operations as they will be the source of a
two-tier medicine.



A.2.2.3.5. The administrative simplifications

According to Unizo, the Flemish organization of entrepreneurs, self-employed
devote on average 15.7 hours per week in managing administratives80 tasks. From
Generally, many doctors share this sense of administrative overload
pointing, in particular, the slowness of medical computerization.

Proposal No. 152: Relief paperwork and forms of all kinds

Any such regulation undermines the physician's role as the central administrative tasks
mortgaging more and more time it may give to the patient.

FDF therefore plead for relief from red tape and all kinds and forms
wish that the authorities give them to doctors to avoid having to provide
repeatedly the same data. More generally, it is proposed that each
new standard created is offset by the removal of a existante81 standard.

Proposal No. 153: Development of national e-health platform

FDF wishes to make a real leap forward in the IT level to alleviate the
doctors from a range of administrative tasks. Therefore they propose to continue
80

"3 hours per day for the paperwork," Vincent Claes, The Specialist - News medical specialists, 13 of 28
August to 10 September 2013.
81
The Echos.fr, The "shock simplification" begins with a freeze on production standards, Elsa Conesa, 01.04.13,
http://www.lesechos.fr/01/04/2013/lesechos.fr/0202676436875_le---choc-de-simplification---debute-par-un-gel-de-la-pro
production-of-normes.htm

88

the establishment and development of national eHealth platform by reforming and
improving IT management in health services, for example through
e-prescribing, the exams ePrescription, an Internet information portal for
health and secure electronic health record of the patient. So, with his consent,
health professionals could access, electronically, to the record kept by
various care providers, Pardela organizational boundaries.


Proposal No. 154: Simplifying drastically regulations prescribing

In addition to the standard paperwork, physicians are faced with a series of
specific regulations. For example, reimbursable drugs are divided into
different categories called chapters, which applies whenever a specific rule.
This classification generated countless regulations increasingly
complexes that have now resulted in a catalog of legal obligations more
difficult to enforce and interpret. 82

It therefore seems important for FDF to implement a major reform in the field
drug prescribing. We should drastically simplify this regulation.



82

Belgian Chamber of Representatives, October 8, 2010, Proposal to amend the Law on Insurance
compulsory health care and benefits, coordinated July 14, 1994.

89

A.2.2.4. The drug policy



A.2.2.4.1. Generic drug prices and policies

In 10 years, our consumption of prescription drugs has risen sharply. The
total expenditures NIHDI for drugs even virtually doublé83.
Between 1997 and 2008, the consumption of prescription drugs rose from 2.4 to 4,200,000,000
doses per year. The main cause is the aging of the population resulting in
increase the number of treatments.

But in 2009, including through the use of generic, spending in the sector
drugs appear to have decreased in the government budget. And for the year
2010, the budget allocated to proprietary medicinal products, namely an amount of 3.923 million
euros, representing a growth of only just over 1% compared to the objective
fiscal 2009.
That is why a drug policy "cheap", aimed not only
generic specialties but also off-patent whose price has fallen, will be pursued by the
Government in order to generate the margins necessary for drug funding
innovative.

Once the patent of a medicament has expired, it is possible to commercialize a variant
generic. Celleci contains the same active ingredient with the same efficiency that the molecule
Initial (bioequivalence), but may differ in shape, color, packaging or excipients.
Generic medicines are generally cheaper than the original drugs because
they do not require new investments in research and testing. They
So in less drain on state finances.
After the expiration of a patent, it takes no less than seven months on average before a
Cheaper generic is available. A enquête84 has calculated that, two years after
their launch, generics are on average 40% below the prices of medicines
original, the price also decrease when generics are marketed. Every
Deferral day costs a fortune so the patient and the state.

Nevertheless medicines care spending appear to be controlled but must
continue to be the subject of special attention. If excessive growth of these
expenses, there is a real risk that innovative treatments refused reimbursement by
lack of budget, even though they would decrease the frequency and duration of
hospitalizations, and thus the overall cost of health care!
Unchecked, this growth can even jeopardize the health care budget and therefore
patient access to quality care.

Proposal No. 155: Continue to promote drug policy "cheap"

A study was réalisée85 comparing spending in a scenario with a drug in
83

Site
Euromut,
"There
consumption
from
drugs
mounts
in
http://www.euromut.be/ContentServer/particulier/actualite-mutualite/news.news-medicaments-en-belgique
84
85

arrow ":

"The industry is enriched with" innovative "," Health Test 105, October, November 2011.
"The industry is enriched with" innovative "," Health Test 105, October, November 2011.

90

patent (X) and in a scenario without. Patients who took between 2006 and 2010, paid an
averaging more than € 12 million per year in total. If X had not been placed on the market and
the consumer had access only to drug Y, existing and cheaper result
on the expiry of its patent, as well as generic, this amount would have been below 10
millions of euros. The bill for the Inami climbed between 2006 and 2010 averaged a good 39
millions of euros. No drug X, it would have remained limited to a good 27 million euros
average.

FDF therefore recommend to continue to promote drug policy "cheap"
allowing the state to keep this budget in balance.


Proposal No. 156: Continue the reduction of the levy on turnover
reimbursable drugs

FDF undertake to continue the reduction in the levy on the turnover of
reimbursable drugs. In 2013, this contribution is set at 6.73% + 1% for the contribution
crisis. If the drug budget remains under control, it will be necessary to continue
reduction of this drug tax by at least 1% per year of stability
in the budget of reimbursable drugs sector, to enable the industry
Pharmaceutical to invest more in research and innovation.


Proposition 157: A level of impeccable quality drugs

Recently, the debate over the safety of generic drugs is restarted following the three deaths
occurred in France. According certains86, reducing the price of medicines is a priori
good idea, but not at the expense of quality of care. Indeed, it seems that the
drug manufacturing very large scale, which is the case for generic increases
the risk of errors. To reduce the maximum costs, companies can only act
on the raw material or the workforce, have no alternative but to multiply
distant subcontractors. At each step, so there would be a risk of loss of traceability.
Despite this, FeBelGen, the organization of the drug sector companies
generics and biosimilars in Belgium, stressed that the quality of drugs is
absolutely not to question.

Whether or not generic drugs, FDF insist that
Product quality verification procedures must ensure a level of vigilance
irreproachable.


Proposal No. 158: Encourage pharmaceutical companies to make investments
R & D

A pharmaceutical company, after much research and a whole series of tests,
brings to market a new drug is rewarded for his efforts by a patent it
86

Interview with Jean Neve, professor of pharmacology at the ULB in Le Soir, "Concern is growing around
generic ", June 13, 2013.

91

granting a monopoly for 20 years. But in these 20 years are already included
those of research and testing, so that it often remains only 8-10 years in
which the molecule can be made profitable without competition. However, this period may be
extended for five years by a supplementary protection certificate (SPC).

This monopoly enables the pharmaceutical industry to reinvest in R & D but
also to feed the country's economy at the Treasury (over 100 mio € 87)
and the level of employment.

Unfortunately, although patents are specifically designed to stimulate innovation
developing better drugs, it seems that today affect laboratories
more money on marketing and promotion as innovation, eg the period
20002007, approximately 23% of their turnover was spent on marketing and only 17
% R & D.

Given the pursuit of the objectives of Lisbonne88 and the major role played by industry
Pharmaceutical R & D, it is essential to continue the implementation of the principles
the "Tax modulation" encouraging pharmaceutical companies to make investments
R & D in Belgium, in accordance with the rules defined by the European Commission.
The Patent law should primarily stimulate true innovation. By
Moreover, we must curb the marketing of the pharmaceutical industry.

Proposal No. 159: Establish an effective system of consultation between industry
pharmaceutical, health care and policy providers

To encourage R & D activities in the pharmaceutical sector and favor a
integrative approach, rather than exclusively from the budget of the drug industry, FDF
seeking to develop a system of dialogue between the sector, health care providers and
policies.




A.2.2.4.2. Reimbursement and innovative medicines

Currently, to recognize a new drug takes between 2-3 years and included a
series of steps: clinical trials, an application for European approval, examination
Belgian level, and finally negotiating repayment (maximum 180 days).
However, in the case of serious and life-threatening diseases, it's a real race against time
Death is played.

Proposal No. 160: An accelerated reimbursement system for drugs
innovative

Belgium is one of the slowest countries in registration Europe: it exceeds the
180-day period provided principle between registration at European level and availability
the drug nationwide. Meanwhile, celuici is not available in Belgium
Www.pharma.be Site
The objectives of the Lisbon Strategy is that for 2010, each EU member country to invest
least 3% of its GDP in research and development.
87
88

92

and if it is acquired abroad, it is not refundable.

FDF want to create a constructive environment for adequate access to new
drugs by establishing fair prices compared to neighboring European countries and
in optimizing the procedures and deadlines for repayment.

Should be strengthened, the accelerated payment system for innovative medicines. Of
solutions should be found in consultation with the INAMI and the pharmaceutical industry,
to further reduce the period within the framework of the procedure for reimbursement of
drugs (180 days), but also in studies by the Agency
médicaments89.

In France for exemple90, they work for years with an authorization system
allowing temporary use to certain categories of patients (cancer patients or
AIDS terminally ill or people with rare diseases) to use drugs
have not yet been placed on the market.


Proposal No. 161: Assign a percentage of annual drug budget
reimbursement of innovative drugs

Under the obvious condition that the drug budget is under control, a percentage of
This budget could be allocated annually to the reimbursement of medicines
innovative. Would be considered as such, new Class I pharmaceutical products
have received a favorable vote of the drug reimbursement Commission. Of this
way it engages in the path of "innovation envelope" within the envelope
Budget drugs.


Proposal No. 162: Making the most drug reimbursement policy
transparent

It is clear that the drug reimbursement policy is so
complex that few health professionals see clear it. To overcome this situation,
FDF wish to make the system more transparent especially by further information from
medical professionals in the field.


Proposal No. 163: Raising awareness of the futility of the practice of automation
prescription

FDF proposing to continue the campaigns for both the medical profession as
population to raise awareness of the futility and waste related to practice
automation of the prescription and, primarily for antibiotics and
medical imaging.

89
90

"The shock 6 yards Onkelinx" sudpresse, p.20, 09.12.2013.
Spring Health, MR-FDF, in February 2010.

93


Proposal No. 164: Allow pharmaceutical companies the opportunity to choose their
medical representatives
FDF wish to avoid that medical informants are designated by the power
Federal Political leaving pharmaceutical companies the opportunity to choose their
medical representatives to defend and promotionner their products, both existing and
new.



94

A.2.2.5. Research and development

The Cornerstone of a credible health policy is R & D that advances
including medical finding new cures and vaccines. Invest in R & D
now recognized as necessary, even vital, to meet the challenges of globalization and
improve our social models.

The objectives of the Lisbon strategy, namely that from 2010, each member country
EU to invest at least 3% of its GDP in research and development,
therefore seem to have led to a recognition by politicians and the general public
the importance of research in a knowledge economy.
These targets are far from being met (they have also been carried over to 2020), and the share
R & D expenses of Belgium stagnated at around 1.9% of PIB91 for several years,
the level of the European average.

Although the intensity of R & D in Belgium is of the order of that of the European average,
the share of public funding is below the European average.

Finally, in this climate already austere, barely 25% of the research funded by the public sector
Belgium are devoted to basic research. Yet research funding
Basic is a critical societal issue that requires acceptance by authorities
policies and the general public of the fact that investment in research returns
fundamental can be seen only long term.
Although the temptation is great to promote the funding of applied research,
Basic research must indeed be massively financed upstream because it is creative
values ​​and offers the potential for significant discoveries and often unpredictable.

Proposal No. 165: Increase budgets allocated to basic research
universities and the SNSF

In French-speaking Belgium, basic research is done in universities and
mainly financed through the Fund for Scientific Research - FNRS, more than 90%
annual resources come from public funds. Grants and federal measures are
contribute up to 24%. It therefore appears from these figures that the level of funding
Scientific Research in Belgium is insufficient, particularly with regard to the
fondamental research.

Yet progress is there. The emergence of technologies including study
cell with extreme precision proves full of promise for the treatment of cancers and
other diseases. The stem cell research extends understanding of the field
researchers. We must continue to support them.

FDF wish to increase budgets allocated to basic research
Universities and FNRS and particularly those intended for the study of stem cells.


91

Memorandum of FRSFNRS to the attention of the Federal Government,
http://www.frsfnrs.be/uploaddocs/docs/NEWS_FNRS/FRSFNRS_Memorandum_201007.pdf

1

July

2010:

95

A.2.2.6. Prevention

The primary objective of health policy is to maintain the population in the best condition
health.
This requires a comprehensive approach that involves actions such as prevention
awareness, information and screening as well as research on relevant diseases
and drugs that can treat.
Therefore, the actions of prevention, health education and health promotion are
as important as the management of care themselves.

Proposal No. 166: Sharpen the information campaigns

The FDF proposes to increase information campaigns to promote, primarily,
with children, healthy food, practicing a sport, not smoking
and / or alcohol ... It is at school that this education should take place. It takes priority
the means to WallonieBruxelles Federation that schools can largely
benefit from these courses, be they issues such as AIDS or
encouraging a healthy lifestyle for the declining thereafter many diseases
(obesity, cardiovascular problems, cancer ...).
Prevention and daily actions of each are the cheapest and best
drugs. Canada has understood this since a few years now that they
working on an inspiring message about three lifestyle that seems to be working
fruits: the 0530 (0 smoking, 5 servings of fruits and vegetables a day, 30 minutes of activity
Physical per day).

It also seems crucial to FDF continue to protect young people from too "targeted" marketing
or "aggressive" encouraging the consumption of tobacco or alcohol.

Proposal No. 167: Informing citizens about the importance of good hygiene
Oral

Numerous studies have demonstrated the link between poor oral health
and respiratory or chronic inflammatory diseases such as
cardiovascular, arthritis and diabetes, or complications during pregnancy
as premature birth, preeclampsia (renal complication occurring during the
pregnancy) or a low weight of the child. Malnutrition in seniors, poor positioning
jaw, mastication problems, pronunciation or snoring may
also be the consequence of dentaires92 problems.
These numerous examples of interdependencies between the teeth and overall health, put forward
the crucial importance of prevention and early intervention. Therefore, once
Again, awareness campaigns aimed mainly children and young people are
indispensable and must be strengthened.



Proposal No. 168: Putting the citizen in control of their own health
92

"Poor dental hygiene: an important risk factor," Health Forum - National Union of Independent Health Insurance Funds,
March 2014, No. 17, p.7.

96


Putting the citizen in control of their own health is proving to be the best investment
possible. This is the issue and the objective knowledge that the planned development of a
Preventive Medicine will give everyone a better quality of life and maximum chance
to maintain good health. This requires the promotion of healthy living,
appropriate vaccinations and good information about an intelligent and optimal use
care.

It is necessary to build commitment of the population in collective care and
solidarity with all aspects of daily life related to health. Promoting health
essentially aims to reduce health inequalities through action on the determinants related to
everyday life.

Moreover, such a policy also results, significant, reduce costs
treatment of the diseases, which then allows you to assign more resources to
prevention and research. Indeed, one euro invested in prevention helps to
save much more in the curative sector!


Proposition 169: awareness among different actors in relation to their role in the
part of good prevention

Prevention policy also involves other stakeholders such as doctors
general practitioners, pediatricians and pharmacists have a key role in disseminating
Information about vaccination and screening procedures, such as cancer.
We must therefore strengthen the position of frontline actors.

The role of mutual must also evolve a function to a refund
more active participation in the patient information and the development of
Prevention, working actively and targeted with caregivers and service providers.



Proposal No. 170: Work closely with the European Commission

The FDF also advocate to continue to work closely with the Commission
European and international scientific authorities (including WHO), at
international companions of prevention, but also in case of pandemics.

Proposal No. 171: Fight against Female Genital Mutilation

Despite the adoption of the UN resolution banning FGM
women in the world and the joint launch of the Walloon Region and
WallonieBruxelles Federation of National Plan against intra-family violence
includes a section specifically dedicated to the fight against FGM, women who underwent
partial or total removal of the external genitalia are among the 13.112
belge93 territory
93

Study funded by the FPS Health and conducted by two researchers from the Institute of Tropical Medicine

97


excision "of their origins and, compared to a similar study in 2008, the number
women "probably excised" more than doubled (6260 in 2008). This augmentation
is due to the inclusion of new data, such as the arrival of women from
countries where FGM is traditionally spread and the birth of a second
generation within these communities. It is interesting to raise these women settle
primarily in Brussels.
For the FDF, the fight to eradicate this phenomenon is far from over and the fight
against FGM must continue:
● informing and educating Belgian embassies and consulates for they mean
clearly to people applying for a visa the fact that these practices are prohibited
Belgium;
● with particular attention to children at risk by physicians and staff
care hospitals, school medicine, ONE and family schedules.
Sensitize these actors is a major factor since most of the findings
excision is done at this level. These doctors should be subject to an obligation of
special vigilance and a warning system should be created in the event that a
frontline worker detect a risk situation;
● practicing a routine genital examination of girls, as is already the case for
boys during the compulsory school medical examination. Indeed, even now, the
weight and prohibited representations on female sexuality have implications
how girls are supported medically, including
a lack of perspective on the female sex;
● supporting the work conducted on the ground by associations fighting against mutilation
female sex;
● generalizing education for social life, emotional and sex in schools in
schools and, from an early age.


Proposal No. 172: Reaffirm that abortion is a fundamental and inalienable human right

In the early 21st century, we must reaffirm that abortion is a fundamental human right,
inalienable.
We must proclaim with force and resist because if we want to advance, some wish us
reducing attempting to revive the repressive laws which have been opposed by
feminist struggles and secular movements. Our civic responsibility is to front facing
speeches of another age that obscure the fact that today in the world, women are
wounded, maimed forever or die from illegal abortions suites and unsafe.
The FDF was one of the first parties in Belgium to file a bill relating to the
decriminalization of abortion. Claim the free choice of the person on his body,
individual responsibility, equality hommesfemmes, respect for physical integrity and
psychic are values ​​that are at the heart of the societal project of TOT.
Therefore, the FDF want the implementation of the resolution of the European Parliament
Health and Sexual and Reproductive Rights in 2002 which recommended in particular, 'to
protect the health and reproductive rights of women, abortion is legal, safe and

Antwerp. "More than 13,000 circumcised women live in Belgium," Belga, February 5, 2014.


98

accessible to everyone".
The FDF also want to focus on prevention through an obligation to provide
in all cycles of schools, at national and European level,
education for social life, emotional and sexual. It is indeed aware that the
right of women to control their bodies must be respected and implemented, and that the
unwanted pregnancies may be discontinued in time. Strengthen prevention, including
in very young girls, is essential, particularly in perpetuating the dual measures
Protection (pill and condom) and distributing morning-after pills, with a
personalized support.
To achieve this, the recognition of the specificity of general practitioners working in
family planning clinics and in abortuscentra is essential, particularly in
guaranteeing the maintenance of their accreditation. And this, particularly in the context of
increasing shortage of general practitioners and practitioners trained in the termination of
pregnancy.
Revalue the intellectual act so that a comprehensive support of the person on its
sexual and emotional life is possible is also crucial.
Finally, from a legal perspective, we need to promote the regulation of the use of objection
consciousness so that access to contraceptive services and abortions where it is legal,
fully insured. This implies including banning the application of institutional
conscientious objection.
Moreover, since 2004, legislative proposals, not daring to question directly
the terms of the law decriminalizing abortion up to 12 weeks pregnant, intend to legislate
on the legal status of the fetus by registering in a special register miscarriage
occurred between 140 and 179 days of pregnancy at the request of parents.
For the FDF, the registration of the fetus in a register of civil status is a breach in
the common acceptance of difference between a person and a fetus, being the Civil Status
situation of the person in the family and society, the result of a written procedure
Administrative identification.
FDF therefore reject any attempt to question, directly or indirectly, the law
decriminalization of abortion.




99

A.2.3. The fight against social exclusion: priority to save the
cohesive society



A.2.3.1. The fight against poverty

In Belgium, poverty is increasing and it resembles more to a
complex phenomenon, structural, sustainable and multidimensional. Particularly affecting
certain categories of the population (young people without family ties or without qualification
professional, single parents, single women, the Disabled
or seniors ...), poverty is characterized by an inability of men and
women to meet basic needs such as food, shelter, medicine,
educate their children ...

Based on the latest survey EUSILC of 2011, 15.3% of Belgians, about 1 person
7, in 2010 lived below the critical level approaching the risk of poverty. It
represents about 1,656,800 people. This figure brings us closer to the European average
(EU25). Note that the countries closest to our borders familiar situation
less worrying: Netherlands 11%, France 14%, 13% and Luxembourg.

Always on the basis of this survey, 5.7% of the population of the country were deprived of help
acute hardware in 2010, and 10.6% lived in households with very low work intensity.
According to the European Indicator of poverty developed in the framework of the Europe 2020 strategy,
these are 21% of those who were at risk of poverty or social exclusion
Belgium.

There are differences between regions and gender disparities and age. Despite the
difficulty of accurately measuring the poverty rate in the Brussels Region, it is estimated
according to the latest report on poverty in Brussels (2012) between 21.3% and 35.3% and is well
higher than Flanders (9.8%) and Wallonia (19%).

In Belgium, 16% of women live endessous the poverty line, against 14.6%
men.

14.4% of people under 65 live in Belgium endessous threshold
poverty. The percentage of people aged over 65 experiencing the same situation
is of the order of 20%.

The main consequences of the evolution of poverty remain and access to housing
health care, two factors that structure the social background of people.
If access to employment and training of quality hampers social exclusion,
developments in the world of work and the changes in our society can accelerate
descent into poverty.

Because of its complexity and multidimensionality of the phenomenon of poverty should be
fought on all fronts. Therefore, the FDF have proposed to operate a series
levers to put into action in training policies, employment, housing or
in those related to social protection (pensions, family allowances ...) and health care.
100

These measures are included in other chapters of this program. We supplement
by the following provisions:


Proposal No. 171: Getting the federal state gradually increases rates
reimbursement of integration income and social benefits equivalent

In Wallonia and Brussels, a diagnosis of poverty must be established and it is important that there
provide concrete answers. We see that too often governments rely on
conducting studies, but they do not benefit from this expertise in achieving
public policies.

This is the reason why the FDF designate the CPAS as coordinators plan
fight against poverty in Wallonia and Brussels, whereas only are the CPAS
can best coordinate social policies on the ground.

The goal is to ensure "an income which can not be below the European poverty line."
FDF want the CPAS can benefit from refinancing, which they
would assume their current missions in satisfactory conditions. Without
adequate funding, it will take more new missions assigned to CPAS.

Therefore, the FDF require refinancing CPAS:
● by the gradual increase of the federal income repayment rate
integration and social benefits equivalent to ensure repayment
full;
● the creation of a single energy fund to allow CPAS have more
ways to better fulfill their aid missions in favor of the people
needy.


Proposal No. 172: Remove the linear measures of unemployment exclusion

As mentioned in the program relating to unemployment, the FDF want to reform the system of
unemployment exclusions. The gap between the demand and the offer of employment is such that one can not
decently punish unemployed who do not find work. For example, in
in February 2014, Brussels had 111,182 unemployed, and received 9.101 Actiris offers.
At the same time, there were 200 501 unemployed to 10.155 Walloon deals
managed by the Forem.

To deny this reality is not a solution. The reality of unemployment, it is not only
lack of employment. It is also awaiting answers that never come because all
employers do not bother to acknowledge good receipt of applications. How
therefore prove that postulated? The reality is social security fraud, undeclared work and
false declaration concerning the status of the unemployed, the benefits of being different mondant
depending on whether one declares himself head of household, single or cohabiting. We must also see the reality of
the labor market, with shortages of labor and skills requirements.
FDF do not want linear exclusion, for example in the absence of
evidence of response from employers. We must reform the notion of suitable employment
extending it to a notion of proper training. For example, a young low-skilled
101

who refuses to follow skills training in a profession in shortage of work
should be treated as a job applicant who refuses suitable employment. It is incumbent upon
government to offer these youth skills training in trades
shortage.
The refusal must be punished, but we must rule out unemployment. The exclusion only
refer the issue to the CPAS that other missions that support a wide
to public employment and who do not receive the means to assume this task. Punishment
may consist of an immediate transition to the package for those who are confused again,
systematic monitoring of the status and suspensions of payment of allowances. Ultimately,
be considered a pact to eliminate the distinction between the statutes. A move towards
the same basic allowance for all should drastically simplify the system, delete
the temptations of fraud and to control and sanction unnecessary.


Proposition 173: Insert the automaticity of individual rights

For the FDF, it is not enough to state that a measure is specifically celleci
applied and in addition, in terms of social protection. Why, indeed, some citizens
demandentils not receive the aid to which they are normally rights?
Regarding the elderly, the example that illustrates the usefulness of the introduction of
automaticity of rights constitutes the allowance for assistance to the elderly (APA). This
allocation is identical to the integration benefit, but it is for people 65
and more.
In health care, many of the processes put in place by governments such
the Global Medical File, OMNIO, BIM, the maximum invoice are unknown to the ...
general public and the rates charged by health care providers are often unclear.
Reasons FDF supported the introduction of the automaticity of these rights.

Proposal No. 174: Create a universal fund maintenance claims and impose a
direct payment of child support by the employer

This is primarily to fight against the poverty of single parents by enabling
better enforcement of judicial decisions. This fund would be responsible for collecting all
alimony and child exconjoints which are the subject of a judgment. The employer
directly debtor would pay the amount of the pension is deducted from the salary payable.


Proposal No. 175: Fight against excessive debt and strengthen mediation services
debts

The persons concerned by this issue are obliged to wait several weeks
before getting a rendezvous with an authorized service, launched the procedure, they must
to wait before court backlogs ...

We advocate:
102

● significantly increase the financial resources allocated to mediation services
debts that have an important work of information, awareness and treatment
over-indebted persons files and / or engaged in a mediation process
debts. The balance of grants to public and private services
must be guaranteed;
● strengthen with the support of a legal service the debt mediation service, and this,
depending on the workload and the volume of cases handled by the service;
● priority, as part of a debt mediation, the priority of repayment
capital at the expense of interests;
● allow people in financial trouble to order small fuel oil
amount ;
● create in Brussels and Wallonia Like a portal dedicated to overindebtedness
containing all relevant information (mediation services coordinate
debts, legislative tools ...).


Proposal No. 176: Set up a framed allocationloyer

The framed allocationloyer be considered as a voluntary rent control in
As part of a partnership to be concluded between vulnerable tenants, public authorities and
owners.

FDF offer, like social housing agencies (AIS), define a rent
paid by tenants less than that received by the owners: the difference in the form
a -loyer allocation. In return, the owner agrees to the lease term, a form
managerial rents, the rent subsidy is paid directly to and month
owners.

Governments undertake to monitor compliance with the grilleloyer, quality of habitat
(according to standards) as the situation of the tenant's income.
To make the system attractive, the new grid of rents received by the owners will
revalued for the closer to reality the rental market (revaluation of 10-15% of the
grid rent AIS). Potentially, these are thousands of housing that could
thus be mobilized for social purposes.


Proposal No. 177: Adopt a common plan to fight against poverty between Wallonia and
Brussels with a common definition, common indicators and an observatory
common

In the fight against poverty, we need even more than in other areas, avoid
dusting. This should help make the policy against poverty and more readable
easier to evaluate.

We propose to define a common strategy to fight against poverty in the two regions
while leaving ample room for local initiatives, considering that urban poverty
is not addressed in the same way that rural poverty, but, both, have
common features.

103




A.2.3.2. A global social project for people with disabilities

Imperative to involve all levels of government in a global project.


Proposal No. 178: Establishing a multiannual plan for creation of childcare places

This plan must be broken transversely (housing policy, urban planning, the
public works, social action ...).


Proposal No. 179: Integrating the person with disabilities on the market
Employment

We need the government to impose at least one disabled person commitment
mitemps for each twenty full-time equivalent staff provided the framework within
government administrations.


Proposal No. 180: Encouraging diversification of accommodation options

Support all initiatives taken by associations, or AIS that organize the CPAS
intergenerational housing. This involves the development and financing forms
alternative care of the elderly (eg. day care centers, centers
night, short-stay centers, bridge stay) and transporting the elderly.

It should set a standard of coverage of the various service needs from the home help
until placement in rest homes and care Wallonia and Brussels to plan,
in time, efforts to accomplish.
FDF want to analyze the evolution of demand, as is the ability of supply
available. It is offering a range of tailored services (home helps, service centers
common, day care centers, home care, residential services, housing
accompanied, fall prevention ...).







104












105

B. CHALLENGES SOCIETAL


B.1. Justice and security


B.1.1. A functional and quick justice


The government Di Rupo did not give justice the means to function properly and
therefore to fulfill its missions.
The Federal Justice Department has, for too long, faced with various difficulties
result in unreasonable delays and a major court judgment backward.
The main reasons are known and recurring: insufficient funding, lack
recurring personnel, limited and outdated computerization, as well as, no doubt, of
the lack of political will to resolve these difficulties.
And when investments are made, these are shots cymbal politician, expensive, such
the lease audience scattered places in Tournai, the creation of megacomplex
Prison of Haren ...
We believe it is urgent to restore the authority of Justice that the law is respected.


B.1.1.1. Proposal 1: To judge any litigation in the year of the introduction of the cause

We can no longer accept that the procedural delays remain as long. For example,
for the years 2007-2011, the average length of treatment of files relating to offenses is
more than 1120 days when the statement was initiated by a civil party and over 550
days if requisitioned by the prosecution.
In 2011, half the files were introduced to the Penal not followed up by
Police floors of the country, 710,160 records, 579,236 of which for reasons of expediency.
In civil cases, the 2012 operating ratio of Brussels appeal court notes that
processing time between the date of introduction and the date of the judgment, range from 4-43 months
with an average of 25 months per case!
On financial crime, from 2008 to 2012, more than one file on two ranked
no action, and the total amount recovered by the State (fines and forfeitures) is barely higher
133 million, 33.44 million euros per year, or 1.5% of the amounts reported by the
Anti-Money Laundering Unit.


B.1.1.2. Proposal 2: recruit judges to deal with the backlog

Although the exact workload of magistrates is not established (see below), evolution
annual report between reentrant and outbound business by jurisdiction enables a
real growth in workload. However, executives of judges and court staff
did not evolve in the same proportion. This imbalance is one of the main
factors of the backlog.
As highlighted in a recent report functioning of the Brussels Court of Appeal, "on
can affirm that there is also an increase in workload and, given
the significant increase in the number of calls, a more obvious increase
106

pressure at work. "


B.1.1.3. Proposition 3: establish the 80/20 allocation key language in
Brussels courts

The allocation of own linguistic frames to Francophone courts
Dutch-80F / 20N, presented as a victory by Francophone parties
after the conclusion of the interinstitutional agreement of 2011, was finally abandoned in
benefit of a 71F / 29N key.
By applying the key 80F / 20N, there will be 100 magistrates and Francophone employees over
Brussels to absorb the backlog.


B.1.1.4. Proposition 4: establish and make public the workload of the courts

The inadequacy of the framework of the magistrates for the volume of business to be transacted helps
the increase in the backlog. However, there is to date no tool to
determine the workload of the courts to better allocate business and fill
properly frames.
For the FDF, it is essential to provide the judiciary with tools to establish
real measure of the workload, which are not only quantitative tools.


B.1.1.5. Proposition 5: pay the experts, translators, etc., working for justice
three months of benefits

The lowering of the budget of 1,723,000 euros, coupled with indexation
maximum amounts for legal costs, results in the Federal Public Service
Justice is no longer able to honor bills of legal experts! Criminal level,
Some surveys will no longer be continued as long as the resources do not follow on
terms of expertise.
Unpaid bills in 2013 amounted to Justice in December, 59 million
euros. The Court of Auditors has established that the expertise and translation costs were suffering from a
structural underfunding of $ 20 million.
FDF argue for the introduction of a debate on the issue of legal costs for
find structural and sustainable solutions.


B.1.1.6. Proposal 6: accelerate the process of computerization of Justice

According to a recent OECD report, only Iceland and South Africa recorded more
bad results than Belgium as regards the use of information technology and
communication technology in the administration of Justice.
According to the 2014 Scoreboard Justice in Europe established by the European Commission,
Only Cyprus and Greece are less than Belgium in the computerization for
registration and business management.
To date, failing digitization of records, judges are unable to
107

work simultaneously on the same file. Similarly, Belgium is one of the last countries
where no European electronic communication is possible between the parties to a dispute and
courts.
For the FDF, it is time to give the funds to the Justice for
resolves the delay in the computerization.


B.1.1.7. Proposition 7: Justice to provide analysis of its effectiveness tools

Not only our judicial system is facing severe difficulties but, in addition,
Belgium has never provided with the tools to analyze these difficulties in order to
address.
According to the 2014 Scoreboard Justice in Europe established by the European Commission,
Belgium is among the five member states of the European Union, Latvia, Malta,
Luxembourg and the United Kingdom which does not have a system of indicators of
performance and quality of courts! Belgium is the only country even with the
Luxembourg failed to establish quality standards or regular evaluation process
jurisdictions. It appears from this report that Belgium is not able to provide
all data requested by the judicial Europe.
Similarly, according to the 2012 evaluation report of European judicial systems established by
European Commission for the Efficiency of Justice Belgium is one of the only countries

Council of Europe not to use information management systems to analyze
length of procedures, business inventories, downtime or other procedural steps.
Thus, the Minister of Justice recently acknowledged that she was not able to know
the number of criminal cases that were to prescribe due to the backlog.


B.1.1.8. Proposition 8: create a collection of ethical obligations of judges

The mercurial re-entry of judicial year 2011/2012 was marked by statements
politically motivated jeopardizing the independence of the judiciary. These various
statements by senior judges during their mercurial are likely to jeopardize their
independence by raising doubts about their impartiality, especially in
concerns over judges.
Safeguarding the independence of the judiciary requires clear standards of conduct, specific
and from the judges themselves. These standards must be able to establish instruments
treasury judges, guides in their actions.
FDF offering to load the Advisory Judicial Council to develop and publish
a collection of ethical obligations of judges.




B.1.2. A nearby Justice Citizens

B.1.2.1. Proposal 1: encourage alternative dispute resolution in
particularly mediation and conciliation


108


B.1.2.2. Proposal 2: improving compensation for victims through the establishment of a fund
allowing them to make advances

Repair damage caused by an offense with its author may take
certain time. To compensate the faster the victims or their dependents, the FDF
propose the creation of a fund to assist victims of crime that their consent
advances. This fund could be financed either by hand or criminal fines collected
by allocating part of the proceeds from the sale of property confiscated by court
final.


B.1.2.3. Proposition 3: make justice accessible to the entire population

Access to justice is a fundamental right of the citizen that must ensure the effectiveness. About
20% of the Belgian population should be eligible for state support to be able to sue
justice.
However, as the current funding of legal aid that Di government reform projects
Rupo, we appear to be very disturbing signs of violating the principle of access to
Justice, however, enshrined in Article 47 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the Union
European.
FDF for a reform of the legal aid system should have a genuine interest in
Justice and citizens. We consider it essential that these reforms are reflected and
set up with a real constructive dialogue with stakeholders.
For example, instead of deleting the presumptions of indigence, we offer
holding the bars but giving the means to reverse (eg. by access to
Ministry of Finance data banks) by proving that the applicant for legal aid
actually has sufficient means.
In order to search and find the most suitable solution, we support the proposal of
French and German bars to create a standing committee on access to the
justice. This commission could raise the legal protection insurers, representatives of
CPAS, magistrates, lawyers and, of course, representatives of the Federal Justice.



B.1.2.4. Proposition 4: Paying correctly pro bono lawyers as guarantees of access to
Justice, or 30 euros point

The remuneration of lawyers prodeo fell 12% in two years. Instead of 28.38 euros
by point to which they should be entitled if the value had been indexed, the point value
will amount to 23.53 euros for the 2014 benefits.
For the FDF, the remuneration of pro bono lawyers must be guaranteed at 30 euros, indexed.
To this end, right next to a public financing, two types of solution are needed.
Belgium could follow the French example by creating a Registry charge feeding a
fund to finance legal aid.
Furthermore, the FDF propose to use the solidarity between citizens society by
eg tax, insurance covers legal protection.

109


B.1.2.5. Proposition 5: integrate the administrative courts within the judiciary

For the FDF, the integration of administrative courts within the judiciary
would simplify access to justice for litigants and facilitate its understanding of a
judicial system.
The division of powers between the administrative courts and those of the judiciary
is indeed complicated and limits the effectiveness of the administration of justice. The distinction between
Subjective litigation, subject to the courts of the judicial order, or objective, subject to
administrative courts is not easy to operate for citizens.
In addition, this integration would guarantee the independence of judges compared to
executive power.



B.1.2.6. Proposal 6: to preserve the judicial function of the Court House
Brussels must

A courthouse to preserve its strong symbolic must essentially judicial function. He
should not be shared between different functions, especially if they are not missions
public service.
We support the Masterplan presented by the Foundation written by Poelaert
representatives of the Brussels Bar, the judiciary and the Buildings Agency as well
figures from the Brussels political and artistic life and experts
architecture and real estate, in order to give new impetus to the process of assigning and
renovation of the courthouse.




B.1.3. Better executed sentences

Facing the nonexécution of court decisions, due notably to overcrowding and
the backlog of cases, different measures must be implemented.

B.1.3.1. Proposal 1: Run any conviction to fight against impunity

In particular because of overcrowding, 11 732 people on the 1st March 2013, to
9,700 seats, many prison sentences are not properly executed, which
creates a feeling of impunity and encourages recidivism.
Prison overcrowding and inefficiency of imprisonment in terms of reintegration
and the fight against recidivism forced to challenge the dominance of
imprisonment.
This challenge involves defining the nature of penalties depending on the seriousness of
offenses committed, so that differential treatment of different levels and
types of crime.
Based on the positive experience of other European countries such as Sweden or the Netherlands,
we can say that the benefits of such a reform are manifold: to promote
reintegration of convicts, compensation support for the civil parties in preserving
110

employment of the offender, removing overcrowding and its human and material costs and
end a most perverse effect of prison stays, ie learning
delinquency among young people held with criminals.
In France, a "consensus jury" was convened at the initiative of the Garde des Sceaux for
prevent recurrence and composed of representatives of civil society under the chairmanship of
Belgian professor Françoise Tulkens. We believe that the Belgian government should be
inspire and develop this kind of jury of a wider field of reflection so that he can lead a
substantial reform of the entire criminal law and the enforcement of sentences.


B.1.3.2. Proposal 2: create the "plead guilty"

FDF believe that sentencing must be diversified so that the judge can
choose the most appropriate sentence.
Subject to the implementation of safeguards to prevent abuse, the FDF advocate setting
Place of appearance in Belgium French system of prior recognition
guilt. Celuici allows the prosecutor to provide, directly and without
trial, one or more sentences to a person who recognizes the facts alleged against him.
Thus, such a system could be used to provide alternatives to punishment
farms imprisonment, to be approved by the judge: fines, penalties work,
suspensions of delivery, custodial sentences short accompanied by a reprieve
single or probation.


B.1.3.3. Proposition 3: Erecting confiscation self worth

In the same idea of ​​diversification of penalties for FDF, confiscation to be erected
standalone sentence available to the judge.
The confiscation of specific property of the convicted offender, indeed, acquired, over time, a place
preponderant in the arsenal of penalties that can be imposed before or by the judge.


B.1.3.4. Proposition 4: imprisoned in prison for crimes
major

Imprisonment as we know it, should be reserved for cases where this
is objectively necessary: ​​blood crimes, bodily integrity or case
Recurrences ...
For others, we advocate the implementation of strict measures allowing back on track
in society.
Thus, an intermediate level of confinement "part-time" could be more
systematically used.

B.1.3.5. Proposition 5: Preventive detention must regain its original function

Those in custody are 35% (in 2011) of the prison population. There
law on preventive detention no longer serves its original purpose, namely to avoid the leakage of
suspect, erasing evidence, recidivism and collusion with third parties.
111

For the FDF, ensure the rigorous application of the law, including through better
training of judges, limiting the scope to cases within the aim to
which it was enacted. In many cases, the electronic monitoring system
could compensate.
Furthermore, we support reform of the legislation on preventive detention
to respond in particular to the observations raised by the High Council of Justice in its
report "Fluoroscopy the organization and operation of the board rooms
floors under the control of preventive detention "of July 2, 2013.
According to the CSJ, the legislation on preventive detention is inconsistent, unclear
and logic, does not present a uniform deadlines and has been the subject of multiple amendments and
not always clear.


B.1.3.6. Proposal 6: reforming parole

According to the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe, parole is
one of the measures "the most effective and constructive and to prevent recurrence
promote the social reintegration of prisoners into society ".
For the FDF, it is appropriate to adopt a parole system automatically, which
would not consider this as a favor, but as the mode
normal release, the justice of the penalty enforcement must remain free to grant the measure
before granting threshold, to determine how or decline in some specific cases.
We also advocate the abandonment of automatic mechanisms for increasing penalties
or limitation of development possibilities cellesci, including for convicted
state of recurrence. Indeed, the systematic nature of a safety period, based solely
the nature of the offense, calls into question the principle of individualization of sentences.


B.1.3.7. Proposition 7: substantially change the new legislation
plea agreement

Adopted under the likely impetus of a foreign authority, the law of April 14, 2011, extending
the possibilities for criminal transaction, infringed the fundamental principles of
criminal procedure in our country.
This new procedure has also led to a downgrade of Belgium in the 9th
report of the Transparency International NGO on the fight against the "export of
corruption. "
FDF advocate a substantial change in the scope plea agreement so that the
judge be rehabilitated in his judicial function, in particular by no longer allowing the use of
this system when the public action has begun.
At the very least, we wish to see followed the recommendations of the High Council of
Justice published March 27, 2012:
● define by a circular of the College of Public Prosecutors scope
Article 216a C.I.Cr. in order to ensure a uniform interpretation;
● parties wishing to applying the extent transaction should be able to
Refer immediately and directly to the prosecutor at the trial court;
● evaluate this new legal provision. In particular, it should be checked if it is not
likely to weaken the position of the Public Ministry, reducing its investigations
112

in large fraud cases and risked creating major differences
within prosecutors' offices on how to implement it.


B.1.3.8. Proposition 8: widespread alternative sentences

This is mainly worth of work and electronic monitoring.
Ceuxci currently sousexploités, particularly because of the lack of means to them
is consecrated.
Other alternative measures or penalties can be imagined. For example, in France and
Switzerland, joursamende system allows the judge, as an alternative sentence to prison of
determine the amount of the penalty taking into account the circumstances of the offense
and resources and expenses of the condemned.


B.1.3.9. Proposal 9: to give Belgium a mapping its prison population

FDF advocate the establishment of a computer database about the
prison population, ensuring that relevant information for classification of
Prisoners (psychological tests, social, disciplinary problems contacts) are collected
systematically.
This would, in particular, to ensure the distribution of inmates not on
security account or the number of places available but according to their
needs (language criterion, close to home, plan type, etc.), and their plan
Individual detention.
By slowing down the progression of the inmates in the prison system and creating a
proximity between detainees presenting too different hazard profile, the current system
contributes to overcrowding, has dramatic consequences given the gaps
welfare matters and highlights the fact that the prison is, for lack of prospects
it provides a fertile ground for indoctrination of religious extremism.


B.1.3.10. Proposition 10: ensure a minimum service in the prisons

A minimum service must be established in the prison sector in order to avoid disturbing the
operational functioning of the police during strikes.


B.1.3.11. Proposition 11: Run the principles of the Dupont Act of January 12, 2005

This law aims to give detainees legal status and thus to recognize their
certain fundamental rights, and the means to enforce those rights.
Nine years after its enactment, only the safety aspects of this legislation have been treated with
compared with aspects related to welfare, to the reintegration of the prisoner objective and its right to
complaint.


B.1.3.12. Proposition 12: treat people with mental disorders in
113

specialized institutions

DAfter the latest report of the Federal Justice, the "interned" constitute more than 10% of the population
prison. Their number increased by 69% over the last decade.
For FDF, must be placed quickly in appropriate facilities. It's about
not only to apply the legislation in force (the Social Protection Act in respect of
abnormal and habitual offenders), but also to answer many judgments of the
European Court of Human Rights condemned Belgium for having this practice (8
stops just for 2014).
FDF advocate a change in the law to provide for the immediate transfer of persons
charged to an appropriate care facility and, right from the submission of the expert report
finding a measure of internment.


B.1.3.13. Proposition 13: transfer skills in health care
detainees to the FPS Health and Social Security

At their strike of 1 March 2014, professionals active in health institutions
Prison complained about six or eight months of late payment by the administration of
Justice.
As summarized by a reporter, "it's been two years that the medical staff and
paramedic in prison awaits respect for promises made by the team Di Rupo. "
To improve the legal frame work of these professionals while meeting the
WHO recommendations on good governance of the prison health in the 21st
century, the FDF advocate to transfer the skills of health care to prisoners
FPS Public Health and Social Security.


B.1.3.14. Proposition 14: stop renting to prisons
foreign

650 inmates staying in the prison of Tilburg, in the Netherlands, in
execution of an agreement between Belgium and the Netherlands, for an annual cost of
more than 43 million.
Many French prisoners (20%) are imprisoned far from their loved ones but
Also far from the aid provided by the WallonieBruxelles Communities, including
term rehabilitation, education or therapy.
The Flemish Community refused, moreover, to intervene in Tilburg, as highlighted
International Prison Observatory, in its 2013 notice, "it's all the rights of
justiciable, rehabilitation efforts and maintaining social ties that are made
evil and bring to light the reality of detention: a hardcore restraint in the sense
term without preparation for release from prison. "




B.1.3.15. Proposal 15: To improve the management of sex offenders should be
improved
114


It is essential to ensure operational and effective social control if released
Early sex offenders.
For the FDF, this control must be materialized by strengthening the monitoring of offenders
Sex by the judicial assistants and the designation of a reference policeman in each zone
local police.
This should also improve the traceability of sex offenders by creating a
national register of perpetrators of sexual offenses in the central criminal record.


B.1.3.16. Proposal 16: To follow in the event of marriage turned gray

The association "trapped Hearts" was created to help the victims and gray wedding
of bébépapiers. These scams are feeling particularly painful for
victims who realize that obtaining a residence permit was the only goal
the scammer.
The victims, often naive before the promises of eternal love, emerged exhausted
nervously, emotionally and financially this fool's game, which affects men and
women regardless of their cultural backgrounds, religious, ethnic, social. He
must break the silence on this tragic reality. The information and awareness seem to me
beings unavoidable weapons to prevent this phenomenon.
FDF are delighted that there is now a legal framework to fight against
marriages and cohabitations gray which, including the automatic cancellation of marriage or
of cohabitation.
For the FDF, it should:
● adapt the prosecution policy: each case of gray or white wedding
must be investigated and prosecuted, and not, as is currently the case,
only in case of stress, violence, threat, recidivism, networks
criminals, human trafficking or payment;
● inform and warn potential victims, to accompany all those and all
those who are victims of this sentimental fraud.









115


B.1.4. Concretely establish security and safety for everyone!

In communes run by mayors FDF, the local police has been proven thanks
a working nearby.

B.1.4.1. Proposal 1: list the priorities for criminal policy in the long
term

Rather than continue current policy, which is to set a new security plan to
Following a dramatic event, the FDF want to register priorities of criminal policy
in the long term.
Cellesci should address the following fundamentals: prevention and repression in case
abuses people, with particular attention to sexual violence and
female genital mutilation, the fight against international crime, notably through
the use of new technologies, fiscal and social fraud and trafficking in human beings
human, trafficking, forced marriage, pedophilia, the safety of the living environment
each and the fight against environmental damage.
The police force and in the flooring must be strengthened and trained in sufficient
in line with their mission.


B.1.4.2. Proposal 2: quickly organize a Standing Conference of authorities
for public security in the Brussels Region

The specifics of the Brussels Region justify taking particular actions coordinated and
consistent policy of crime prevention on the one hand, and policies
local police, on the other.
FDF advocate to quickly organize a Standing Conference of the public authorities
for safety in the Brussels region with all the stakeholders, ie,
Federal Ministers of Justice and Interior, the Brussels regional government,
mayors of municipalities in Brussels, leaders of the bodies of six police zones
Brussels, the Public Prosecutor of Brussels, the heads of prisons,
and representatives of professional circles, including those of
Brussels bars.
The holding of this Conference will take the findings of the security situation in
Brussels region that will allow the government to prepare the structural measures
more adequate to respond to these findings.


B.1.4.3. Proposition 3: ensure effective policing by the presence of
the district officer

The implementation of a community policing policy proven in several areas
Police in the country, characterized by a safety improvement. Improved policies
Security participates in the renewal of Commons. It encourages the development of activities
human, economic, social and cultural. But it naturally requires effort
116

constant and continuous search for new solutions.
In this context, focus on the development of the presence in the street, including the reform of
neighborhoods teams, increasing the number and visibility of district officers and
multiplying neighborhood police stations (KOBAN) is probably one of the solutions. These
neighborhoods agents can handle everything about their "small" sector they regulate
Traffic and conflict neighborhoods, make the neighborhood surveys, etc ... So they know
extremely well their territory. They can inform and draw public attention to the points

contentious. They can conduct spot and not to increase their repressive actions
presence, visibility and accessibility. These actions are reassuring for citizens and
strengthen the sense of security.


B.1.4.4. Proposition 4: Proposal No. 258: restore solidarity among police zones

In 2001 was set an overall federal funding envelope for police zones.
The different areas were divided into rich area, stable and poor. The zones'
rich "have seen their shell decrease of some 25 million euros for areas
poor. For the six areas of Brussels, the cost of solidarity amounted in 2002 to 9,527,812.31
euros.
It was understood that, after this solidarity should decrease by one twelfth per year or
793,984.36 euros and the annual allocation to the Brussels police zones to increase all
each year until 2014. Solidarity has unfortunately been frozen in 2004. The Solidarity
been frozen by 50% and by 2005, 75%. Thus, instead of decreasing by one twelfth, solidarity
decreased only a twentyfourth and from 2005 a fortyeighth. If no
action is taken, the solidarity of the six zones of the Brussels Region should extinguish
in 2046, comprised of a decrease of one forty-eighth year. The amount in euros and
withdrawn from Brussels fonts corresponds to more than EUR 7 million. Solidarity between
police areas must be restored!


B.1.4.5. Proposition 5: KUL update the standard to better distribute the manna
Financial between police areas

KUL standard, ie the federal budget the key between the different areas
Police in the country, was established in 2002 on the basis of population figures of 2001, and has not
been updated since. However, the population of some cities grew dramatically
since 2002 (an increase of 18% for the Brussels population in 12 years). In addition, the criteria
currently used in the areas of police funding mechanism does not take into
account elements specific to large cities such as traffic, crime
urban or nocturnal activity and larger weekend.
The cost to the municipalities, and therefore for their taxpayers, is an increasing function of the
size and degree of urbanization. Where the revenue from federal grants cover
more than half of the police zones budget in the most rural entities, they do
cover one-third in urban entities. A reform of the KUL standard touch all
common but particularly adverse correct the imbalances large
cities.
In addition, unlike other big cities, Brussels does not even have a
economic hinterland that allows organizing fiscal redistribution flow as
117

organize the funding of Walloon and Flemish towns to benefit their cities.


B.1.4.6. Proposition 6: the federal government must refinance police zones of the Region
Brussels notably via subsidies EUROTOPS

The Federal State subsidies are intended to cover the financial costs linked to the organization
European summits and expenditures of safety and prevention in relation to
according to national and international capital of Brussels.
Thus, for 2013, an amount of over € 32 million was allocated to the Region
Brussels-Capital for this purpose and to cover expenses related to securing the
STIB, as well as those related to prevention plans and proximity.
These amounts take into account neither intensification nor the European summits
multiplication of events related to the international status of Brussels, such as summits
G7, the visits of the US and Chinese presidents, or European events
to name only the most expensive events by security means.
Moreover, contrary to the budgetary autonomy of parliaments, the current legislation provides
the allocation of this money can only be decided by the Cooperation Committee meets
representatives of the Brussels Region and the federal state.

For the FDF requires:
● review the amount of grants to correspond to the actual load carried
Brussels by police as part of the European meetings;
● allow the Brussels Parliament to decide on the practical use of these subsidies.



B.1.4.7. Proposition 7: Engage quickly nearly 1,000 police in the Brussels Region
through federal grants

The underfunding of police zones Brussels forced a reduction of their
workforce. From the established theoretical framework according to calculations by the Association of the City and
municipalities of the Brussels region, it lacks in the Brussels Region 934 time equivalents
Full, 14% of the total theoretical framework for the Region. Police zones cost
proportionally 25% more expensive to Brussels municipalities to contribute more
low 20% of budget areas.
For that police zones may reach the level of receipts of other areas
major cities, the Brussels municipalities should increase overall
grants of € 57 million and € 12 million needed to costs
organizational and personnel generated by the European summits.
For the FDF, the necessary amounts should be supported by the federal state.


B.1.4.8. Proposition 8: Mitigate the lack of recruitment of police officers

FDF have overcome the lack of recruitment by informing and sensitizing
unemployed to participate in police recruitment tests where labor demand is
particularly important. These are essentially jobs not requiring
118

important qualifications. In our cities, there is a significant need for police and us
have a pool of low-skilled unemployed very important.

It is also necessary to develop vocational training courses devoted to
business security. Many schools organize a 7th year to train young people
security jobs (well beyond the policy framework) in the various networks
school. In Wallonia, there are 9 schools, 14 in Flanders and 4 in Brussels.


B.1.4.9. Proposal 9: to ensure the accuracy and completeness of statistics on
of security

In analyzing the completeness rate of the general national database (BNG) and
feed rate celleci by FEEDIS (for federal police) and ISLP (for
Local Police), the differences between the rate of encoding and completeness rates between
different police zones of the Kingdom were found.
Overall, police zones reach middle completeness rate of between 87.8%
98.6%. Some police areas are well below the average rate of completeness and
encoding. This is very problematic. Indeed, the differences of completeness rate
distort not only the statistical comparisons regularly made public, but
also the basis on which police areas must rely to establish strategies
and set their priorities.
The accuracy and completeness of safety statistics is a condition
Prior to the establishment of effective and relevant policies in the fight against crime
and insecurity.


B.1.4.10. Proposition 10: generalizing the fast track courts throughout the
country

The public prosecutor may call a person who has been arrested or appearing before
him to appear before the police court or the criminal court within that
may be less than 10 days and not more than 2 months. It shall notify him of the facts alleged against him and
the place, date and time of the hearing and informs him that she has the right to choose a lawyer.
This is mentioned in a notification MINUTES, which is given a copy
immediately. The notification is subpoena. A judgment must be pronounced
within 2 months of the first hearing.
Although they are likely to enable a rapid response, this procedure is not
sufficiently used.


B.1.4.11. Proposition 11: restore the previous 16-year threshold for the application of
municipal administrative sanctions

The possibility of applying administrative sanctions to minors from the age of 14 years
caused a radical break with the current vision of the right to the protection of youth. The
Delegate-General for Children's Rights has regularly insisted repeatedly denounced
the arbitrariness of the choice of the age down to 14 years and punishable noncompliance
119

of this measure to the international convention of children's rights.
Moreover, it is more than likely that this sanction is of no effect for the young because most
often parents pay for their child. And while the young can pay this luimême
administrative fine, this measure simply "stupid" to focus on debt
shoulders of the young. It in no way questions the structural causes of problems
social, such as truancy or lack of parental involvement in education.
The approach should rather be part of a prospect to give more resources to
youth court. It should give a boost to youth problems related policies!
Moreover, no evaluation of the current system for minors from 16 to 18 years was
performed. It also appears from a study by the General Delegate for Human Rights
Child, the SAC of the device has been used a few times against minors.
For the FDF, it is necessary to restore the previous threshold of 16 years for the implementation of
municipal administrative sanctions.


B.1.4.12. Proposal 12: To improve the coordination and funding of the fight against
Cybercrime

Electronic crime experienced spectacular growth. Following recent hacks
IT has referred the Belgian army, the Chancellery of the Prime Minister and Belgacom, it is
can only note with regret that the fight against cybercrime has so far not been a
real priority and suffered a lack of cooperation between different departments,
such as BCcentre, CERT or FCCU. Similarly, no co-operation with the center
European fight against cybercrime has so far been implemented.
For the FDF, the Belgian Cyber ​​Security Strategy, approved by the federal government
2013, should be quickly deployed and properly funded, to the tune of 20 million
euros.
For the FDF, only concerted action at European level can help meet
the needs of computer detection and protection means for measuring issues
protection of privacy.



B.1.4.13. Proposition 13: fighting illegitimate violence of security forces

The Committee against Torture of the United Nations is concerned that organizations not
Government continue to provide information on abuse and
discriminatory behavior on the part of law enforcement, such arbitrary qu'arrestations,
racist insults, refusal to enact a complaint, physical violence and other treatments
inhuman or degrading treatment.
These findings were echoed in a judgment of the European Court of Human Rights in
which the Court held that not only the investigation of ill-treatment, submitted by
the victim to national authorities, had been devoid of effectiveness, but the authorities
breached its obligations by not taking all possible measures to search for if
discriminatory behavior played a role in the events.
FDF offer to fight effectively against ill-treatment by forces
the order, including those based on any form of discrimination and punish the perpetrators of
appropriately.
120

The FDF also proposed for integration in the police code of ethics Information
on sanctions that would expose police officers for breaches of their
obligations.


B.1.4.14. Proposition 14: Belgium must adopt the necessary means to combat
against illicit drug trafficking

Early 2013, a report on the drug markets in the EU, developed by the Observatory
European Drugs and Drug Addiction (EMCDDA) and Europol, revealed that the numbers of
seizures of illicit drugs confirm the role of Belgium as a primary entry point
cocaine in Europe and its overall importance in the European drug trade.
In addition to strengthening the human, FDF advocate to improve cooperation
Belgium with the authorities of the EU and other member states to better
control this traffic. Only an integrated European approach will combat
effectively the criminal networks behind the trafficking.








121

B.2. In a controlled and coherent immigration policy

FDF have always recognized immigration as a positive factor for development
Belgian society both economically and demographically, social or cultural.

B.2.1.1. Proposal 1: Plan immigration policy based on the needs of the
Belgian company

In consultation with the social partners, the State must establish the types of jobs for which
Immigration from outside the European Union will be authorized, taking care to maintain a diversity of
Immigration through information actions in different regions of the world. The
Candidates are selected in their countries of origin and, if necessary, will undergo training,
involving in particular, learning a national language.
For the FDF, the policy of access to territory should be harmonized
European.


B.2.1.2. Proposal 2: mandating the citizenship path for all
non-European nationals

Following a citizenship course, made mandatory, non-European nationals
better know their rights and duties and undertake to respect democratic values ​​and
secular state.
This course guarantees them equal access to employment and protects against discrimination.


B.2.1.3. Proposition 3: process applications for asylum and residence in less than a year

The Immigration and institutions must have the number of members
sufficient staff to enable them to rule in the year of the introduction of the
asylum or residence.


B.2.1.4. Proposition 4: specify in the law of foreign regularization criteria in
illegal stay

In some cases, for example following an asylum procedure exceeding a reasonable period, of
foreigners are found staying illegally in Belgium while residing there for a very
long, have followed studies, etc.
For the FDF, so as not to give false hope to foreigners not meeting
eligibility requirements in the territory, clear and precise criteria for regularization should be
enshrined in law.
An asylum procedure or long-term regulation should be an important criterion of
and the existence of a serious illness.
The inability to return or being stateless and have no other host countries that
Belgium and humanitarian circumstances should be able to define form
criteria.
122

Finally, lasting links with our country must also allow regularization.
To verify the presence of lasting ties with our country, it should provide
Conditions ea making clear reference to the presence of the lasting social ties
countries, and the availability to work, the prospect of a job and / or the possibility
to ensure its own needs.


B.2.1.5. Proposition 5: ensure rapid and objective procedure for asylum
Human rights defenders

FDF are keen to enhance the image of Belgium as a land of welcome for real
those who intend to improve solidarity and human rights worldwide. That
whether journalists, trade unionists, activists or women, these advocates must
to find refuge in our country when they do their physical safety is threatened. For
this, the implementation of an accelerated asylum procedure, in consultation with the organs
competent, must be part of the objectives of the next government.


B.2.1.6. Proposal 6: deal objectively with requests for regularization reasons
Medical

In medical regulation, FDF advocate the fastest treatment possible and the
fairer requests.
More precisely :
● Compared to the "filter" installed at the admissibility, we ask that
people who have applied for regularization can get medical,
in the shortest possible time, a neutral opinion on the seriousness of their situation and therefore on the
admissibility of their request. This review work requests could be made
by doctors INAMI.
● We also request the establishment of a reliable database
the existence and accessibility of care in countries of origin.
A study should be carried out as to the correct application of the law and jurisprudence by
delegate of the competent minister.


B.2.1.7. Proposition 7: make exceptional detention centers for foreign children
closed by Belgium

The detention of children in closed centers in Belgium led several times
condemnation of Belgium by the European Court of Human Rights for treatment
inhuman and degrading. Belgium must therefore adapt its practices and standards to
respect this case law and international conventions.
For the FDF, it should only be resorted to detention of minors as a last resort. The
children and those directly responsible for his education should not be held
unless it is the only means of maintaining family unity.
In addition, the children holding period should be limited as much as possible. The place
detention must be considered to host families and perfectly meet the requirements of
International Convention on the Rights of the Child, including respecting at all
123

when the best interests of children and bringing the family.


B.2.1.8. Proposition 8: better protection for unaccompanied minors

Unaccompanied migrant children are in situations of extreme vulnerability.
They are easy victims of human trafficking and other forms of
organized crime. Facilitating the voluntary meeting of unaccompanied minors with his
family must be the only reason to leave the territory to MENA.
A lasting solution ensuring stability must be provided for each MENA.
We believe, in this regard, that the Foreign Office is not qualified to rule on
this durable solution.
FDF propose including in the Aliens Act that must receive authorization
more than three months stay abroad the age of eighteen years unless accompanied by
a parent, legal guardian or spouse who has not yet obtained approval from the judge
youth, youth welfare service or designated guardian to return from one of
first mentioned.


B.2.1.9. Proposal 9: Belgium must put an end to bilateral agreements on extradition
majeure risk of torture

As part of the fight against terrorism, Belgium bypasses the extradition ban
to countries where the risk of torture were found in exchange for diplomatic guarantees
Bilateral indicating that the defendants in question will not be tortured. Non-binding,
these diplomatic assurances have no guarantee for our country.
For the FDF, Belgium must end this policy.








124

B.3. For a tolerant and pluralistic Belgium

The respect and promotion of human rights and the fight against racism, anti-Semitism and
xenophobia are part of the fundamental Belgium. FDF however can only
regret that the Belgian company has not yet have the tools to apply these
precepts.

B.3.1.1. Proposal 1: Devote secularism of the Belgian State in the Constitution

For the FDF, secularism, pluralism of the philosophical pluralism and thus the debate
it protects democratic, has guaranteed the protection of all rights
fundamentals.
State secularism is betting on the ability of every citizen to understand and respect the
beliefs of others. Secularism is based primarily on a cultural concept of society.
It is the acceptance by all the exchange of ideas and convictions can muster rather
that divide.
The state's secularity is the common pact based on shared values ​​and on which it
can be compromised: the principle of equality between women and men, superior authority of the State
to any other authority, fundamental freedoms and rejecting any discrimination, pluralism
democratic.

B.3.1.2. Proposal 2: Establish a national institution for human rights

Belgium must quickly develop an independent national institution for the defense of
human rights, in accordance with the Paris Principles, to strengthen and
institutionalize policies and strategies in this area.
There is still a long way to go to ensure full respect for human rights
man in our country and particularly in the fight against economic inequality,
cultural, political and social.
During the last 10 years, Belgium has been sentenced to 234 times by the Court
European human rights violations of fundamental rights, such as
the prohibition of torture, the right to liberty and security, the right to respect for private life and
family or the right to a fair trial or an effective remedy. Just for the year
2014, this figure already stands at 17 convictions of Belgium.

B.3.1.3. Proposition 3: Establish a Ministry of Women's Rights in
federal



B.3.1.4. Proposition 4: equip Belgium of a Special Representative for Human Rights
the man

In foreign policy, Belgium must be distinguished by a strong image in terms
of human rights in its foreign, trade and diplomatic relations. To this end,
FDF wish that Belgium adopts a Special Representative for Human Rights
Man, like the European Union, which would ensure the establishment of clauses of respect
125

of human rights in external relations that Belgium, including with
its strategic partners.
In addition, the FDF want to strengthen the training of Belgian diplomats to the problem of
human rights through regular training and adapted to the situations that are ceuxci
face.


B.3.1.5. Proposition 5: Belgium build a national plan against racism

At the World Conference against Racism, Racial Discrimination, Xenophobia and
intolerance associated with it, organized by the United Nations in September 2001 in Durban, the
Belgium had agreed "to establish and implement without delay policies and plans
national action to fight against racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia, and
intolerance associated with it, including their gender events. "
Thirteen years later, Belgium has still not adopted a national action plan against
racism.


B.3.1.6. Proposal 6: ratify Protocol 12 to the European Convention on Human Rights
the man who provides for a general prohibition of discrimination

While Belgium has signed Protocol 12 to the European Convention on Human Rights
man November 4, 2000 and it came into force in 2005, "the procedure
Ratification of the Protocol has not yet been initiated 'in Belgium, as recalled in
January 2011, the Foreign Minister, in the House of Representatives. Nowadays,
Nothing has changed.
However, this protocol ratified by eighteen countries, including our neighbors the Netherlands and the Grand Duchy of
Luxembourg, represents an important advance in the fight against discrimination
in that it provides for a general prohibition of discrimination, celleci being defined in the way
Next: "The enjoyment of any right set forth by law shall be secured without discrimination
not based on sex, race, color, language, or other status. "
FDF demanding that the Belgian State quickly is analyzing the implications of the
Protocol in various areas of public action (education, employment, taxation, socio
economic, etc.) in order to finalize the ratification process as quickly
possible.


B.3.1.7. Proposition 7: Designate as soon as the competent body to fight against
Discrimination based on language

Direct discrimination on the basis of language are illegal since 2007 but, as
further stressed on 25 February the European Commission against Racism and
Intolerance (ECRI) of the Council of Europe, no body has yet, to date, received
legal competence, against this type of discrimination. Indeed, language was
expressly withdrawn skills of the new inter-federal Centre for Equal Opportunities,
and without any objective justification.
For the FDF, it must designate the body which will be responsible to bring collective actions
in order to denounce before the courts or to file a criminal complaint for all
126

discrimination based on language.



B.3.1.8. Proposition 8: To systematize the appointment of policemen and magistrates
Reference in the fight against racism, discrimination and
homophobia / transphobia

For the FDF, should be designated as within local policies as a prosecutor
reference person charged issues of racism and homophobia / transphobia. These
people must work closely together.


B.3.1.9. Proposal 9: Develop tools for collecting and analyzing data
intolerance and discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity

The authorities need to develop the tools for collecting data and intolerance
discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity and to analyze them.


B.3.1.10. Proposal 10: promote tolerance and mutual respect visàvis
Homophobia and transphobia

For the FDF, this is implemented at all levels, whether in the Plan
Interfederal of action against homophobia and transphobia or at the federated entities,
measures to promote tolerance and mutual respect in schools
school, regardless of sexual orientation or gender identity.


B.3.1.11. Proposition 11: declared illegal organizations to incite
hatred, racism and discrimination

The threats that the exercise of freedoms abused can lead to democracy
ellemême were considered by the drafters of the European Convention rights
rights and fundamental freedoms. It thus provides the possibility to pronounce the
disqualification of individuals or groups of individuals draconian of any protection
conventional, since the activity of these, including the fact to express their ideas
policies, aimed at the destruction of the order in a democratic society.
For the FDF, must be prohibited individuals from organizations whose purpose and
acts are to incite discrimination, hatred or violence against a person or a
group of people, due to one of the protected criteria (nationality, supposed race,
skin color, descent, national or ethnic origin, religious belief or
philosophical, sexual orientation, marital status, language, gender or sex change)
or to propagate ideas or theories tending to justify or encourage such discrimination,
hatred or violence.
As with any exception to the fundamental freedoms, it seems to us essential that
judicial authority is only competent to determine whether an individual group should be
prohibits, with all the judicial guarantees that entails.
127



B.3.1.11. Proposal 12: enhance the fight against anti-Semitism and Islamophobia

Considering the large number of acts of anti-Semitism and Islamophobia in our country, the FDF
advocate to raise awareness among police authorities and prosecution in the fight against such acts. The
proceedings may be closed without follow but must be able to lead, where appropriate,
on appropriate penalties to the seriousness of such acts.
This should be done in parallel with a strengthening of the awareness campaigns
population.


B.3.1.12. Proposition 13: Extending the duty to remember the law on Holocaust denial in
all genocides and crimes against humanity

Genocide, like any crime against humanity, not just for the
victims and their descendants but of humanity as a whole. Allow to return
their existence in question, minimize or approving provides a breeding ground for anti-Semitism
and racism and thus constitute a threat to a democratic society.
For the FDF, the duty of memory defended by this law must be extended to all genocides and
crimes against humanity as defined by international law and recognized as such by
a casting decision res judicata of any international court whose jurisdiction has been
recognized by Belgium, by the Security Council or the UN General Assembly
or a casting decision res judicata or a Belgian court of another State
member of the European Union.


B.3.1.13. Proposition 14: The government should allow the measurement of action
positive in the fight against discrimination

The anti-discrimination laws enable the adoption of affirmative action measures. These measures
aimed at restoring the balance between different groups of people within the population. They are
to put an end to a manifest inequality whose disappearance has been designated as a
aim to promote. It must be temporary and must be likely to disappear soon
that the goal is reached.
However, for 7 years, no royal decree determining the cases and the conditions in which a
affirmative action can be taken has yet been adopted.


B.3.1.14. Proposition 15: Put human rights at the heart of strategies, policies
and development programs

Both the Belgian Development Cooperation and the European program for après2015
must be based on the current architecture of human rights. The interconnection must be total in
this. Any assistance to sustainable human development must be rooted in the context of the setting
implement international treaties on human rights, including civil rights
and economic rights. Individuals must be recognized as rights holders.
Like the concept of democratic ownership that must be fully integrated into the aid
128

development, the requirement for accountability must be systematically in mind,
especially in the design and implementation of a program for après2015.
Specifically, as was the case when setting the Millennium Goals
Development Goals (MDGs), the FDF advocate that human rights enjoy a place
central to the agenda of the après2015 whether the level of education, health,
the environment, gender equality but also of security.

In this respect, it is time that Belgium meets its repeated commitments in 2005 and joined the
group, admittedly limited, countries with development aid reached at least the 0.7%
Gross national income. Properly implemented, development assistance can be beneficial
As for the countries that helped for the contributor.







129

B.4. Various


Proposal 1: improving the fight against sexual and domestic violence

For the FDF, Belgium must ratify the Convention as soon as possible the Council of Europe
on the prevention and fight against violence against women and domestic violence
2011, known as the Istanbul Convention.
To fight effectively against sexual and domestic violence, the FDF advocate:
● to adopt specific legislation on domestic violence;
● increase emergency accommodation and care places for victims;
● ensure the welcome and support of all victims, monitoring of justice and
prosecution of perpetrators;
● associations to allocate financial means, sufficient and sustainable human
to develop a multidimensional work in the long run as in
prevention, hospitality, coaching, and psychological care
social, housing and monitoring posthébergement;
● support the work conducted on the ground by associations fighting against mutilation
female sex;
● expand the timeframe of the telephone line reception of victims of violence
marital, 0800 30 030, open Monday to Saturday from 9am to 20h and extend it to
sexual violence. This line should be accessible 24/24;
● create a similar phone line dedicated to forced or coerced marriages;
● strengthen the training and awareness of the reception staff service
first line (police, hospitals, social workers, etc.);
● intensify the positive information and awareness campaigns showing that
Victims can get out and that the shame should change sides;
● generalizing education for social life, emotional and sex in schools
in schools and, from an early age.


Proposal 2: To reaffirm the right to abortion

Since 2004, legislative proposals, not daring to question directly the terms of
the law decriminalizing abortion up to 12 weeks pregnant, intend to legislate on the status
Legal fetal registering in a special register miscarriages occurred between
140 and 179 days of pregnancy at the request of parents.
For the FDF, the registration of the fetus in a register of civil status is a breach in
the common acceptance of difference between a person and a fetus, marital status being
situation of the person in the family and society, the result of a written procedure
Administrative identification.
FDF therefore reject any attempt to question, directly or indirectly, the law
decriminalization of abortion.


Proposition 3: improve control of the final destination of arms exports

The principle of publicity of administrative acts must be applied for orders
130

weapons received by the Walloon government to ensure greater transparency of
trade agreements that commit.
FDF want to ensure that the Walloon government makes every effort to control
final destination of the arms exported by better tracking of orders. This will
possible through increased cooperation among different levels of authority concerned, in
including the areas of defense and development cooperation.
Moreover, control over the final destination of sales must also be provided by law
clearly and accurately framing the role of arms dealer.
Finally, traceability must be facilitated by the systematic marking of weapons and ammunition
manufactured in Belgium.










131

B.5. Energy policy


Proposal No. 295: developing the necessary infrastructure for energy transport
(in particular to deal with the increase in gas exports imports)

Current developments in the European gas market offer us as Belgian
various opportunities to intensify the crossroads role of natural gas in the Northwest of
Europe. With the unique position it has built, Belgium has no assets
negligible to attract new cross-border natural gas flows allowing it to
enhance security of supply and boost competition. This unique position
Belgium does, however, not make us forget that other countries also aspire
to become the hub of Northwest gas market of Europe.


Proposal No. 296: Phase out nuclear power and investing in development
alternative energy

It should be considered that the removal of nuclear should be considered with the assurance of a
security of energy supply for our country, in strict compliance with our
international obligations to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, with
a total security guarantee for nuclear power plants until the final phase of their
dismantling and maintaining a high level of expertise in the nuclear field. He
must therefore seriously consider today the development of alternative energy and
massively reorient investment towards truly sustainable energy.


Proposal No. 297: Nuclear pension increase 550 million to 1 billion euros
until the end of plant operations

The implementation of the October 2009 agreement and the continuation of previous agreements with the
GDF SUEZ must ensure capture of nuclear annuity. In recent years,
consensus amounts indeed to find that nuclear operators and companies
a proportionate share in the industrial production of electricity from fission fuel
Nuclear benefited and have an advantageous situation resulting from the difference
between relatively low production costs and market prices are high. A report published
in 2011 the National Bank has the correct number of rent between 800,000 and € 950,000.
For its part, the federal regulator for electricity and natural gas markets, CREG, door
this figure to a value between 1.75 and € 2.3 billion, Electrabel relying on ellemême
a figure of € 750,000 million. For the FDF, the solution lies in the idea of ​​an annuity
which is more closer to the reality of operating profits reported by Electrabel or towards
an amount that eventually turn around one billion Euros.


132

Proposal No. 298: investing the proceeds of the annuity in nuclear R & D of new
more efficient and cleaner technologies and specifically in the areas of
renewable energy to develop competitive industries and carriers
Employment in Belgium

Belgium spends 2.21% of its gross domestic product to research and development,
according to the latest statistics Belspo. A chiffrerecord but do not meet the target
European. Europe recommends that the total amount spent on R & D, 2/3 is taken into
load by companies and one third by the public authorities.
In Belgium, 69% is invested by the private sector. So there is still room. Therefore, the
FDF propose to invest the nuclear rent a billion euros in support for R & D and
specifically support projects in renewable energy sectors.


Proposal No. 299 to flatten the wind energy file and commission a study
European on the whole Belgian wind farm

Faced with debt programmed Windfarms to fifteen years (of around 4.5 billion
EUR dependent households, according to the equation 1,000 new wind turbines = 4.5 million
MWh / year = 4.5 million green certificates is € 450 million per year) and questions
on the actual energy efficiency of industrial wind power, we propose a moratorium on
development of the Walloon mainly wind power, currently subject to public inquiry.
The moratorium aims to to overhaul the entire record and choices to be made for the future
for all renewable energies.
FDF suggest that an agency of the European Union, as the European Agency for
Environment Agency (EEA) conduct an independent and objective investigation on both production
actual electricity and reductions of CO2 emissions at the level of the entire park
wind.
It is appropriate to limit the uncontrolled development in major industrial parks and the
under the safeguard of living and public health factor of local residents. It is right to
develop wind projects targeted notably in the North Sea.


Proposal No. 300: implement a rationalization plan number
intermunicipal distribution system operators

For more efficiency, FDF wish consolidate into a single network manager
all inter loaded network.

The organization and current operating mode of the power distribution and mixed
Walloon Region gases must absolutely evolve, particularly given:
● the need for administrative simplification of the structures with a positive impact
quality services for network users, municipalities, suppliers
and regulators;
● the need to facilitate dialogue between the federal and regional bodies but
also worries in facilitating dialogue for network users;
● the need to ensure greater transparency and cost control distribution
133

conducive to a reduction in distribution rates.


Proposal No. 301: Developing an audit on the management bonuses

In the Brussels region as in Wallonia, there are a total unpredictability in
management bonuses. For example, the envelope of € 19 million reserved for bonuses
Energy in the Brussels region was stormed by the people of Brussels in 2013. It is the abnormal
annual budget of premiums (which has doubled yet) be emptied in not even six months! This
position proves that premiums are poorly managed. For the FDF, it is therefore
to organize an audit of the management of these premiums.








134

B.6. National defense policy


Introduction: The National Defence consolidate our knowhow and
meet the EU targets

Future level of ambition of the Belgian Defence in Europe
Europe needs to develop a rapid and successful military intervention capacity.
In Belgium, we have to participate in this goal. Member of the United Nations and founder
deeply committed to the European project, Belgium must play an important role in
Project construction of European defense, just as in the defense context
collective (Atlantic Alliance) and in the resolutions of crises and conflicts or
in stabilization of need areas (OSCE, EU, UN, ...).
Furthermore, we must give our armed forces the warranty carry out its essential mission:
guarantee peace and security.
To do this, national defense must meet the following challenges:
● improving the attractiveness of the profession and attracting young
● participate in international missions
● renew investments in major equipment
● maintain defense budgets

Proposal No. 302: Keeping the Defence funding level to meet the
European objectives


To achieve these goals, Defence must maintain its funding level. From
2000s, the defense budget has been declining.
Therefore, we advocate that the budgetary position of the Defense Department can be
stabilize to allow it to fulfill in the best way its missions. To participate in
the fiscal effort, rationalization solutions could be envisaged. It is especially
possible to share infrastructure between public services and the Department of Defense or
or even the outsourcing of certain services.
Multinationalization training and training (leasing, exchange of materials)
is also a means to achieve economies of scale and contributes to our goal of
consolidate the European defense project.
Moreover, it is useful that the Minister of Defence draws up an annual report on
advanced Transformation Plan, notably in terms of costs and benefits. (In 2014,
49 million euros are planned for small and big investment work in
kept neighborhoods. Specifically in the context of the Transformation Plan, work for
$ 35 million will be made).


Proposal No. 303: Rejuvenate the defense personnel including through recruitment
Targeted for critical functions

The personnel policy is closely linked to fiscal policy. Grants a defense
employment to 30,000 military personnel and 2,000 civilians.
As part of the downsizing of staff attrition and not have forced
be privileged. As part of the commitment we support recruitment, including
for critical functions (eg the technical, medical functions and functions
135

in the Navy) and for functions that require less skill level
high. Which could afford to hire young sousqualifiés.
The rejuvenation of the staff should of course not affect the operability of
components.
However, after a sometimes shortened school careers, youth engagement within the
Department of Defense could be a new opportunity for social advancement and
integration into the labor market.
Furthermore, it is important to put in place modern recruitment procedures and
adapted to the vacant job offers.


Proposal No. 304: Making more attractive military art, especially via
knowledge of languages

Defense has created a new status for military personnel December 31, 2013.
This new status provides in particular for personnel management by business chain,
the introduction of the B level and distribution of military aptitude categories. A passage
Internal is also possible for the military losing quality military.
This status can however change (working hours, insurance, ...). It is important to actuate
all levers to maintain the level of staff motivation.
Furthermore, we advocate that the knowledge of several languages ​​are valued by
through the granting of premiums and in particular those of operational interest.
Finally, we must support the opportunities for mobility / transfers to other public services
and the adjustments of the status of the voluntary military. (La Défense achieved
Alignment of this status to certain provisions of the status of professional soldiers. Thus, the
military concerned may request particular attachment to a training session
later or request access to career transition at the end of their engagement.
In addition, Defence will increase the attractiveness of the status by decreasing the duration of the period ended
6 months to 8 weeks and increasing the pay 5 euros to 10 euros).


Proposal No. 305: Ensuring linguistic distribution in parity Dutch
and French for grades of generals and senior officers, for functions
management and decision and for international duties

The debate on the linguistic imbalance within the Department of Defense became
recurring.
Over the years, a significant disproportion in the high linguistic functions is
appeared despite the existence of a "tacit" rule that ensures respect the balance
language in the armed forces.

Indeed, a careful analysis shows that while the overall balance is respected for
all grades, an imbalance is growing increasingly at officers
higher at the expense of French-speaking officers.
For the FDF, the government's concern to restore balance is largely
insufficient.
That is why we tabled a bill proposing the Federal guarantee
a linguistic division at parity between Dutch and French for grades
of generals and senior officers, to the functions of management and decision, as well as
international functions.
136

This proposal builds on the laws on the use of languages ​​in administrative matters which
provide within federal public services a linguistic division of functions
above parity between the two frames, French and Dutch.



B.6.1. Meeting the needs of components

Proposal No. 306: Keeping the level of investment in material resources and
Human within the land component

The land component is the largest in terms of personnel. It is therefore the most
hit under the budget reduction policies.
Therefore, we support the implementation of short careers and all measures
to improve the attractiveness of the military profession. We refer here to the need
to attract a younger and less qualified public to enable them to benefit from a first
experience on the job market. It should also be provided opportunities
transfers between public services and the Department of Defense.
To meet the targets set in the Strategic Plan for 20002015 Defense,
efforts must continue to achieve full capacity center (eg power
fire and tactical mobility).
Finally, we recognize the importance of the missions carried out by the component on
international (eg Kunduz, Congo, Lebanon, ...).
Therefore, we support the continuation of the re-equipment of the land component as
the importance of strengthening military cooperation with neighboring nations.


Proposal No. 307: Replace by our F16 multirole combat aircraft and
European combining our Belgian industry

The quality and level of our F16 made internationally has no equal. As regards their
renewal, it is useful to ensure that the investment plan benefits the component
but also to our industry, both north and south.
The parsimonious acquisition of multirole combat aircraft, European preferences,
could become the common thread for replacement of current F16.
In addition, the purchase of multi-role helicopters and transport and observation drones
could offset our component.
Furthermore, the use of the future Airbus A400M could be shared at European level,
the airline reinforced cooperation with neighboring countries.


Proposal No. 308: Reorient the missions of the marine component and adapt its
navigation equipment over new threats

The marine component can rely on a strategically advantageous position.
Besides the recruitment effort to ensure the proper operability of the ships, we consider
that the component must reorient its missions and adapt to new threats.
In fact, the new challenges for our small maritime nation (the fight against piracy and
illicit trafficking; the protection of merchant vessels and economic areas; securing
sea ​​lanes and territorial seas ...), require light vessels type corvette,
137

versatile, fast and durable, fitted with anti subsea capabilities, anti-aircraft, of
demining and battle surface.
Therefore, it will ensure enhanced naval cooperation in particular with the
Netherlands and France.







138

C. INSTITUTIONAL ISSUES


Introduction

500 days of the few attempts to institutional negotiations and impossible
form a federal government that followed the parliamentary elections of 13 June 2010,
FDF had removed a conviction that is now a truism: the blindness, the
passeism, immobility lead Francophones to their loss.

Some people continue to believe in the south there is a sort of Maginot line that protects
Francophones institutional advances in policy Flanders. Not afraid of debate
Institutional that Francophones who do not know where they go.

We have less to blame Flemish parties know what they want for Flanders
deplore the fear that some Francophones to take on the future of Wallonia and
Brussels.

In this the resolutions adopted by the Flemish Parliament 3 March 1999 have demonstrated the
Flanders determination to overcome federalism and to wear an institutional project
ellemême. In saying this, we obviously nothing accredit the project confederalist
some Flemish parties, their truncated view of the Brussels reality, to break their will
solidarities.

Instead, the FDF claim that in a balanced federal state, Walloon and Brussels do
will be respected on condition of being united together.

The analysis that the FDF have made of the Agreement of 11 October 2011 concerning the sixth
State reform is quite clear: in this vision perfectly confederalist the
Francophones in this country are not considered in their proper place, they are not respected, and
Federal solidarity is clearly undermined as an assurance of prosperity
for both economic regions.

The Agreement of 11 October 2011 performed overwhelmingly requests
Flemish on transfers of competence, which goes very far in autonomy, which
unravels two sections of the Social Security (unimaginable in 2007 during negotiations Orange
Blue), and which does not advocate any refédéralisation however necessary (eg Botanical Garden
National).

Note that many of these claims were already embedded in the phase
preforming in July 2010, and that the notable exception of public safety, we conducted
all advertised transfers.

We can say unequivocally that francophone parties from the beginning accepted the idea
a broad transfer of powers from the Flemish point of view almost exclusively, while all
mutual releases of four French democratic parties 2002-2009
indicated very clearly that the Francophone parties do not want to engage in
full or partial division of the Federal Social Security.

139

In this respect, one can see that the institutional arrangement for the sixth state reform
performs many of the 1999 Flemish Parliament resolutions that remain to this day
always the first reference in terms of vision of Flanders in the evolution
institutional of the Belgian state.

Thus, Flanders got into this Agreement for the Fifth State Reform:
● transfer of jurisdiction to the Communities on standards, implementation, and
the financing of the entire policy on family allowances (4th
resolution);
● in employment, greater autonomy in terms of unemployment insurance,
control on agency work and in employment, the transfer of congééducation
paid, the industrial apprenticeship (4th resolution);
● greater fiscal and financial autonomy in IPP (2nd resolution);
● the bulk of the levers with respect to its economic policy;
● in terms of mobility (4th resolution), the presence of regions within structures
SNCB, the transfer of the regulation on inland navigation, a wide
defederalisation of the Highway Code;
● for energy, more control over distribution rates;
● defederalisation the INS (National Statistics Institute);
● increased skills in telecommunications;
● the presence of regions within the Agency for Foreign Trade;
● split the BHV district electorally;
● greater involvement of the federal entities in the functioning of the Court of
Accounts;
● confirmation of the principle of territoriality and the restrictive interpretation of the regime
facilities;
● refusal to review the boundaries between federated entities;
● transfer sanctionnel youth law;
● split the fund equipment and utilities (CSCF);
● transfer of calamities Fund.


Attachment to the Belgian federal state remains honorable, it is full of history but let us be
cheaply, he no longer has the same meaning to the north and south.

With a cynical pragmatism, the main Flemish political leaders play state
Belgian as an auxiliary instrument, Flanders being the main driver of their ambitions.
This constatlà, it is regrettable, but it is imposed on us and forces us to conceive otherwise
our report to the Belgian State.

The federal state is no longer necessarily a protector of rights of French interests.

Whenever the French interests have been challenged, not just in the periphery
Brussels (eg disputes related to the circular Peeters), the Federal Government has admitted his
powerless to act.

There are more federal, impartial, able to ensure the right balance between the rights,
the interests of the two major communities of this country. Whenever the interests of the
Flanders are involved, the federal government must give way to the Flemish state.
140


FDF set out a stinging observation: thus the two Flemish politicians
States in their service: the Belgian State and the Flemish government, in gestation.
The major fact of the evolution of the Flemish political world is that precisely took second
the advantage on the first, because it is a new generation of Flemish politicians
emerging today in Flanders and which considers in particular that the conquest of Job
Prime Minister is no longer the priority: the federal government must above all be an instrument
to move towards an increasingly independent Flanders.

For years, the Flemish Movement considered that the conquest of the levers of power
Belgium was the first claim for recognition of the Flemish people.

FDF have always respected the cultural and linguistic aspirations of the Flemish people in
Nineteenth century, they were legitimate.

But today, the levers of power, political or economic, must be transferred to
Flemish government for Flanders has more accountable to any authority
higher.

Faced with this development we see as inevitable, Francophones must
be willing to adapt their institutional vision. They have fallen behind, they too
procrastinated long, they should now be able to anticipate these developments.
Belgium is indeed facing a perpetual restoration because of its institutions
through state reforms.

Federalism characterizes our state is increasingly unbalanced, accentuating
logic that gives pledges to build a Flemish state.

FDF for a balanced federalism is one that gives the federal government an equilibrium point
between on the one hand the rights of the people (political, linguistic, cultural) and
minorities and also the necessary autonomy of the federal entities, as part of a
centrifugal federalism (ie, transferring skills to the federated entities) but
maintains the sovereign functions (justice, security, interior, defense) at the state level
Federal.

The institutional arrangement and execution, which resulted enshrined in the review more items
constitutional and ordinary and special laws of July 19, 2012 open already a
gap for tomorrow Flanders has the levers to firstly an accentuated Masters
the Belgian State and the other his project of an independent Flanders, the recent statements
Flemish MinistrePrésident attesting.

FDF for a balanced federalism within the Belgian state must be able to articulate
around five axes:

● It can substantially reduce political and linguistic rights to
recognized minorities; it should instead help to reinforce.
● The second federal legislature shall be a representative assembly
all communities and regions, as is the case in federal states.
● Brussels must be recognized as a full-fledged region within the meaning of Article 3 of the
141

Constitution, regarding its operation or about its funding.
● The increased autonomy of the federated entities, if it meets an inherent logic
Federalism should not participate dismemberment of the federal state in
relates solidarity mechanisms, through the defederalisation care
health and family allowances such as is the case under the
This state reform.
● The finance law should give all the guarantees of a renewed prosperity for
Wallonia and Brussels, with the prospect of a Federation Wallonia-Brussels.



C.1. THE FUTURE OF FEDERAL BELGIUM



C.1.1. Revision of the Constitution

Proposal No. 309: Expanding the powers of the Constitutional Court to all
provisions of the Constitution and changing its composition
FDF request that the Constitutional Court should in future be composed solely of
professional judges.

Proposal No. 310: Allow Parliamentary Ombudsmen to make
recommendations Equity
This is to apply to public authorities of the principle of equity, ie guided
not by equality before the law but through the righteousness struck by the execution of a law in cases
individual which the legislature would have thought.

Proposal No. 311: Revise Article 195 of the Constitution on the procedure
Revision of the Constitution
The aim is to devote the following two principles:
● The principle of deferred second reading: once adopted by the House of
Representatives and the Senate, the amendment of constitutional provisions would
temporary and would be considered final after a second vote by two
same assemblies involved in a minimum of three months;
● The principle of the requirement of a quorum: a review of a constitutional provision
should collect not only the two-thirds majority in each assembly
but also a majority in each language group.

Proposal No. 312: Register in the Constitution the right to water and supply
Energy

Proposal No. 313: Register in the Constitution the right to justice and ester
to defend themselves in their own language in all courts in the country

142

Proposal No. 314: Devote in the Constitution the principle of secularism in politics
State

Proposal No. 315: Enter the terms in the Constitution Referendum
decision-making at all levels of government respecting their remit

Proposal No. 316: Enter into the Constitution by the requirement to recruit coucours
in public administration
It should be added in Article 10 of the Constitution the principle that employment in
Public administrations should be filled by competition and occupied by persons
appointed permanently and subjected to legal status, with the exceptions established by law.
Proposal No. 317: Create an administrative court by province
This administrative JURISDICTION would be competent for appeals against acts
individual and against regulatory acts of local authorities, with the exception of disputes
relating to communes with special linguistic regime, which faced the assembly
General of the Administrative Jurisdiction Division of the Council of State.
In view of such a reform, the Council of State would have a competence
jurisdiction limited to regulatory acts of the federal administrative authorities,
Community and regional and cassation appeal against decisions of
administrative courts of first instance.
Proposal No. 318: Expand comprétences of the Court of Auditors

● against budgetary and accounting operations of municipalities and
inter.
● Regarding the prohibition of cumulation between the mandates of federal deputies,
regional, and community and a paid executive mandate

Proposal No. 319: Reaffirm the federalist project FDF

This is a balanced federalism, centrifugal tendency (ie, which gives more
autonomy to the federated entities) and maintains important regulatory functions in
level of the federal state (justice, interior, defense)


Proposal No. 320: Require bilingual services to the airport BruxellesNational
and the strengthening of its federal character



C.1.2. Financing of the Federal State and the federated entities

Proposal No. 321: Empowering Walloon and Brussels Regions:

● with regard to public expenditure management efficiency;
● in promoting real growth policy for both regions to
143

to face the challenges of the 2020s during which financial solidarity
Federal fades.


Proposal No. 322: Establish an objective study of South transfers / North during the period
1830/1960, by independent experts


Proposal No. 323: Ensure the adverse effects of increased tax competition
Regions after autonomy granted to regions


Proposal No. 324: Allow partial taxation of IPP on the workplace to
to operate in a sustainable manner the structural refinancing of the Brussels Region





C.1.3. The judicial district of Brussels

Proposal No. 325: Delete any discretion in the event of application
language change
Legislate from 1935 on the use of languages ​​in judicial matters in the event of
language change request, the civil or criminal courts should have more power
of discretion in the application.


Proposal No. 327: Increase the cadres of French courts
the judicial district of Brussels, to suit their actual workload

C.1.4. Rights of National Minorities

Proposal No. 328: Allow francophone voters from the periphery "without
facilities "to elect their representative in the House

To do this, it should create a federal riding in the House of
representatives. This constituency would elect 10 deputies to the country, 5
Dutch-speaking and 5 in the House of Representatives, which would
Francophone voters of the municipalities of the periphery without facilities to elect their representative
the Federal Parliament


Proposal No. 329: Create a special status for the 6 municipalities with facilities and
Fourons

FDF require a municipal referendum on the enlargement of Brussels because it is the
only sustainable structural solution that would guarantee the Community pacification. In
144

Meanwhile, they want to create a specific status under the aegis of the federal state for six
common devices and Fourons, and that, pursuant to Article 5 paragraph 3 of the
Constitution,


Proposal No. 330: Ratify without reservations and implement without delay the Framework Convention
for the Protection of National Minorities

FDF intend to comply with resolution 1301 of 26 September 2002 the Council of
Europe and call for the adoption by the French parliamentary assemblies acts
assent to the Convention, in order to assume the sole responsibility of the Flanders
his refusal


Proposal No. 331: Require the ratification of Protocol 12 to the Convention
European Human Rights which widens the scope of the principle of
nondiscrimination


Proposal No. 332: Allow the child speaking from the periphery to register without
Reserves in a French school for six municipalities with facilities

It agirt apply so full the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights
man of 23 July 1968 which had considered that French-speaking children residing in
towns without facilities in the Brussels periphery may enroll without restriction in
French school of one of the six municipalities with facilities


Proposal No. 333: Allow the WallonieBruxelles subsidize Federation without
Cultural barriers Francophone associations or other established outskirts
Brussels

It is to refuse the application of the territoriality principle overtaken by events, and to respect the
right of people under that doctrine called federalism staff

Proposal No. 334: Enforce the rules on language facilities

We must remove the circular of the Flemish Government, to enforce the law on
the use of languages ​​for administrative purposes.


Proposal No. 335: Confirm the right of municipal councilors to speak in
their language in municipal councils of municipalities with facilities

This is required for the implementation of the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court of March 10, 1998:
communal councilors in municipalities with facilities have the right to express themselves in French
during the communal councils.


145

Proposal No. 336: Removing the distinction between common tell "big
facilities "(Kraainem, Drogenbos, Linkebeek and Wemmel) and common so-called"
small facilities "(RhodeSaintGenèse and WezembeekOppem)

This distinction under the language laws is no longer justified for reasons
sociological, the presence of francophones being homogeneous in the 6 municipalities with facilities.


Proposal No. 337: Allow the free choice of the language of the proceedings before the Board
State

It is expedient to make the free choice of the language of the proceedings before the Council of State
applicant and that, regardless of the locale in which it is established. This freedom of
language will also apply to Dutch-speaking inhabitants domiciled in region
French language in order to achieve democratic progress to the benefit of all citizens
treated equally by the law.

Proposition 338: Designate the mayors of six cities through devices
Direct election
Proposal No. 339: Assign administrative supervision over the six municipalities with facilities in
Federal government

This is to allow municipalities with facilities to escape the arbitrariness of the Flemish authorities.


Proposal No. 340: Require strict linguistic parity in the appointment of presidents
Executive Committee of the SPF

Proposal No. 341: Review the composition of the Senate to respect parity
linguistic and in which the Brussels Region and the German Community
would be represented





C.1.5. Status of the Brussels Region

Proposal No. 342: Require the constitutive autonomy of the Brussels Region, the same
conditions as those accorded to other regions and communities.

Thus, the Brussels Parliament will deliberate on a 2/3 majority of the members present,
without a majority is required by linguistic group


Proposal No. 343: Require the effectiveness of the Communauté métropolitaine:

According to all recent academic and scientific studies, it is shown that the area
real socio-economic (more commonly called "hinterland") of the Brussels Region,
146

extends far beyond the current administrative boundaries of the Brussels region: soon
then, the FDF hear firstly secure the territory of the future Community (renamed
urban rather than metropolitan) common component the former province of Brabant and
secondly give real skills to the urban community so that it fills
full role.
To this end, the FDF offer:
● the Urban Community organs be elected by direct universal suffrage, its
Officers are elected for a period of five years (election the same day as the election
the European Parliament), ceuxci forming the "Board", the urban community being
administered by a "college"
● it has its own skills:
organization of educational and cultural services in French or Dutch
throughout its territory;
public and school transport throughout its territory
management of road infrastructure (including RO);
production, distribution, and water treatment;
Refuse collection and disposal;
Fight against fire;
Emergency medical assistance.
● it is not subject to any administrative control supervision.


Proposal No. 344: Remove guaranteed representation mechanism in favor of
Dutch Parliament in Brussels, the rule of consensus within the
Brussels government, relax the rules of double majority

Proposition 345: Apply the principle of "bilingual services, unilingual
agents "applicable to the local civil service
This is to replace individual bilingualism prevailing and remove
legal uncertainty posed particular as to the application of the orders on the level of
linguistic knowledge. This rule is bilingual services for its
perfect for the Brussels linguistic reality.


Proposal No. 346: Strictly respect the legal criteria of business volume
processed in the establishment of language and staff of the Ministry and pararegional
remove language parity prevailing at all levels of management jobs
for the Ministry of the Brussels Region, the pararegional, and local services
Brussels


Proposal No. 347: Putting odonnance on the same footing as Decree

Currently, a decree adopted by the Walloon and Flemish Regions has more legal weight
a Brussels ordinance. The FDF, who want to make a separate Brussels Region
fully intend to end this difference.


Proposal No. 348: Rejecting categorically any merger of communes in Brussels
147



Proposal No. 349: Delete the Joint Community Commission and transfer
skills either the Brussels Region

This elimination is all the more urgent that, following the transfer of powers from the
6th state reform, the Cocom was entrusted with important responsibilities, including
on family and health benefits for seniors. However, within the Cocom, parties
Flemish receive an exorbitant veto.

Proposal No. 350: Restore the language census


Proposal No. 351: Require bilingual services to the airport BruxellesNational
and the strengthening of its federal character




C.1.6 Reform provinces and intermediate power levels

Proposal No. 352: Refocusing the mission of provincial interest around four
Main responsibilities:

● education and training;
● Economic development and employment;
● culture and lifelong learning;
● Health
● Tourism.


Proposal No. 353: Streamline intermunicipal economic development

The goal is to have a single inter-province.


Proposal No. 354: Reforming the provinces according to the principle of good governance

In the status of MPPs, delete special functions and costs
representation. It is also to limit the number of provincial and structures ASBL
parallel. It must also adopt a code of citizen participation at the provincial level according
the principle of participatory democracy




C.1.7. Monarchy

Proposal No. 355: Keeping the king's prerogatives as currently
enshrined in the Constitution, in terms of sanction and promulgation
148



Proposal No. 356: Reform the civil status of the royal function:
● King has a compensation to tax;
● civil list is subject to review by the Court of Auditors.




C.2. THE FEDERATION WALLONIEBRUXELLES



C.2.1. The Parliament of the Federation WallonieBruxelles

Proposal No. 357: Amend the current composition of the Parliament of the Federation
WallonieBruxelles to develop common policies between the two regions

The Parliament of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation must count among its members elected
universal suffrage in a single constituency WallonieBruxelles (including
HalVilvorde). This Parliament would be composed of 94 members (so there is no increase
the number of MPs), as follows:

● 35 members elected from a single constituency including WallonieBruxelles
HalVilvorde;
● 47 members elected to the 2nd degree by the Walloon Parliament;
● 12 members elected to the 2nd degree by the French linguistic group of the Parliament
Brussels.

The direct election of members of Parliament of the Federation will strengthen WallonieBruxelles
the existence of the latter and give it a more certain democratic basis.


Proposal No. 358: Establish a monitoring mechanism by the Court of Auditors concerning
the prohibition of cumulation between the mandates of federal deputies, regional and
Community and more than one paid executive mandate




C.2.2. The Government of the Federation WallonieBruxelles

Proposal No. 359: Build the Government of the Federation WallonieBruxelles
Twelve ministers

It should consist of 6 Walloon ministers and four Ministers or Secretaries of State Regional
Brussels, a German minister, a minister without the Brussels Dutch
presence of the latter can result in paralysis of the operation of the Federation
WallonieBruxelles; the ministreprésident of the Brussels Region should sit on the
Federation Government

149




C.2.3. Structural and financial functioning of the Federation
WallonieBruxelles.


Proposal No. 360: Identify places decision to streamline, plan and evaluate

A Joint Parliamentary Committee (WB Parliament of the Federation, PFB, Walloon Parliament)
must be charged to inventory and identify all the places where decisions (Regions,
communities, provinces, inter ...) in order to rationalize. Then
it will establish a multi-year action plan and to establish evaluation tools (dashboards)


Proposal No. 361: Create a WallonieBruxelles Research Agency

This Agency must be given the following priorities:
● develop collaboration between universities and businesses and encourage
transfer of results from basic research to applied research;
● facilitate access for Walloon and Brussels SMEs to search results
Scientific and European aid;
● define the status, the more harmonized, researchers, scholarships and aids and encourage
PhD in business;
● make teaching science more attractive for young people and interest them in
the importance of scientific research;
● coordinate collaborations with European countries and internationally to
enable our researchers to participate in the most famous teams;
● promote the reception of foreign researchers Federation WallonieBruxelles.


Proposal No. 362: Provide the WallonieBruxelles Federation of full fiscal capacity

This fiscal capacity, organized on a territorial basis, is essential to
the exercise of its powers. Since the WB Federation fiscal capacity, it must
require the personal income tax is paid at the place of work. The FDF will make it a
claim priority in any new future institutional trading.
This is the surest route to a final refinancing of the Brussels region, without adversely
affects the interests of Wallonia since it is the Federation who will bear the responsibility.

Proposal No. 363: Assign skills WallonieBruxelles Federation
required each time the common interest must prevail

If the Region is competent in the first degree, essentially materials having vocation
territorial laFédération WB can enter, either at the request of the two regions, or by
evocation of any matter where public interest must prevail.

It may for example put together a budget for financial mass necessary
joint projects with social and economic benefits for both regions.
150



Proposal No. 364: Establish a real mobility policy for the network
WallonieBruxelles Federation by rail in order to make it an essential element of
economic redeployment


Proposal No. 365: Make the French Community Commission (COCOF) power
Organizing institutions in Brussels within its fields of competence (culture,
sport,…)

This is to change the French Community Commission of the federated entity status to
the status of regulatory power dependent and power WallonieBruxelles Federation
organizer of Francophone institutions in the Brussels Region


Proposal No. 366: Create a botanical institution to international scientific
WallonieBruxelles in the Federation, to compensate for the transfer of the Garden Flanders
National Botanic.













151
It also seems essential for the FDF to encourage scientific research
developing treatments to fight against resistant viruses, methods
allowing earlier intervention in the treatment of virus replication process
and improved treatments to reduce side effects, duration and
heavy daily.


Proposal No. 79: flat-rate compensation to the victims of contamination following
blood transfusion

Some patients infected with the AIDS virus following a blood transfusion could
receive compensation. To date, there are still victims suffering from the disease
which have not been repaid. But it is not fair that some victims are
compensated for their suffering and others do not, even though the cause is cellesci
identique20.
The FDF also think that there is no objective reason to treat differently
people who have been victims of contamination by the virus of hepatitis C following a
blood transfusion took place in Belgium. The FDF therefore propose to grant
lump sum compensation to victims of contamination following a blood transfusion
which took place in Belgium, regardless of viral infection: hepatitis C or HIV.


Proposal No. 80: Ensure the decline of the disease through prevention

Various factors can explain the recent increase in new cases of HIV
screened, residing mainly in a lack of information and prevention.
Indeed, recent therapeutic, more efficient, improve the length and quality of life
people and delay the onset of symptoms. The downside of this progress is
the emergence of an attitude "exaggerated optimism".
