2015-2020

Government Program

GAME
DEMOCRAT
CHRISTIAN

POWER TO THE PEOPLE FOR DIFFERENT BOLIVIA
LEADERSHIP FOR PEOPLE
Our candidate, Tuto Quiroga, has the experience needed to lead the
Been. In support of his tenure, he was able to form a team that combines
properly youth and experience, as well as professionals with proven
efficiency in state administration and the country's leadership.
During the first administration of Sánchez de Lozada (1993 - 1997), Tuto
led a strong opposition to the policies, we confirmed today were
wrong. He resisted and denounced the capitalization of public companies; are
openly opposed the reduction of hydrocarbons royalties from 50% to 18%; critical
severely fiscal irresponsibility of the pension reform; demanded the
implementation of reforms to the judicial system; and he criticized the timidity of the reforms
political and administrative decentralization. As a result, I had to
an attempt to resist unwarranted prosecution in Congress in 1996,
on instructions from the then government.
Between 1997 and 2001, Tuto accompanied the country's economic management, implementation
a successful policy to combat drug trafficking and the start of reforms
Key institutional strengthening state and public administration. Known
criminals and fraudsters, and processed people were imprisoned and / or dismissed
Parliament. It was a particularly difficult period in view of the context
International unfavorable, but it was possible that, unlike most
countries in the region, Bolivia reached not mark negative growth figures and
He avoided a severe economic downturn, ensuring financial and fiscal management
responsible.
Between 2001 and 2002, Tuto assumed the Presidency of the Republic and managed a short
but effective management in economic, social and institutional matters.
During those years, 120 appointments were made, with more than 80% of the vote
Congressman, that Bolivians able, honest and independent assume
driving of the main institutions of the country, such as the National Service
Internal Revenue, the National Customs, the National Road Service, the
Ombudsman, the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Court and
Electoral Courts. Today many of those designated authorities continue to exercise
as public servants, including the current President of the Republic.
In 2001, public investment reached 638 million dollars, the highest figure
we've had. The Emergency Employment plan was launched PLANE,
In the short period of Tuto paid over 300 thousand wages, only in July

1 | Page

POWER TO THE PEOPLE FOR DIFFERENT BOLIVIA
2002 paid more than 63,000 salaries, a plan which so far is still operating,
although on a smaller scale.
In financial terms, rescheduled debts Tuto productive sector for more than
$ 700 million and debts of the municipalities for more than 50 million
dollars. To these must be added the resources allocated directly to the people: 33
Provivienda million back almost 400 thousand people, from
second half of 2002, more than 20 million contributors to the
FONVIS. In total nearly 1,200 million dollars to our economy were injected.
In times of crisis, the state is more necessary than the market. This was demonstrated
in short Tuto management, following the international crisis, prices
minerals (tin more than US $ 2.51 a pound fine to US $ 1.84 and US $ 0.51 Zinc to
US $ 0.25) and chestnut (US $ 1.55 to US $ 1.2 a pound) had reduced
dramatically, threatening the jobs of 25,000 cooperative miners and 6
zafreros thousand. In response, the State granted use coupons, Bs. 450
kilo of fine tin and Bs. 350 per ton of zinc and Bs. 30 28 boxes chestnut. They
They invested more than 6 billion in these coupons and saved work
more than 30 thousand people, now when prices have recovered can
keep working, because in times of crisis the state, Tuto, supported them.
Also secured financing for major road sections such as:
Camiri-Abapó, Ventilla-Tarapaya, Pailón-Roboré, Yacuiba-Boyuibe and 19- Km
Mamora. In the same period they were completed sections as Santa Cruz-Trinidad and
Oruro-Toledo and successful maintenance programs were initiated through
microenterprises.
Tuto led and completed the process of Dialogue 2000, for forgiveness
resources in a decentralized, participatory and external debt
progressive, transferred to municipalities, by poverty criteria, more than 100 million
of dollars each year, ensuring that this is maintained for a period of 15 years,
ie around 2000 million. With these resources the municipalities
poor doubled the annual amount of income to provide better services
its inhabitants.
Thanks to this same Dialogue 2000, between 2001 and 2002, hired more Tuto
10 thousand teachers who now work and teach our children and in health, more
of 2000 doctors and support staff who care and heal in places where none
He had attention.

2 | Page

POWER TO THE PEOPLE FOR DIFFERENT BOLIVIA
Tuto launched the program Youth Against Poverty (JCP), 420
university graduates of different races who went to the municipalities more
poor youth to finish his college career with this work
They got graduating and earning the biggest compliment you can hold, having
served our country and its people.
Education also continued to evolve, more and more children attended the
school, there were fewer desertions, was reduced from 11 to 7 the number of years
takes to get a child through fifth grade, we had 5,300 bilingual teachers and,
most importantly, they will complete 200 days of classes by children.
The institutionalization of the state pushed through the implementation of
Status of Civil Servants. The negotiation of the agreement was also completed
US commercial with known as ATPDEA, through which is
supported the development of export manufacturing industry holds today
thousands of Bolivian families. These and other actions are conducted within a framework of
respect for the law and under the principle of public service and a new way of
politics.
Between the period 2006-2009 was the leader of the opposition prevented abuses
government at all institutional areas of the country. He managed to introduce 147
amendments to a draft constitution restoring citizens' rights,
press freedom, faith, religious instruction and parental involvement in
the education of our children, limited the power of the ruling party and guarantees
the separation of powers and included departmental autonomy with powers
full legislative.
The 2009 decline his candidacy for the presidency to prevent the spread of vote
opponent without asking anything in return, thinking first in the country in the interests
personal or some groups.
It has not been surrendered, has not been delivered, nor has left the country despite trials
politicians who have initiated and has been next to the thousands of persecuted and
political exiles defending nationally and internationally.
Tuto was the only one who has denounced the unconstitutional candidacy of Evo
Morales before national and international bodies and the constant violation of
human rights of this government.

3 | Page

POWER TO THE PEOPLE FOR DIFFERENT BOLIVIA
GOVERNMENT PROGRAM FOR PEOPLE
This government program seeks to restore the true Power to the People,
to be architects of their own destiny and actively participate in the destination
from the country. Only if we manage that people have the real power, we can dream
With a different Bolivia with Progress, Justice, Security and Freedom.
Return power to the people means run the following 14 points:
1)

Employment Opportunities for People: This will focus on four
areas: i) Development of National Economy and promotion policies and
incentives to micro, small and medium enterprises, so that people have the
opportunity to become small entrepreneurs. ii) Legal and Security
attracting investments, guaranteeing private property for the
large companies but especially to small and medium-sized enterprises
that strengthen and give job opportunities to people with adequate
wage policy that allows worthy jobs and protection
social. iii) Institutionalizing the public sector so that most
charges in public institutions, are determined by the capacity of the
people through competitions and not by political ideology. With wages
appropriate, to enable people to opt for public career and contribute
the country without the need to belong to a political party. iv) Investment in
infrastructure, mainly roadside, prioritizing the country's integration and
export corridors.
Therefore people will have the power to define where you prefer to work, because the
opportunities will be there.


In economic terms the country has experienced extreme in the extreme, full of
dogmas, which imposes the least is the need of the people, and
boss is political and not technical criteria. The economy is not a
exact science (where numbers rule), nor is it a religion (where
dogmas are imposed), can not be left to the market alone (without regulation,
without control, without State) nor can you pretend that the state provides all
goods and services required by the people.
For our Government will apply a differentiated economic model,
which means that for each sector or region must define, according to
the reality and needs of the country, whereas more. This can range
make norms from a role of the state, to the role of producer and supplier
of goods and services. For example in a market that works

4 | Page

POWER TO THE PEOPLE FOR DIFFERENT BOLIVIA
relatively well (market restaurants), the state's role is
regulate (laws, regulations, etc.) on the functioning of the
restaurants restaurants and monitor compliance with those rules.
While in a market that is not functioning properly by the
existence of monopolies or oligopolies (banking sector), the role of the state
is permanent monitoring.
The regulatory system will be reinforced, giving it independence
technique, far from political influence. Defense is developed
Consumer.
The obligation of the state is involved in the different markets
required to protect citizens from unfair practices, but the
degree and form of intervention should be differentiated, taking into
account the realities of the respective sector, both from the standpoint of
consumers and producers. The state's role is not restricted
only to certain sectors, but it must be all.
For this, the state agency will be created against monopolies, which will study the
sectors that require more intervention. It is also
reinforce and strengthen consumer protection.


Creating Productive Development System, based on a
alliance between producers, entities (non-financial services and
financial) and the state. This system fully support the
national productive sectors will help to overcome barriers
limited sectoral productivity and improve competitiveness
national, departmental and local levels, with projection scenarios
international.



A priority will be to make Bolivians consume
our products. This policy began in the government
President Tuto Quiroga with the "Made in Bolivia / Consume
Lo Nuestro - employs ours "will be revitalized and expanded not only
the state purchases, but also to the people shopping. But
Bolivians also want are quality products, so
will promote the program "What's done in Bolivia, it is well done" that
reward quality Bolivian products. Not only is consuming what
our by a patriotic act but also reward the quality of
Bolivian products.

5 | Page

POWER TO THE PEOPLE FOR DIFFERENT BOLIVIA

2)



The participation of youth in the work of economic promotion
through the expansion of the Youth Programme Against Poverty and
creation of the Young Entrepreneurs Program. Also, through
different mechanisms such as work hours time,
it will allow young people who are studying or training,
they can access an income through a job schedule.



Support for micro, small and medium enterprises. The Bolivian population
It has a productive vocation that is not adequately organized and
encouraged. Micro, small and medium enterprises should be the
true support sustainable growth and employment generation
our economy. We will aim to diversify our production structure
and make exports from small producers
are equivalent to exports of larger companies.



Promoting a strategic alliance with intensive production companies
jobs for facilitating and promoting exports not
traditional.



The historic challenge will fall on private entrepreneurs and imagination
innate to compete in the international market, with light society
a State committed to contribute to the process of integration
Bolivian international economy.



Ensure tax neutrality by: a) the adoption of a law
to ensure tax neutrality and ensure the budget allocated
to this area, prohibiting the cut of this game to be the
exports a national priority; b) expanding the concept of
tax return to include more adequately expenses
all related to export activities.

Revenue for the People: The Government currently has 8 times
income 10 years ago, ie that has these nine years of Government,
had equivalent to 70 years of previous governments resources, that
clearly it has not been reflected in the pockets of the people. To improve
income people will work in two directions: i. Revenues
Government, especially those from natural resources will
to substantially improve the income of the people, for the people
should benefit from those revenues, and prevent the government squandered as
in actuality. ii. Proper management of the economy to avoid high

6 | Page

POWER TO THE PEOPLE FOR DIFFERENT BOLIVIA
inflation has been in recent years, which has reduced the income of the
people.


On energy issues, which are the main source of revenues and
that should directly benefit the people, we will:

Achieving energy security in the domestic market.

Achieving troubleshoot shortage (no more
queues GLP).

Ensure the recovery of our gas exports.

Convert the hydrocarbons into a dynamic development.

Ensure efficient management in the energy sector.

Encourage gas industrialization and manufacturing diesel
from natural gas.

Encouraging the opening of new markets and the expansion of
which currently has.

Change country's energy matrix.

Conversion of the entire public fleet to natural gas.

Expansion of home networks of natural gas.

Ensure that domestic gas prices are lower than those of
export, as an incentive towards industrialization.

Ensure that natural gas prices are competitive in every
market. To do this, YPFB, define a pricing strategy
export of natural gas, reflecting similar rates for each
market or similar markets, avoiding any possibility of
transfer pricing for the benefit of others and prejudice
Been.

Review the criteria for distribution of revenues
gas and transfer according to the criteria defined in the framework
the "Fiscal Pact". These resources will be used to cover expenses
; National and State Government strategic institutions of the
Departmental autonomy through the governors, the
Municipal governments and communities through to get to
resources directly to people.



In order to improve living conditions and opportunities
development in peri-urban and border areas across the country, not just
in capital cities but also in medium and small cities,
where there are slums, we propose in coordination with the governorates and municipalities concerned:

7 | Page

POWER TO THE PEOPLE FOR DIFFERENT BOLIVIA








3)

Support the regularization of title to goods
marginal properties in these areas.
Develop neighborhood improvement programs (Lots with
services, parks, etc.).
Develop training programs and training of the population
young in these areas.
Develop an aggressive program of public service delivery
social tariffs and subsidies in water supply, sewerage, electricity
electric, phone and internet, home gas and NGV.
Construction and improvement of local markets, to have
clean, hygienic and pleasant markets improve welfare
buyers and sellers, but also that affects the health and
prevent disease and infection.
Creating maquila centers in the cities of El Alto,
Cochabamba and in the peri-urban border.

Clean energy for the People: In the world there are two major trends
we can benefit more than ever. We can be central players in the
XXI century and modernity. The two great needs of the planet in this
century are clean energy and rechargeable lithium batteries.
Economic opportunities will be huge for us to meet
these needs.
So, first, to meet the need for clean energy must
Bolivia make our ecological, green and clean energy Heart
South American region.
We have very little oil and coal, which are polluting and whose use
warms the planet, melting our glaciers, you can leave us without water
West and cause droughts and floods in the East. We not have these sources
energy of the last century.
We have too many sources of this century cleaner energy and we have half
of the world's lithium reserves.
Clean energy needed this century we have here: it comes from gas
we exploit in the south of the Andean geothermal, biofuels
sugar East, hydroelectric our most treasured mountains
gas energy, the sun illuminating our highlands and wind
Walking the Amazon.
8 | Page

POWER TO THE PEOPLE FOR DIFFERENT BOLIVIA

That is our big chance, but for this we must generate investment,
triple gas production and break the fences enclaustran to Bolivia,
to become the leading supplier of clean energy in the heart
Green South America.
A second major trend on the planet: the need for batteries
Rechargeable lithium in a globalized world of communications, transport and
high tech. Here we can be not only South American players, but
world.
Virtually all batteries used in devices that are part
of our daily life ... Phones, calculators and watches, DVDs and
Cameras, camcorders and computers, iPods and MP3 battery operated
Rechargeable lithium.
Those batteries are small and require little lithium. But the world is
changing. Today circulate heavy trucks and urban that
They work with large lithium batteries.
Sooner or later, the more than one million cars on the planet will
lithium batteries; million trucks, fleets, motorcycles, boats,
planes, aircraft, and even the homes of the future will receive their energy
large rechargeable lithium batteries.
The battery of a small car is a hundred times larger than that of a
computer. The globalized world of this century, with transportation
using these batteries will only be possible with lithium Bolivia because
we have that half of the planet's reserves.
This is the greatest opportunity of our history to create jobs and
wellness.
Our destiny in this century is to become the world capital of the
lithium batteries.
A lithium battery for a small vehicle costs over a thousand dollars.
Imagine manufactured in Bolivia many of the 60 million batteries
require new cars every year. If we have half the lithium we can
export half battery.

9 | Page

POWER TO THE PEOPLE FOR DIFFERENT BOLIVIA
Cars and transportation of lithium can not function without Bolivia, provided
we do not lose the train of history, because somewhere they are
designing alternatives nickel, zinc or others that we do not
imagine. Therefore, we can not waste time, the world is not us
expect. We must respond now.
Large manufacturing companies in Asia today 3000 500 million small
lithium batteries, but more important is that nearly all automakers
They are developing hybrid vehicles and battery; in 20 years we will not see
cars in developed countries operating only gasoline or diesel,
polluting Mother Earth.
Our privileged position in Lithium must seize now to
ensure one thing: that the batteries are made here and not elsewhere; than
factories with hundreds of thousands of jobs are installed in Bolivia,
because the country is positioned as the world capital of lithium batteries
You can also join engines, cars and perhaps the future will not have limit.
The industrialization of this last gift from God will be in Bolivia and create
hundreds of thousands of direct and indirect jobs in dozens of factories.
If in the sixteenth century, Potosi was the symbol of the colonial exploitation of silver,
in the XXI century Potosi, with lithium, will symbolize the Bolivian integration
the world of modernity, technology and prosperity.
As a country we have hand-competitive and talented workforce, we must create
more technical training institutes and mobilize all our universities,
for our young and old take advantage of this huge opportunity
work: turning our country into the world capital of lithium batteries.
For that we must be willing to create industrial zones, invest more
US $ 3 billion in the next three years in infrastructure, airports,
in facilities, and give full guarantees and security for large factories
Battery know that Bolivia is the best place for them.
But this is not going to get with a government like this, which is only
investing US $ 6 million in Uyuni, less than the cost of one of the
the plane you want to buy the President turbines. To process the lithium
requires vision, commitment and investment, and if we're going to do.

10 | P a g e

POWER TO THE PEOPLE FOR DIFFERENT BOLIVIA
4)

Future for People: Currently in Bolivia we are going through a stage
boom and instead seize this unique opportunity, we are
wasting, wasting resources, driving investment, affecting
businessman and ruining the future of the people. So it was with Venezuela, and
Today we see the wrong policies followed for several years, it has serious
consequences for countries. If we follow the example of Venezuela,
We end up like them.
We must make a fundamental change in Bolivia, to create opportunities
employment for people, that the income of the people improve, they can
access to quality basic services in health and education. That the people
you feel safe, you enjoy democracy and participate in it, that
go to the justice with confidence. Have a Government to achieve results
for people who properly manage the resources of the people,
setting goals, and accountable reporting transparently without
corruption.

5)

Digital Agenda for People: The average cost of a 1Mbps is 8 $ us on
South America and US $ 30 in Bolivia, 41% of households in South America
have internet and only 5% in Bolivia, the average speed in South America
It is 10 Mbps and 2 Mbps in Bolivia. Currently it is built the
Telecommunications Policy Agenda and from the effort TIC'sa
citizen and some institutions.
We need to build a digital development strategy with input from
multiple sectors, experts, and also concerning citizens who are users
ICT, allowing us to dream of a country completely through vertebrate
telecommunications, connected with the world, in which all
Bolivians have access to internet in appropriate conditions and
content to have a citizenry prepared to society
knowledge.

6)

Quality education for the People: The fundamental goal of education
must be delivered well educated and trained people, this is not the case in Bolivia. The
quality education has been abandoned, Bolivia does not participate in the
International tests to see how we stand in relation to other countries. In
Sites are prioritized these tests to compare and power
to get better. In the following years, we will enhance access but mostly
quality of education, this is reflected in a substantial improvement in the achievements
Learning students compared to international tests,
among other actions will take place the following:

11 | P a g e

POWER TO THE PEOPLE FOR DIFFERENT BOLIVIA

7)



Run a massive program of school attendance bonuses, too
proposed in 2005 and which was copied wrong and nutrition Bonus
aimed at children from poor families in the cities and in the countryside.



Expand coverage School Breakfast all schools in the country and
add a school lunch. This has a dual purpose, to
encourage school attendance and improve attention and learning
students with food consumption.



Implement rewards and incentives for students to demonstrate
excellence in their education. He will establish a scholarship
Superiors also proposed another promotion in 2005, for the best
Bachelor of every public school, in order to ensure the continuation
of higher education.



The creation of special programs to boost support
educational, extracurricular, children who require it.



Dotaremos to all public schools and computer teachers
tablets to all children in the country to bridge the digital divide between
students from public and private schools, and insert them into society
of knowledge.



The creation of a savings and investment for building
higher education with bonds issued by the Treasury that
They offered to parents as financing plans
medium term. When children reach college age,
Bonds may be redeemed to cover the costs of their education
higher.

Health warmly for People: At present there is no free health
people nor quality service. The mortality rates of mothers and
children still resemble those of Africa to South American countries. All
this despite the fact that government revenues have increased 8 in the
last 10 years. With that level of income is unforgivable to stay
these social indicators. Therefore our government will create a safe
universal health care, medicines and quality. Only then can decrease
Bolivia mortality and improve life expectancy. It is possible that in
Instead of vaccines, medicines and hospitals, we prefer to spend on luxury jets
in gold jewelry to give foreigners.
12 | P a g e

POWER TO THE PEOPLE FOR DIFFERENT BOLIVIA

In health, despite the progress in networking
services and programs to ensure basic services for the population more
poor, yet the health system has been unable to reach the total population and
continues to suffer from quality problems and sustainable financing. TO
it adds that about 80% of the economically active population
It operates in the informal economy, which prevents you from performing
contributions to social security systems and is in a state of
vulnerability.
To improve this situation, we propose:


The adoption of a new departmental regional health model.
This new model will emphasize the quality of care and expanding
geographical coverage, with emphasis on rural areas. In this
scheme, the new service model will run with family health,
Community and nutritional municipal jurisdiction. Benefits
They may be offered by public and private institutions and will have
systems of social control by users.



The creation of the Solidarity Health Insurance, which offers packages
universal access based on the national epidemiological profile. East
Universal Insurance will cover not only the main diseases
as domestic emergency, gastrointestinal problems,
respiratory, bronchial, hypertension, diabetes and others, but
even grant supplies and medications as needed. This
so it can be fitted on all sectors of the Bolivian population,
as domestic workers, transporters and farmers who had
access to basic health insurance.



Nutrition for development. Decreasing malnutrition seek
Chronic under-five years with the distribution of micronutrients to all children of between six months and
three years and with better food and hygiene practices.



Create Health Bonus to encourage safe delivery and care
newborns, already proposed in 2005 and which was copied wrong.
Every mother in rural areas have their birth in a health center,
You will receive a bonus. Every child that meets your full scheme
vaccination in rural areas receive a bonus of vaccine.

13 | P a g e

POWER TO THE PEOPLE FOR DIFFERENT BOLIVIA
8)

Housing and Basic Services for People: In the last 10 years, thanks to
previous policies, international prices and an economic boom
international, state revenues have increased by 8 $ 2,500
$ 20,000, however that has not reflected the benefit of
citizens, today we see a lack of basic services, water,
electricity, sanitation, gas, communications and a large housing deficit,
especially for poor people. It is a state responsibility
provide housing and provide all citizens with basic services, the
Following 5 years will have a real housing policy and expansion
coverage and quality of basic services, so that people have access to
them at reasonable prices and quality service.


The quantitative and qualitative deficit, characterized by dwellings
They have inadequate building materials, inadequate spaces
and inadequate basic services has increased in recent years.
Also, about half a million urban properties are informal,
because despite being inhabited by families for many years, they do not
They have property titles and plans, and registered in the
Real Rights records. To Bolivian families, the count
homeownership, dignity and rights is one clear owners
element essential to its security, stability and welfare minimum.
Homelessness introduces a factor of high vulnerability in the
poorest families and is one of the areas of domestic spending
most important to their survival. That is why we seek to give you a
special attention and priority to the provision of housing to own
Bolivians, looking for creative ways to mobilize resources and finance
projects. The boost to the construction sector, resulting from this
effort, will also result in a significant impact on the economy
whole.
The pillars of housing policy we propose include: a)
gradual and rapid decline of the quantitative and qualitative deficit
housing, ensuring that people have access to housing
worthy b) legal security of property groups
lower income strata, in order to strengthen the rights
owners and facilitate resource mobilization. To do this, our
Main actions will be designed to:


Develop new financial mechanisms for the revitalization
the housing sector and to facilitate access to funding from
Popular long-term and middle-income homes.

14 | P a g e

POWER TO THE PEOPLE FOR DIFFERENT BOLIVIA





9)

Promote self systems with public incentives,
through the provision of material and technical assistance in areas of
lower incomes.
Run massive programs for the development of plans
housing and housing for the financing of
housing for workers.
Run home improvement programs, by
qualified with experience in fund management institutions
solidarity and public incentives.
Acceleration and expansion of the regularization process of law
Urbano owner by running program
upgrading and regularization of property rights at the level
urban and peri-urban.

Democracy for People: We seek a true democracy, where
there is a clear independence between the four bodies of the Public Power
State and where the Constitutional Court, to become a real
Guardian of Human Rights and the Constitution of the State.
The Electoral Body shall be composed of women and men
professionals with proven ability, integrity and impartiality, to manage
the electoral process to ensure transparency in the choice of
national, departmental and municipal authorities, ensuring that the will of the people is expressed without manipulation and organizations
policies can participate on equal terms.
The Legislature, to be chaired by our (a) candidate (a)
Vice President, will no longer be an appendage of the executive body and seek
forward with discussions and not as true today that
ruling only go hand without even discussing the content of the laws,
all the instructions of the President.
The Executive Body will be respectful of the Constitution, not like now that the
President himself has violated the constitution to run for a third
choice, which is clearly unconstitutional. It will be responsible for implementing the
public policy and government program proposed to the population.
The Judicial Authority will be in charge of good people, to be adjudicate
according to what the law dictates and not according to instructions of power
executive, as now happens. The independence of the judiciary is
essential in a democracy, and one of the worst forms of violating the
15 | P a g e

POWER TO THE PEOPLE FOR DIFFERENT BOLIVIA
Democracy is when the judiciary is at the service of executive
political purposes. We have seen inconceivable cases of how justice is
being handled politically motivated terrorism case, if Chonta Pinto,
If Tuto Quiroga, etc.
The prosecution or prosecution, be professionalized and shall be provided with all
independence from the executive, not like today, that the Attorney General acts
under executive orders and has had embarrassing performances.
For democracy to function properly, independence is required
of powers and that justice is administered under the law and away from you
political influence. That does not happen at present and therefore democracy
Bolivia is mortally wounded. ReReElección unconstitutional, a power
court to serve political interests and a legislative branch that receives
executive orders, make a dying democracy, if it is not done
something to change this, democracy will be just a memory in Bolivia.
10) Justice for People: At present our country suffers a system
Judicial corrupt, inefficient and unfair. In large part this is due to the
political interference that has established the current government, which has wanted
use justice as a weapon of repression against those who think differently. They
policy has prioritized above all and that has left defenseless citizens,
with judges and prosecutors who extort freely, following the example they
have given the emblematic cases as terrorism, TIPNIS, Extortion,
Chaparina, etc.
Current practice is to accuse without evidence, arrest people and then
delay the trial for detainees remain there.
The slowdown of Justice has become the norm.
We must change the judicial system, mainly in 3 directions: i. Total
and complete depoliticization of justice, no more interference of the President and
his ministers in judicial matters. ii. Judicial system run by
contests merits of prosecutors and judges, with better wages and with
audit processes and prompt attention to complaints against prosecutors and judges.
iii. Early Cuts Implementation Process, by lot and so
immediate and oral, to prevent prior contact between litigants and judges. The
first step is to see whether or not to initiate a process and if measures are given
precautionary, should be resolved with senior and drawn courts
immediately and to address the issue of oral and public manner, with this

16 | P a g e

POWER TO THE PEOPLE FOR DIFFERENT BOLIVIA
avoid extortions and injustices, both of which are free to leave
offenders as they confine innocent.
The just and effective punishment for criminals is the best prevention policy
crime. Reforms were introduced in the Penal Code and the regime
penitentiary intended for the accumulation of penalties and enforcement
sentencing in serious crimes, under a closed system and absolutely devoid of
any privileges. We propose a severe prison regime of detention
for murderers, rapists, robbers and violent members
"Criminal organizations". Naturally, minor offenses will be
beneficiaries of policies for the social reintegration of prisoners.
Those prisoners who show good behavior, to study or work
they can reduce their sentences.
Justice must reach people, impunity and delay of justice must
end and give way to efficient justice where deadlines are met and where
people feel they have the guarantee of a fair, streamlined process without influence
politics or money. Today what happens is precisely that justice
It is penetrated by political interests and corruption. If there
justice in a country, there is no democracy.
11) Safety for People: In recent years, security has deteriorated,
in part due to the growth of drug trafficking and partly due to the
politicization of the entities responsible for providing security to the people. That the
son of a famous drug trafficker visit Bolivia, there are gunmen, the
impunity increases are aspects that make us feel insecure. The
Security is critical in the coming years will recover the
old security levels also remove whatever drug trafficking
Bolivia, which is the main cause of crime. But also, if people
have employment opportunities, you have income and has health and education,
clearly lower crime and thus enhance security. For that
we need:


Bolivian police modernization, including: a) professionalization
specialized staff in the activities of order and security
public, criminal investigation, control, and road safety; b)
geographical redeployment of police personnel taking into account
population and crime indicators; c) incorporating more
police d) the provision of equipment and technology for
development operations.

17 | P a g e

POWER TO THE PEOPLE FOR DIFFERENT BOLIVIA


In terms of prevention, we propose the creation of Brigades Neighborhood
Surveillance, they will receive state support through
training, equipment and logistical support, so that the neighbors
they can, in an orderly manner and in accordance with the law, have mechanisms
effective control in their neighborhoods, police articulated networks
immediate attention that may serve as more criminal cases
timely and effective.



In the case of the Armed Forces, we must project a change
transcendental to give to the country a modern institution,
a renewed conception from his staff, equipment, through its
doctrine and preparation; treating it with the utmost transparency. Our
Armed forces will be modernized with the highest level of credibility,
It composed of an ethical and morally qualified staff capable of
address social changes in the new scenarios to ensure
national security and defense, peace and well-being of the Bolivian people,
in subjection to the legally constituted political power, respecting
freedoms and fundamental rights of individuals.

The lack of security and legal certainty, hurts people, and drives away
investments, that should be changed, for the good of the people and the country.
12) Open Government for the People: In our administration, we will apply
Open Government concept which is based on three basic pillars:
Transparency, collaboration and participation. Generating means
organizational culture where all activities (Plan-PresupuestoEjecución-Monitoring and Evaluation) focus on transparency
management; encouraging and promoting accountability, collaboration;
engaging people with management, and participation;
encouraging citizens to practice law in the construction of the
public politics.


A Government Operational Plan defining the results to be
achieve and how you intend to achieve them. A Plan to guide the
public officials, indicating what goods and services should be produced
public entities to achieve the results that have been set. The
results to be achieved must be approached from the perspective of
the people serving you, what you need, what is important to them.
Seek the causal relationship between the results to be
and obtain goods and services that institutions must produce, is

18 | P a g e

POWER TO THE PEOPLE FOR DIFFERENT BOLIVIA
based on scientific evidence, studies and experience, both
nationally and internationally.


A budget is the financial expression of the plan, in which
resources are allocated based on the results to be achieved and
based on the goods and services to be produced to achieve the
results that can be known how much money is allocated and result
for the respective goods and services.



Have indicators (each indicator should have a tab that explains
technical aspects, such as how to calculate and
sources, for example) as well as the respective targets.
With this as the instruments have to be accountable to the people.



Having execution systems and information, support and
facilitate the implementation of the plan and the budget. For example, suitable
procurement systems, logistics, inventory, etc. Many times,
although there are resources, it is unable to execute them; or if it is not
Quality is (because it is not focused on results, but on
run resources), or because lack an input of a group (we have
doses of vaccine but no syringes or has everything but does not reach where
are children, to cite one example).



On the side of the information, you should start with having the baseline,
I mean where is the time to start the process, what it is the
situation result to be achieved, needed to do
tracking progress to be achieved.



Once you have fixed the results, indicators and targets,
You must have adequate information to allow tracking
and monitoring the entire process. This requires work on two
directions: Strengthen internal information systems of the
entities, so you can rely on what is given as
information and the ability to process and analyze is taken.



Strengthen the INE giving it political independence and capacity
technical, for two roles: one for obtaining information
through surveys and other systems; and two, the quality control of the
administrative data entities. We carry out a new census
national enabling us to restore confidence in the data used

19 | P a g e

POWER TO THE PEOPLE FOR DIFFERENT BOLIVIA
to design adequate public policies and planning
private activities.


Follow-up, monitoring and evaluation, which serve to
feedback management to rethink strategies and adjust plans.



All the effort that has been described has to lead processes
tracking and monitoring, this means that every so often
(At least quarterly) hold meetings (first internally
entities) and then with the President of the Republic, to see how
going compliance with the Plan and Budget, understand the problems
face, and on this basis, make decisions. These processes
Monitoring should be public, so that the government is held
accountable to the people and explain where taxes are spent they
They pay.



This process also changes the way the monitoring is done
the implementation of the Plan and Budget, as they no longer focus only on the
implementation of the budget, as is today. The analysis will
supplemented with the goods and services that have occurred and
importantly, with the results being achieved.



Finally, it is also necessary to evaluate programs, this means going
beyond the tracking and monitoring. Normally these evaluations
entrusting external entities, to be impartial and objective.

All this means making a change in the modus operandi of the
public officials, as a new organizational culture is generated, where
all they know and agree with the results to be achieved and
both efforts are focused on achieving them. As it follows from the
described managing for results to improve the quality of spending
(Spend on what will achieve results), but also seeks to improve
transparency and accountability. If the monitoring exercises
indicators and targets are performed in public, then people may
know what progress there, what results are achieved, what things are not going well and
So what changes do not just know how much is allocated and how much is spent.
A modern, vital and participatory government, centered in the service of the
people, close, open and efficient, which improves the quality summary
life of its citizens.

20 | P a g e

POWER TO THE PEOPLE FOR DIFFERENT BOLIVIA
13) Fiscal Policy for People: The Government has received income as ever
before, and it has squandered too much. To pursue a policy
appropriate fiscal, profound changes must be made in three directions:


Income, review tax policy, so that the
taxes are progressive, ie they pay more the haves and
pay less than those who have less. This basic principle of a policy
tax, does not apply at present, so they made the
respective changes to make the system fairer and more
progressive.



An austere spending policy, which will favor the social field and
Public investment and the current waste of resources is slow.



Transparency, anti-corruption and accountability
They will be a fundamental part of fiscal policy, currently occupied
one of the last places in fiscal transparency and the authorities
accountable for their actions, or running budget. At our
Government management of the RBM will apply, as has been
explained.

14) Autonomy for People: The centralism is one of the evils of the system
Bolivian institution that has prevented an orderly and equitable development.
The differences in development between the countryside and cities, and between
the regions outside the central axis have increased and continue accentuating
over the years. Popular participation and the Law of Dialogue
2000 and the Law on Decentralization, significant steps were taken towards the
decentralization, but these advances have not reached the level that people
required.
The departmental level is called to be responsible for planning and
land use for economic and social development
departments; to ensure the safety and protection of people and property,
address infrastructure on a regional basis, to promote the extension
strengthening agriculture and municipalities. Unlike other countries,
Bolivia has only taken steps in the decentralization of expenditure by
fiscal transfers to departmental and local governments. To the side
income, only decentralized in favor of the municipalities the collection of
property tax buildings and vehicles; Governorates only
royalty revenues have almost no own income depends on their
management, causing an excessive dependence on transfers

21 | P a g e

POWER TO THE PEOPLE FOR DIFFERENT BOLIVIA
national government and a complete separation between their contributions
tax and public services within its competence.
To correct these structural problems, we understand that the Autonomous
Departmental are the best means of bringing public decisions to
citizens and supplement municipal decentralization should
also strengthened. We propose:


Regional Governments forming empowered with authority and
clear responsibilities and effective mechanisms of accountability
accounts.



The "fiscal pact" to start immediately after the election
Governors and Mayors, when each of the regions have an
valid and legitimate interlocutor to agree on the terms under which
they shall proceed autonomy.

Conclude a "Fiscal Pact" through a comprehensive review of the
income and expenditure structure of the country. With this agreement, they will be identified
the powers and responsibilities of each level of Government and
revenue needs to meet those responsibilities.



Establish a single rule of distribution and revenue-sharing,
transparent and non-discretionary for all national taxes,
so that all taxes follow a uniform approach
distribution among the three levels of government and there are no taxes
that favor a single actor. Each region will be co-responsible, with the
national government, the national tax collection and
percentage of these taxes will be directly in the region
raises, in this way, the regions to contribute more, enjoy
the benefits of its revenues directly. Additionally
approve and grant autonomy to the collection of other taxes
departmental level. Of total national revenues (discounted at
it is left in each region), some serve to sustain the expenses and
powers of the national government and the rest will be distributed among the
regions through a distribution criterion that takes into account
five variables: a) population; b) poverty; c) land area d)
fiscal effort e) a departmental fixed percentage.



A system of compensation and incentives, financed with resources
resources from national and international cooperation. East

22 | P a g e

POWER TO THE PEOPLE FOR DIFFERENT BOLIVIA
fund will be used for three purposes: a) balance budgets
department in regions that do not have access to resources
departmental royalties and taxes; b) compensate regions
lower economic development through the transfer of resources
Additional conditional on the expansion of its economic infrastructure
and social c) provide additional transfers as an incentive to
regions that have better performance in the exercise of its powers
and meet the goals of economic and social development. He
we propose guiding principle for the compensation mechanism is
none of the departments receive less resources than
currently she receives once the Fiscal Pact agreed.


A modular application process and unlike the Autonomy
Departmental. Their elected officials, they may establish and agree
with the national government, the pace at which they are willing to receive
new powers. Those regions that so choose, may
assume their new responsibilities and receive the resources in the form
immediately; while the regions that request, will benefit
programs of technical assistance and capacity before assuming the
new responsibilities.



As a result of the implementation of this policy, we expect
Budget increase in departmental and municipal domain. He
Government, meanwhile, will be reduced and will become a
eminently regulatory agency; policy design and control
the quality of public services; and in the instance
will ensure the harmonious development of all regions, compensate
those most in need and ensure the balanced development of
country.

We want a country with more opportunities, with permanent institutions
for digital development, where companies and people find space
security, accuracy, fairness and justice for the development of its activities,
citizenship open to the world, highly qualified and competent, dynamic and
creative, constantly learning, innovation and contributes to the welfare and
sustainable development of Bolivia.
All this we can do it together, if we will be delivering a future
promising for people, which is what it deserves and to whom we owe.

23 | P a g e

POWER TO THE PEOPLE FOR DIFFERENT BOLIVIA
POWER TO THE PEOPLE FOR DIFFERENT BOLIVIA
Almost a decade after this administration has squandered the boom of the best
external situation of our history, has enriched his relatives and has protected
all developers illicit activities, using state resources to
buy consciences and benefit a few.
They promised change, but the government set about losing markets, divide Bolivia,
subjecting the country, corrupting the state and keep the change.
Today we have a problem: many in the country are surrendering, they are
resigning, helplessly accept what is happening as if it were inevitable,
believe it can not be reversed, you can not change course.
The skeptic and resigned summon them to understand that in December we
last chance and you it's not defeated the warrior, which is not night yet
and we have the opportunity to bring the sun of hope.
There is a clear risk that the electoral dispersion leads us to play
looking past practices of governance mechanisms already demonstrated their
inefficiency or a weak and fragmented opposition.
We ask for a clear and strong mandate. Let the voters decide and give their
among the options that will clearly provide alternative models
development for the country. Do not disperse the vote, we do not give in our right to
to choose.
We ask for effective social participation. The next government can not govern
and only separated from society. Participation is an essential element for
ensure that decisions and the conduct of the new government are the most
favorable for most Bolivians.
We ask for tolerance and unity. We are a diverse country with many facets and
corporate interests, regional, ethnic and social. We can not meet the
surely everyone's expectations and interests of some groups will be affected by
new policies and new country model we propose. We must
tolerate, respect each other and work together for the benefit of the country.
We asked for an opportunity to work BY THE PEOPLE FOR BOLIVIA
DIFFERENT.

24 | P a g e
