M a i s u M of O n the s, M i s F u t u r o

P r o g r a m a
in

G o v e r No

DILMA ROUSSEFF
- 1 2 0 4 -

M a i s u M of O n the s, M i s F u t u r o

P r o g r a m a
in

G o v e r No

D I L MA

RO U S S E F F

- 1 2 0 4 -

P R O G R A M D E G OV E R N O

More changes, more Future

These are the broad outlines of the Government Programme that the candidate Dilma Rousseff and
Workers' Party (PT) propose to debate, in a broad consultation process
social movements and allied parties. A job that will be deepened by
through thematic groups.

The 12 years that have transformed Brazil

Just over a decade of profound economic and social changes made the
fairer.

Brazil

Over three administrations committed to guaranteeing the right of citizenship to all,

there was an undeniable leap improvement in the living conditions of the population. No country has,
in so little time, taking as large numbers of people out of poverty.
As a period of continued distributive policies produced something unheard of: millions of young people
They grew better off than their parents had access to education and health as any
of their ancestors, living a prolonged period of continued upward mobility and built a
immense confidence in the future.
In just 12 years, the PT and the allied parties held a peaceful social revolution,

broad

and vigorous process of changing the country's history.

After these major changes, we need to open

a new cycle changes,

for

overcome structural and secular problems that still hinder the full development of a country
fairer and to ensure that there will be no setbacks in important achievements in
last 12 years.
This new cycle will be seated in the two basic pillars of our model - the economic strength

and the breadth of social policies - and the structuring of a new pillar: the productive competitiveness.
The productive competitiveness will be achieved through investment in production and consumption
mass, investments in social and economic infrastructure, in building a Brazil without
Bureaucracy and in the areas of Education, Science, Technology and Innovation, building a society
knowledge.

This new post will bring even greater advances in the improvement of infrastructure and public services,
the bureaucracy of our country, the expansion and realization of the credit, improving quality
employment, continued stimulation of entrepreneurship, technological development
and increasing the productivity of our economy.
Employment growth, expansion and qualification of the internal market and the expansion of exports
put at the center of economic policy the issue of productivity. Its increase will be made by
modernization of Brazilian industry by improving the business environment and higher
training of our businesses and qualification of our workforce.
Putting down roots in the uncompromising defense of macroeconomic stability, continuity and
strengthening of social policies, and the permanent pursuit of economic growth
inclusive and sustainable, promoting productive competitiveness and taking guarantee
access to quality education as a major engine of transformation, the new historical cycle
We propose that the Brazil passes through policy reforms, federal, urban and public services.

Major changes,
the starting point for
more changes

In the first three administrations PT, governments, together with the allied parties, made the decision
policy of recognizing rights that were previously subtracted from the vast majority
of the population:

live, eat, study, access health services, sanitation, the house

own, to employment and to a minimum income level for a dignified life.
By changing the living conditions of this huge number of people, brought them to the public sphere,
aware of their rights. They are entering the labor market more educated than
the hand of previous work; who make it to college as the first in their nuclei
relatives; They are pressing the government with demands for more services and better quality.
Twelve years of governments committed to the development, generating opportunities
and with the guarantee of rights put the debate on the future of Brazil in other terms.
The discussion today is quite different because the task of fighting
creation of the Brazilian state, has been overcome

extreme poverty, dating back to

in just over a decade of governments

fully committed to the goal of changing the social reality of the country.
For the Brazilians, the need for the future changed because the

level requirements

It became another:

do not want the minimum necessary to live longer, but as much as possible so that

maintain their purchasing power and can wave to their children with better lives than theirs.
Leave behind economic stagnation, lack of hope and prospects contaminated
Brazil and the Brazilians when the PT and the allied parties came to power in 2003.
PT's profession of faith in a new economically viable development model, socially
fair and environmentally sustainable proved to be the way to build a better country and
less unequal than that offered to Brazil before 2002.
development,

A sustainable model

based on increased investment in the economy, low inflation, a

radical reduction of poverty, redistribution of income and strengthening of mass consumption.
In 2010, when President Dilma introduced himself as candidate continuity of the Lula government,
this model was solidly structured by eight years of radical changes to the previous mode
to manage the economy and the lives of Brazilians. The PT and its allies had proved abundantly that
the development program proposed to the company eight years ago was what was able to
provide a historical change in social and economic structure of a country marked by poverty.
Refuse, in these 12 years, the only thought that announcing the inevitability of dual society
where he rhymed growth with inequality. In an unprecedented manner, we associate growth
economic and inequality reduction, raising the minimum wage and increase employment rates,
expansion of universal social policies with greater inclusion of the poorest and most vulnerable sectors of
population. The economic and social policies have extended their joint. The dynamism of the economy
and improvement of public accounts in the period allowed the expansion of social spending and the expansion of its

distributive, social and regional impact. In this way, the increase in employment and labor income
It was accompanied by the expansion of the social safety net.
Our economic policy was built on two pillars:

the soundness of the policy driving

economic and creation and strengthening of a large market for mass consumption.

Macroeconomic policy advocated in election campaigns and enforced in the PT governments and
allied parties is based on building conditions for sustainable reduction in interest rates;
the flexibility of the exchange rate at levels compatible with the structural conditions
of the country; low and stable inflation; the rigor of fiscal management; the expansion of public investment;
in encouraging private investment and strengthening of partnerships between state and private sector.
The measures these elements were added to promote increased competitiveness of our structure
production, such as tax cuts, reduction of production costs, credit conditions
appropriate, encouraging innovation and increasing investments in education. Among the exemptions
promoted the Dilma government, it is worth highlighting the basic basket and payroll. The latter
benefits 56 sectors.
The Greater Brazil Plan was the driver of the industrial policy agenda implemented in government Dilma,
with the aim of enhancing the competitiveness of our industry, particularly in a
period of major international adversity. With the Greater Brazil, defend the national production
through government procurement policies, establishing margins of preference for products
national and local content policy, particularly in the oil area. Adopt measures
stimulating the development of productive chains, such as Innovate-Auto. Encourage increased

exports with Reintegra. Expanded BNDES funds to finance the investment,
with the PSI / BNDES, as well as resources for working capital, with PROGEREN. We created the Agency
Brazilian Guarantor Fund. In a scenario of normalization of growth and trade
international expected for the coming years, our industrial policy should generate unquestionable
benefits to Brazilian industry and the provision of services and agriculture.
They were also adopted

consistent and sustained policies to support agribusiness

and family farming.

Grain production increased from 96 million tons to 40 million

hectares in the 2001/2002 harvest, 191 million tons in 56 million hectares in the crop
2013/2014. Size increased production capacity and productivity was possible by expanding
credit and production support policies and will be further boosted by the completion of works
strategic infrastructure. For the harvest of 2014/2015, it is foreseen R $ 156.1 billion to fund the
agribusiness. As a result of strengthening policy of family farming, with credit, insurance
harvest and marketing policies, the income in rural areas increased by 52% in real terms over the last
four years. For the 2014/2015 harvest, the credit for family farms will be $ 24.1 billion.
The initiatives of Lula and Dilma to encourage entrepreneurship and the strengthening of micro
and small businesses are worth mentioning. In 2006, the National Simple been deployed, giving consistency
practice the differential treatment provision contained in the Constitution. In 2008 it was set up
the Individual Micro-entrepreneur (MEI), to bring the formality million small businesses.
Government Dilma took care of much of the improvement of entrepreneurship support mechanisms.
Improved the legislation of small business and individual micro-entrepreneurs, expanding by 50%

the limit of the framework for tracks in the National Simple. In the case of MEI, there was also reduction
the contribution rate for the INSS for only 5% of the minimum wage. With this, today is already 4.16
million Brazilian men and women who work at MEI formalized own protected by
Security. Other 4.7 million are micro and small companies that benefit from the National Simple.
It was created GROW, productive microcredit program aimed to facilitate the access of
small entrepreneurs to the resources needed to open, maintain and expand their businesses.
In less than three years, the GROW granted R $ 14.1 billion in credit, 9.4 million operations.
Of these, one-third was carried out by beneficiaries of the Bolsa Família, which seek to strengthen their small
business with microcredit.
We achieve bold goals for our environmental policies. The exceptional results achieved by the
Brazil to combat illegal deforestation in the Amazon and Cerrado ensured the country's role
largest reducer of greenhouse gas emissions on the planet.

After years of debate,

We can approve, in 2013, the new Forest Code, which ensured more sustainable basis for
agricultural production and more legal certainty for producers. Also improved the mechanisms
environmental licensing and advance in the regulation of sustainable use of our biodiversity.
This is the first pillar of sustainable development model that changed Brazil.
At the end of three terms, all economic indicators for the period are positive and always
better than those prevailing in 2002.
In 2002, annual inflation reached 12.5%. In 2013, was a 5.9% level. The expectation for
2014 will be within the target set by the National Monetary Council (CMN).

The control of

Inflation has been kept, always, as a priority of our governments, and so
continues.

We understand the devastating power of inflation on household incomes, wages and

corporate profits and therefore never transigiríamos or transigiremos with a political element
with this economic potential disruptive of people's lives and the economy.
The investment rate of the Brazilian economy, which was 16.4% in 2002, passed
to 18.2% in 2013.

The unemployment rate has taken the desired downward trend: in December 2002,

10.5% of the economically active population was unemployed; in April 2014, unemployment had fallen
to 4.9%, setting an unprecedented situation in the history of the country, full employment.
In the external sector, all indicators have reached record highs this
period of 12 years.

In the twelve months through May 2014, Brazil received US $

66.5 billion in Foreign Direct Investment (FDI), four times the amount of 2002 (US $ 16.6 billion).
Historical are also the volumes of exports and international reserves for the period 2002-2013.
Exports, which totaled US $ 60 billion in 2002, reached US $ 242 billion in 2013. Reservations
exchange rate jumped from US $ 37.8 billion in 2002 to US $ 379.8 billion in May 2014.
From any perspective, therefore, macroeconomic indicators have changed threshold.

The country breakage risk is no longer a threat. The net public sector debt decreased from
60.2% in 2002 to 34.6% level in May 2014.

Brazil's foreign debt was

considered by the accumulation of foreign exchange reserves.

It represented 19.2% of GDP in 2002;

in 2013 was only 3.1% of GDP. Not only paid the debt made by the IMF to save Brazil from
insolvency, as we become creditors of the Fund, unprecedented situation in our history.

Lula and Dilma governments have set out to take a development path
continuous to the country and managed it with economic growth, without selling public assets,

without subjecting the country to the demands of the International Monetary Fund (IMF), without ignoring rights
historical worker and without transfer to the poorest the account of international crises.
With the Growth Acceleration Program (PAC) and the Investment Program in Logistics,
governments PT assumed the historic task of investing in infrastructure
Brazilian logistics,

critical to the growth and competitiveness of our economy.

Public investments and partnerships with the private sector are radically changing our
highways, railways, airports, ports, our ability to power generation and our infrastructure
urban, especially housing, mobility and sanitation.
The Brazil government of the PT and its allies will be remembered as

the period of history

more recent deliveries of large infrastructure projects.
Since 2007, it has been awarded 8630 km of highways, which account for 13% of
federal highways,

and they were built or duplicate 6100 km of highways.

After stoppage of decades of investment in railways were built 1,960 km of
new railways and new concession model and rail operation was approved.
To increase the productivity of our port infrastructure,

We completed the dredging

13 ports and expanded berths, piers and improved land access in 9 ports.

With the new Ports Law, approved in 2013, expanded the private sector participation in the sector
Port, through leasing in organized ports, as well as permits for terminals
Use Private (TUP). So far they have been authorized 22 new TUPs.

The installed capacity of our airports grew 191% between 2002 and 2013,

going from 97.9 million to 285 million passengers per year. Completed expansion work of
passenger terminals, courtyards and lanes at airports. During the Dilma government, they were granted
6 major national airports - Guarulhos / SP, Campinas / SP, Brasilia / DF, Galeão / RJ, Confins / MG
and São Gonçalo Amarante / RN.
Between 2003 and 2014, we resumed the construction of large hydroelectric plants and were
plus the Brazilian generating capacity 48,866 MW, about 60% of capacity
installed in the country in 2002. The average increase of more than 4 thousand MW per year is over the construction

a possession of the Jirau plant on the Madeira River, every year. The contribution of alternative sources for the
integrated system, such as biomass, wind and solar power, increased from 240 MW to 3,101 MW. Created
the National Program of biodiesel, to enhance the diversification of our energy mix. Starting
2010 passed be mandatory 5% blend of biodiesel in diesel in 2014 are already 6%, and from
November this year, will be 7%.
At the same time, President Dilma instituted

measures to reduce energy costs,

improving the competitiveness of Brazilian industry and relieving consumers. It was anticipated
the renewal of old plants concessions that were already written off, providing reduction
the cost of energy, at least 18%.
In the same period, we built 43.5

thousand km of transmission lines,

reinforcing System

National integrated, ensuring secure energy supply.
In the oil and gas, the result of highlight was undoubtedly the discovery of pre-salt.

In 2013, the first pre-salt auction was held in the field of Libra, with recoverable oil volume
Estimated 8 to 12 billion barrels. In 2014, the direct contracting of Petrobras was authorized to
the exploitation of Buzios fields surrounding Iara, Florim and Tupi Northeast, with oil volume
recoverable estimated at 10-15 billion barrels. Only those fields and Libra it is estimated there
a volume of oil equivalent to 1.5 times the proven reserves in the country by 2013.
The average oil production rose 50% between 2002 and 2013.

Now, in 2014,

Petrobras production coming from the pre-salt oil reached over 500 thousand barrels / day. It took us 31
years to produce the first 500,000 barrels and now, in just three years, we produced 500,000 barrels
oil coming from the pre-salt.
The number of oil production platforms operating increased from 36 to 82 from 2002
and 2014. Currently, 28 probes for pre-salt exploration are contracted for construction
in Brazilian shipyards. The infrastructure of pipelines has grown from 5417 kilometers in length to
9489 km, between 2002 and 2014.
They were also resumed investments in new refining plants construction
the major refineries.
THE

Brazilian naval industry recovered and increased its production capacity

and today reaches 80,000 workers, returning to occupy a prominent position in the world. By 2017,
will occupy 100,000 workers. This recovery is the result of large orders from Petrobras
with domestic content requirement and the availability of financing for Marine Fund
Merchant, which grew 784% in real terms between 2002 and 2013.

The program

My home, my life ,

in its two phases, has hired 3.45 million homes,

1.7 million of which has already been delivered, which corresponds to more than 6 million Brazilians living in your
home, equivalent to the population of the city of Rio de Janeiro, the second largest in the country.
The housing finance system through the Brazilian Savings SBPE-System
and Loan, financed 529,800 homes in 2013, 18 times more than in 2002, when they were
financed 28,900 homes.
To improve urban transport conditions of the population in large cities, mainly
to reduce the time you spend in commuting to work or to study, the Government
Federal secured R $ 143 billion in urban mobility investments to states and municipalities.
With these features, important works are being carried out and planned in all regions
Brazilian. Are more

651 km of rail transport

Urban and airmobile)

3188 km of transport on tires

(subway, monorail, tramway, train

(BRT and corridors) and

21 km of

urban river transport.

To address the deficit of basic sanitation since 2007, they were selected by the Federal Government
R $ 74 billion in the works.

Annual disbursements in sanitation grew by more than 10

times in real terms,

from R $ 998 million in 2002 to R $ 10.3 billion in 2013. Although

much of the work is still being carried out by cities and states, treatment of index
sewage grew 19% in the country.
The water security investments gained unprecedented scale in the last three years. More than
R $ 32 billion in works to ensure water supply in quantity and quality to populations

living in semi-arid and other regions with water shortages. The main work is running Integration
São Francisco River, the largest hydro project in Brazil, with 469 km, stretching the states of Ceará,
Paraíba and Pernambuco. To it add up, throughout the Northeast, structural works, which will change the profile
Water supply: the Eixão of Water and the belt of water in Ceará; Pipelines of the Piaus and Bocaina,
Piauí; Aqueduct of the Upper Midwest and Seridó in Rio Grande do Norte; the channel of Coastal Strand in
Paraíba; Extension of the Wasteland and Pipelines do Agreste and Pajeú in Pernambuco; Canal of the Wild
Alagoas, Alagoas; the Aqueduct of San Francisco, in Sergipe; the Aqueduct of cotton and bean, Bahia.
To democratize access to water, they have been delivered in the Northeast, 937 000 tanks, of which 607
thousand only in President Dilma government. By the end of 2014 will reach 1.080 million cisterns
installed throughout the Northeast.
It is worth noting that while Brazil has lived for the past three years, the worst drought in decades, thanks
the intense action of the government Dilma there was the plight of starving refugees and aimlessly afflicting us on
past. There were no withdrawals motivated by despair at the lack of food; infant mortality has not increased.
The largest water supply operation by tank trucks of history was set up, under the coordination of
Army, mobilizing more than six thousand pipeiros hired by the federal government. They were implanted
207 simplified water supply systems and 95 wells in the states of Alagoas, Bahia, Minas
General and Pernambuco and Sergipe.
To ensure income for farming families, we pay the Drought Stock Exchange for about one million
families, and Harvest Insurance to other 870 000. They sold 930,000 tons of corn price
subsidized to assist in animal nutrition. To support the continuity of small businesses,

511,000 operations were made by an emergency credit line, mobilizing 3.45 billion reais.
All investments described so far have been essential for improving the efficiency and competitiveness
the economy, to stimulate growth, create jobs and improve the lives of citizens around
the country. Invest to provide better and more productive and social infrastructure became factor
economic dynamism as well as social inclusion and income redistribution policies.
O

second pillar of the development model

It was the implementation of a

the governments of the PT and its allies

network protection and social inclusion policies

that made

Brazil is a country truly 200 million citizens. In three successive terms, we create
a huge and dynamic mass consumer market, and achieved record highs generation
employment, rising real wages and income distribution. Nowhere is the phrase "never
before in the history of this country "so faithfully reflected the reality of the numbers.
Since 2003,

36 million Brazilians were taken out of extreme poverty.

Only

between 2011 and 2013, with Brazil Without Poverty Plan, 22 million people have been rescued from extreme
poverty. Government Dilma can therefore ensure

to overcome extreme poverty

Brazil, under the criterion of income.

In addition to the extreme poverty facing, we achieved in the three governments of the PT, an extraordinary
change in the profile of Brazilian society, as

42 million amounted to the middle class.

Prior to 2003, the base of the social pyramid were concentrated 54.9% of Brazilians (classes D and E)
and middle class (C) represented 37% of the population. Today, most of the population is located in
middle of the pyramid: 55% of Brazilians are in the middle class. Classes D and E, added today
accounting for 25% of Brazilians.

The decision to give centrality to combat poverty and misery, and to make economic policy without
suppress rights, made Brazil go against developed countries victimized by financial crisis
started in 2008 and used the traditional mechanisms of neo-liberal policies - unemployment
and reduction of wages and labor rights - to fight it.
Throughout the Lula-Dilma period until May 2014, the country generated 20.4 million new jobs. While,
worldwide, the crisis has eliminated 60 million jobs from 2008 to the present in Brazil 11 million
jobs with a formal contract were created. The Dilma government until May 2014, were
generated 5.05 million formal jobs. Since 2003, the unemployment rate declined to reach
to 4.9% in April 2014, considered a full situation

employment.

From 2003 until today, the income

worker grew by 70% above inflation. Another landmark of the governments of the PT and its allies.
In the field, 771 000 families had access to land through agrarian reform, with access to credit
land. Between 2003 and 2013, 51 million hectares were incorporated by the land reform program.
Social inclusion made an energizing factor of the Brazilian economy and the results are
extraordinary: more jobs, more income, more future for all Brazilians. a

path

It has no return and does not admit new beginning, only more progress, more change.

In the new Brazil that are building since 2003, the democratization of access to education
Quality has a dual function. On the one hand, it allows shaping a democratic and sovereign nation,
based on the dissemination of knowledge and citizenship, which should ensure the sustainability of
eradication of misery and poverty. And on the other, allows you to prepare the country for the great challenge of founding
its growth in the creation of technology and innovation, that is, focusing on educational background
and scientific and therefore the knowledge economy.

O

recognition

of

right

The

citizenship

was

tightly

grounded

at

democratization of access to education.

This central role of education was recognized over the last 12 years, the expansion of the federal budget
industry, from R $ 18 billion in 2002 to R $ 112 billion in 2014, a real growth
223%. It was reaffirmed with the creation of FUNDEB in 2006, increasing the support to States
and municipalities to provide quality education in their territories.
The Dilma government, for the first time, the federal government established a policy of building
creches. In addition, it reduced from seven to six years of compulsory schooling early. Starting
2016, the age will drop from six to four years.
Municipalities have become flat on the waves of expansion process for early childhood education.
The Lula government, the construction of 2,543 kindergartens was hired and the Dilma government until May 2014, more
6,036 kindergartens have resources authorized by the federal government. Our task is to ensure all our
children, from an early age, learning stimuli and quality of care as required for their formation.
The expansion of full-time education in public schools has become a priority for the government
federal. Before the Lula government, there was virtually no support for states and municipalities to offer
educational activities after school. At the end of the Lula government, 10,000 schools were already offering
full-time education. The Dilma government are already 49,000 schools full time.
The Lula and Dilma removed the unacceptable restrictions inherited from previous governments, which
prevented the expansion of the federal network of technical schools. Preventing, finally, to bring opportunities
technical and vocational training to young people around the country. The Lula government, were created 214 new
schools of the Federal Network of Professional Education, Science and Technology. The Dilma government, were

over 208 schools. In just 12 years, the federal vocational education network jumped from 140 schools in
119 municipalities to 562 in 507 municipalities.
In this effort to expand the federal network of technical schools, was added to the PRONATEC, the largest
vocational training program in the history of Brazil, Dilma created in government. By the end of 2014,
will be 8 million jobs for young people and workers in technical courses and professional training,
in partnership with the S - SENAI, SENAC, SENAR and SENAT.
The Dilma government, has expanded greatly the opportunity to get to university. Additionally
real opportunities input in public higher education, the student may also have access,
from ENEM, a path also opportunities in private network, either through ProUni or
FIES. Since 2010, it was signed over 1.6 million financing contracts in higher education.
The great transformation that governments of the PT and its allies have been promoting the teaching expressase also in doubling the number of enrollments in Brazilian universities between 2002 and 2013.
Expressed in the adoption of the law on quotas in public universities and 3 million students
They had the opportunity to go to college thanks to ProUni and FIES. It is expressed also in
18 new federal universities and 173 campuses created in the last 12 years.
It is expressed in the statement ENEM as national criteria for access to technical and higher education,
recognized by the 9.5 million Brazilian men and women who signed up for the exam in 2014.
Or strengthening, every year, the SISU as a national selection process for our
universities, based on ENEM note.
And also in the Science Without Borders, created in the government of President Dilma, to offer scholarships

study in the best universities abroad for the best Brazilian students in the areas
technological, engineering, exact and biomedical. By the end of 2014, 101,000 scholarships will be awarded.
Are broad and differentiated policies but with a single purpose: to build a path
opportunities for young Brazilians. This is the differential of PT governments, the seed of great
change in Brazil: Brazilians always wanted to move forward, always strove always sought
new opportunities. With the governments of PT, the Brazilian government took over the task of ensuring these
opportunities for all throughout the country.

We make the Brazilian state of our partner

people in building a brighter future based on access to education.

The improvement of health conditions of the Brazilian people, in recent years, can be explained both by the expansion
actions and services guaranteed by SUS as by economic growth, the implementation
social anti-poverty policies, and by increasing access to sewage and treated water for
Lula and Dilma governments.
The impact on health indicators in the period is very significant. Brazil is one of the countries
more reduced infant mortality in the world,

according to UNICEF.

To ensure access, quality, services and health actions, Lula and Dilma governments in
partnership with states and municipalities, implemented major policies. With the More Doctors guarantee
improvement in health care for 50 million people in 3,800 municipalities. The program here has
People's Pharmacy serves more than 6.8 million people / month and the SAMU meets 73% of the population
Brazilian. Currently, 80 million people have access to care oral health by the Program
Smiling Brazil. The federal government has supported municipalities in the construction, expansion and renovation

health care equipment, such as over a thousand Emergency Care Units-UPA and over
26,000 health clinics.
The Lula and Dilma not stolen, a moment, to face the challenge of ensuring security
the Brazilian population. In the last 12 years, the main policies keyword in the Security area
Public has been the integration with state governments. The federal government has sought to establish
partnerships to strengthen and complement state actions, and has improved its performance in
border areas.
The Strategic Border Plan, in partnership with state security forces, has guaranteed
more effective control of our borders. We avoid, to tackling drug trafficking
and weapons, the strengthening of organized crime across the country.
The Brazilian prison system is among the priorities in the area of ​​public safety. The Program
Support Prisons allocated in the government Dilma, R $ 1.1 billion so that states can enlarge
and build prisons, creating 47,419 new jobs.
The National Public Security Force expanded its action, fulfilling decisive role in supporting the fight
violence in the States. Since 2011, the Force acted in 78 operations in 22 states, in many different
types of situations.
Strengthening Federal and Federal Highway Police had sequence, with investments in
human and intelligence resources, adoption of high-tech tools. The Federal Police ordered,
the Dilma government, full autonomy to conduct their research processes.
Governments of the PT and its allies opened a new federalism, a new relationship between

the federal government, states and municipalities, based on a republican relationship of cooperation and partnership.
In a country of continental dimensions, strengthening municipalism was crucial to the management
efficient urban and rural infrastructure, especially in areas of strong social impact and health
public, such as sanitation, and housing, as the Minha Casa Minha Vida and the Minha Casa Minha
Countryside life. It highlights the distribution to all municipalities, up to 50 thousand people, of a kit machines
composed of a backhoe, grader and one bucket truck. For municipalities
the semi-arid region, this kit was plus a loader shovel and a water truck.
The changes that PT governments promoted in Brazilian society have brought more desire
changes, now on another level, even higher.

The desire for change goes through

consolidate the gains already achieved, and ensuring further gains.

A new historical cycle

Building a new cycle of transformations means transpose the step that today separates Brazil and
the developed world, that just over a decade after we started, and we
winning the battle against poverty and inequality.
The Brazil will not always be a developing country. Your destiny is to be a country
developed.

It's time to alçarmos Brazil to developed country status and just a nation in which all
people have the same opportunities: to study, to work, to take care of their health, have for home
housing, decent living in cities and the countryside. A country where all people have the
same rights: freedom of information and opinion, culture, consumer market; dignity,
on equal terms, regardless of race, creed or color.
That is what our Constitution says, and so it should be a true democracy.
When we left the long night of dictatorship, we learned to say "never again"! Now,
after more than a decade of great change in our country, it's time to
affirm "not less"!

We are launching a new historical cycle of prosperity, opportunity and change.
One of the foundations of this new cycle is strengthening

a macroeconomic policy

solid, uncompromising in combating inflation and facilitating growth
and robust economic and social development. Economic growth stimulated by the increase

the investment rate of the economy and the expansion of a strong and dynamic domestic market,
and to occur unhindered, thanks to the expansion of infrastructure investments. Prosperity
social it is accompanied by the generation of opportunities for all through programs
inclusion of historically excluded and education to raise the training and scientific qualification
and technique of our people.
Another foundation is our

commitment to Brazil Productive.

Our Industrial policies,

Scientific, Technological and Agricultural will act to reduce investment and production costs,
stimulating our capacity for innovation, reducing logistics costs and improving the environment
the country's business.
We will encourage entrepreneurship to drastically reduce bureaucracy, which imposes a high cost
for businesses. Simplification will be a guideline for the state's relationship with the companies. Come on
computerize, create single register and decrease the volume of documents and demanded records
citizen. Let's build a state increasingly efficient, transparent and modern.
We will promote new enhancements in legislation to gradually universalize coverage
the National Simple and conclude this process with the implementation of REDESIM.
Entrepreneurship will continue gaining immense support in the second term of President Dilma.

There will be more resources for GROW and new incentives for its expansion in the country.
Will be encouraged to expanding the presence of micro and small entrepreneurs in the courses, especially
management, the second phase of PRONATEC. Also, we will encourage more and more participation
these entrepreneurs in government procurement, strengthening small businesses.
Modernizaremos our industrial park to ensure increased productivity and competitiveness
of our economy, essential for an active inclusion of Brazil in the international scenario and to expand
the business opportunities for Brazilian companies.
For this purpose, we will continue adopting development programs supply chain
and local content requirement. We will encourage the modernization of the industrial park. We move forward in
less bureaucratic processes and procedures in business, including broad tax simplification,
and reducing financial costs and inputs. We invest in the educational formation of our mãode labor. The combination of these instruments should result in significant increase in productivity
Brazilian industrial.
The implementation of

Knowledge platforms

It will be one of the strategies to accelerate

the generation of innovation in Brazil. They provide for the establishment of an innovation ecosystem in which
the interaction between scientists, research institutions and companies will allow for strategic areas to
development, will accelerate the production of knowledge and its transformation into
and innovative processes critical to the competitiveness growth of our economy.
To assure

greater effectiveness of environmental policy,

strengthen coordination

intergovernmental, nationwide, in order to add the Union's efforts to those of the United

and municipalities, especially in the areas of environmental permits, water resources, climate change
and forests. The three levels of government are the protagonists of the environmental policy of the country and the synergy between
they are fundamental to the qualification of a national project of sustainable and inclusive development.
We will deepen the process of modernization
the regulation of Complementary Law 140.

environmental licensing

water security

ongoing with

will be treated with priority,

mobilizing shared and concatenated actions of the three levels of government to the needs
multiple use of water - human consumption, irrigation, hydropower, livestock and others - are taken
account in a rational and sustainable manner.
We will maintain our commitment to reducing

emissions.

For this, we will continue

combat deforestation, especially in the Amazon, and accelerate the implementation of the plans
sector provided for in the National Climate Change Plan. Brazil is strongly engage in
International climate talks

that will take place in 2015, so your interests

are incorporated in the establishment process of the global parameters.
We will accelerate the implementation of

Rural Environmental Registry

- Cornerstone of the new

Forest Code - which involves the integration between the federal government and state administrations.
Our commitment is to support all farmers so that in the period defined by law, have
regularized the status of their properties.
Strengthen the productive restructuring towards the economy

Low Carbon

and the bet

the use of natural resources as the best form of preservation, especially by populations
Traditional occupying important areas of biodiversity point of view.

The new cycle of development proposed for the second term of President Dilma should be
backed by education. After a prolonged period of democratization of access to all
education levels, including technical and university, we arrive now to the processing step
the quality of education.

The proposal to invest heavily in education quality and at the same time, steadily expand
access to education at all levels - from the necessary day care centers to the most by specialized courses,
keep this sector of public life as

responsible for the success of the various targets

other areas of public administration.

Will give solidity to the social position of Brazilians

They climbed the social ladder and are now in a better position than the origin. Continue to take chances
rise to those who are still poor and will ensure labor in quantity and quality
needed to sustain the country's growth. Increasingly, should increase the production
Science, Technology and Innovation necessary for Brazil to effectively log in
knowledge society.
For this great transformation in the educational reality of Brazil, the government took the initiative to
allocate the resources originating from oil exploration in the pre and post-salt, for actions in this area.
In the new government of Dilma, will be gradually available Educational 75% of royalties from
oil and 50% of the pre-salt oil surpluses.
Added to the budget of Education, which had considerable increase in twelve years, resources
from the sale of oil coming from the pre-salt will realize the National Plan
Education (PNE), which the government Dilma approved without vetoes.

We will continue expanding the service in day care centers to provide universal early childhood education
4 to 5 years until 2016.
full time ,

We will continue expanding and qualifying the

education network

so that it reaches up to 20% of the public network until 2018. We will ensure, with

the PRONATEC, the full development of Brazilian youth with access to scientific knowledge
and technology by means of a
Medium,

National Pact for the Education Quality Improvement

2016. Let us grant, for the period from 2015 to 2018, over 100,000 grants from the Science without Borders.

Let's take a curriculum change and management of schools. We face the challenge of valuing
Professor, with better pay and better training.
The policy change in the quality of employment will also have strong support of education. Creating
over 12 million places for technical courses by 2015, the second phase of Pronatec-2, operates in order
to qualify workers.
In this new historical cycle, we will carry out fundamental reforms in order for our country to become
developed and fairer. Reforms that only became possible after these 12 years of growth
economic and income distribution and social inclusion.
For us it is urgent and necessary a broad and deep political reform aimed at resolving
distortions of our representative system. To ensure it popular participation will be essential,
through a plebiscite to define the majority position on the main issues. For us, values
and representativeness are issues that, combined with the unrelenting fight against corruption, must be part of
urgent transformation of the Brazilian political and electoral system.
Undoubtedly improve the political representation, improve the electoral system, making the policy more

transparent are the most obvious answer we can give to this question. We need to oxygenate
our electoral system by setting clear rules for financing. The citizen must have mechanisms
more comprehensive control over their representatives as well as more space to participate in
government decisions at all levels. More ethical, more democracy, more opportunity to participate
and be heard. This is one of the cries of all citizens in Brazil and also in the outside world.
This new stage of institutional changes implemented reinforces the other three mandates
governments of the PT and its allies: the creation in its current configuration of the Comptroller General
- CGU; the creation of the Transparency Portal, which facilitates the monitoring of public policies by
society; the assertion of the Federal Police as a police state, autonomous and republican, which
does not pursue enemies or protect friends; the issue of access to information law; institutionalization
a body with the aim of outlining policies and formulate unified proposals to combat
corruption and money laundering, - the National Strategy for Combating Corruption and Dry
Money - ENCCLA; the appointment of Public Prosecutors ensured that, in fact, the full
functional autonomy to federal prosecutors; the establishment of the Truth Commission, which exercises
the historical role of rescuing the memory of Brazilians who fought against the military dictatorship.
In the second government Dilma we will expand the measures already taken over the years. We must
foster the creation of mechanisms that transfer these institutional achievements also for the scope
states and municipalities. Through the Digital Government, we will increasingly use the Internet for the
Citizen track with ease and transparency, the allocation of public resources.
Combat impunity of corrupt and corrupting, through changes in our legislation,

especially through a reform of our criminal process, is a goal that we have strong
commitment to fulfill. Even more structure and increase the efficiency of public agencies whose
coping skills and the investigation of misconduct and the diversion of resources is a commitment
we will continue to keep permanently with Brazilian society, regardless of
political and economic interests that may be affected.
To change even more Brazil, we propose to meet the challenge of conducting a
federative

reform

to define better the roles of federal agencies - federal, state and municipalities.

This reform is necessary to ensure greater efficiency and quality of public services
today, especially for those under the responsibility of more than one of the federal entities. We seek
building a more cooperative association, avoiding overlap of functions that can
slow, and shred endear people to care programs.
The federal reform and the reform of public services are complementary and overlap. They need
be held together to increase the effectiveness and efficiency of public policies, maximize their
reducing effects and the relationship between the cost and benefit of services.
Under this reform, it will face the debate on national tax structure so important
for the direction of our development.
THE

urban reform

to improve the quality of life of the urban population, which today

It represents 81% of Brazilians. This reform will face the challenge of solving the housing deficit,
the issue of urban mobility, sanitation and public safety. To continue expanding
the MCMV, we need to ensure the provision, in big cities, spaces needed to build

the house itself. Investments in urban mobility seek to ensure fast public transport,
safe and efficient. We will pursue the universalisation of basic sanitation, especially
for the universal supply of treated water and expansion throughout the national territory
sewage and its treatment.
In Public Safety, the Dilma government policy will expand the presence of the state in territories
vulnerable, by encouraging the adherence of States to Brazil Insurance Program and the Crack Program,
Winning is possible. It is expected also the creation of the National Academy of Public Security, to
joint training of police, formulation and dissemination of standard operating procedures
and training of analysts. Further strengthen the actions to combat organized crime
and money laundering and border control actions. We will continue the process of
integration of public security institutions in the country.
The second Dilma government will seek also to promote a new round of institutional advances,
to eliminate bottlenecks historically imposed on forms of political representation and access
the democratic rights of the entire population. Enlarge

political democracy

is a goal that

Walking Together Through commitment to increase more and more economic democracy - the distribution of
income and poverty elimination.
In addition to the measures to be taken to deepen democracy, sum up the
National Popular Participation,

System

that will serve to consolidate the forms of participation

put into practice in Lula and Dilma and institutionalize them. The proposal is to transform
popular participation in a management culture and new technologies allow expand and stimulate debate

of the population. Instances of participation are not in conflict with the duties of the Legislative Branch.
They are spaces of debate that do not interfere with any of the institutional duties of powers
the Republic. They are important because Brazil always needs more, and never less democracy.
Also in the cast of institutional challenges, the fight for human rights remains, always, as
priority until there are no more Brazilians treated vile or degrading manner, or discriminated against
by race, color, creed, sexual orientation or gender identity.
More empowerment, autonomy and zero violence will be the guidelines of our policies for
women in the next period of President Dilma. Implementation of the House of Brazilian Women will
decisive for this purpose, as well as measures to promote equality.
The fight against discrimination and promote racial equality will continue to be priority tasks
our government. The challenge is to make reality the Quota Act in the federal public service, sanctioned
in June 2014, guaranteeing the same effectiveness already achieved the quota law in universities
public. Of particular importance for the future of our Brazil is combating violence against
black youth and it will expand and strengthen the Youth Alive program.
The continued implementation of Live without limit will ensure equal opportunities for
Brazilian men and women with disabilities, with actions of access to education, health care, inclusion
social and affordability.
In the area of ​​infrastructure, the huge advances made since 2003, the candidate Dilma proposes
country to another qualitative leap necessary for the country to consolidate its development and achieve
internalize it - that is, to act radically and structurally reduce regional inequalities.

It will need to give priority to rail modal, waterway and coastal shipping,
reducing bottlenecks and implementing new logistics networks at national and regional axes
for the production flow and the movement of people. At the same time we must continue
the process of modernization and expansion of the capacity of highways, ports and airports.
Also implement new institutional measures that will further leverage the investment
Public-private. We will continue improving the models of regulation, stimulating the private market
long-term credit and the development of collateral instruments for financing
large-scale projects.
In the energy sector, Brazil will continue the process of expanding its generating facilities and transmitter
to ensure security of supply and reasonable tariffs. This expansion will take place in order
to maintain the quality of our energy matrix, based on hydroelectric and thermoelectric, sources
clean renewable and low-carbon and complemented by alternative sources such as
wind, solar and biomass originates. Will have priority following the expansion and modernization of
installed base of power transmission.
We will promote the

universal access to an internet service

cheap, fast

it's safe. For this, the infrastructure will require expansion of optical fiber and equipment
last generation, and the use of the Internet as a tool for education, leisure and tool
popular participation, especially in government decisions. We will continue implementing the Marco
Civil of the Internet, which is one of the most advanced in the world. Our Marco Civil gives users guarantees
fundamental as freedom of expression, respect for human rights and privacy

citizens by ensuring net neutrality across the commercial interests or of any kind.
The goal of the Marco Civil is to make the Internet remains an open space for freedom of
expression, innovation and social and economic development.

We will continue to invest effort in security Hydro to further advance
in the water supply quality assurance and regularity in historically underserved regions of
feature. It will also be dedicated every effort to develop the technology needed to take
the Light for All Program to isolated locations, with a goal of 137,000 connections between 2015 and 2018.
In this new cycle, we advance from an extraordinary achievement - to overcome extreme
poverty in Brazil.
We persist in the second term of President Dilma, guiding our actions by appointment
that "the end of poverty is only a start." We will pursue even more challenging goals, to consolidate
and expand the gains. We want to ensure that families drawn from extreme poverty do not come back
to her. Also overcome poverty, as millions have done, improving their living conditions
and finding a land of opportunities for everyone!
We know that give real opportunity involves help break down access barriers generated by
Exclusion centuries. Therefore, we will extend the concept of ACTIVE SEARCH.
It is with this guideline the second Dilma government will continue to include the poorest families in
social programs. Under this concept - the state goes where the poor are - so successful in
first term of President Dilma, will be consolidated in this next phase of the required faces
an effective State Reform, putting it at the service of those who need it most.

The project to

change the level of quality and breadth of service

health services

provides, in the second term of president: the expansion of the Program More

Doctors; the expansion of the network of Emergency Care Units (PSUs) designed service
Low emergencies and medium gravity; the extent of specialized care networks, with
the qualification of hospital services; the strengthening and universalization of the SAMU and expansion
the population's access to medicines.
The improved service and increased health network will require a renewed discussion

federal,

You have the power to avoid overlapping investments and plan more efficiently the distribution
of public health services.
The Unified Health System (SUS) is now the largest public health network in the world,

and has played a major role in universal access. We reaffirm our commitment
with its continuous improvement and strengthening, necessary due to its size, the extent of
services involved and the overlapping of responsibilities between the federal entities.
PT governments have invested heavily in sports and culture, implementing policies that
become instruments of social inclusion and economic development. For the first time
culture and sport were designed as state programs, fostering market
work and the potential of our people.
In the second government Dilma, we will advance further in the Culture and Sport, in-depth programs
already structured and developed in partnership with municipalities, states and civil society. The system
National Culture will continue to be strengthened, as well as all integrated public policies

arising from their creation. The adoption of measures to accelerate the implementation Valley Culture
will help create a new generation of cultural consumers, favoring and stimulating production
national. The implementation and strengthening support for Arts Centers and Unified Sports and
Culture Points will provide community spaces for full cultural expression of citizens. With
Brazil's All screens, we will further strengthen the Brazilian audiovisual industry. It is worth mentioning
strengthening programs in partnership with the education that culture is a powerful
instrument for social inclusion and citizenship development.
The sport has increasingly become a public policy with the potential to generate wealth,
jobs and plenty of capacity to mobilize our children, adolescents and young people as a way
Additional opportunities in construction. Develop a national sports system
integrate public policies among federal agencies is a priority. It is urgent to modernize the organization
and football relations, for example, our most popular sport.
The organization and hosting of the World Cup show that Brazil is prepared to host
major sporting, cultural events, economic integration, or any other activity
international mobilization. The Cup of Cups anticipated urban investments, modernized our
sports infrastructure, generated investments in airports and receptive for tourism. The realization of
World Cup in Brazil is the political victory of a country that has overcome the international economic crisis
with job creation and income distribution is the victory of a country that today is respected
internationally, it is victory of confidence in the ability of the Brazilian people and the defeat of pessimism.
In 2016, we will host the Olympics, an event that will cause once again, the eyes of the world are

come back to Brazil. In the sports area, this will certainly be the biggest challenge in the coming years.
In addition to investments in the organization of the Games and the Olympic infrastructure equipment,
We assume, in partnership with the Brazilian Olympic Committee and the Brazilian Paralympic Committee, the challenge
to provide conditions for Brazil figure in 2016, among the top ten in
Olympic Games and in the top five Paralympic Games. For this, we are implementing
the Brazil Awards 2016 Plan that, with R $ 1 billion investment, stimulate 21 Olympic modalities
and 15 in Paralympic Olympic cycle 2013-2016.
Ensure full implementation of the Brazil Awards Plan will be one of our priorities in the near
mandate. We will also continue to invest in the construction of centers
Olympic training in Brazil, including the Brazilian Paralympic Center in São Paulo,
It will be a reference for Latin America and ensure our Paralympic athletes an infrastructure
preparation up to its excellence.
We will continue to Bolsa Athlete, financial assistance that allows our young athletes
devote themselves diligently to their training and technical improvement. Also we move forward in the construction
285 units of the Sport Initiation Centres (CIE) in 163 municipalities of all States and
Federal district. These centers will provide adequate infrastructure to the emergence of future talent
Brazilian sports, and raise to new heights the conditions and the framework for the practice of the
various sports in our country.
With the reconstruction of economic and social policies, Lula and Dilma governments had to perform
a profound change in Brazil's presence in the world. The second Dilma government will continue

this process, in line with the transformations which has undergone the international scene.
The priority to South America, Latin America and the Caribbean will translate in efforts to strengthen
MERCOSUR, UNASUR and the Community of the Countries of Latin America and the Caribbean (ECLAC), without
discrimination ideological. The Brazil seek first of all the integration of the region through the
promotion of trade and production integration. To do so, will give special emphasis to financial integration
and their physical and energy infrastructure. The economic, social and political of
recent years in our continent enable the region to be an important actor in the multipolar world
today are drawing.
Similarly emphasis will be given to our relations with Africa, with Asian countries - - China
It is our largest trading partner - and the Arab world. The importance given to the countries of the South
world who have given concrete expression in BRICS does not mean disregarding the developed countries.
Quite the contrary, is of great importance our relationship with the United States because of their importance
economic, science and technology policy, let alone the volume of our bilateral trade. Criterion
similar applies to our relations with the European Union and Japan.
Our presence in the world will be marked by the defense of democracy and non-intervention principle
and respect for the sovereignty of nations, the struggle for peace and negotiated settlement of the conflict with the defense of
Human rights, the fight against poverty and inequality, the preservation of the environment and the
multilateralism. We also want to build mechanisms that protect all forms of communication
- The internet in particular - ensuring privacy of citizens, businesses and governments.
The priority we attach to a multilateral vision of the world leads us and lead the fight for reform

major international organizations such as the UN, the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank,
among others, whose governance today does not reflect the current balance of global forces.
Foreign policy has been and will continue to be more than a Brazil projection instrument in the world.
It is a fundamental element of our national project.
The second Dilma government will have a great opportunity: to complete a second round of changes,
after which Brazil will have produced a break of no return to the traditional structure of Brazilian society,
the last one whose foundations were laid in inequality, conditioned to economic growth
interests of traditional elites - and fundamentally exclusionary - and a huge indifference
a situation hitherto immutable misery that killed adults and children for centuries. There are twelve
years, the PT proposed the company a new Brazil, fairer, more humane and more developed.
Now, President Dilma contest another term, with the certainty that can change in
the definitive history of Brazil.
In the new proposed level for Brazil already renewed a lot, we will create the conditions for the country
leave behind this past inequalities and exclusions and care, with passion and devotion, children, youth
and adults, so that all live in a country full of opportunities. To become, in short, a developed country.

P r o g r a m a
in

G o v e r No

DILMA ROUSSEFF
- 1 2 0 4 -
