for everyone,
without
privileges!
2011 election platform

for everyone,
unprivileged!

Switzerland is a rich country with a strong social safety net and quality public infrastructure. Thanks - especially - the commitment of the PS. Without the Socialists,
no AVS week or 42 hours, no maternity leave or voting
Women, no transfer from road to rail or postal network worthy of the name.
We have made a decisive contribution to building the Switzerland of today. This
which does not mean - if - we satisfaisions us the result.

From the economic point of view, Switzerland is undeniably healthy. But
This success must be shared by all. Too many families experience
months purposes difficult because of rising rents as health insurance premiums. And because wages do not follow the same trend. In the
Meanwhile, others who already know practically what to do with their money
continue to win ever thanks to the Pharaonic bonus or rebate
tax granted to them. For its part, the PS wants an economy at the service of
the people and not the opposite. We are confident that we can
progress by exceeding individualism.
Switzerland has a long democratic tradition. But with a twist that is not
not without consequence. In Bern, it is the representative-es of banks, insurance companies and other large companies which dictate their law. It remains to be defending
the interests of the majority of the population. It does not offer, ultimately that a
only lobby: the PS that is committed to both wage earners, tenants, ensured es and consumers and consumers.

Switzerland can and must do better. It can be more just, more innovative and progressive. We want to avoid solving today's problems with past solutions. We want a unified and more equitable Switzerland. We want
a society in which everyone can freely flourish and which has a
social security might support those who temporarily need
help. No one is immune to a twist of fate and, as stated in our Federal Constitution, "the people's strength is measured in terms of the welfare of the weakest."

Today as yesterday, the policy must be able to convince that the future
is rich with opportunities. For everyone, not just for a handful
privileged-e-s. Too many lobbies or sectoral interests define the hour
current. This must change for the benefit of a majority of the population.

Christian Levrat, president

Our design
Affordable Housing
is different

For all without privileges.
10 projects that advance our country.

Switzerland can and must do better. It can be more just, more innovative and progressive. The following 10 projects and allow it to go through several stages. In
the interest of a large majority.

1. YES to renewable energy, no to nuclear
By 2030, renewable energy should cover at least 50% of our needs.
With our Cleantech initiative, the investments in this sector will create 100,000 work places in Switzerland. The PS wants to leave
planet as intact as possible to future generations without sacrificing the interests
Short term the atomic lobby. Nuclear power plants are expensive, dangerous
and produce waste which can not always know what to do while the renewables represent a future as environmentally and economically sensible.

2. YES to a public health insurance, NO to the omnipotence of
Private insurers
The PS is committed to a quality health care system accessible to all. So
that more and more households have difficulty paying premiums diseases,
each year, take the elevator, the pseudo-competition that private insurers indulge only serves their interests over those of assured-es. Reason for
we want, through our initiative, introduce a health insurance public fund modeled on SUVA: efficient, transparent and engaging resolutely
prevention.

3. yes to a minimum wage, wage dumping NO

zahlbarer
Wohnraum sieht
anders aus

Everyone who works full-time should be able to live decently with his salary.
We can not accept that companies refusing to pay wages
require adequate social assistance to top up. Our initiative restores wages
fair and intended to enable all the workforce to benefit from the fruit
growth. In recent years, the explosion of bonuses and other remuneration
abusive greatly distended the gap between high and low wages. The introduction
a minimum wage will bridge the benefit of the greatest number.

4. YES to affordable housing, the diktat of NO
owners
Rents are increasing in towns and cities. The owners take advantage of the shortage to reap juicy profits at the expense of
while tenants in common or cantons that practice undercutting
tax, even the middle class can no longer shelter. For the PS, rents must
reflect actual costs. It should promote the construction of social housing,
tenants rights and socially and environmentally responsible property.

5. YES to equal opportunity, NO to old school
In training, child development is highly dependent on
social and economic status of their parents. An inequality that the current school is
unable to reverse. The PS therefore militates in favor of the public school schedule continuous passage, providing student supervision, also outside
teaching hours. This system promotes equal opportunities since
students receive comparable support during their school career. It contributes
as much to reconcile family and professional lives.

6. YES to continuing education, the lack of NO
prospects for the low skilled
The lifetime employment now fall under the exception. Number of people struggling
to enter the workforce or need to frequently change place of work. Himself
form of his life and is essential if the highly qualified people can
often claim it, this opportunity should extend to all professions. The PS
So claims the creation of a national fund supporting training costs and lost wages in the event of long training courses. Its funding will
provided by the uncapping of employee contributions - set today at 126,000
Annual francs - to unemployment insurance. The contributions of these wages, more
and comfortable, and will generate between 450 and 600 million directly
assigned to the fund.
7. YES to inheritance tax to fund AHV, NO
the fiscal privileges
1% of Swiss have a fortune higher than that of the remaining 99% and are
Also tax-advantaged, particularly in cases of inheritance. Each year, 45
billion francs change hands without being taxed. By imposing estates
over 2 million francs, this profound inequality is corrected and additional resources can be allocated to the AHV.

Our design
the increase of power
purchase is different

Our design
minumum wage
different

8. YES to AVS based on years of contributions, NO to
raising the age of retirement
The right to a pension must depend on the professional career and painfulness
insofar as its impact on life expectancy is indisputable. The right to
Retirement should not only depend on age, but also in previous years
at work. Generally, it should take place after 42 years of contributions - at
62 years earlier, no later than 65. The PS and categorically refuse any attempt at raising the retirement age as part of the 12th revision of the AVS.

9. YES to universal public service, NO programs
blind savings
The entire population enjoys a strong public service and strong infrastructure. Bus lines and railways, post offices, schools and hospitals
essential to national cohesion, to our quality of life and our jobs. Cut in
these benefits is prétériter the future. Rather than multiplying the cost savings programs, it should instead invest wisely. In public transport, for
example, an increase in taxation of corporate profits would avoid
exclusively to the users involved.

10. YES to the real economy, NOT the bank supervision
The financial crisis has cost 3 trillion francs worldwide. Banks and
Speculators take the real economy hostage. Marked in recent years, by
an almost blind faith in the market balance, the system failed. For the
PS, we must strengthen the economic position and regulate the financial market, solutions
the problem of too big to fail banks, limit excessive bonuses and introduce an international tax on financial transactions to curb
speculation on the markets.

Our successes, these four
last years. For
all without privileges.

The major advances made by the parliament ps

1. We supported families
Thanks to the determination of the Socialists, the federal law on family allowances
came into force in 2009, allowing employees and those with
low income to receive a child allowance, an allowance of, respectively
professional training. The PS has also been actively engaged for the independent-es can obtain allowances. From same in favor of launching
as an extension of federal impulse program extrafamilial welcome.
Finally, the tax burden of households with child (ren) could be alleviated through the PS.
2. We are committed to successfully prévoyancevieillesse
In the field of occupational pensions, the PS opposed successfully
the reduction of the 2nd pillar pension conversion rate winning the referendum
against looting of pensions by 72.7% of the vote. In Parliament, the PS has ensured that
11th AVS review, which would have resulted in a reduction of annuities
1st pillar or frustrated.
3. We finance forced to follow new
rules
It is through the PS against the project on the initiative "against rip-off salaries"
now includes the tax bonus. Following the 2008 crisis, the PS was successful
to convey his concept of a different financial sector and stricter rules
for banks. Especially those at risk
systemic. Now, subtraction and tax evasion are no longer considered
differentiated way, a socialist longstanding claim.

4. We supported the real economy in the short and long
term
The PS was able to impose the need for active labor market
in political debate and defend his views. Thanks to the considerable pressure of the PS, the Federal Council has finally launched an economic stimulus package in 2009, on
background of financial crisis. It notably included two measures have contributed
so decisive in stabilizing the economy: the anticipated tax refund
CO2 reduction and extension of the regime of working time. Longer
term, the real economy can only benefit from the expansion of free movement
people. As far as the accompanying measures required by the PS
are truly implemented. Whether protection against social and wage dumping or that against unfair rents.
5. We have encouraged renewable energy
To encourage investment in power generation from renewable energy, we have set up compensation at cost current
injected, allowing renewables to break into the market. In order to
put the national housing stock with energy standards, we developed a
Sanitation Program buildings, whereby each year around
100,000 buildings are modernized. With its Cleantech initiative, PS felt the
wind change and helps to ensure that by 2030, our energy supply is at least 50% from renewable sources.

Ursula Wyss, President of the Socialist Group of the Federal Assembly
