GOVERNMENT PROGRAM OF FRANCO Parisi 2014-2018
THE POWER OF THE PEOPLE


Our government program in each subject area and region, is an important feature and thread: PARTICIPATION AND PEOPLE EMPODERAMENTO.

The government program is highly participatory and all public institutions will be enhanced through effective regionalization with citizen participation, organizations and entrepreneurship, through the strategic planning instruments like land use, zoning the coastline and integrated management basins binding.

This program is only the beginning, because our idea is to have a huge public participation, to listen and consider truly the people's opinions in order to improve the program guidelines contained in our political project, which has an inclusive vision.

This program contains just and possible solutions, leading to a real growth of individuals, families, communities and our healthy entrepreneurs Chile.
  
We intend to put to the country's problems and solutions in a simple, didactic, but no less profound. Thus, from the language of democracy, it is that we can deepen democracy of our institutions.
Are dreams, ideas, commitments for all citizens who have expressed in different ways in recent years, independently of the prevailing political duopoly, which have shaped our Programme for Government.

Dare we can really change our country.

We want there are more local, community, regional and national actors involved in decision-making in the political and economic spheres, conditions that deliver fair and responsible work, dignity possible to increase the quality of life in Chile and Chile.

That is why our motto is the power of the people.

JUSTICE - Amendments to the Judicial System
Legislation governing dating from the nineteenth century us, displaying numerous partial reforms, which are performed at a slower than expected rate, and have not allowed to have a legal body adapted to new conditions of life of our society.

Obviously this creates laws, such as the robbery of a bicycle has the same penalty as murder inconsistencies. So, our criminal law on numerous occasions gives greater importance to the property to life, a situation that does not represent the current view of the social rights guaranteed by the state, which should undeniably be above material interests or groups that concentrate power.

In addition, the penalties currently not enforced in practice and in top form, with none of the purposes we have identified to justify its existence. We must take steps to begin to turn this situation.

We must establish the legal and institutional foundations to make justice a tool for all on equal terms.

PROPOSALS

1. Superior Courts.
to. Design and implement, together with the judiciary, a program to improve the work of the High Courts of Justice in order to specialize their work and face delays resulting from the backlog of resources.
b. Will increase the number of specialized chambers of the Supreme Court, and in the main regions of our country, its courts of appeals.
c. Set a maximum length of stay in the post of Minister of Supreme Court up to 10 years, to allow there is a renewal of our judges.
d. Set a maximum period of 15 years for a judge to remain as Minister of the same Court of Appeal to allow a renewal of those working in this role, which also helps the transparency of the judicial function-level courts higher, especially in regions.

2. Improve the training of Magistrates of the Judiciary.
to. Create a permanent training program for all judges in the country, in the area of ​​law in exercising its judicial activity. In national and foreign universities. Promote the organization of seminars, symposia, academic meetings, among others.
b. Create judiciaries exchanges with other states for new experiences on the administration of justice and sharing experiences from other countries.

3. Notaries and Conservatives.
to. Promote reforms to the system of notaries, ending with the designations made without open tender followed and decided transparently.
b. Substantially increase their numbers, and establish ways of charging for their efforts to be accessible to the majority of the population, imposing on each and every one of the notaries to be performed permanently and free those efforts requested by people who do not have access to pay, without a shift system as currently happens.
c. The office of notary may not served by the same person for a period exceeding 10 years, and no one can access, or family judges who have served the same notary. This also applies to the Conservatives. Likewise, each notary shall maintain a system of online transactions, from the technical requirements to be contained in a law which we will send to Congress for this purpose.

4. Strengthening Family Court matters.
to. Strengthen legal density to our legislation, always ensuring the best interests of children.
b. Facilitate access of the participants to a system of procedural remedies that is fast and allows unifying jurisprudence.
c. Deliver more power centers precautionary measures and further the protection of children and girls. The police must give effective protection based on parameters that were set in consideration of each individual case, measures which may be followed immediately by in family courts.
d. Strengthen the procedures for recovery of maintenance payments, expanding the ability to enforce claims on the assets of partnerships in which the food has an interest or control, directly or indirectly, without prejudice to the employer to facilitate their collection of food low limits less restrictive than those in force.
e. Enacting a Parental Responsibility Act, an increase of 20% of the budget for public safety management coordinated with the new Ministry of Children, in terms of resources and program development.
f. Change of School Violence Act incorporating the aggressor and spectators; the same independent pairs to incorporate psychosocial educational establishment to generate prevention campaigns and advocacy.

5. work processes.
to. Increase resources to expand the scope of labor defenders, as well as improving collection processes of labor obligations

b. Establish mechanisms for procedural remedies for workers faster and allow to obtain a unification of jurisprudence expedite the current routes.

c. Ensure that the processes of labor protection be extended to the abuses that are discussed within public bodies, to ensure dignity in the exercise of the functions to be developed by any worker, whether who work in the private sector or as part of the State administration.

d. Streamline work processes of collecting benefits and labor contributions, in order to allow rapid delivery of the disputes submitted to the knowledge of the courts in this matter, so that there is certainty within a short time on the existence of such labor obligations, amount, and those responsible for their payment. This will effectively menara aparará workers, and prevent these causes are used maliciously quota for political purposes, defamation, or other outside established by law

6. Civil Procedure.
to. Civil Procedure Reform support, from a purely accusatory but not oral process. There will be an audience of trial preparation and, without limiting appeals or remove the appeal.
b. Perfect special processes in various sensitive matters for the community, such as lease rent collection, to prevent abuses under litigation.
c. Establish a list of exceptions and defenses to those who are the subject of abusive charges for commercial and creditors houses, so that their rights can be enforced in the process beyond formality that prevents effectively enforce them.
d. End the state subsidy that exists today in the process of debt collection business of commercial character, and those civilians that companies such as department stores require the collection and payment by their customers embargoes credit card.
e. Transparent judicial auction processes, in order to end the groups that speculate with such operations.

7. Reform of the Penal Code.
to. Reforming the special section of the Criminal Code, the definition of behavior considered tort and penalties assigned to them, developing a coherent, avoiding legal contradictions in our current legislation.
b. We take special care with white-collar crimes, legislating so that those responsible are punished with imprisonment, and which directly against our company (ex .: price collusion); thus this measure will have a preventive effect.

c. Despenalizaremos therapeutic abortion, and that the result of rape, giving effective support to the victims of this crime and its surroundings.

d. Despenalizaremos marijuana cultivation and self; well out of the list of hard drugs, in order to redirect human and financial resources to fight bands of existing micro traffic in our neighborhoods and communities.

8. Amendment of the Constitutional Organic Law of Public Prosecutions.
to. Establish a civil service career in law, which is based on seniority and merit providing job security for tax and prominent officials. Whereas the term of office of national tax and regional tax is 4 years, renewable once, and increasing transparency mechanisms.
b. Establish mechanism administrative proceedings which are not subject to the sole discretion of the authority which oversees the investigation, making public the history of the research upon completion.

c. Establish an external control over the use of tax funds given to the Public Ministry to perform its function, handing the Comptroller General of the Republic competent to hear and decide on this matter, so that you can monitor the accuracy and consistency of the background Delivery prosecutors on their own management; none of which happens to date.

c. Restructuring support functions to the prosecutor, so that the budget provides for the hiring of a support team for minimum tax, beyond the region in which it operates, without prejudice to reinforce those places where there is a greater demand for income causes .

9. Independent Public Defender.
to. Deliver autonomy, so that their functions and headquarters in practice does not depend on the will of the government.
b. Civil service career. The senior officials will be selected through the intervention of the three branches of government, and considering the high participation of the public address system.

PUBLIC SAFETY AND SOCIAL REINTEGRATION - Reduce Crime
When the state does not fulfill its role as guarantor of constitutional rights, is being developed and strengthened a scenario where the lack of opportunities, the ineffectiveness of the judicial and penal system, and a worn and over-demanded, institutions help strengthen the so-called circle crime. Efforts to combat crime have focused to date on partial measures that emphasize repression and promulgation of laws creating offenses and increase penalties haphazardly without a definite direction, desperately trying to show to the community as "doing something "rather than making a consistent effort to address a problem that must be approached from different dimensions. The logic of the "war" against crime, full of phrases without content and devoid of effective measures, we must move to a policy of effective prosecution to take charge seriously the plight faced by victims of crime and the growing sense of impunity that exists in the population.

Prevention. Stop the crime necessarily involves end the conditions that generate it. Thus, preventing should always be the starting point of each proposed solution.

Reparative penalties aimed at social reintegration. As far as possible the penalties should be primarily intended to promote the repair of the debt contracted by the offender to society Act, replacing only misdemeanors prison sentences for those beyond met in freedom, allow the accused to make a community service which constitutes for him or her learning, and for the victim a symbolic or actual repair, depending on the specific case.

Judiciary reforms. Optimal Judicial System shall meet the real needs of society, both structurally and functionally, to avoid errors and delays in the submission of briefs and evidence (that harm the fair trial), and ensure equal legal conditions.

Strengthening existing institutions. The institutions involved should provide the basis for the systems work properly and effectively contribute to the goal of rehabilitation and crime reduction.

PROPOSALS.

1. Prevention.
to. Changes to the Criminal Code to create the figure of a "regime Pena Real Alternative and Restorative" which focuses on community service and restorative measure, in cases of misdemeanors committed by non-repeat offenders. This avoids the offender suffer the consequences of stigma and enter the circle of crime. This reiterate, restricted to minor offenses and not repeat offenders.
b. We generate a Comprehensive Plan for the Prevention of Crime at the school level. Coordinate with the leadership of each school and its centers of parents and students the design and implementation of prevention of alcohol and drugs in addition to the rational resolution of conflicts within the school community. This, rather than a uniform policy imposed at central level but from a participatory model to take charge of the specific needs of each community, which is coordinated by the Secretary of Crime Prevention with the Ministry of Education . In addition, each school will have a professional team led by psychologist trained to work permanently on site, coordinating these plans and meeting the needs of the school community to carry out and evaluate each prevention program.
c. We will create a substantial number of new police units. We will create at least 250 permanent police units and 300 mobile which will be preferably aimed at those areas where an increase in crime rates as the diagnosis is made by Undersecretary of Crime Prevention is observed, which dotaremos functions resolute and coordinating not only related public services.
d. We will make a sustained effort to have more and better police. The increase in the number of police must be associated with better conditions and greater dignity of police work. To this end we will invest not only in adding new police, but above all on improving the working conditions of the uniformed police, giving them better tools, from a report that institutional ask to own high command on their current needs, and which report a committee of experts that convene public safety purpose. Also, we will create a system that allows access to the High Command of Carabineros to any of its members from a scheme that favors merit over the time he has served in the institution. It also will train intensely uniformed police, so that their procedures and practices are required to match the current adversarial criminal proceedings, in order to have consistent research to better results before the courts. In such work intervene specialized staff from both the Public Ministry and the Public Defender's Office, with the aim of having a comprehensive education. In addition we will include a training program that will be implemented together with the National Institute of Human Rights, under the conviction that successful policing in any case must involve the violation of fundamental rights of citizens.
e. Improve the Carabineros quadrant private security plan, this means that the state tender to private certain geographical areas (determined by the Undersecretary of Crime Prevention) in which the dial plan and also be there subdotado high concentration of crime. This system will allow the most vulnerable have first level preventive security. In the same vein, to maintain better communication with the public will ensure lower turnover of staff assigned to a particular police station staff, and especially the Commissioners responsible for quadrant. Finally the reinforcement of the quadrants will be staffed by specially trained community relations, as currently they exist in some communes as pilot plans.
f. Take the next step STAD. Chilean adaptation of American COMPSTAT has allowed police to focus their work methodologically crime prevention can reorient their services and focus on its mission of control. To improve this important prevention tool to incorporate their regular meetings at the communal authorities, prosecutors and IDPs, in order to generate a formal coordinating body between preventive and investigative function of crimes. One Stand Chamber also be implemented with the latest technology in every regional capital to a global vision of the region's police officers.
g. We will make electronic reporting, in order to reduce the dark figure in this field reality. So anyone can report from any computer crime avoiding unnecessary journeys police units, which also frees up police officers for purposes of situational prevention and improving the quality of information given to prosecutors.
h. Creating a Parental Responsibility Act, which directly accountable to parents and effective manner by penalties which are effective reparation to victims for the crimes of their children not attributable respect for those who have not fully assumed its duties of care, or care.
i. Creating a Ministry of Children and Youth, which absorbs the INJUV and SENAME, and really acted as a protective organization for the rights of children and youth, avoiding as far as possible to fall in vulnerable situations.
j. System protection of victims of domestic violence, to protect, relocate and re-insert, under psychological and financial autonomy; and security to victims.
k. Creating at least 354 Rehabilitation Centers of drinking and drugs, located in areas where increased incidence of such problems exist in children and adolescents.
l. We will create a special fund to identify critical areas in our cities, to make a specific diagnosis on where the main sources of crime focus, to establish those offenses which are most prevalent in each area and intervention measures They should apply. It also will increase annually by 20% the National Public Security Fund.
m. We will increase the instances of citizen participation in order to be part of the diagnosis and the development of crime prevention plans, improving existing programs in Peace Neighborhood Residential and Commercial.
n. Create executive units running crime prevention measures that have been designed for each community identified as critical, with representatives from police, the undersecretary of crime prevention and the respective community, to certify the proper implementation of programs that are designed to prevent crime in this place, and if that is proved correct when as necessary to achieve its objectives effectively.
or. We will invest heavily in urban infrastructure. We must urgently improve the neighborhoods where there is a high incidence of crime. This is achieved by creating more spaces for sports, improving the lighting of streets and squares, creating more green spaces.

2. CRIMINAL PERSECUTION

to. More and better tax. We will increase the provision of tax, which will be allocated to areas with higher income causes, in addition to setting a minimum network of human and material support for each tax, regardless of the area where work reinforcing those places where demand is greater .

b. More and better resources for Investigative Police. We should not just buy technology for Investigative Police to respond adequately to the requests made by prosecutors to have quality information to successfully face criminal prosecution, but we have ongoing training programs. Thus we implement development programs both in Chile and abroad, which are allocated based on merit. Moreover, we will create minimal research units in all regions of the country, in order to exist throughout Chile needed to meet the requirements for research immediately, at least, those crimes of greater social connotation capabilities.

c. Improved conditions Legal Medical Service. We need not only have excellent professionals, but we also have a Medical Legal Service that is up to date with new technology in forensics. This matters a program of acquiring new equipment and training in its use, in addition to dignify the work of its officials and professionals who have been neglected for too long, what matters establish incentives founded in antiquity, but mainly in merit; combined with substantial improvements in working conditions. This should be coupled with the existence of a team of forensic minimum attention by region, serving pair immediately address the most urgent needs in medico-legal matters, which should be established from a diagnosis that will ask both the maximum Service authority as associations of officials and professionals from the institution.

d. Special measures to combat drug trafficking and organized crime. Dotaremos more human and technical resources to the Financial Analysis Unit, in order that it can more efficiently detect suspicious movements of money laundering and assets. We will strengthen the work of the Brigade washes Assets Investigation Police. Profesionalizaremos the work of the National Intelligence Agency, stating that its maximum authority shall be designated by a process which will involve the three branches of government and to participate discharge system public address, in order to stop being a charge of a political nature and avoid the appointment of people who lack the skills needed to address, as is the case today. Ademuetelres so that peudan enact this ia so metria adncuada. Enteragmos more facukafees centers CISA measures profesionalizaremos its staff, and establish effective coordination mechanisms to ensure that intelligence activities are effective mechanisms to prevent organized crime, and not be used as a platform to injure privacy and fundamental rights and guarantees of citizens without justification. We will strengthen the operational units of the police, and ensure that there are specialized teams qualified in each region staff.

2. REINSERTION
to. Creating Compliance Courts Conviction. This is a project that is ready, which was written years ago by a group of technicians with the help of the German cooperation agency, but it has never been sent to Congress for discussion. We do we will, so that there is an authority which has the purpose precisely to ensure the proper enforcement of criminal penalties of freedom to those who are convicted violators of the law, so as to control the rehabilitation purposes can be given in each case.

b. Gendarmerie substantial improvement. It is necessary to give them greater dignity to their function, naming a gendarmerie officer of the senior management of the institution, plus the fact that we will deliver the rank of general at its maximum authority, and readecuaremos their ranks, so that it becomes part Interior Ministry. Generate social protection programs for both gendarmes and their families, as well as putting limits on their working hours, coupled with a sustained improvement in their income. We will make plans for improvements according merit of its members. Professional groups incorporate the work of reintegration is entrusted today Gendarmerie, refocusing the center of its work in the care and control of the prisons under their custody. We will create a specialized intelligence unit and properly trained to infiltrate gangs within the prisons. In effective terms will reestablish the power that is vested in the Gendarmerie classification and assignment of prisoners.

c. Alternative sentencing system. With the imminent entry into force of the new law amending 20,063 system serving of sentences, will closely monitor its implementation particularly telematic monitoring results, adult community work and intensive probation, so as to ensure the Citizenship low recidivism in offenders who enjoy these new alternative sanctions and avoiding impunity gaps that still exist without correction for failure to follow the same, which is especially noticeable in the system of adolescent criminal responsibility.

d. Adolescent criminal responsibility (Law 20,084). Today juvenile offenders of criminal law has a system of penalties to be effective, since they are not given the material conditions for the SENAME, can control their compliance and monitor that takes over conditions risk that children are mired, and have often been instrumental in committing crimes. In the context of a substantial reorganization of what is now known as SENAME, generate multidisciplinary team that meets each young offender, in a context in which if any of them fail to comply with their reintegration plan in an open or semi-closed system, this only Indeed determine admission to a room guarded by gendarmerie to ensure that the process of rehabilitation and social reintegration can take place through effective intervention. Besides young offenders should be subject to a prevention program, or if necessary, rehabilitation in the consumption of drugs and alcohol, which should be subject to effective monitoring by a specialized team of doctors and psychologists.

e. Construction of new prisons. To begin construction of a new prison at least by region. Licitaremos low quality parameters internationally recognized them all, and the state will assume the construction of those whose bid has been unsuccessful or have not had bidders. This in order to mitigate the situation of overcrowding that exists across our country, and to carry out a policy of segregation within prisons to be effective and help the effective reintegration of inmates, especially first-timers. Especially the state should tender these new prisons with different incentives to private actors, aimed at reducing by at least 30% the number of repeat offenders who go through these new establishments.

e. Tax incentives for hiring convicted. One of the main problems faced by those serving a sentence of imprisonment is that nobody wants to hire once they are released. We propose to grant a tax benefit to all those who hire those who have fulfilled a sentence, precertification perform a body within the Ministry of Justice and realize that this is a person who has no indications that the fall in crime , which determined by a group of independent professionals and excellence will be selected from high public address system. In companies bidding in the state with at least 5% of the contract staff should correspond to people in this situation.

f. Free serving of sentences and community service. Thus, the offender, being in an open space and contact your usual environment, avoids the stigma and isolation, while allowing you to maintain employment and integrity, while the service would be provided outside the office hours and would not register on his record. This focused on cases of less serious crimes committed by people with no history.

g. Improve conditions for serving sentences in prison. Elimination of the isolation cells as punishment and restoration of rights such as education and work, in addition to voting for the case of offenses not deprive this right by law.

Political and constitutional reform - the basis of our society
Over the last decade our country has undergone momentous social changes and thus symptoms of a crisis of representation are noticed. The high prosecution and social movements, have echoed constantly in our society due to low participation.

For example, the current binomial system, restrict ideological representation of all stakeholders of society, because it concentrates power generating polarization in ideological terms.

The Constitution is the republican spirit of a country, so it is important that it represents to society, protecting fundamental rights therein lie, which must conform to the bases of the social construction as a fundamental pillar for the developing.

Generate a new constitution through a participatory process, it is not only legitimate foundation cornerstone of our social coexistence, but also enhance the quality and sustainability of our democracy.

PROPOSALS

1. Promoting a new representative Constitution, creating the conditions for establishing a Constituent Assembly that gives it legitimacy and translated into the real needs of a nation. This from a process that incorporates amendments to the Constitution, and that would facilitate the call for a plebiscite to decide on the enactment of a new constitution and the creation of a constituent assembly. This assembly must incorporate those who are parliamentarians in exercise, while adding a number of delegates appointed by each region, elected under a majority electoral system. They will discuss and may modify an initial text to be submitted for consideration by the executive. The final draft will be endorsed by a plebiscite.

2. Reform the electoral system. Majoritarian system. The two major ratings accede to the two seats to Deputies or Senators from each district and constituency, eliminating the binomial system.

3. Making effective constitutional recognition of Indigenous Peoples, as this is the political pact that governs our national coexistence, transforming into a plurinational country with constitutional recognition of indigenous peoples.

4. Constitutional Reform Quorum Performing Organic Laws and Laws of the Constitution.
to. Submit constitutional organic laws to the same requirements of laws approval quorum: approval by Congress, with a majority of the members in office of each chamber.

b. Set for the Performing laws of the Constitution a quorum of 4/7 of the members in office, instead of the currently required 3/5.

5. give the Comptroller General's Office greater powers of supervision and punishment, appropriate use of the resources provided to the Public Prosecutor, maintaining full autonomy of prosecutors to carry out investigations, ensuring the impartiality of political and / or economic.

6. Assign greater powers in research to the National Economic Prosecutor, so that in this way they can avoid serious crimes that affect how our society such as monopolistic practices that affect only the most vulnerable.

7. Replace the current system of appointment of the Constitutional Court, to ensure that its members are people with proven experience and expertise in constitutional matters, leaving aside political bias.
TAX REFORM - The more you win, pay more.
Nowadays people pay more taxes than companies, lack shelter in case of economic insolvency and are limited in the final solution of their problems, a system that favors the punishment and not the opportunities.

We must ensure justice and solidarity create a system in which people can negotiate on equal terms with companies, and there the necessary mechanisms to enable them to cope with financial-economic eventualities.

PROPOSALS

1. Increase the corporate tax from 20% to 26%, with no discount to shareholders of large companies.

2. Remove the FUT.

3. Eliminate the tax on entrepreneurial young companies.

4. Create a safe venture capital up to 5 years from the venture, with risk analysis and project progress.

5. Personal Finance:
to. Maximum reduction Conventional rate to 30%.
b. Reduction in specific fuel tax.
c. Recognition of marriage as an economic unit, so that pay taxes as community property.
d. Bankruptcy law people.
e. Allow auto debt through the Pension Fund, up to 10% of the funds raised.

6. Institutions.
to. Empowering the Superintendents.

b. Ensure that management positions related institutions correspond to career officials.

SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT - Poverty, Vulnerability, Disability and Coordination
I. FAMILY

It is necessary to strengthen the institutional framework ensuring coordinator character with other related ministries and improve the system of evaluation of public projects and municipal

Not enough to create individually targeted programs that attend social problems in a reactive way, we must provide the intervention mechanisms and necessary transverse to address these issues from the ground: Education and Family, thereby ensuring that society as a whole regenerate ties cooperation, respect and trust have been lost through the years.

PROPOSALS.

1. Reset the Family as the main focus on generating public social policies, as in her first socialization of people is brewing in the form of principles and values; early education, which enables the development of soft and creative skills; and generational bonds of love and respect that occur in the assistance to the elderly and persons dependent status are built.

2. Create a social relocation program for families in vulnerable economic condition, are exposed to environmental situations and social environments that involve an imminent threat to its members.

3. Creating a Ministry of Children and Youth and a Parental Responsibility Act really protect the Rights of Children and Adolescents, but strengthen the duties of the family.

4. Creating a Parent Charter that protects the work of the father from birth until six months after the birth of the child.

5. Protection of the rights of the elderly, maintenance and improvement of pensions.

6. Create special support programs for families with special conditions (single, with people in a position of dependency).

7. To modernize and streamline the adoption process.

8. Create programs to support the resolution of family conflicts.


II. ELDERLY

Historically government programs for the elderly have been characterized by providing scarcely countervailing your needs measures responding to urgent problems of poverty, housing and health, among others, when in fact with adequate public policies that provide the aging population, our seniors should have never reached those living conditions.

Our government should definitely correct the flaws in the system that are creating these conditions of vulnerability, laying the foundations and institutions to improve living conditions in the short term and avoid an increase in the vulnerable population in the long term.

PROPOSALS.

Under the eaves of a Secretariat for the Elderly, the following is proposed:
1. Pension System:
Maintain the purchasing power of pensions and widows' over time.
Ensuring an amount equal to the current contributory pensions to minimum wage.
Exemption from payment of contributions to retirees (as) and Montepiadas, subsidized by heredity.
Montepíos equivalent to 100% of the pension of the deceased.
Complete with 7% discount.
Reset funeral grant rights to all beneficiaries of the Solidarity Pillar.

2. Access to government programs. Raise age requirements for employability programs, productive development, entrepreneurship and training, among others; and adapt programs to the needs of the age segment.

3. Institutionalization of programs, to eliminate dependency on program implementation, the will of municipalities, and create permanent spaces that encourage the generation of intergenerational ties and commitment to the Elderly.

4. SENAMA. Expand program offerings and meet the commitments made to the community in the provision of services, with sufficient resources to appropriate compliance program that addresses the problems of violence and neglect toward the elderly.

5. Housing and friendly environment, in the form of subsidies for housing suitability (enlargement, reduction of barriers to the movement of wheelchairs, scrollbars, etc.) and recovery of neighborhoods for all ages.

III. DISABILITY AND INTEGRATION

In Chile people with disabilities face a double challenge: one derived from overcoming their disability and other barriers established social environment for full integration.

Coverage and rehabilitation law that the State must provide to achieve full and universal inclusion, in the areas of education and workforce development in practice have limited scope effects. According to the INE of 100 disabled only 6 have access to rehabilitation. While progress has been recognized in recent years in supporting people with disabilities, low coverage of State and support measures in the form of technical aids, are not perceived as a significant contribution to the maximum development of human potential , intellectual and labor of people with disabilities.


Depending on the current legislation "Disabled people are entitled throughout their entire life cycle and as long as necessary, rehabilitation and access to the supports, therapies and practitioners that make possible" is therefore It states the guarantor of non-discrimination, facilitating the participation of people with disabilities equal opportunity in national life. That is why the proposals in this area are focused on meeting the spirit of the law, and also produce maximum growth and development of the potential of people with disabilities to achieve an inclusive and fully integrated society

PROPOSALS.

1. Amendment of Law 20,422, based on the conceptualization of disease and rehabilitation. Children and adults with mental disabilities, are not sick but will have a different condition of life and thus are not rehabilitated if they are enabled to exercise their rights as citizens.

2. To consider in the same law as physical disability, degenerative disease be it physical or mental.

3. living conditions were considered Mentally Disabled schooling and support for independent living, the whole subject as an adult present cognitive and relational functioning at a lower age group of 10 years.

4. Increase of 60% in the subsidy for children with different mental disabilities which have the basic skills to non-traditional schooling and an increase of 100% if the child's abilities prevent you present some kind of schooling. Similarly record score increased to 8,500 social protection.

5. Special to remodel homes and specific subsidy to increase the amount of the contribution of the State in house purchase, according to their degree of disability allowance. Likewise, a person will receive benefits through a third party guarantor of it if you have a mental disability by 50% compared to age group to which it belongs.

6. Emergency Housing: where accredited as critical for socioeconomic reasons as degenerative diseases, irreversible and COMPIN certified, or in the case of terminally ill patients, facilitating a tax loan for housing in situations where the current housing be a risk factor or as limiting their quality of life.

7. monthly economic benefit to all persons with disabilities entering higher education by academic merit according to their degree of disability accredited COMPIN: if less than 33% disability economic benefit will be 0.5 Minimum Monthly Income; if the disability is accredited more than 33% but less than 66% the economic benefit will be 1.0 monthly minimum wage; and if the accredited disabilities is higher than 66% or the person is not autovalente, the economic benefit will be 2.0 minimum monthly income. This benefit is independent of scholarships and delivered as having the status of regular student.

8. Set "State Guarantee" access to education for children with disabilities, as well as psychological and material support to parents.

9. Encourage the development of institutions through grants enable young occupationally disabled for social inclusion according to their degree of social and personal maturity.

10. Creation of subsidies that encourage the hiring of young people and adults with disabilities, state subsidies of 20% of gross salary with a cap of 2 Monthly UTM per worker.

11. Development of early learning programs in non-traditional kindergartens.

12. Creation of comprehensive care centers for people not functionally independent, to support working housewives.

13. Creating and building instruments with Savings Insurance for Persons with Disabilities, tax deductible, which will be a vital support when guardians can not take care of its maintenance.

14. Development of public spaces accessible, correct distortions and oversee the correct application of law regarding LGUC spaces for Persons with Disabilities in cinemas, theaters, stadiums and cultural events

15. Creation during the period 2014-2017 Public four rehabilitation centers for adults with attention without cost to patients of FONASA.

16. Support and promote the development of sports of Persons with Disabilities, and particularly support and development programs which will have a major presence in Paralympic sport at the international level

IV COORDINATION

The ministry resume its role of coordinator with other ministries in social matters to effective government policy on social matters and regional development and regionalizing absorbing part of the functions of the Deputy Regional redevelopment


V Economic Evaluation of Public Projects and Municipal

Systems of economic and social assessment of public projects including environmental variables, potential development and condition of isolation and extreme zones be refined
Posted by admin at 19:18 ProgrammaticEDUCATION - a right guaranteed
The education issue has been in the spotlight several years with the same topics, which have not been solved comprehensively, nor is there a real desire to be once and for all, settle with the real issues; the public role, conflict of interest in the subject of profit, huge differences between public and private education, the quality of new teachers, gratuity, loan, increase the education budget, reform the mechanisms of income to traditional universities and Private, demunicipalization, free education, among many others.

The truth is that the current education system both in content and in form of financing is in deep crisis, we focus as a social project in paving the right path to achieve substantial reform the education system.

Curricular reforms from the base, with full participation and direct action and control criteria, the state will have a fundamental weight.

We want to go further, and on par with our future reforms, we will constitute a new learning style, ending with the behavioral axiom within the educational curriculum in which the child was only a receiver of information agency. Constructivist pass axis, start from this basis to reform from the bottom the education system, then we will curricular reforms in which not only hard skills is prioritized, but will leverage identity issues, gender, cultural, development of arts, etc.

Move at all educational levels and respond to the demands and needs of the population, are the premises of the developed proposals. "Education is a right."


PROPOSALS

1. Early Childhood Education
to. Merger between JUNJI and Integra.
b. An educator (a) and nursery (a) Assistant for every 15 children.
c. Qualifying exam to practice.
d. Career Educator (a) and Auxiliary nursery with mandatory accreditation.
e. Private gardens adapted to the curriculum of the Ministry of Children and Youth.

2. School Education
to. All grants increased per capita GDP corrected.
b. Transfer of educational establishments Municipalities management deficiencies dependent Corporations Education Regional Government.

c. Courses of no more than 30 students, and 25 students from an assistant of education in classroom.
c. Civics courses and personal finance curriculum.
d. Increased hours of English.
e. Incentive remuneration for good teaching practices in the classroom.
f. National program to eradicate bullying.
g. Exchanges between schools in the 4th specialty environment.
h. Certification of job skills for workers to submit credited years of experience in certain areas.

3. Higher Education

to. Free to Universities Council Rectors of Chilean Universities Education.
b. Differentiated tariff starting regions not CRUCH Universities, professional institutes, technical training centers)
c. Tariffs are set by type of institution and supervision be responsible for elaborating a study to establish the actual cost of providing an undergraduate degree in Chile, under standard conditions.
d. Accredited institutions with internal comptroller and university senate.
e. Mandatory accreditation of university and careers
f. Accreditation can be made by the State, through the National Agency for Education and / or internationally recognized institutions.
g. Reforms mechanisms to colleges with full participation of student organizations, universities, Ministry of Education, and specialized consulting firms.
h. Modification and reform AFI criteria, democratization in the delivery of resources.
i. Enhance regional universities with more postgraduates, with publications and infrastructure.
j. Post a university in each region of the country.


4. Debt Teachers

  It will be recognized and the mechanism for the gradual payment of the historical debt to Professors generated by the decentralization of schools in 1980 will be sought.

SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
Chile is the country that takes the lead in economic growth in Latin America, and since 2010 a member of the select group of countries in the OECD. However, in the scientific and technological development reality it presents indicators that do not correspond to the levels of development.

Corrigeremos this asymmetry, giving priority to the development of science.

 PROPOSALS

1. Creation of a Council for Science, Technology and Development, autonomous body of the State of Chile, with ministerial rank, to draw up development policies of these areas in the long term.

2. Create a Secretariat of Science and Technology to plan and coordinate state policy and regional secretariats to develop strategies in all regions.

3. Opening of an Office of Science and Technology Assessment, to advise members of Congress, regional governments, governors and mayors in the development of scientific-technological projects.

4. Gradual increase in the current budget for science from 0.4% GDP to the OECD average (1.9% of GDP at present)

5. Streamline law tax incentives to increase the percentage of actual investment by the private sector (44%) to one close to the OECD average (65%).

6. Improve the National Fund for the Development of Science and Technology to ensure its destination research and knowledge generation.

7. Generate regional technological development policies in line with natural resources, environment and problems of each region, in order to enhance current production and export of technology products, to a similar number of developed countries. For this purpose the creation of research centers in each of the regions of Chile, with stable policies that encourage migration to these centers postgraduates will be promoted.

8. Creating incentives for universities and businesses to generate patents and innovation in the productive sectors of each region.

9. Revaluation and dissemination of scientific careers to raise the current ratio of researchers / million (800) at the level of the OECD (3000) and reverse the current low valuation in Chilean society about scientific professions.

CHILDREN AND YOUTH - Child Protection
I. National Service for Minors

The State has not been effective in the actual protection of the rights of children and youth, especially those living in vulnerable conditions. It should give a concrete step not only to relieve the state's role in this matter, which must be proactive and make a difference in our most disadvantaged children and young people, but also it is essential to create a new institutional framework in this area. This, according to the challenges they face, and from a vision that goes beyond simply creating shelters, and restraint regarding critical situations, but should generate plans that improve our database connections children and youth, preventing unsafe conditions.

When our State ratified the International Convention on the Rights of the Child, it is in its capacity as guarantor; This requires not only mere declarations, but also a concrete action program focusing on young people and children are most vulnerable.

PROPOSALS.
1. the Secretariat for Children and Youth will be created in order to coordinate policies and actions that are now scattered in different Ministry and institutions, as regards the Ministry of Development, Education, Justice, Housing, among others.

2. Incorporate explicitly in the Constitution the right to a childhood Digna.

3. Establish a Parental Responsibility Act, which has the axis enforce the obligations of those responsible for the care of our children and youth

4. Incorporate the municipalities of compulsory childhood network, with specific centers for the care of their children.

5. Incorporate psychosocial pairs in schools, in order to promote and prevent violations of rights.


II. ERADICATION OF SCHOOL VIOLENCE.

Many of the behaviors both civil, political, economic, social, and cultural rights are related to bullying intolerant, prejudiced, discriminatory behavior of social and cultural diversity, which are rooted in our daily lives. Education should help change this attitude and eradicate these behaviors mainly through a process that considers three axes.


At the level of parents:
Enhance the education of parents and parents (through school parents) throughout the life of students in school, parental concerns diagnosing, responding to their needs, using appropriate methodologies. The idea is that parents and guardians can live, to experience the education and training of their children, and be a support to the school. The time spent on this activity, parents and teachers, should last about 40 minutes in a meeting of the school board.

A level students:
Should be strengthened to hold both gaps (breaks) and meeting students at school (hours of class council, student center, scout, sports, clubs, volunteer work, etc.), teaching students learn to be protagonists, builders of your organization, responsible for compliance with their agreements, to live their values, providing working tools for the achievement of their actions and learning to do things that they do not always succeed, may also have failures ( This learning can be obtained), it is part of life.

A level teachers:
Training and space suited to their needs, by supporting the same institution (creating, sharing meeting spaces) and external organizations (special institutions such as counselors, psychologists, specialist teachers) that support the objectives of the institution. The idea is not only to leave teachers in this activity that benefits everyone. Today will be school tomorrow will be the society.

Also we implement the following measures:

1. We will modify urgently law school violence, incorporating measures enabling each school to make a diagnosis and a plan to address this problem, with funding and support from the state.

2. We will incorporate outside the school permanently for detection and intervention psychosocial training bullying pairs.

5. deliver comprehensive treatment from the action defined by each school, the aggressor and victim

6. We will develop transversely Parental Training Schools.

III. PREVENTION AND PUNISHMENT OF SEXUAL CRIMES IN CHILDREN AND TEENAGERS.



The Criminal Code only provides for rape, statutory rape, storage of child pornography, and other, given the changes made to laws 19,617 and 19,927, establishing an increase in penalties and new crimes, trying to give greater protection to children and adolescents, ensuring their protection. It is necessary, however, progress on a statute properly worry about the restoration of the victims, including as such to their immediate family environment as well as establishing a statute to ensure that the sanctions applied to persons convicted of such offenses comply with a preventive purpose.

It is the duty of the state to protect children and adolescents not only the danger of being victims of sexual crimes. Avoid revictimization, understood as the continuous rememoranza of the facts, and enable victims to resume their lives in a protected environment should be a priority for any reform to be done in this area

PROPOSALS

1. Remove benefits to perpetrators, who must give full compliance with it. Implementing the legal compensation according to the damage.

2. Implement a comprehensive support system and coordinated cooperation between the police and the prosecution, giving priority to this scourge, in order to exercise effective monitoring in order to provide rapid capture the perpetrators, accomplices and accessories to these crimes avoiding secondary victimization.

3. To establish other forms of abuse that are not in the law as Grooming, and the expansion of the offense in the most serious crimes

4. That the State grant free effective assistance to victims of such crimes, delivering more and better resources to the Public Ministry and the police to investigate this type of crime.

EXTERNAL RELATIONSHIPS
The principles of our foreign policy such as respect for international law, territorial integrity, promoting democracy, respect for human rights and responsibility to cooperate, are the fundamental guidelines that support and give coherence to the decisions taken regarding Chile external relationships. Guidelines are senior to be considered when establishing definitions regarding foreign policy.

These principles are now guaranteed as a matter of state and given full consistency with these, we as a government, we want to follow the path, strengthening the latter in the following premises reforms and external relations.

We want to move to a diplomacy that generate and deepen trade ties with major markets in the world, but we also need to adjust operations of our foreign ministry to attaining an integration that also covers other areas such as the political, scientific and cultural fields, where up the date has not placed enough emphasis. We must also look with particular attention relations with Latin American countries, so as to be able to generate the conditions that allow us to have a voice greater weight to face problems that are common to us and generate partnerships that will help us to have a stronger frete to the many challenges that we must take to safeguard the interests of our nation permanent position.

PROPOSALS

1. Ambassadors career.
Meritocracy is a fundamental and overarching principle in the making of public policy. In international affairs we believe that those responsible for ensuring international relations should belong to our Diplomatic Academy as a guiding principle. This should be extended to the representatives of our country in every nation. We need each ambassador must belong to the association of career diplomats, promoting the latter in transcendent degree of professionalism in materials for the interests of our country.

The Minister of Foreign Affairs, will no longer be appointed by the President, based on the discretion, to be chosen from a shortlist drawn up in the same diplomatic academy, where the President of the Republic, appoint as path between professionals who are in this.

2. Migration Policy aligned with strategic interests of the State
Chile being a cosmopolitan country, there will always be less intense asymmetries regarding the development of some sectors of the economy, science and the arts. That is why it is necessary to incorporate professional and highly qualified scientists to maximize all segments of national life. This, especially focused on the generation of non-conventional and renewable energy education.

3. Sovereignty of Chile, bilateral issue, if Bolivia Sea.
The State of Chile as a permanent national objectives the maintenance of the territorial integrity, sovereignty, preservation of the Chilean nation, and maintaining good international relations, among others.

Given the deep respect to existing treaties, international stability and peaceful coexistence of states, our country joins prerequisites for the development of nations.

Respecting commitments is the fundamental principle of our society. Therefore, and given full force of international treaties with our neighbors, as is the case of Bolivia in particular, will not give any sovereignty over our sea, land or air, for a neighboring country or king border.

4. Integration.
Latin American integration to make Chile a platform for trade, technology development, scientific research and the development of cultural expressions with the countries of the Pacific Ocean.

We continue our efforts to generate bonds of integration with other emerging countries, to establish agreements on economic, scientific and cultural matters.

We will promote the integration of our country with Australia and New Zealand, especially in terms of benefit the development of Rapa Nui

Reinforce the budget and management PROCHILE, in order to generate an effective and useful increase in the promotion of our exports, encouraging the development of small and medium enterprises.

Generate a label of origin to improve the positioning of our exports, especially those related to agricultural area, which is associated with a policy banning GM crops, and plant and upgrading of our environmental heritage.

We will strengthen incentives for foreign investment, especially in areas where there is significant economic concentration, as with power generation projects, which is based on renewable sources, unconventional.


5. Chile, and from the world.
We will promote the vote of Chileans abroad, in broad and inclusive terms.

6. strengthen our consulates abroad to give them a real and concrete support to Chileans living abroad.

7. We will create units controlling the effective implementation of international treaties signed and ratified by Chile on human rights and environmental protection; also ensuring compliance with national law against the Free Trade Agreements signed.

8. Scientific Research in Antarctica controlled and tourism will be strengthened.

10. Protection and enhancement of Face Mar, Chile.

11. Convert to Chile in NCRE development center with the strategic use of lithium and copper.

HOUSING AND URBAN - Promoting Habitability and Life Quality Improvement
Housing and Urban Development in Chile, defined three levels of influence: the city itself; The neighborhood as a coherent unit spatial unit where housing is housed; Housing and itself.
The excessive centralization suffering Chile will be corrected by a regionalization of truth with citizen participation and strategic planning tools to match the size of the country and cities

The general and needs to be considered at each level of influence, such as size, management, landscaping, services, infrastructure, connectivity, health, integration, habitability, accessibility, materiality costs, should be the reference for setting standards, responsibilities, deadlines and arrangements for adequate implementation in terms of time and investment possibilities.

PROPOSALS

1. Administration.
to. Creating the post of Mayor in large urban centers, elected and has broad powers of action and decision on issues that affect the city as a living entity .and coordinate the communes
b. Create mechanisms for broader citizen participation with clear protocols and sufficient time to ensure adequate publicity real attention and incorporation of the demands and interests of those affected by a particular work or urban public policy.
c. Implement policies on growth and size of cities, tending a demographic balance between different urban centers in a given region and the country. Create consequently master plans of urban and metropolitan areas to guide urban growth and regional master plans to determine the areas of urban growth, habitable and non-residential areas, land use and restricted use of equipment reserved for annoying or contaminant ( generation plants and electricity distribution, waste dumps, etc.)
d. Create and update permanently Urban Records containing real, current and reliable information about the city, such as soil studies, risk areas, location of groundwater, areas affected by natural accidents, etc.

e. Subsidy or incentive to create second home to rural people for education or health care requiring family

d. Included in the master plan of environmental buffer zones, location of utilities, landscaping and tree planting areas to achieve minimum standards (5.5 m2 / inhabitant) measured at the level of neighborhoods or areas of affordable scale.
e. Make compulsory each Regional Government to implement a plan of solid waste management, to establish specific targets for recycling
f. Making it mandatory for each municipality to set deadlines to achieve the widest possible coverage of wastewater treatment, with particular emphasis on regularization programs in rural areas and sensitive areas such as cities and adjacent to river beds or lake populated areas.
g. Seek underground cables in urban areas, strengthen the ability of municipalities to have prevention programs and effective punishment and restorative who scratched walls without authorization or destroy public securities
h. Ensure that private developers to reserve 10% of the land for housing in new developments, construction of social housing, which will be tailored to the specific industry regulations and inserted so as to be integrated to the new districts, avoiding ghettos look like attached to the new districts according participatory master plans
i. Expand green areas according to WHO criteria with neighborhood commitments.

2. Barrios.
to. Create "Apples in Remodeling": This system consists of the voluntary declaration of all owners of a susceptible apple suffer changes in land use, density or permitted heights, to accept or not this change within a given period, determined one quorum for approval, thus avoiding the frequent cases in which a building is built in the middle of a block of low houses or annoying use is given to a building in the middle of a residential area.
b. Establish maximum distance radius public services (health, education, recreation, sport and emergencies), linking urban sprawl to the creation or reserve space for these and creating a plan for normalization of these in existing urban areas.

3. Housing elderly.
to. Exemption from payment of contributions for homes belonging to the elderly, where they reside permanently.
b. Establish a program expansion or repair subsidized housing for the elderly

4. Improvement and Maintenance of Housing
to. Establish tax incentives and credit facilities of the State to install renewable energy systems in individual and collective housing, expanding the current situation only establishes such incentives for new homes.
b. Deduct from income tax the equivalent of the annual expenditures for maintenance and effective home repair
c. Establish an electrical system where homes extracted and injected energy, encouraging energy generation through small-scale renewable energy generated in homes. Act "Net Metering" corrected

5. Social Housing.
to. Build homes designed for progressive growth. According to regional conditions
b. Make grants to expand housing associated with the birth of each new child in the family or the arrival of a senior for permanent care as well as a subsidy for adequacy of housing if one of its occupants see their mobility limited by accident or old age or disability
c. Deliver social housing with proper heating system installed, essential to eliminate the high levels of environmental pollution and intra-household by use of polluting and inadequate systems.
d. Establish programs for demolition, reconstruction or transfer of social housing which are in poor living conditions or in unsuitable soils or areas of high natural risk defined by the technical studies on the regulatory level (tidal waves, avalanches, landslides, etc. ).

e. Gradually improve social housing extending passages reuniting houses or apartments that apply.

Transport and telecommunications - because Santiago is not Chile
Chile is a tri-continental country of great natural and cultural diversity for its internal integration and other countries presents major challenges and opportunities. Our country requires infrastructure and transport services and telecommunications to ensure the development of their productive potential and to ensure a better quality of all its inhabitants.

The country has even important part of its territory offline in isolation or extreme areas in the northern, Easter Island, Rapa Nui, and the Chilean Patagonia. It has advanced significantly in cell phones, but is required to complete the fiber optic network for telecommunications and integrate the space agency and substantially improve services to urban and rural transport, balancing fitter modes of transport by road , rail and sea.

Our diverse country suffers an exacerbated centralism. Thus, for the sake of all regions and metropolitan own it is required to transport services and telecommunications are equitable in all regions, municipalities and towns, as well as allow access to attractions in a context that allows care for protected areas

The program considers attend and take over the accessibility of areas suffering from isolation, balancing the different modes of transport, giving more weight relative to domestic maritime cargo transport and gradually revitalize railways to decongest the roads and lower accident rates.

Urban transport will be improved quality of services and non-polluting fuels and electrification from non-conventional renewable energies are gradually incorporated.

In telecommunications, the coverage of the mobile phone and complete coverage of the entire country will be established via fiber optics and satellite networks with Rapa Nui and Juan Fernández Antarctica


PROPOSALS.

1. Integrate remote areas of the country in his capacity as tri system with land, sea and air transport, to ensure connectivity, quality and service delivery, subsidizing those places where the costs resulting very high to ensure the service in each municipality and town in the country.

2. In the southern area the bimodal system will be improved to Aysen and Magallanes and the MOP will eventually build a continuous land route to the province of Palena and Aysén.

3. Review and improvement of public transport systems, both urban and rural areas. The powers of enforcement and sanction dealers Transantiago be strengthened and the requirements for future concession contracts were raised, in addition to reviewing the concession paths considering the specific needs of the population.

4. The use of clean fuels in transport average gas usage and gradual electrification of public transport with the incorporation NCREs be encouraged.

5. The telecommunications network is complete and improve service throughout the country, reinforcing fiber optic coverage, complemented by satellite links.

6. focalizaran subsidies and improve both the supply and demand for the benefit of people in rural, isolated and urban low-income through the budget and the Telecommunications Development Fund.

7. legislate in order to decentralize the ownership of media, from increasing opportunities for new players to participate in that market.

8. state incentive plans for community radios and newspapers, besides concentrating avisaje expenses of state bodies in community media and / or projects that are not part of large media corporations.

JOB
But our country has a per capita income that is equivalent to that of several OECD countries, their distribution is one of the worst in the world. This is associated with which there is no equality in the provision of minimum effective working conditions for our workers, which added to the fact that much of our population should cover your minimum expenses from credits obtained from a system that charges interest rates beyond reason, a scenario of permanent vulnerability and uncertainty for many of our population is generated. Moreover, job loss is a real fear, as compensation in such a scenario work are insufficient, and in any event are subject to limits that to date, no further explanation. We should improve the legal in order that decent work and better coverage for those who become unemployed guarantee conditions.

Reform the Labour Code on subcontracting and compensation in case of dismissal, without prejudice to the measures already announced and which relate to changes in the labor process, so as to make it more expedient in terms of getting dictation Fast sentences in trials where they discuss the existence and identity of the debtors of employees, in order to properly protect the interests of workers and prevent the exploitation of such judgments for purposes other than legal.

PROPOSALS

1. We will refine the subcontracting law in order to better address the circumvention of labor obligations, especially focused on the effective protection of rights of workers in contracting companies.

2. We will expand collective bargaining, simplifying the process, facilitating the negotiation interpresas, besides establishing within the Ministry of Labor unit expert legal advice to unions, so that access to quality information about the economic and financial status your employer, in addition to knowing what their rights are in such processes.

3. We will remove the caps amounts and current years in the Labour Code in relation to compensation for years of service.

4. We will give legal status to the unions strengthened, by providing real incentives to unionization, while increasing penalties for so-called anti-union practices.

5. As for the pension system, will grant supervisory powers to the Superintendency of AFP, whose maximum authority shall be appointed from a public process and that senior management can not be or have been linked to the owners and / or drivers of managers.

6. We will set limits on administrative expenses that the AFP can charge their affiliates, as well as linking these payments every event to obtaining effective utilities to fund their contributors.

7. We will create a State AFP influencing real way to establish favorable conditions for workers in the market.

8. Minimum Income adjusted from a polynomial established by law, from a baseline of $ 260,000.

9. Establish a system of increased protection to temporary work.

10. Increase basic solidarity pension to $ 120,000.

DEFENSE
This program is oriented with a view to strengthening the institutional and reinforcing their application in peacekeeping and humanitarian.

Defence policy is a public policy of the State of Chile, and is by definition deterrent and regional cooperation. In addition to this and according to strengthen permanent national objectives, is that dedesarrollo work in four areas:

PROPOSALS

1. Commitment to sustain and support the operational level, efficiency of our Armed Forces.
to. In recent years our military institutions and the Ministry of Defense have implemented their own processes of modernization in all areas, allowing the country to have today a modern and flexible organization.

b. On this platform, strategically we plan to continue advancing towards a more robust Joint Chiefs and progressive increase in size of operations, logistics and social responsibility Defense.

2. Commitment to generate an industrial and technological complex defense and security.
to. The State of Chile is part of the OECD, UNASUR, Pacific Alliance and other important international forums, so in this context it is of the utmost importance that technological advances, innovation and industrial developments also part, strategic industrial sector (FAMAE, ASMAR and ENAER) Defence and Security.

b. We propose the creation and implementation of a "Defense Industrial Ecosystem", with the leadership of the armed forces and ministerial portfolio, achieve goals achieve greater competitive scope and impact on the national economy.

c. Also, we will encourage and support private sector projects aimed at aligning the value chain and procurement programs of medium term both defense institutions of Order and Security, securing funding, proper coordination, transparency and timely information all innovation projects generated.

With that supports the development of an industrial base complex, competitive, dual use and expansion options with clear leveraging existing alliances.


3. Equal Opportunities Policy that benefits all members of National Defense.

We firmly believe that the ability and talent of the people who are part of the armed forces should be permanently encouraged to enable them to achieve their goals and achievements in the relevant institutional context.

For this, we will:

to. Policy of "Equal Opportunities", to neutralize injustice and arbitrariness, by reviewing programs and studies Career military and civilians of this important sector.

b. Extend the life cycle to 60 years, working through encouraging staff reserves on condition of retirement, mainly in regions aligning this work to the benefit of national unity and support disaster.



4. Enhance the fields of social responsibility and cooperation in regional and international arenas of National Defense.

Consistent with the details on the above proposals, Chile is part and partner of major international organizations, so you must continue to comply with agreements and high standards in compliance with the corporate responsibility activities of public defense.

to. Continue strengthening and increasing the areas of triple bottom line: social, economic and environmental benefit of our compatriots extreme and isolated areas, which require ongoing support and satisfaction of their needs in conditions where only the state as a function of sovereignty can.

b. Improve the system of planning and support disaster throughout the national territory.

c. Support border control technologies of dual-use defense

d. As part of social responsibility and regional and international cooperation, it will strengthen the Civil Defense as the axis of support in case of disasters and emergencies.

e. Encourage and improve compulsory military service, particularly in regions with a professional development-oriented technical training and support to the defense industry.

CIVIL PROTECTION - Risk Prevention and Emergency Management
Whereas in recent decades none of the 16 critical elements identified in the recommendations of the Inter-American Development Bank, operational, deployed, executed or socially accepted when disasters were, are evident gaps in our security systems in respect of natural hazard management in Chile.

Thus the "Emergency Response", "Rehabilitation and Reconstruction" have been under pressure both operationally and financially to be developed simultaneously with the disaster or emergency and a sense of urgency for which the institutions do not It is prepared, as they are shares in reaction to demand more resources available.

Based on Efficiency and Service Model and Civil Protection Systems to enable the State of Chile proper management of natural disasters from the previous phases, minimizing the effects of medium and long term in affected communities but above all, minimizing the economic effects of a disaster from the perspective of the state.

Improve management processes natural hazard critically and constantly perfection.
Proper regulation of the technical bodies of state support, avoiding reckless actions and improvisations in natural risk management and civil protection.

PROPOSALS.

At present there are various institutions with the human and technical potential that can provide adequate support, but adjustments to maximize their capabilities and synergies are required. By the above, it is proposed:

1. RESEARCH INSTITUTE GEOCIENCIAS - IIG
It will proceed to the division Sernageomín a National Mining Service and Geoscience Research Institute - IIG.

Will the Geoscience Research Institute (GRI) in charge of State policies on this subject, under the Ministry of Science and Technology. Are consolidated into a single agency, the National Seismological Service and the National Volcanic Monitoring System, currently projects in early stages of development but independent, redundant and inefficient channels operating costs.

IIG was used as the official organ of the State in all matters relating to Space Science integrating the Chilean Space Agency, with the consequent boost to the efficient use of space technologies and information from state enterprises, and the development of a policy for the peaceful use of space.

one National Database of Geosciences will be created in order to consolidate the currently dispersed information, reduce the future costs of acquiring redundancy information and protect the fiscal equity investment means acquisition of such information.

This database will include the mining, geological, geophysical, hydrographic, meteorological, oceanographic background information and everyone was obtained with total or partial financing of the State of Chile. The information will be public universities and national research centers, this in order to promote the Earth sciences transversely, just as will public the results of these studies are obtained.

Along the same lines it is that it will relieve the Hydrographic and Oceanographic Service of the Chilean Navy, SHOA, for precautionary information obtained in the framework of the implementation of the DS 711.

2. CENTER OF EXTREME PHENOMENA HYDROMETEOROLOGICAL

A surveillance system for Hydrometeorological Phenomena ends, under the IIG, based on 4 regional centers and center in the metropolitan region, whose warnings to the authorities and respective bodies of hydrometeorological conditions that endanger the public or to be developed normal performance of activities. At present, the action is performed by the Meteorological Office of Chile, but its main focus security more than the study of atmospheric sciences air navigation, is a specialist State agency required in alert phases, prior to the crisis.

This point is critical for the deaths of citizens, damage to public and private property by these processes is recurrent in all seasons, being in practice its effects far greater damage from earthquakes or volcanoes. Similarly, in our country there is no effective monitoring and prognosis regarding lightning or tornadoes, both phenomena present in reality, that to date no statistics or carry less economic impact.

Reinforces the importance of this future unity, the severe damage caused to agriculture by the recent frosts that hit the central area.

3. Seismological NATIONAL SERVICE
6 Regional Seismological Centres will be created: Antofagasta, Copiapo, Concepcion, Valdivia, Coihayque and PUNTA ARENAS State distributing equipment currently on loan at the University of Chile. This is aimed at intensive development of Earth Sciences broadly, ending a natural monopoly that exists today regarding publications, access to resources and information, and mainly distributed in strategically identifying information analysis centers that serve the basis for the creation of Regional Institutes of Earth Sciences.

4. ONEMI
The intervention and modernization of the post earthquake ONEMI made 27F, it is valuable and constructive, so it is necessary to provide the necessary continuity and deepening of the ongoing processes to become operational when the National Civil Protection Agency.

Health - Welfare, Habits, Complementary and Alternative Medicine
Today our health care centers have serious infrastructure difficulties given the existing management policies insufficient; the financial problems of each of these centers prevent or seriously hinder the acquisition of new technologies for the treatment required by people suffering from a disease.

Add to this the migration of specialist physicians in the public system to the private system, and from regions to the metropolitan area, plus the failure of these to the needs of the Chilean population, we find a picture that shows clearly the failure health programs aimed at reducing centralization of public health benefits, causing a major health problem in regions.

Health conditions in the country are also due to bad eating habits and sedentary smoking among other causes which there face in an effective perspective.

Seek means that in all regions of the country, people can access health benefits they need, without affecting the quality and timeliness of care, anticipating the needs of a changing and aging population, developing a system efficient coverage of the health needs of the population.

It is especially important to give more and better primary health care.

PROPOSALS

1. Reduce the lack of staff in posts and public hospitals and reduce waiting lists NO boom in public hospitals and clinics.

2. Encourage public / private partnerships to take forward the relevant public policies vaccinations, teen pregnancy, pediatric, elderly, chronic diseases, dental and mental health, among others.

3. Implement a system of public pharmacies in hospitals and clinics, and other places other than pharmacies; in order to generate the necessary competence to balance fairer prices with better quality products.

4. Improve the system of incentives for professionals to remain in the public service through continuous clinical training programs and salaries commensurate with the market. Encourage the production, consultations, procedures and interventions, and not just stay in schedules.

5. Build regional teaching hospitals with university teaching management. Training in regional universities and hospitals of high complexity, with timeshare 50% in training, and 50% of health care.

6. Strongly support from the State postgraduate training in hospitals and clinics

7. Improve the use of hospital infrastructure, with morning and afternoon shifts. Many hospitals with high complexity infrastructure have little use.

8. Open the Armed Forces hospitals to the community and provide care hospitals officials in public service, incorporating them as beneficiaries of the Auge plan.

9. Integrate insurance professionals and unforeseen complications.

10. substantially increase public health spending within 6 years.

11. Giving greater autonomy to the Superintendency of Health.

12. Create the Unique Universal Health Fund.

13. Create a Secretariat for Complementary and Alternative Medicine.

14. Promote the use of electronic prescriptions and electronic medical leave, deepening the controls to prevent fraud from the granting and use of false licenses. Using electronic medical licenses to enhance administrative flexibility and better control

15. Prohibition of vertical integration between Isapres and healthcare providers

16. Special Tax on profits Isapre to establish a fund to improve public hospitals and clinics

17. Prohibit unilaterally change contracts Isapre under penalty of fines and compensation to those affected in the form of benefits without cost by the time spent in the Isapre.

18. Improvement and coverage of dental care in clinics and hospitals, increasing the number of professionals and expertise. Preventive dental health plan.

19. Ambulatory care and hospitalization at home for the elderly, pediatric and bedridden patients.

20.Aumento mental health coverage in clinics.

21.Libre choice for all beneficiaries of FONASA in consultations, tests, procedures and interventions.

ENVIRONMENT - quality of life, natural ecosystems and cultural
Economic growth has been characterized by its concentration by the deterioration of valuable ecosystems of the coastal edge of the mountains and valleys of the country have made sacrifice zones of high levels of contamination. No effective guarantees that natural resources are sustainable and all major cities have a quality deterioration due to its inhabitants.

The Constitution and the law of foundations Ambienta ensure the right to live in an environment free of pollution, environmental protection, preservation of environmental heritage is governed by the provisions of this law, without prejudice to other legal norms established on the subject. "

However, as we go through our territory, we realize that some of the statements of the law is fulfilled, see and live with situations that reach the limits of the possible, we see the weakness of a state environmental policy and weak institutions and permissive with everything that directly affects the lives of both Chileans, as the habitat of flora and fauna Chilean highlighting.

to. That water is not considered a right of public use if not as a private good.
b. Coal is used increasingly as a source of energy, specifically in thermoelectric plants. The mining sector, with their production processes are the main responsible for the use of much energy the country needs yen practice no self-generation proposal.


PROPOSALS.

1. Environmental governance
to. Creating an Environmental Court in each region of Chile
b. Confer greater powers to the Superintendency of the Environment for the control of companies when it comes to environmental qualification resolution, and greater independence for provisional measures when the company harm the health of the population and the environment.
c. Incorporation Service Commission on Environmental Assessment, a specialist area in order to avoid conflict of interests in the evaluation of environmental impact studies. Ensure greater respect for the relevant departments reports and instances of citizen participation
d. Increased allocation of inspectors by region.

2. Air Quality
to. Under Secretary for Science and Technology tender a study of the economic and environmental cost to find a way to subsidize the price difference of dry wood and certified with respect to green or wet as well as the replacement of combustion appliances and kitchens. Also develop a National Plan of pollution measurement to develop proposals and oversight of public and private companies that do not comply with regulations.
b. Develop a regional plan of decontamination saturated zones (Tocopilla, Maria Elena, Rancagua, Temuco and Coyhaique, among several other cities), to meet the quality standards of living necessary for the population.
c. Check that polluting companies to maintain effective control of emission sources, in compliance with the DS 138/05 establishing obligation to report emissions indicating.

3. Waste Management and Hazardous Substances:
to. Development of treatment plants and organic waste recycling
b. Developing a strategic management plan and household waste removal by municipalities, to incorporate environmental education in the first stage and then, people develop source separation of organic waste for processing authorized destination. In the third instance of source separation of recyclable; available to the municipality being the proceeds from the sale of such waste.
c. Improve oversight of compliance with legislation in public services and private health dumps and landfills and the same situation on hazardous substances in companies.

4. Water Policy:
to. Water Code reform, implementing real control mechanism of water use, change the concept of water use, gradual return of property to all Chileans, review of criteria for the designation of concession periods of water use.
b. Establish by law the assessment and protection of glaciers and definition of reference glaciers by region as one of the indicators of climate change and other activities that affect
c. Propose changes to the penal code concerning fines and criminal responsibility or the legal representatives of a company to submit fraudulent use of water and pollution of these, giving greater legal authority to the Directorate General of Water (DGA), when it comes the audit, and considering further Andean watersheds, where established companies such as mining.
c. Encourage use of desalinated water in mining companies
d. Inspect and apply fines treatment plants sanitary wastewater companies that do not meet the necessary standards.

f. Encourage the reuse of treated sewage and Riles where possible to give a more efficient, justifying each case the saturation capacity of the soil with rainwater.

5. Receipt Flora and Fauna:
to. Development of a national plan "Action for the Conservation of Biodiversity", that addresses the regional and communal reality and consider as priority sites for protection and control, those determined by the National Strategy for Biodiversity Conservation.
b. Promote economic and social development by promoting tourism.
c. Check short-term studies by the state of our flora and fauna, enhancing recovery plans for threatened or endangered species, through incubation centers and development of biodiversity.

6. Climate Variability and Carbon Footprint:
to. Regulate Carbon Bond Market in order to stimulate the creation of filters or closed systems of gases emitted in the respective industries circulation and clean development mechanisms and intense and extensive afforestation giving priority to native forest. The government must work together with companies and provide advice / support
b. Encourage measuring the carbon footprint in business and the labeling of products that do not contribute to the greenhouse effect to encourage consumption in buyers.
c. Reassess inventory of greenhouse gases, and ensure that businesses and new construction using refrigerants ecological type, in compliance with the Montreal Protocol, expressed in Law 20.096.
d. Encourage the use of alternative vehicles, hybrids, electric fuel.
e. Redirect energy policies encouraging the use of non-conventional renewable energies and / or favoring hydropower stations in passing.
f. Reform and regulate the installation requirements of thermal power plants, given the wide variety of other options available for power generation in the country.
g. Facilitate agreements between practitioners students, colleges, and universities CFT's industries to promote cleaner production and thus minimize emissions and waste, while favoring greater profitability of MSMEs.

7. Noise Pollution and Occupational Health.
to. Legislate on noise pollution generated by the different types of mobile sources.
b. Study annoying noise pollution from fixed sources of industrial, commercial, recreational, artistic or others that do not meet the regulations of the DS 146/97, to seek mechanisms and / or alternative impact reduction generated character.
c. Improve oversight of the environment and occupational health of sites where staff is in contact with chemical and physical agents and biological tolerance limits for workers exposed to occupational risk, as stated in DS 594/99. Impose fines and require health economic reparations to companies that violate this decree.

8. Transgenic and native seeds:
to. To maintain and protect the Chilean agriculture and national sovereignty of native seeds, respect our adherence to the minutes of 1991 of the "International Union for the Protection of New Varieties of Plants" (UPOV-91), which clearly specifies the prohibition of privatize and / or patent native, native known or seeds; and strongly protect the office of keeper of seeds and seedlings and seed banks created for natural breeding and conservation of our biodiversity.
b. The formation of a Technical Committee on Genetics, Nutrition and Agriculture to analyze the implementation of a system of food labeling that exceed 0.9% of any ingredients from GM crops, as applied in various European countries will be created.

9. Recycling.
to. Implement a Recycling Plan which could control the waste generated in the different regions that are currently deposited in landfills and / or dumps, integrating social community and school authorities; and providing alternatives for disposal of waste.
b. Develop outreach through media in each city sensitizing the population, making agreements with public and private institutions.
c. The Ministry of Science and Technology tendered studies to know the community and regional reality, and thereby develop management strategies recoverable.

d. Decentralize recycling companies and promote development by offering them volumes of recyclable waste handlers regions given above.
e. Tender the installation of containers and a retirement system for discrete deposits of organic materials, glass, paper, cardboard, metal, batteries, etc.

 10. Environmental Balances equity accounts.
The financial accounts of the various activities of the country require to associate the variation of different natural resources, both renewable and non-renewable Varying the quantity and quality of ground water and aquatic forest is key to the definition of public policies and indicator economic growth. It makes no sense to speak of% growth if simultaneously decrease or deteriorate natural resources. These accounts were held in coordination with the Central Bank

11. Environmental liabilities:
The issue of passive abandoned populated agricultural areas and mining has not been widespread, and governments have understood its real impact, because it has economic interests and ties of friendship and concrete influence with management and owners of these, which it blind to protect the population and its natural resources such as water, crops, etc.
to. Therefore develop an action plan management, disposal, restoration of the affected areas, for our government.
b. We limit the use of land or agricultural areas for the deposit of industrial and / or mining through Land Management
c. Implement new rules for the approval of projects tailings dams, protecting agricultural and populated areas and to build them
d. Will increase by up to 100% of the supervisory SERNAGEOMIN.

ANIMAL PROTECTION AND HEALTH
Due to inappropriate behavior that has shown society in the care and protection of animals, they have been expressing public health problems in different parts of the country, caused by the increasing population of stray animals. As society has become aware, the number of reported animal abuse has increased, leaving revealed a problem so far undersized.
  
The animals will be understood as beings who are under our care. This statement of principles the need to address issues involving the protection, welfare and health, also including the impact and importance they have in the area of ​​public health arises.

PROPOSALS

1. Creation of the Undersecretariat for Protection and Animal Health under the Ministry of Environment in coordination with the Ministry of Health

2. Enactment of the Responsible Tenure 2014, previously making all necessary modifications. Giving the means to the communes and animal protection organizations for sterilization plans and identification of pets whose owners can not afford the costs.

3. Development of a regulation of animal experimentation and installation of Animal Bioethics Council

4. Modification of the Act regarding animal protection theme:
to. Protection of small animals with or without owner, seniors, exotic, production, zoo animals, marine life, wildlife and animals of the Armed Forces.
b. Assurance avoid unnecessary suffering and sacrifice for the benefit of animals
c. Differentiate and detail the aggravating crime, which must have different penalties

5. Elimination of circuses with animals, thereby promoting the artistic act in each

6. Creating a sanctuary for temporary or permanent use for circus animals

7. Elimination of breeding sites dedicated to the fur, in addition to the ban on these, according to the classification of the use of animal resources.

8. Creating Brigades Police (Carabineros de Chile and PDI) specialized and dedicated exclusively to crimes against animals. Improving control all types of farms, schools or fairs animal auction

9. Define a policy of handling of animals in disaster situation

10. Promote with abandoned zooterapia (dogs or cats) in animal rehabilitation centers (subject to study, according to the center, etc.).

11. Develop educational projects in conjunction with the Ministry of Education for educational levels: basic, basic and average pre, on care and responsible pet ownership.

PROPOSALS OF SCIENCE AND VETERINARY MEDICINE

1. Remove the restriction to veterinarians to prescribe or use psychotropic drugs and opiates proper controls

2. Review the penalties to sanction the illegal practice of veterinarian

3. Return the custody of Ethics professional associations, in this case, the Veterinary Medical Association (COLMEVET). Currently, control of ethics is in the hands of the courts and by profession who own lack technical when judge accused of other professions arguments. Getting to grips with their own code of ethics allows to regulate and press on:

to. The accreditation of schools of veterinary medicine and veterinary technicians (regular offers tuition through prospective studies)

b. Accredit and establish obligatory for different veterinary medical centers in the country

c. Encourage medical specialties in the profession in different universities (including scholarships)

d. Set the area of ​​forensic medicine and forensic veterinary veterinary and collaborative tool for justice and resolution of cases of animal abuse.

ENERGY - Promote the use of NCRE generation residential and SME and Energy Efficiency
The theme energy in Chile is pending because it has achieved a level of economic development with high environmental and social costs, it is time to correct distortions and incorporate a triple bottom line (social, environmental and economic) to the energy industry allowing sustainable growth
  
Have a cheap, friendly reliable electrical system (quality and security service) with the environment and fair to the parties; It is a challenge for all societies of the world.

We have a supply of residential heating in the south central part of the country preferably using certified wood and have a system of freight and passenger rail meaningful participation; and also have the highest possible energy independence, a minimum contribution to the local and global pollution, and distributed in the national electricity generation system.

PROPOSALS

1. Have a diversified electricity supply in their generation means (URE and conventional) giving priority to electricity generation from renewable resources in places where such potential and closer to consumption centers are located, such as the hydroelectric Puerto Montt to the north, in the north solar, wind and geothermal throughout the country, and also the fossil fuel generation in accordance with the technical requirements of the system.

2. Prioritize the energy efficiency potential of 2600MW, by processing a specific law on the matter (with quantified objectives of their application procedures).

3. Have a strategic plan with relevant state involvement and citizenship (in binding terms) in its production, mainly in generation and transmission issues long term.

4. Supporting the STA (Additional Transmission Systems) to make possible the dispatch of NCRE projects from their place of generation to the electricity grid.

5. Change the business model of buying and selling of electricity in the domestic market, both at the wholesale level (spot market) and in terms of end customers (regulated and free).

6. Regarding the National Oil Company, will implement a development model based on maximizing the skills and experience of its employees in the oil industry; capitalize significantly to reduce or eliminate its debt so that it can expand its operations, with a policy of presence 100% state in the business of refining and logistics to be a strategic and vital for the development of the national economy area.

7. Review and modification of the model tariff structure for electricity generation for both industrial and residential customers; also strengthening the policy of small generation and net metering recently approved

8. Tapping the potential of cogeneration estimated 2000MW

9. The HidroAysén project will not be approved.

MINING
The facts positioned Chile as a country in which the mining industry is a central axis of development, which by itself has allowed us dynamism and unprecedented growth in the last 100 years. However, the same activity generates asymmetries in multiple dimensions:

Socially, to generate high income and benefits do not reach everyone, especially to regions where activity is generated, whether direct, indirect, by lack of services or infrastructure.

In environmental terms, having increasingly identification of mining processes negative impact on the environment, the use of water for industrial activities at the expense of communities, often small, and generate environmental liabilities that end up being charge State.

Economically, the sectorally have large national income but with a vision of regional and communal compensation uprooted, where coexist production centers world-class areas with poor connectivity, basic services and high residential costs.


MINING program called Challenge 2030 based on four pillars:

Global and Regional Leadership

to. By 2030 the goal is to maintain leadership in world production in the copper industry with at least 40% of the global market and for this we must develop the mining industry in Chile with a look of geo-economic development, where potential to meet the demand growth in emerging markets, with a production based on energy efficiency, renewable energy, minimal impact on the environment, and the comprehensive development of communities and people where mining projects are inserted.

b. To the above, and in the framework of strengthening a regional market development of bi-oceanic corridors and an Andean corridor will enhance regional integration to generate a market of mining services, transfer technologies and energy efficient way for our products.

c. This challenge not only involve the large mining projects, but they are also the medium and small-scale mining, they represent the exploration and production effort where big money come not generating the seed of future production centers. They will be supported to develop their projects to achieve the status of commerciality.

d. Industries to add value to our products will be developed, prioritizing the copper and lithium. In this way we will change the paradigm that we are an exporter of raw materials and we will be a major player in the global market for value-added products. Further exploration and exploitation of minerals for strategic interests of the state in the country will be promoted.

Projects with triple balance: Environmental, Social and Economic

to. Mining being a major generator of resources, effective regional integration should be expressed in new ports, development of rail connectivity, new airports and new models that will boost telecommunication development projects and emerging local industry.

b. The mining industry requires professionals and high labor intensive qualification for this is that social investment should focus on supporting educational mining projects and undergraduate, where beneficiaries are residents of the area where the projects are, thus allowing generate real opportunities to young people who know the reality of the area as anyone.

c. While mining generates profits continuously undoubtedly inherited environmental liabilities increasing. As it is time to correct mistakes, we will work to identify and measure what the real impact of Current Liabilities miners establish what their costs, which are the works of bioremediation, plans for afforestation, recovery plans and cleaning water and land for public use. All this must be applied to achieve the main objective: global and regional leadership, even in mining environmental issues.

Energy Efficiency, Renewable Energy and Carbon Footprint

to. As the mining industry our main income, should be incorporated into their strategic view energy efficiency in their processes as a central axis. The mining industry and its service providers must align regard this strategic axis, as an integrated way of looking to reduce pressure on the growth of the current energy system.

b. He will favor and support the massive incorporation of renewable energies in positions close to the production centers. This will not only reduce the impact of losses in transmission lines, but also prevent the inorganic growth of an already complex national transmission system

c. Incorporating processes that support reducing the carbon footprint in mining production, this will allow differentiated from competitors and increase our presence in future markets will favor environmental restrictions. Similarly, although today are pilot experiments, the use of seawater in the mining process should be applied to a total replacement of the use of freshwater in the medium term, leaving them exclusively for human consumption agricultural production in areas where it is required.

d. The mining industry has a responsibility to support research into the sources of clean energy of the future, in that sense it will participate in a public-private partnership of major projects that are now in the forefront of knowledge globally, in partnership with national universities. This coupled with an incentive to generate research on energy issues at the national level in the future will incorporate energy sources that impact in a drastic reduction of production costs with a profile of clean energy.

Safety of persons, property and mining transparency:

Today we celebrate a milestone experience of 33 rescue workers trapped by poor security and control, while it is possible to verify progress, these are not expected for a member country of the OECD.

to. SERNAGEOMIN or body that will replace it (National Mining) must innovate its control policy to deepen the culture of safety in operations without thereby incorporate inefficiencies in production processes.

b. Similarly, the current legislation should be revised with respect to fraudulently use administrative applications against external projects exist to shield mining properties, impair the development of social projects to other industries or the same mining.

That is why the existing legal body will be perfected leaving for exclusive use in mining development regarding mining concessions.

PUBLIC WORKS - Infrastructure XXI Century
Chile has a privileged status to occupy almost an entire quadrant of the Pacific Ocean can be a platform for the exchange of services and economies of Latin America and the countries of Asia and Oceania. The country also has strong inequalities for almost 40% of the territory has connectivity problems

The road connectivity of ports and airports and the activation of development potential with the regions is key connectivity and communications in our country the correct application of decentralized public policies aimed at one country are required to have integrated, inclusive and development aimed at building infrastructure and integrated watershed management and participatory territorial planning .There that encourage private and public projects that are eligible for Community grant

PROPOSALS.

1. Create Waters Undersecretary of having responsibility for integrated watershed management.
A procedure in which all stakeholders in a watershed, with intense participation, analyze and reach agreements formulas for the various functions of these. Different but related as tourism, forestry, native forest management, conservation, land use change, mining, electricity use, agriculture, and materials interact allowing indigenous peoples to make a good and efficient management of the associated resources, especially water. This latter can regionalize and legally reallocate resource consumptive and non-consumptive flows where appropriate.

2. Growing regional and municipal registration contractors.
With this greater transparency in the bidding for the same is allowed, allowing other players to participate, avoiding with this, what actually happens, where it becomes impossible given the number of requirements to participate in bidding by increasing the concentration in large enterprises Delivery increased competition and this quality system.

3. Complete infrastructure in isolated areas.
Currently the road planning has no responsibility for secondary roads. In our country more than 20,000 km. Of roads are unattended without being considered in the planning of public policy including public works projects such as infrastructure in fishing coves, airports and accessibility of tourism services. The decentralization of our country must go hand in hand with the implementation and improvement of secondary roads, and construction stages of access roads

4. Reconditioning manuals designs that allow to take better advantage of public investment in works carried out by stage.

Promoting public infrastructure designs, resulting in better management of time and budget execution thereof. Standards defined according to the real needs avoiding oversizing

5. Ensure social, economic and environmental performance based on participatory strategic planning instruments. The infrastructure is related to the potential for harmonious development of the different regions of the country it requires special assessment for recommending projects

6. empowering and uplifting the capacities of members of the MOP.
 The technical and professional skills are underutilized MOP. The ministry requires empowering potential of construction design and maintenance of public infrastructure to also have the actual ability to control

AGRICULTURE - Agricultural Development, Livestock and Forestry.
Our country is characterized by natural boundaries and a high diversity which gives a stamp of origin and relevant differentiation from other livestock and forestry agricultural countries in the world rather than quantity and our country is characterized by quality committee

Chile is a major player in global agri-food scenarios. Chile is among producing countries, major fruits and vegetables World (FAO). The intensification of agriculture has placed our country as the most productive sector in the region and has had remarkable success in natural or processed products such as wine, fish, fruits, honey salmon and Forest Products. This has internalized the inhabitants of Chile the concept of "Chile Power Agrifood and Forest". By 2050 the demand for food will double the current according to recent FAO studies which places us as a country in a privileged position to be in the Southern Hemisphere due to the off-season.

In this line the increased production, the development of new products and adding value to agricultural commodity chains, could provide a significant increase in the country's presence in future markets. The quality of products and recognition of Chile as organic crops become vital in this regard .This important activity is an important source of employment and characterization of the country's culture

Chile also suffers from severe desertification and erosion which commits around 60% of its territory


PROPOSALS

1. Supervise and generate the correct application of disaster area, streamlining the use of 2% constitutional and provide greater flexibility in a similar percentage basis in the law of the sector budget.

2. Incorporate Secretariat of Agriculture, Climate Change.

3. Increase coverage INDAP. 130 thousand, has risen to 180 thousand users. It is considered the universe continue to expand and intensify well in its diversification, use of Non-Conventional Renewable Energies (NCRE) and associativity.

4. Improve, strengthen and expand the use of agricultural insurance, in order to seek to reach more sectors of agriculture, and there is a greater use of these. He subsidize small, medium and large farmers.

5. Generate tax incentives for investment in territorial development of rural areas (drylands, and end zones) both SMEs as attracting investors. Improving connectivity and basic infrastructure in rural villages.

6. Funding for medium-scale agriculture (more than 12 hectares of basic irrigation).

7. Strengthen building tools to support the development of medium agriculture such as access to credit and expanding the coverage of the guarantee funds from the state and venture capital (access to young innovative enterprises

8. Strengthen the partnership between farmers, in order to reactivate Cooperatives Union Associations. This will improve the bargaining power in selling products and / or the purchase of supplies; and the standardization of export quality (improving country image abroad.)

9. Training and Education
to. Increase scholarships abroad for professional forestry and agriculture sector.
b. Increase resources for internships farmers (and / or your children) abroad, in order to bring new knowledge and vision for their products and activity.
c. Create a policy of Real Training for civil servants to enable them to be at the forefront of industry knowledge, and create incentives to remain in the sector.

1. Invest in the modernization of the Directorate General of Water and provide it with the necessary resources to carry out its oversight and protection of water resources. (Water Undersecretary creating the MOP to coordinate with Min of Agriculture SS )

2. fully harness the potential of agricultural and forestry production seal of origin and natural production.

3. Increase coverage Irrigation Promotion Act

4. Encourage greater resources contests Non Conventional Renewable Energy in Irrigation Intrapredial so that farmers can lower their energy costs through, for example, photovoltaic panels.; and the OAU may have micro of passes that help them lower their operating costs.

5. Retrieve the full water and protect water cycle intensifying irrigation systems, work with non-conventional renewable energy (NCRE); take advantage of the 2000 MW of hydroelectric potential of irrigation, encouraging entry of channel, farmers and ranchers.

6. Work with the purchasing companies associatively grain and milk in order to seek agreements that allow them to pay a fair price to farmers.

7. Prohibition of GM Crops

8. Making the INIA as an entity that ensures the plant heritage of Chile and granted equal access to quality non-transgenic seeds to ensure food security of the country, rejecting the privatization of seeds from the so-called "Monsanto Law".

9. To promote applied research in Chile with the INFOR (Forest Institute), INIA (Institute of Agricultural Research), CIREN (Information Centre of Natural Resources) and the FIA ​​(Foundation for Agrarian Innovation). Ensure their baseline budget and expand its coverage throughout Chile

10. Create Forestry Undersecretariat.

11. Promoting the extensive use of instruments bonus afforestation especially of native forest, to face the process of erosion and desertification, to environmental services and increase the potential surface intervene very especially the small and medium landowners. Promoting carbon is considered to cushion the effects of climate change.

FISHERIES AND AQUACULTURE
Aquatic resources and their ecosystems are overexploited damaging its sustainability. The priority is to recover avoiding policies and practices that gave rise to this condition.

We do not accept to be delivered by 20 years the exploitation of fishery resources major industry that has over-exploited, if only in the last 10 years the fishing industry captured 4 million tonnes of mackerel, without management plans and bringing those responsible resources collapse levels, as is the case of hake, Spanish sardines, and others, have now practically disappeared from our markets.

Our country has a coastline that stretches over 4,800 kilometers, administer the resources of both marine life is important, not only for its impact on economic, environmental and scientific, but social impact on one the most vulnerable sectors of our country: the artisanal fisheries and fishing industry workers.

Currently depend on this resource 80,000 fishermen, who see their jobs threatened due to little or no supervision and implementation of the commitments made in the legislative process of the Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture, passed this year.



PROPOSALS

1. Create the Ministry of the Sea, Fisheries and Aquaculture will absorb existing institutions the Ministry of Economy, which will generate a new institutional framework that really meets the needs of the fisheries sector to preserve a rational exploitation of our resources, and ensure development sustainable fisheries, aquaculture and marine ecosystems

2. Create the INDAP FISHING in each region, Institutes Artisanal Fisheries Development and SMEs to support the development of small-scale fishing and small industry and retail and middle aquaculture. Beneficiaries will have all those working in this sector, will have adequate financial resources, direct credit instruments, national presence and technical and institutional strength.

3. End trawling. Domestic and international experience shows that non-selective trawl fishing generates enormous damage to the marine ecosystem, one of the main causes of the scarcity of marine resources. As an emergency measure decretaremos a ban for two years collapsed fisheries that allow us to recover the marine wealth.

4. Change the constitution of the Board of Fisheries Development Institute (IFOP). Currently the Board is operated by representatives of the fishing industry and has recently been appointed the new Scientific Committee on Fisheries where 17 of 44 councilors are directly related to the Angelini group, the ASIPES (Family Del Rio, Sarquis, etc.) and FIPES (fishing industry in southern waters).

5. Decentralize the Fisheries Development Institute, creating seven regional research centers, on the main points of our country. Regional centers will be located in Iquique, Coquimbo, Valparaíso, Talcahuano, Puerto Montt, Puerto Aysén and Punta Arenas.

6. Plan and implement together with the Ministry of Defence and the defense industry, the construction of four science spacecraft, equipped with high technology programs to support long-term research needed to protect natural resources and ecosystems according to needs of biodiversity present throughout Chile.

7. Tender industry shares to end the concentration of large fish, and introduce new actors.

 8. Support areas Benthic Resources Management according Zoning Seaboard in all regions of the country.

 9. Apply the law to promote repopulation of algae and associated ecosystems.

10. Expand the parks and marine reserves, give legal status to the Seaboard Marine Areas to ensure the protection and conservation of marine biodiversity assessment.

11. Support the development of the various fishing villages and diversify its activities with special interest tourism.

NATIVE PEOPLES - Multiculturalism and Recognition
For centuries our country has been in debt to our peoples. A late through the enactment recognition of indigenous law, and the creation of CONADI, has not been enough to assert their natural rights. The violence that the region of La Araucania has been involved, is the answer to public policies that have not generated the correct inclusion that Chile needs because most policies are directed to Mapuche excluding other peoples They are part of the Native Peoples.

The proper recognition and appreciation not only of our culture but a constitutional complaint in which the measures necessary to pave the way towards a multicultural Chile reforms are implemented, should be the basis of the decisions to move towards this goal.

PROPOSALS:

1. Constitutional Recognition
Recognition of Indigenous Peoples in our Constitution, as this is the political pact that governs our national coexistence. This will substantiate the foundation of a plurinational country with appreciation the various indigenous peoples that exist in Chile, from the north to the southern end of the territory.

2. Effective implementation of the Convention 169

to. Greater integration and recognition in the facts of the Convention 169 of the ILO, generating parliaments, advice and other forms of representative meeting of nations, where they are represented communities for proper consultation of the problems they face an intervention, and is development, construction or another, by the state or private.
b. Generate instances of Parliaments of Indigenous Peoples (real representatives of communities, authorities, councils lonkos, leaders, spokesmen) with the government in matters of development, with an advisory role in matters that relate to historical participation in the defense of natural, environmental, energy and preservation of culture and spirituality of indigenous peoples resources.

3. Indigenous Peoples Representation in Parliament

Indian parliamentary election through quota law. Thus the indigenous world participate in decisions made by the State through Parliament and, in turn, our country is enriched with the full participation of all its citizens.

4. Project Araucanía
to. Project creation of Araucanía, where it is thought not only in the economic development of the region, but combine and converge both the perspective of indigenous, peoples and private citizens towards a true development and identity of a community.
b. Set the Araucania Region as multicultural region, where development program and guidelines on indigenous issues, responding to the characteristics of the indigenous peoples not only of the region in particular needs, but of all the indigenous peoples who are immersed within policies at the central level.

5. Pension elderly Native Peoples.
Grant lifetime basic pension of $ 200,000 to the elderly over 65 years, Lonkos and ancestral authorities (wise elders of Indigenous Peoples) who reside in communities or territories not urban, in recognition of the importance of customs and traditions that are passed by own right, who are an important part of preserving the original culture.

6. New CONADI
to. Change the current institutional structure of the CONADI and the National Indigenous Council, in order to make it more transparent and efficient coexistence and the development of policies on indigenous peoples, with greater participation and representation.
b. Create an institutional framework that will generate greater oversight and technical assistance for monitoring lands are given by the state to communities and that there is public transparency Titles ownership of land and budgetary resources that are given to the development of indigenous peoples, such as scholarships, assistance and development projects in the communities of indigenous peoples.

7. Create ProChile indigenous division
to. ProChile generate indigenous division, so that you can market and promote our culture throughout the world. Firstly, regional organizations such as Incubatec belongs to Universidad de la Frontera, in the region of Araucania, and other agencies in the north and south of the country, who will be responsible for generating the process of transition to achieve a specialized division marketing who agrees with the good life and worldview that the region possesses.
b. Promote the development of organized communities and indigenous programs and projects of social, cultural and commercial exchange, in order to promote cultural development of indigenous peoples with folklorizing careful not respecting their culture and their world associations. Must participate in this process, indigenous organizations with professional, intercultural groups and organized communities, and those who perform work collective farming, fishing, handicrafts, intercultural medicine, arts, among others.

8. official recognition of indigenous languages
to. Official recognition of indigenous languages: Mapudungun, Rapa Nui, kunza and Quechua.
b. Incorporated into the Ministry of Education, through schools, teaching and knowledge of the native language in areas where there is a high percentage of students of indigenous origin.
c. Incorporated in all government departments, a bilingual office by a member of the community of the indigenous people of the area to act as intercultural facilitator.
d. For points c and d, are considered the Article 14 of Convention 169, concerning the selection of teachers and intercultural facilitators, they are made and proposed by the communities themselves in a shortlist, in order to choose those who will be in charge of this teaching and intercultural participation.

9. parliaments, Tips and Presence.
to. Empower meetings professionals, artists and sportsmen organized groupings Indigenous Peoples, communities and urban centers. Promote the development of intercultural schools, audiovisual libraries, intercultural health, etc. These meetings will take place in the methodology of parliaments and councils, which will have significant presence and public dissemination policy.
b. The Government will be present in the dialogue, through participation in parliaments and councils, communities and outside them, in specific areas and to convene the community, group or association representing the indigenous people.


10. Security and law.
Provide more resources and tools to both the public ministry, advocacy and police, so that they can carry out their work in a preventive way, public safety and according to the laws, in order to protect citizens and investigate crimes committed by those who attack the property and real estate both individuals and private companies, without this meaning militarize the territory or repress communities, nor the application of the Terrorism Act to members of communities that are manifested by social demands. That law not to be applied and which are the laws governing all citizens will be reviewed, which ensure the due process of law.

11. Indigenous households and facilities:
The allocation and use of existing indigenous households in the cities shall be adjusted, to meet in order to be supportive of residence and temporary stay for community members of all Native Peoples as required.

Centers Meeting of Indigenous Peoples be implemented, which will be used to fulfill functions of meeting and meetings of the various towns and where multiculturalism is reflected in its spaces and identity of each people and where they can perform their religious ceremonies and develop sport of their own peoples.

11. Legal Protection of the Rights of Peoples and biopiracy.
We seek measures to protect the ancient culture of Indigenous Peoples, which is developed in communities and urban centers by members of them. We establish a register of copyright where Indigenous Peoples are those who receive the benefits of the market, use and use of elements of communities and peoples.

It will protect the Native Peoples of Biopiracy in Ancestral Medicine and Traditional Food and own ancestral cultural origin.

TOURISM
Our country has a privileged nature, which is often more appreciated abroad than you penetrate in our own country. The distance of the major global urban centers and the huge competition in the supply of tourist destinations for the markets of most tourist products together, put Chile in a situation where you need to develop a strategy to differentiate clearly our offer and to develop an industry that meets the increasingly demanding parameters of quality in this area. Still-law have been important advances in the generation of an infrastructure that allows the development of a tourism industry in Chile, there is still an enormous space to advance. This strategy should also develop the promotion of our cultural heritage, so that tourists manara offered an experience that goes beyond access to a particular natural area, but to know who are part of a culture with elements unique identity.

 We focus our performance boost domestic tourism, as well as incorporating international offer our cultural heritage of our country. We will contribute strongly to small businesses related to tourism, and preserve those areas where there is a unique natural and cultural heritage, to put at the center of its development policies to the tourism industry.

Proposals.

1. We will create an incentive grant fund for small tourist enterprises, giving support of the Ministry of Economy for both project design and for subsequent execution.

2. We will promote domestic tourism through targeted as such, under a strategy that considers the effective participation of operators in each region area campaigns.

3. We will strengthen our campaigns tourism in international markets, focusing on the promotion of our natural heritage associated with our cultural heritage.

4. We will generate a special status to areas of interest such that there will be tapped so that you can affect the development of the tourism industry, under a scheme of land use.

GENDER
Discrimination is a reality and gender hierarchies of our society are evident, especially in the workplace, in that although the inclusion of women in various areas of work has grown significantly in recent years, the senior management level, only 8% of those charges have become occupied by women.

Furthermore, although in 1971 Chile ratified the Convention on Equal Remuneration, this remains a problem, like many others, we have not been able to resolve the wage gap between men and women is, one of the largest level World in ranging between 30 and 35%.

Moreover, in 1999 Chile signed the Optional Protocol to the "Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women", but to date the protocol has not been ratified, depriving our women to assert the principles established in this agreement and aimed at the state's responsibility in this matter.

Protect the rights of women, on the basis of equality of rights, narrowing the gaps and ensure an informed empowerment, are the cornerstones on which programs should focus and our government proposals.

PROPOSALS

1. adopt appropriate legislative and other measures, including sanctions where appropriate, prohibiting all discrimination against women.

2. Abolish all discriminatory provisions in the law.

3. Educate the family (parents School for Ministry of Children and Youth) to strengthen the core that forms the basis for training of children. Thus, it seeks to incorporate early childhood intuitions integration, respect, gender equality, among others; and strengthen the development of soft skills such as tolerance, empathy and resilience.

4. Include in the curricula training courses aimed at the country's contingency work around their social partners, promote discussion and raise awareness of the scenarios that arise due to violence, discrimination and inequality. Empower.

5. Ratify the Optional Protocol to the "Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women."

6. Establish mechanisms for reporting and presentation of research situations where gender discrimination before the Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women is profiled.

7. Take measures to balance the supposed "risk" means a business for a woman of childbearing age, and to some extent explain the wage gap between men and women, for the same office; or even require the hiring of women.

8. Create a paternal jurisdiction, to protect the work of the father at conception and up to 6 months after the birth of the child.

9. Move the cost of nurseries father's employer.

10. Give inalienable character of the postnatal father.

11. Make a circular which stated that companies can only rely on funding with money from the AFP, provided that 30% of women in management positions and 30% of the / the directors are women.

12. Create a "National Women's Office" to take charge of the audit in conjunction with the Labour Department, the compliance of income equality and the enforcement of pre and postnatal, among others.

13. Guarantee allocation of resources to promote gender organizations, improving funding opportunities for programs mainly:
to. Job placement to housewives in situations of domestic violence through the allocation of resources for the promotion of entrepreneurship and psychological support to the changing role of the mother and the relevant impact on the family.
b. Constant legal advice and support to women who have been violated either gender status or direct abuse, pending resolution of the case.

SPORT - The Right to a Healthy Life and Participative
A sedentary society quickly is in a sick society. It has often led to believe, that the lack of time for sports, is encouraging a sedentary lifestyle; when in fact in our spare time we tend to do what we find attractive and possible. The lack of existing infrastructure in the communities, difficult access or lack of sports, generate a departure from these activities, and that call only certain segments of the population and does not represent the diversity in a rural or urban area.

Rescue Sport in its role of social integrator, self-improvement, integration of values ​​and norms, family strengthening, and as an enhancer of cognition and health of the person who practices, constitutes a priority when defining the proposals here mentioned.

PROPOSALS

1. Create a Council for High Performance Sport, made up of representatives of the Ministries of Education, Sport, Children and Youth, and Employment. This council functions will include the organization of National Olympics for the different disciplines.

2. Implement competitive program of Olympic disciplines, schools, sports centers, businesses and others to develop and promote interest in the sport, in different social agents. Promote, with the tools, integration of subsidized and private schools to the sports network.

3. Incorporate compulsorily sports workshops of different branches, in primary and secondary education, according to the possibilities and potential infrastructure of the educational establishment; and supported with funding for implementation, according to number of participants by specialty and performance sports equipment.

4. Make the mandatory implementation of bike lanes in each of the country's communes.

5. Create a recovery fund sports clubs, with more emphasis on Olympic sports. Create covered and protected multifields neighborhood.

6. Encourage widespread high performance center that is in Santiago and create 8 high performance centers nationwide.

7. Create Undersecretary Paralympic Sport.


STADIUM SECURITY:

We must recover the stadium for families, but we can not lose the festival which means football in Chile and throughout Latin America. It should imitate the good, but never losing our essence because it is what links us to the popular demonstrations involved in our society football party. We should return the popular party with drums and flags sports grounds of our country. A real and effective insurance policy Stadium:

- An institutional safety and specific supervision of professional football bars is created.

- Criteria for accreditation of renewable bars every year giving them rights and duties be established.

- The return shall be allowed to all the bars of drums and canvas (no flares) can use these elements enabled only in the galleries of each stage and not in all sectors.

- Individual and collective punishments under strict identity control systems and entry to stadiums will be imposed.

- The system of discretion will be implemented on the rights of the bars to bear certain elements of support, ie to the extent that the swollen football have a behavior of excellence, maintain the return of this benefit, otherwise it will lose all options and punishments will increase in temporary employment and the number of limitancias.

- With the help of technology they individualize those who commit fouls behavior in stadiums, limiting lifetime entry to any stadium in the country.

ART AND CULTURE
You need access to the various forms of art and culture is not elitist, to reduce social gaps. Exposure to these statements translate into real opportunities for personal development and social mobility. Society must be inclusive, cultural oriented access to a nation and not a small group.
Chile must comply with the recommendations of the UNESCO cultural, since culture in its many areas and possibilities, is not an accessory or a luxury, but a concrete possibility of development as a country.

Cultural policies should be long-term but measures and short-term results. Creators to be consulted in formulating policies and programs Culture, all craft guilds, and consider their ideas and proposals.
Promoting acculturation, and thereby generate social mobility needed to break the cycle of segmentation opportunities massifying expression of different ideas from all citizens without discrimination, should be the main goal of any proposal in the area of ​​culture.


PROPOSALS:

1. Reform Bill of the Ministry of Culture and Heritage, including the creators and all civil, cultural and social society.

2. Increase state budget for culture, which is currently 0.5% of GDP to a value of 1.0% to 2% of GDP during the period.

3. VAT refund of the book, people.

4. Revise the National Monuments Act.

5. Implement Undersecretary of archaeological and paleontological heritage, which must supervise construction projects for public and / or private, protecting cultural heritage.

6. Create a specialization of Paleontology, Asset Management and / or Museology, who translate into citizenship (popular science) and explore new linkages aimed at bringing science and heritage to people.

7. Official recognition of indigenous languages
to. Official recognition of indigenous languages: Mapudungun and Rapa Nui languages ​​of the north.
b. Incorporated into the Ministry of Education, through schools, teaching and knowledge of the native language in areas where there is a high percentage of students of indigenous origin.
c. Incorporated in all government departments, a bilingual office.

8. Recognition existing historic cultural and artistic heritage.

9. Encouraging new artists through projection, scholarships and national awards. Decentralization and greater access to cultural resources.

10. Reform Pro Chile for the dissemination and support of artists, works and crafts in Chile and abroad. To create this full national catalog that includes all disciplines and sectors.

11. Create and implement dependent cultural centers of the Ministry of Education in all the communes of Chile, for both native and foreign resident population, with emphasis on children and the elderly. Integrate artists from all areas, in support of the teaching staff of schools and colleges.

12. Create a channel to disseminate State Cultural artistic and cultural events across the country; eg all Regional Festivals. Oversee the mission of NTV, and incorporate into its directory representatives of Science, Technology and Culture.

13. collecting taxes from international artists who now do not pay their shows, allocating them to cultural backgrounds.

14. Establish a new legal institutions or media law that creates incentives to increase the dissemination and promotion, and ensure more and better cultural content, for the community radio and TV, on the development of local content and diversity voices on the airwaves.

15. Supervise the proper functioning and allocation of resources of the different cultural entities. Support artistic guilds and unions.

16. Creating Museums, Libraries and Archives and strengthening existing in every commune in the country. Mobile Libraries also implementing with written and audiovisual material consultation.

MEDIA LAW - democratize information
When we look closely at how the media work in our country, we find many situations that directly contradict the commitments made in the process of the Special Rapporteur for Freedom of Expression and summarized in the Declaration of Principles on Freedom of Expression of the Organization of American States, a document that has become the basis of numerous reforms in the Media Law in Latin American countries.

The absence of legal criteria counselors has allowed ministries, armed forces, service managers and any other public official decision in these matters, to misuse funds for dissemination and publicity of public policies in their own promotional activities or for any other purpose other than that for which those resources are designed. This reflects an ingrained habit in public administration, which is to use the budget for disseminating policies and service benefits in publicizing the body or even the people who run it.

In parallel, the arbitrary selectivity in the Government Advertising has been, among others, the reason that many independent media have been forced to close for lack of advertising support. Because of this pluralism has been weakened to an extent that it has become very dangerous for the development of the democratic system itself.

A study by the Observatory Fucatel Receivers State Government Advertising, states that 48% of resources mercury and 29% in Copesa concentrate on daily business. Between the two consortia are no more than 90% control of the press and 77% of government avisaje.

In the rapporteur mentioned above, they established themselves as outstanding for Chile, the following topics, making it clear that there is a "perception" of the use of resources, but of a reality that resonates in international institutions:
1. Regular government advertising, to end indirect censorship, especially in remote regions, where the state is the only one who pays official advertising, which tends to "silence its critics and reward its friends."
2. Pluralism and diversity in the communication process. Open communication spaces traditionally marginalized, so that they can "communicate needs, interests and way of seeing the world" sectors.
The proposals discussed below, obey the needs of correct use of official resources for advertising and to improve the legal bases that protect the right to freedom of expression, as the axis maintaining the Declaration of Principles on Freedom of Expression , referred to above.

PROPOSALS

1. Redefine the budget, administration and regional distribution of the Fund for the Promotion of Regional Media, provincial and community Social Communication, so that the 33 billion spent each year on "government advertising" to be reallocated in full this fund.

2. Redefine the criteria for allocation of grant funds, so as to avoid the concentration of resources in some media only.

3. Modification of the legal avisaje:

a.Tope maximum of 4% of the ministerial budget, for each medium.
b.Preferencia in bid to promote the participation of advertising companies with good ideas, new and enterprising. (Ending the monopoly of large advertising companies hired by the government: Prolam Y & R, Lowe Porta, Dittborn and Unzueta, BBDO and McCann, most are multinationals).

4. Establish a new legal institutions in the field of telecommunications in Chile, to ensure community television and radio broadcasting for the development of local content and diversity of voices in the radio spectrum, favoring community radios of native peoples.

5. Complement any legal or official radio broadcast information so that people can exercise their legal rights with opportunity.

6. Ensure pluralism in all public media.

7. Prevent and Punish misleading advertising.
