PROGRAM
OF GOVERNMENT
2014-2018

1

COLOMBIA
GOOD C
2

A ONE
PATH
3

TO

Contents

STRATEGIES FOR CHANGE
1.

Peacebuilding and reconciliation

2.

New development mode

3.

Pursuit of full employment

Four.

Social, pluralist democracy and comprehensive

5.

Social justice for everyone

6.

National plan of life

B great purposes

4

1.

Health as a human right.

2.

Education for all.

3.

Comprehensive housing policy

Four.

Vital to all utilities minimum.

5.

Guarantee food security and sovereignty

6.

Transforming Families in Action.

7.

Equal opportunities for women

8.

Ensuring the survival of indigenous communities and AFRODES

.

descendants

9.

Comprehensive protection for children and adolescents

10.

Young agents transformations

eleven.

Opportunities for people with disabilities

12.

Guarantee the rights of LGBTI

13.

Advanced Culture Development

14.

Progressive tax policy.

fifteen.

General and universal pension system.

16.

Mining itself, but not

17.

Policy roads and ports

18.

Structural agricultural policy

19.

A real industrial policy

20.

Foreign investment for development

21.

Affirmation of national sovereignty.

22.

Renegotiation of NAFTA

2. 3.

Support for Colombians abroad

24.

Regional integration and continental sovereignty

25.

Regions with governance and capacity

26.

Justice reform

27.

Land use policy

28.

Science and Technology Policy

29.

Creation of the Ministry of Peace and Reconciliation

30.

A new governance of public safety

31.

National defense policy

32.

Rebuilding Public: Towards the Rule of Law
5

MESSAGE FROM
CANDIDATE
As an alternative government, we intend to create
social cultural conditions, materials, and policies to build an inclusive, supportive and fair society in which no child grow
poverty, on condition that no person
Disability lacks the proper attention and
which all persons live independently, with peace, dignity and social security. Namely,
a homeland for all.
We want a fair society in which each
one finds the conditions in which they can develop their skills, abilities and talents; in
where nobody is excluded and everyone can participate
in decisions that affect them and exercise control
social on the public authorities. We want an inclusive society in which the right is guaranteed
social existence through a universal basic income or income of citizenship by way of solidarity
and reciprocity for those in need. We look for
achieve a united country that gradually overcome social relationships in which people are
dominated and deprived of their rights and resources
social and natural are destroyed.
To begin the transition to the truly democratic society, we will take the course towards
developing a new way of turning the tide in the
economic model implemented by successive governments since the 1991 Constitution, which,

6

its policies of privatization of the public,
commodification of rights and unequal trade with NAFTA and its aftermath of deindustrialization and unemployment, have destroyed the national labor
and the private and public savings accumulated generations, deepened structural causes of inequality and injustice have deteriorated the quality
life of the middle and lower classes.
We represent one dutiful political option of the Constitution and the law; therefore, in
my Government will respect private property
domestic and foreign according to the dictates
constitutional and legal, with the certainty that the
economy must be aligned with the joint development and preservation of nature. Everyone
able to work have access to that
fundamental right.
No one should be excluded from the enjoyment of rights
social rights to food, health,
education and social security. To ensure the effective implementation of these rights requires it
national reconstruction aimed at sustainable development, rather than a focus on growth without
social, to the limits of ecosystems and global warming consequences.

Our government program seeks to:
• Consolidate a rule of law, pluralistic
and secular.
• Deepening democracy building
social and comprehensive.
• Ensure the observance of justice.
• Build a society that recognizes unity
in diversity.
• Ensure access to public participation and
policy.
• Ensure universal rights progressively and enhancing human capabilities.
• Establish a social economic system, solidarity
and sustainable.
• Ensure stable, just and decent employment.
• consolidate relations liberating work.
• Build social and economic relations in harmony with nature.
• To build a caring, respectful coexistence and
fraternal.
• Rebuilding the public.

tunity and development context; with a government
that plans and designs public policies with a
rights approach and a sovereign state attentive to
the new international and common interests with their Latin American counterparts reality.
The central purpose of our government will recognize in Colombia a homeland for everyone and
build a real social state of law
recover the democratic spirit of the Constitution
1991, which, despite the many changes and shocks
which has suffered in recent years, it remains
the roadmap for achieving equitable Colombia,
participatory and peaceful. Our commitment is to
Peace, democracy, employment, sovereignty and
SOCIAL JUSTICE.

Clara Lopez Obregon

The policies proposed in this government program transformations involve powerful and
depth and were drawn from the constitutional principles that define Colombia as
a country of regions with autonomy; a society
diverse social, ethnic and culturally; a nation
who understands the environment and limit op-

7

Section Name

8

TO

Government Programme 2014-2018

STRATEGIES
FOR CHANGE
9

1. Construction
peace and
reconciliation
The Alternative Democratic Pole is the only party
It puts peace as an essential value in its definition, as listed in Article 2 of its Statute, which entered into
his ideas of these democratic principles Unit
and Civilians:
"We oppose the war and the exercise of violence
as an instrument of political action. [...] We reject all
forms of terror: personal attack, kidnapping,
extortion, false positives and armed actions against
civilians. [...] We support a political solution to the internal armed conflict. [...] We are in a legal framework that
recover the historical truth, memory and recognition claiming state responsibility where relevant. [...]
We promote a culture of peace and tolerance to the search for dignity, equality and human solidarity. "
Based on this democratic and civilian ideology, our
Government Program recognizes that the time has come to
peace, because fifty years of armed conflict become the negotiated resolution on ethical and political imperative
social. After decades have claimed from
the democratic left a negotiated political solution
the armed conflict, the Government and the insurgency are in peace talks. We reiterate that these dialogues have
our full support. Not soon signed agreements
termination of the conflict, as is clear from the statements of President Santos to the effect that "peace

10

will sign this year, "but not this government, we express
that our Government will continue until the happy
term, and we not seek further continuing them amid
war. For it will raise the need for a cease-
bilateral ceasefire accompanied by an agreed schedule
for early completion of negotiations and signing
agreements. To consolidate the agreements will be implemented
countersignature mechanism to be agreed, to which we will devote our best efforts to contribute to the
acceptance by the Colombian people.
Furthermore, we reiterate that we will honor the agreements
the current government has reached with the armed insurgency. To build a lasting peace will be taken the following
goals:
• armed political conflict.
• Building a culture of peace.
• Creation of the Ministry of Peace and Reconciliation.
• Building the necessary political environment for
ratify the peace accords.
Any government that aspires to be alternative and innovative must devote much effort to build a culture
of peace. This is an old debt you have with the Colombian people, who have lived the sway of violence fueled by sectarianism and petty economic interests
of the ruling classes and the traditional parties. For
This Government intends to enact our target

main help build a culture of peace, that is, one
culture of tolerance and respect, able to transform
radically intolerant and discriminatory conception
it has had on social relations. We believe these
they can not be violence and force, but of understanding,
solidarity and respect for differences, beliefs and
feelings of neighbors and opponents.
A culture of peace can not be the result of the opinion or authoritarian imposition of a ruling class. He
main effort should be made in the classroom, on television and in the bosom of the family, with state protection
and the example of the rulers. Create a culture of peace
a daunting task with a deep human content, because it involves respect for the life, dignity and integrity
physical, cultural and psychological of everyone, and the willingness to respect the different opinions and ideas contrary. It means giving full effect to the principle that both are
replica but it does not apply, which reads: "own rights
end where the rights of others "and
as a Christian lesson: "Do unto others what you want
have them do unto you "(Mt 7, 12).
The construction of peace will focus on our government
primarily in a broad structural reform agenda aimed at the roots of conflict. The Democratic Pole
Alternatively, to assume the leadership of the State, as stated
his ideas of Unity, "promote a culture of peace and tolerance to the search for dignity, equality and human solidarity and to achieve coexistence environment
Social required for citizens to advance
public and private exercise of their activities, with the freedoms enshrined in the constitutional order. "
When contradictions arise between competing rights
should be the law and not violence or responsible for resolving political influence, so that the culture of peace demands
untainted judiciary, really fair, blind power and
money, strict but merciful, that only a
genuine democracy can be built and applied. That democratic justice reform will be a priority of
Our alternative government.
Building peace and reconciliation will assume the guidelines in post-conflict, which means

not only repair the victims, restitution
their lands and uncompromising commitment to the truth and the guarantee of non-repetition, but facing humanitarian crisis
daunting faced by the people he has received in its territory the worst manifestations of the conflict.
Therefore, and echoing the conclusions of the Commission
Historical Memory, an emergency plan be drawn up
for humanitarian hundred most affected municipalities
by internal war.
Finally, as soon as he assumed power on August 7
2014, will begin an educational process to remove and replace hatred tolerance and acceptance of others.
After this process of mitigating the ravages
It has left the rancor, the country will convene the formulation and
implementation of a national agreement to make explicit
the commitment of all citizens to depose the illegitimate and illegal use of arms as a means
solving the problems we face and to work jointly and severally to find ways
suitable for achieving permanent peace with justice,
sovereignty and dignity.
Peacebuilding and reconciliation will be the guidelines of post-conflict to be assumed, not only
reparation for victims, restitution of their land and
uncompromising commitment to the truth and the guarantee of non-repetition, they will face humanitarian crisis
large proportions of the population has received in his
territory the worst manifestations of the conflict. Doing
echoed the findings of the Commission of Historical Memory, humanitarian emergency plan be drawn up for the
two hundred municipalities most affected by the civil war.
Every soldier and officer who has served
the Armed Forces of the Republic from 2005,
either as a professional soldier or paying his compulsory military service, you are entitled to enroll in an educational institution, including top level,
get your college or technical degree and has priority
for a public or private employment as part of the
post-conflict policy that will design the new government.

eleven

2. New mode
developmental
With the National Constituent Assembly of 1991 the country
the illusion was that the new Constitution as well
be a peace pact between Colombians,
create the conditions for expanded democracy,
pluralist, where people's participation was decisive
in driving the country's destiny and control
the rulers. The reality was very different. While
more advanced sectors involved in drafting
They perfected the Constitution a Bill of Rights and
some general statements favorable to democracy and
pluralism, representatives of neoliberalism set out to design a totally different Constitution
the economic aspect.
Today in Colombia are indispensable transformations
ethics in social relations, institutional reforms
deep microeconomic and microsocial changes
allow a better distribution of the surplus generated
the economy and democratize access to opportunities. Speaking in our government program so
development we go beyond mere economics
and we take a more holistic view of society,
reaching its essence, where the deep web of relationships between humans is revealed.
Our government program is not based on physical capital spread among the poor, because it has little
efficiency, but to get a more equitable redistribution

12

the value added in the production process of goods and
services, representing changes in the occupational system and the business organization. It is intended that each
Colombians more time to enjoy the
benefits of human progress (which is the real currency), with pay equity prices
market, which is preferable, or through subsidies
demand through mechanisms of solidarity that are
transparent and handled with high social management.
An increase of social wealth is not justified to
Apart from the very people who made it happen.
While millions of compatriots are excluded from the enjoyment of fundamental developments of human progress, there
true development. We are confident that our
country will be successful in the long term and able to build a just, equitable and humane society, if you use the best
as possible the fruit of the work and if it recognizes that the
hard of producers should be rewarded.
He vehemently insist that economic growth is not everything, because the key is the development
integral human being. The transition from the paradigm of economic growth vision will start only
GDP measures the success mechanism in society towards
a comprehensive approach to development that will be based on
a process of evolution and quantitative, qualitative and structural changes in the work, income, environment

and non-renewable resources, market, consumption and
opportunities.
In our government the right will be claimed
poor consume, because in practice we do not consume enough to meet your needs, that is,
They are outside the market. In this way, we identify as the real source of consumption growth
in general, and especially the domestic consumption
homes. This is the one that satisfies the material needs,
social and spiritual needs of human beings.
If growth is social wealth creation, availability of goods and services necessary to live, or
that is, media production, then the development means
the equitable distribution of the wealth created: the use
of those goods and services that humans can live better, that is, their ends meet. Growth
economic and human development are distinct processes
to be simultaneous and complementary. Consequently, growth is the means and the development is in order.
The development we understand it as improving
living conditions of human beings, or their well-being
or well-living and the satisfaction of their needs. What
develops society is composed of human beings,
and not the economy, which is only a sum of activity
Human made through tangible and intangible means.
Economic growth in Colombia, where it has
Instead, rarely he has managed to make a dent in the problems
pressing social, and too often has undergone
high to most of the population, has increased economic inequality, and has failed to give relief to problems
such as unemployment, malnutrition, disease and
bad housing. It has also contributed quite a few times
aggravate social problems and tensions with results
Similar: excessive concentration of national income in a few hands (either obtained by lawful means or ethics
questionable) and overwhelming accumulation of poverty on
shoulders of the majority of the population.
Our economic policy will freely and independently to design strategies adapted to our
specific circumstances. With the certainty that there
a single economic policy that can ensure growing

sustained foundation. The nations that have managed to bring
out this important task have faced different
types of obstacles and have adopted different policies
regulation, exports, industrial promotion, technological innovation and knowledge acquisition. At
international financial organizations, as well as
development aid agencies, will be invited to encourage
and contribute to this vision.
These programs will not be used to disguise policies that merely transfer income to the political groups
more powerful. The priority is to identify constraints
most hinder growth and overcoming them through
micro and appropriate macroeconomic policies. Microeconomic interventions try to correct the
specific market failures and economic incentives
They should be reduced as the situation of groups
improve beneficiaries.
The most important use of the offer at any
modern society is consumption of households, whose
four walls are all inhabitants of a
society, regardless of social class, age, sex or physical condition, although the influence of operation
market are different and their consumption are very different. Another part of this job consumes an institution
also very important in modern society: the state,
in all its manifestations.
The third component that completes the domestic demand is the gross fixed capital formation, or total investment.
We disagree with those who argue that between
main "engine" of economic growth would be the
accumulation of capital (new investment), increased
the working population and increased productivity
multifactorial (final efficiency of resources). The
generation (supply) is important, but the use (demand) is decisive.
Overall, and to summarize what has been said, you can
human development defined as the completion of the
skills and aspirations of each individual from the
availability of existing opportunities to
the satisfaction of their true spiritual needs,
social and material, on a scale of historical values ​​and

13

concrete. To meet these needs, it is necessary to inquire from the most complex and continuing the
social organization, such as religious beliefs,
ownership and production, even the most simple, everyday,
such as eating habits, fashion in clothes and forms of entertainment.
Axes are thus developing respect for
human life and dignity and care for people in their first age (children under 25
years) and those who have reached the third (those over
65). They must provide education on issues
as the use of knowledge, critical thinking, productivity and competitiveness, social ethics and public morality,
corporate responsibility, among others.
The characteristics of the old mode of development are
very similar to the previous governments of Colombia:
closed, oligarchic and monopolistic model. This model
Development is therefore a structural problem which
becomes a huge obstacle to human development, not only in its economic connotation, since its effects are felt throughout the social body. It's a real
social endemic for whose recovery we must all contribute.
By contrast, the new mode of development that
proposed in our government program is the establishment of strategic purposes framed in the
search for a democratic, fair and competitive society, through policies and measures.
In this new mode of development the strategic priorities are:
• The improvement of living conditions of the
Most of the population based on diversification
and expansion of the domestic market, supported by the increase in real disposable income.
• The design of sustainable economic growth,
use of the best physical and intangible resources.
• Incorporating intelligent knowledge of international society.
• The expansion and consolidation of democracy
participatory.

14

This new mode of human development has as guiding principles shared economic growth
and regulated competition, and as ideal, the realization
Liberty and the pursuit of happiness, for which
It requires the joint action of a State oriented
social, open and democratic market society
solidarity and sustainability.
Progress will be made towards human development so that
Based on the realization of freedom and the pursuit of happiness. Freedom understood as a social construct, this
is a result of joint efforts of society to
ensure everyone a life conditions
worthy; and happiness, as individual choice that is taken
in different situations, which must be respected while
not negatively affect other people or their own.
The exercise of freedom can not lead to licentiousness,
as binge or excessive use of the possibilities. Freedom, free will and autonomy are exercised in a
world of uncertainty. Therefore, although freedom
It takes place in the individual, is a conquest of humanity
that occurs in the context of social life.

fifteen

3. Search
full employment
One of the toughest aspects of social injustice is unemployment. A worthy occupation is, ultimately, the
only guarantee to overcome poverty sustainably.
Currently, according to data supplied officially
DANE, the unemployment rate is at figures
close to 10%. This is a figure that does not reveal the reality
precariousness in which the Colombian people live.
Lack of access to work, the absence of conditions
democratic and the presence of poverty wages are
major violation of economic rights. Our understanding of unemployment does not endorse those approaches
They indicate that employment is a voluntary phenomenon,
the limited possibilities it has today most
and Colombians have been reduced to just two scenarios
encouraging: involuntary unemployment and in the best
cases, the "disguised employment", ie, characterized by economic insecurity jobs, instability, insufficient income, precarious working conditions,
weakening union, etc. This, far from a decision
rational people, is what the Colombian reality
today determines them.
Our macroeconomic program in the context of
a sovereign and democratic government, aims
The search for full employment, sustained economic growth and distributive equity. We start with
a critical analysis of the current growth model, based

16

in foreign savings, and propose a change in the orientation of economic policy for compliance with the
stated objectives.
The Colombian economy is immersed in the
developed predominant trend in most
Latin American governments with close political relationship
with the United States. The neoliberal economic model, based on liberalization of the capital account and the free
flow of goods and services justified the transfer of savings and foreign investment from developed countries to
underdeveloped, specialization in primary sectors,
privatization of strategic sectors and control
inflation above the other economic objectives
and through the management of the interest rate.
The reality showed that this model runs quickly and deepens structural inequality. Neoliberalism failed both forecasts and solutions
the deep crisis that he himself engenders. The result
It was the low economic growth, increasing social inequality, structural unemployment and growing informality. The central explanation is deficiency
Structural demand generated by imbalances between
saving and investment that led to a replacement
domestic savings by foreign savings, which led to the
called Dutch disease and deindustrialization
premature. Our proposal is based on the substitution

gradual foreign savings for domestic.
We propose giving promote national development
prioritize jobs and demand, promoting a type of
competitive exchange rate and encouraging investment and savings
internal as well as maintaining an adequate fiscal balance. Getting to the achievement of full employment is a feasible goal and
essential, justified by the fact that it benefits not only workers but also local entrepreneurs.
National development should be financed with savings and
domestic investment, an equilibrium exchange rate and maintaining a sound fiscal stability. The State should support the strategic sectors of industry and agriculture,
guarantee a minimum wage increase to redistribute
wealth and maintain coordination between economic policies to neutralize the Dutch disease,
sustain effective demand, promote reindustrialization
leaders of sectors and protect agriculture.
It aims to promote a temporary program of public spending possible in the context of demand deficiency
not generate undesirable inflation, to bring the economy
Colombian full employment and full utilization of the
installed capacity of productive resources.
We will promote a fiscal policy aimed at equity
progressive taxation and income tax
large foreign companies and monopolies, to help the redistribution of income. At the same time, it should
maintained a positive rate of interest and competitive than
encourage domestic investment.
Our macroeconomic program, whose main
decent work objectives are well-paid, stable growth and income redistribution, build
an economic policy that promotes compensation
some other sectors. In other words, the vast mining finance agriculture and big monopolies
transnational and promote productive employment and ensure the right to work and moved to reinserted.
Unemployment is a macroeconomic phenomenon caused by a deficiency of aggregate demand and the main failure of a market that reflects additionally a
enormous inefficiency. When private spending is insufficient

you to manufacture, that is, when saving exceeds
private investment, the government must compensate for this imbalance. If the government does not intervene, aggregate spending
reduced, which means lower sales, accumulation
inventory, production stagnation and contraction of the demand for labor. Our proposal gives a
leading role against the State flexible
labor market, with the main objective to ensure and
encourage job creation.
The State must be one of the largest employers, and
We propose the creation of an employment program
countercyclical public. We need to break the cycle of
unemployment-accumulation of capital, in which the low cost
of the workforce is the result of excess labor supply, and where the higher productivity of the employed
It is reached by exceeding these continuously their workdays for fear of being fired. Our workers
They should no longer be based on capital accumulation
few beneficiaries. This break can only be
in state hands, who should, through his intervention, minimizing the risk of unemployment and decrease
total product to be redistributed.
Our government set a goal of full employment macroeconomic policy, for which it is necessary that
the state return to its role as the last employer
Marketplace unresponsive. Speaking of full employment involves
full job creation, that is, the guarantee of jobs
adequate, with full access to labor rights, without
casualization and labor guarantees. The proposal of a
public employment program involves the creation of more
demand for labor by the state, which would shield
the population against the problems associated with economic insecurity.
Our program is based on public employment
in a system countercyclical macroeconomic stabilization: whether private production expands, and with it, the
labor demand by this sector will diminish public spending program, and if the industry shrinks
private, and thus the demand for labor by the
same, increase public spending program, guaranteeing employment to eject the private sector.

17

That is, it will expand in the economic recession and
contraeremos in the boom, ensuring a mechanism
of self.
The creation of jobs by the State
It must be anchored in stabilizing prices. So, our government set wages for government jobs
serve as an anchor to give greater price stability
economy. This wage must meet basic needs
the distance, and Colombians without much Wage
Current Legal Minimum Monthly (SMMLV), and should always
less than or equal to the private sector for desincentivarlo.
Given the reality of the labor market
Colombia, and in order to boost demand
aggregate, create jobs focused on four groups
economic and population mainly:
• In economic sectors that have expelled most
part of the workforce (as this has acquired
required for this type of work and this ability
You should boost).
• In intensive economic sectors in labor.
• In population sectors unskilled work.
• In population sectors of skilled labor.
The government can guarantee full employment in the medium term, which would mean that all those who have
the ready, willing and able to work can
to find a job. Our public employment program
will help the development and economic growth of the country,
generate GDP without inflation, and allow for redistribution
fair income according to output growth
national. Moreover, this does not involve the substitution of other
social programs, by contrast, is an important complement thereof.
Our program is a progressive system to a profound change in labor and institutional structure of the country,
it is a model that meets the needs of
Colombians; its implementation should be decentralized and should
contemplate the peculiarities of the rural and urban areas.

18

"THE STATE
MUST BE ONE
SENIORS
EMPLOYERS '
19

4. Democracy
social, pluralistic and
integral
Democracy is a complex and indivisible concept
covering elements of moral, cultural, political,
social and economic. In the Alternative Government we seek
lay the groundwork for overcoming the formal conception and partial
of democracy that sharpens social contradictions, social cohesion and prevents odds with the principles of freedom,
equality and solidarity of its own and inseparable.
It is time to say "enough!" to lack
pluralist democracy in Colombia. Economic policy is the lifeblood of democracy and can not remain
the monopoly of a technocracy that is not accountable
to town. Market fundamentalism is doing
water here and everywhere. So take to the streets outraged of all nations to protest the inequality, lack of consideration, not to be treated
equal and worthy of the authorities. So they cry and
demanding real democracy, real democracy:
a social democracy.
Alternative Government understands the exercise of government as a major process of generating consensus to build a peaceful and democratic change. From
Hence the need for the shift in the economic model and
the design of public policies should be preceded by a
wide structured social dialogue to ensure spaces
public participation and consultation with major organized sectors.

20

One of the first acts of our government will be to establish the National Council for Social Dialogue, integrated
by representatives of the traditional guilds
production and trade, as well as those who organized
agricultural social mobilization, transport, artisanal mining, the students, the white coats, indigenous people, Afro and island, women and young people,
analyze and design the new sovereign development mode
and economically sustainable, socially and environmentally. Similarly
form, this Council will be responsible for organizing the social dialogue for the collective construction of policies
Public key enabling transition to a
society in which no child grow in poverty.
We are addressing the need to build democracy
there is pluralism in the country's economic development.
So that the opposition can not survive without stigmatization and verbal and physical abuse as those
They have undergone in recent years. We look for a
true democracy opposition presence in the
election governing bodies, the Advisory Commission
External Relations, on the Board of the Bank of
Republic and supervisory bodies, because no surveillance of the opposition can not speak of free elections,
because in the absence of a discussion of the different
policy choices facing the country can not hit
in decision-making, and because without the watchful eye of the
opposition, power corrupts.

Under our Constitution did denatured
run contrary interpretation of the principle of equality, as essential to the life of a full democracy.
Instead of affirmative action in favor of the weak,
They applied the tools of stronger policy for the benefit of the most advantaged, when they settled
tax privileges and subsidies for billionaires
large companies and broke the strengthening of
monopolies and speculative profit, which make
impossible to survive to small and medium farmers
and industrial and prevent them play a positive role in
National economic process. Most naivety
91 progressive constituents revealed at ease
that they accepted the constitutional reform, as
just a qualified majority of half plus one of a and
another camera to do so, that is, the same procedure as
expeditious than any law to reform the
originating consensus.
So, as they go over 35 constitutional reforms,
overwhelmingly oriented to corner the State
Social of law, political pluralism and limit the absolute power reconcentrar President. The legal regulation
reform that established the principle of sustainability
Prosecutor now seeks to authorize the Ministry of Finance
to modulate the fulfillment of constitutional rulings and limit the effectiveness of protection, popular own actions and decisions of the Constitutional Court. As it is today, ours is a Constitution
which it has been desvertebrada in its essence and turned away from
the (democratic) basic tenets of the rule
of law that are of the essence.
Undoubtedly, the concentration of economic power
has resulted in concentration of political power, which
seriously it affects the quality of democracy and the system
representation, which seems now to respond more
plutocratic principle of "one dollar, one vote" that the formal democratic "one person one vote".
This deficit of democracy reproduces and deepens
inequality. So it is not surprising that Colombia holds the indicators of concentration of wealth and

more pronounced land revenue. Measured by the Gini coefficient, where the closer to 1 level is the most
uneven, in Colombia a coefficient of 0.55 recorded in
the revenue side, 0.88 on tenure
land and 0.80 in share ownership. These figures have
It worsened since carried out the above
reforms to the 1991 Constitution.
That was how our rule of law degraded guarantee realization of human rights
social, economic and groups, defined as judiciables and enforceable rights, it crashed to the content
economic rights chapter he erected, equally
fundamental, free competition, privatization of
public and social services, and the resignation of the Government to
integrated management of economic policy, all pieces
angle of the neoliberal model without benefit of inventory import and implement without questioning.
It's time for democracy and equality for all
discriminated populations. It is not possible for women
They are still fighting for control of his body, the
equality with the other sex, and not being hit by the choice of a different sexual orientation. A
democratic society can no longer tolerate
Discrimination on discrimination against indigenous people,
impoverished populations of African descent, Rom peoples, native islanders, LGBTI and, of course, women.

21

22

"ONE OF THE FIRST
OUR EVENTS
GOVERNMENT WILL
ESTABLISH THE COUNCIL
NATIONAL DIALOGUE
SOCIAL (...) "

2. 3

5. Social Justice
for all and
all
Social justice is the basis of the exercise of freedoms
a homeland for all. In a just society, and all
each of the individual members have access to
material, social and cultural means to live a satisfactory life that allows them to perform and at the same
while recognizing others as equal citizens.
Our social policy of the universality of
social and economic rights and calls for the strengthening of social movements as a key to
your warranty. The ideal space for the enjoyment of these rights is conducive decent work and security
social, therefore, to ensure the welfare building
strengthening the rights. Implicit values
comprehensive social security policy we propose are:
equity, solidarity, universality, dominance of interest
public and radical democracy.
In our government we will correct three great evils:
• The lack of a principle of social citizenship,
which translates into a social security system
fragmented and uneven, given the commercial relationship for
access to rights.
• The financial intermediation that implements a
rentier system on the rights and incorporates the citizen as a customer.

24

• The guarantee of the rights determined by the purchasing power of individuals, making
social security in an individual problem and not
the whole society.
In our government, social justice will be set
as a computer system under one principle: the principle of social citizenship, based on universal access to rights by the mere fact of being a citizen. East
purpose involves the transformation of the tax system
to ensure the required resources and sustainability
the alternative proposal. Under this general objective, we formulated the following specific guidelines:
• Ownership of the right: being a citizen is sufficient to be the holder and bearer of rights.

• Universality (no targeting): universalized political and targeting (positive) as a feature of humanism (set of universal policy needs
cultural, generational and particular territorial).
• Guarantee equity through the establishment
one insurer: the rule of law.
• Construction of a regionalized service delivery network, which ensures access to the ballot and not having money income.
The construction of a principle of universality of

Rights indispensably requires a model of economic development to support it politically and
budget. The implementation of a universal social security system that works on the principle of social citizenship would eliminate the perverse effect of
welfarism that only serve to orient to the bases
social, freeing the way for the phenomenon of
concentration of income and wealth is accentuated and grow.
Therefore, we will change the status of 'social protection'
by 'comprehensive social security', which is more a democratic and rights view of social rights of 'dependency' of the state. This is the meaning of social policy
alternative: the universal guarantee of rights, beyond
any paternalistic view of dependency or subordination. In essence, it is not the 'state of well-being'
but a 'state of well - live' and this category increased demand on social development proposal.

Aging and old age, as social phenomena,
They represent issues of great importance for the orientation of the development of our country. The State is called to
respond to the new dynamics and transformations in the
social structures, public policies, understanding
the implications of having an aging population and every day increases rapidly.
In our government we develop a clear nexus
between social policy and peace policy. We know that
overcoming the warmongering vision it can not be based solely on the claim of political negotiation
armed conflict, but also show that a policy
universal and guarantor of all social and human rights makes indivisible part of living in peace for Colombia.

25

6. National Plan
of life
The Government will lead the construction of a national plan
life, or program to meet the basic needs
of the population, which is based on the possibilities and opportunities offered by our ecosystems.
With this we seek our society attach to
tropical and water features, diverse climate and
biologically, that they articulate the Colombian territory, and
abandon the merely extractive and inmediatistas objectives that have marked the occupation of the territory since
the colony. This program includes more efficient use
soil as well as actions to limit the continuous expansion
of the agricultural frontier.
Colombia is a diverse country in the social sense,
biological and cultural. Therefore, public policy
will develop considering its territorial implications, so that these contribute to the creation of synergies
Regional fact that in the future lead to a reconfiguration of the territory under environmental parameters and
social. In short, our political will for democratic occupation of the territory through the region in building practice.
This regional development is at the heart of our
economic, social and political reconstruction of the State.
Therefore, it is necessary to approve the oft-postponed Organic Law on Land Management and initiate a
process of revision of management plans

26

territorial, supplemented with regional and municipal instruments such as the territorial reorganization
biodiversity action plans, regional systems
protected areas, life plans and ethnic groups
peasant reserve areas, among others.
It will prepare the country to face the risks of climate change, with mitigation and adaptation,
but while developing a national policy
and international progressive dismantling and disabling
generating activities greenhouse gases
that encourages people in the liability to
using practices that undermine the environment. He
strengthening public transport and discouraging the
private vehicles are essential for this purpose,
and the creation of incentives and facilities for the
use of alternative means of transport such as cycling.
He also will advance towards energy based arrangements
solar, wind and small-scale hydroelectric power.
At the risk of water shortage suffered by Colombia (a
Despite having a water potential that is six times
the world average and four times the South American) must be raised to a constitutional level the set of goods
public use that relate to water, seeking
increased protection and reduced vulnerability to
legislative changes. Therefore, in our government the primary and essential character is recognized that water has

for culture and existence of peoples and communities known as "ethnic groups" and a moratorium on mining it will be declared a large scale in the moors and others
strategic ecosystems.
All key ecosystems will be protected for the cycle
hydrological and are intended to prevent contrary to their natural vocation productive activities. It will be implemented

a new system of public management, state and community
Water in Colombia, leading to new state entities to provide the service, nonprofit, and
it rests on community resource management.

27

Section Name

28

Government Programme 2014-2018

B

THE BIG ONES
PURPOSES
29

1. Health as
human right
The Alternative Democratic Pole has moral authority
and politics to talk about education and health as
rights because in Bogotá, despite national constraints, the last two city governments were put
to the task of building rule of law from the
Capital district. The Polo development plans were designed with a perspective of universal rights. Is a
political economy proven fact that rights
guaranteed to all are more likely to survive, even when market fundamentalism that only targeted welfare policies for the poor.
This is the case of the minimum pension guaranteed to all
American when you turn 65 years of age and who survived the Reagan and both Bush presidents, because it is
equal rights for everyone.
The same happened with health, not because of, but despite
of the Act 100, which became a commodity that right.
In contrast, the Health to Your Home program, implemented in Bogotá, interdisciplinary teams visited home
house providing primary health care. In 2011
more than 2.5 million households were visited Bogota and
He continued to grow. The Bogota government was the first to
right offer as free vaccination against rotavirus and pneumococcus, responsible for the largest number of
children and seniors disease deaths
respiratory and gastrointestinal, and was the first to start

30

the work of preadolescent girls vaccinate against
human papillomavirus.
Our program in the national government extended
those rights to any and all Colombians and not be left alone in what has already been done. We must recover
management of health as a right, hands snatch
financial intermediation and universal EPS
coverages, as befits a country with the level of development of Colombia.
In our government we will build a new system
who understands health as a fundamental right, which
prioritize prevention and primary care, which is by
on economic, geographical, organizational and cultural rights and to guarantee the principle of universality barriers. Congress will promote the repeal of
Law 100 of 1993 and a legislative act to be processed
Health constitutionally give the character of law
fundamental.
The essential elements of our health care system
will be primary care, basic sanitation and health promotion. Primary health care will be the
strategy to guide the reorganization of the system
health care and management, which will give this a comprehensive, intercultural, family and community character, and facilitate coordination and continuity of care and action
intersectoral health and social participation. This

He achieved providing primary health service in neighborhoods with a network of doctors and health promoters
create and attend to people in their homes.
We must return the confidence that society had
employees in the health system and should be returned to
doctor friend, who was always ready to serve their patients. This process requires the joint
pensums directly with academics from universities
and creating guarantees for professionals
health can fully exercise their profession in accordance with
the new values ​​and principles of the health system.
In our government public network will recover
hospitals and health posts to provide care
staggered, tiered and a territorial reference. Gender and ethnic-cultural vision will be integrated
the health service for proper prevention and care,
and it will be complemented by the force of traditional health systems. They will be incorporated into the health system
traditional medicines and alternative care very
high effectiveness, which are the result of ancestral and ancient knowledge of different cultural groups. East
program will be enriched by medical programs,
effective control patents are registered for use
medical, and scientific research for the generation of
Highly effective drugs and lower price.
Under the government program promoted by the
Alternative Democratic Pole, our Government will advance the following:
• The State will manage and monitor the health funds and social security.
• hospital institutional unit will recover.
• consumer prices of drugs will be controlled, and the FTAs, especially the clauses on intellectual property in medicines be renegotiated.
• the use of resources paid by employers to the System of Occupational Hazards and effective protection be given to workers in cases will be monitored
accident and occupational disease. They

•
•

•

•

•

•

•

will replace the Labour Risk Insurance
mutual entities managed by employers and
workers.
The leading role of the state and local authorities be rescued in the components of health, public health,
education and social security.
Fees paid will be controlled affiliates
Prepaid medicine as well as the services it
offers and double payment made will be monitored by the
benefits provided.
Promotion of clean and self-sustaining processes of production, to reverse environmental degradation and do not affect the health of living beings in their will
environmental conditions.
Continuous, virtual and promote education for all health workers charged
the same system. The training of professionals in various fields will be promoted primarily on technologies.
will be given substantial support to public universities and the
will integrate with productive sectors to generate scientific research, technological development and innovation
at work.
It has surveillance on all public entities
they handle private and para-fiscal resources
health, social security and social services, so that actually favor the sectors
which they are enshrined.
promotion will be made to entities that clump
They provide assistance to patients. They will support organizations in disaster prevention and care, such as
NGOs, patient organizations, Red Cross, Defense
Civil, among others.

31

2. Education
everyone
In the government's free education PDA it was designed in
Bogota. In 2013 the first generation of graduated
young people who have studied up to grade eleven gratuity.
In Bogota every girl and girl has the right to a free quota
in public schools, and to the end of our passage
by the Mayor of Bogota, gratuity was accompanied by the
snack, health at school, those who transport
They live far away and even dreams backpack with school supplies for those without how to get them.
We are committed to overcoming the old approach
It reduces educational policy and coverage categories
quality, to adopt the rights approach. In the system
Government education for our people to develop as citizens with critical thinking
turn them into agents of development and acquire the necessary skills to generate self-managed work
that is relevant in the various regional contexts
They make up the country.
It will cover the supply deficit that occurs in many
areas of the country through the implementation of a program
construction of new schools and expanding and improving existing integrated.
An intensive program of teacher training in the workplace will run and an incentive plan will be created
for innovation and research and teaching
will conduct a vast program of technological equipment and pe-

32

dagógica never before seen in the public schools of the country.
It will ensure free preschool education for all children in the country. It is open to all
high school graduates access to higher education.
In each secondary school career and technology studies will be given to ensure that every boy and girl in Colombia access to free public higher education in the country. To extend the offer,
will leverage the infrastructure and equipment of the great
colleges and secondary school teachers
half with specialization, masters or doctorate, as
vocational training area. Colleges and universities
establish partnerships with institutions of higher education and the SENA, which will be called to facilitate
facilities for conducting practical internships and requiring students in their careers.
The role of universities include coordination
the network of schools in the regions. research as a basis for the National System of Science will be promoted and
Technology, emphasizing strategic air for
development of the country as biodiversity, agriculture, management
water, climate change adaptation and diversity
cultural matters have been relegated along the
story productivity studies.
For public higher education, our Program
Government proposes:

• Free by institutions of higher education
public. This gratuity will be fully understood and
It will include the zero tuition, the elements necessary for
High quality, adequate welfare and guarantees
the full exercise of university autonomy.
• Payment of the deficit and the accumulated debt to the balance
Outline of Law 30 of 1992. This involves payment
step and transfer to the budget base
product cost overruns legal decisions not
They were covered by the transfer of resources,
as payment of the debt of local authorities
universities, and the payment of recurrent costs
the structural deficit to be made to the budget base.
• Creation of a financing scheme that ensures
an adequate supply of the operation and investment of public institutions of higher education.
This includes developing a formula in which there is a
minimum floor of a percentage of the overall budget
Nation, which they will add resources derived from
economic growth, educational coverage
and a Price Index Higher Education
It will realize the complexity of the sector.
It is considered vital to begin remedying the
grave situation in the Colombian university. for such
Therefore, the concrete proposals we make to achieve free and immediate to begin remedying the
serious quality problems, are:
• Doubling the university budget in the first year
presidency. This increase in resources has to
wage and social benefits account deficit, tuition paid by Colombian families and deficit spending
recurring. Thus it is reached free of charge
and immediately begin to correct the major problems of education quality.
• For the following years, the government will begin paying PDA deficit in non-recurring expenses of 9 billion pesos. This would be paid over a period of 5
years, with an amortization not only feasible budget

33

tally, but necessary for the country to put
education at the service of development.
Our proposals represent a significant commitment of resources to higher education. Therefore, you are connected with the economic proposal that seeks to develop the
National and productive tax proposal,
to eliminate unjustified tax exemptions
monopolies and transnationals, and the regime will
Colombian tax one truly progressive. The
Polo exchange proposal is comprehensive and, as such,
education as a key link of it depends
that the current economic model is changed.
For private higher education we have the following
proposals:
• Private higher education for no reason
become profit. In accordance with
the Constitution of Colombia individuals
They may establish private educational institutions,
but in no case they shall be financed by direct transfer of public resources or may have
Profit.
• The costing of private higher education should be based on needs assessments

3. 4

and complexities of each of the IES and the
economic capacity of Colombian families. The
these increases should be decided by the
IES, autonomy under the criteria defined for this
such institutions. Considering the above
criteria must be fully justified front
SES and be made public.
• Both the state and the educational communities must exercise effective control over the value of the
tuition and pecuniary rights, their variation and character nonprofit.
ICETEX front, we think:
• The ICETEX should be a non-profit institution and
a public institution of national order; no
special financial institution.
• The resources come mainly from ICETEX
current revenue of the nation, without prohibiting the possibility of receiving funds through donations or inheritances.
• Student loans are for financing
of undergraduate and graduate study in private institutions and study abroad.
• All loans have interest rate ICETEX
zero current.

3. Policy
integral
living place
Clearly, the great social issue pending in our country, both in cities and in the countryside, it is housing. In our government we develop a policy
fair, adequate and suitable housing. The construction of affordable housing, decent and affordable interest, be
a state policy and not a business for profit
financial capital. Implement policies of decent housing
for all and all Colombians, with an
financial system loans with low interest rates
and long-term acquisition of social housing and
enjoy lower rents or leases a worthy habitat
for low-income populations.
To overcome the housing shortage in the country propose reorienting the production structure of the housing,
for decades it has been concentrated in the production of houses
luxury housing to social priority, and stimulate
economic activity and job creation in the production of housing for the needy. In short, the production of social housing will be ensured
a coordinated policy by the state, whose diagnoses
and action plans guide and articulate the different players and resources involved in the production chain,
both new housing and neighborhood improvement
and used housing.
Also we diversify the mechanisms of generation, production and financing of formal housing, and

so far this policy has been limited to a
only mechanism such as the provision of subsidies
consumer, despite the obvious limitations
This system shows that exclude large segments of the population who are most deprived, and
which to us they will be granted free housing in some cases. To expand the possibilities of
access of the poor to the benefits of
housing propose stimulate the supply of the different types of housing production (housing
productive, progressive development, self,
rental housing, transitional housing, housing
through corporations, etc.).
Develop policies and programs to overcome
the qualitative housing deficit, considering its
social, environmental and fiscal impacts. Equally,
measures to reduce the cost of construction will be made by reducing the cost of land and the use of new materials and construction techniques.
Special interest will be promoted with the construction and
sustainable urban development. They must overcome the definition of
affordable housing based on a minimum price.
The price can not remain the sole criterion
definition of decent housing for the poor. In such
Accordingly, the State must adopt socially accepted minimum standards through reforms of the rules
existing code habitability.
The private sector will have a role very
important in the production of housing, but also
a statewide system of housing provision will be created
for low-income households. Additionally,
will form a national system of social rent and
one of alternative housing loans aimed at households with limited access to financial markets
formal, involving NGOs, cooperatives, employee funds and people's organizations.

35

4. Minimum Living
for all
public services
We will review Article 365 of the Constitution and
laws that emerge from it, the Law 142 and Law 143
1994, to restructure under the criterion that the services
residential public are fundamental human rights and as such can not be subject to the exclusive
Profit criterion in its provision.
We are committed to a living wage for all public services: water, electricity, gas and toilet. Minimum
vital means is calculated according to international standards how much you need as a fundamental right
and the amount that will be allocated for free. Then
this minimum bill all charges will be made.
The public services are the basis and are part of the cost structure of the productive apparatus
national, and must take steps to ensure that our national productive competitive. So, let
to make a thorough review of the pricing formula and not
It is allowed to be transferred to any consumer, home or business, the cost of the inefficiency of public enterprises privatized. These have to meet
its social function and provide its services to actual costs,
full coverage, quality and corresponding
continuity of service necessary.

36

5. Guarantee

safety
and sovereignty
Food
Generator: Adobe

In our country you can achieve food sovereignty
with state support if it assumes as the main objective
ensure that agricultural production (and industrial)
is to meet the needs of the entire Colombian people, both at present and in the future, when the Earth
cultivable becomes scarce. For this, the country must guard against foreign ownership of their land.
The right to food is only effective when there
assurance that the availability, access, consumption
and the use of food and water, in quantity, quality and safety are not stable and sustainable
there are situations that endanger or violate the effective
enjoy these conditions. So do whatever
necessary for the Colombian State to fulfill the national commitment to the Millennium Development Goals by 2015, with regard to the eradication of
poverty and hunger, as the government did
Polo in Bogota Bogota without Hunger program.
Our Government will ensure progressive, stable and sustainable manner, the conditions for food and nutrition security of the Colombian population,
ensuring the availability of nutritious food thanks
a joint strategic regions. They will be promoted
practice healthy eating and physical activity
the context of cultural diversity, recognition of the
autonomy of populations and the protection and promotion

the intangible cultural heritage. Likewise, environmental and health conditions are conducive promote the
biological utilization of food and adequate
nutritional status of the population.
Regional food production will be strengthened, the
peasant economy and the protection of water resources and food supplies to price
fair. It will provide food aid to populations
provided food and nutritional vulnerability, and
will promote processes of self food
quality urban and rural areas and urban agriculture practices.

37

6. Transform
Families
Action
As much as governments try different makeup
the serious social problem that suffers Colombia, it is virtually impossible to deny what is happening. Instead
designing fiscal sustainability with social policies
realization of rights by the Constitution, the
Previous governments have been limited to providing subsidies
about 10% of a minimum wage
to about 2.5 million poor families. This welfare subsidy turn fulfills an electoral function, as
CEDE reflects a study of the University of the Andes
he found a greater correlation between the number of
Families receiving the benefit and the vote for a presidential candidate, that among these goals and levels
Poverty in the same municipality.
While this welfare policy at least gives something
the poorest, the fact is that a democratic program
alternative and not be limited to a simple goal. The
State obligation is to design public policies based
warranty rights, which is the only real output
poverty and inequality. Hence the commitment arises
Families in Action transforming an ambitious program
progressively ensure that, by way of law, an existential basic income for every citizen
give them the possibilities of freedom in which the democratic principle is based.

38

7. Equal
opportunities
for the women
In our government the Ministry of Women, which will aim the planning, implementation and monitoring of public policy on women and gender issues, with a differentiated approach and its own budget is created.
Since this Ministry will advance various strategies
to confront the patriarchal, macho and sexist structure of our mentalities, practices and institutions. They
assume equal opportunities as the instrument
counselor of affirmative actions to address systematically the conditions of inequality
that affect women.
Similarly, we recognize the work done
by women (child-rearing, elder care
and disabled, and domestic activities), and it incorporates parity in political representation as a criterion
justice and equity essential for building and
consolidation of real democracy.
Overcoming the wage gap and will seek
discrimination against women in the labor market and
in the workplace. They create nurseries and restaurants
permanent community workshops as part of the
strategy of a public preschool system that allows
economic and social activities of women.

39

8. Warranty
survival
the communities
indigenous and
African descent
Many of the indigenous peoples of Colombia are in danger of extinction, not only because
the armed conflict, but the adverse effects
community economic development model. In
Consequently, in addition to complying with the orders of the
Constitutional Court Order 004 of 2009 to defend
life, cultural integrity and survival of peoples
indigenous, develop consultation mechanisms
ethnic groups whose territories mining projects or exploration of natural resources or develop
mega-projects that threaten their ethnic integrity
or culturally. To do this, a policy that guarantees the right of ethnic minorities to participate in will be implemented the
construction of the rule of law. This begins
ensuring prior consultation established by ILO Convention 169, is carried out rigorously, not only
to avoid damage to the cultures and indigenous and Afro-Colombian communities are in a state of manifest weakness, but because of this knowledge can be derived valuable discoveries for all
society and the state. Comprehensive protection policy
cultural diversity, biodiversity and the collective and environmental rights will be implemented in all areas
border of Colombia, considering that different
Indigenous peoples of the same origin and culture live side
and across borders, so that will be consolidated as

40

areas of coexistence and Latin American integration.
The Government will promote an Organic Law of Land Management to allow Indigenous Territorial Entities are governed by their own authorities
and autonomy to ensure their permanence as different cultures. At the same time, they will be streamlined
the processes that have been repressed for years and are
aimed at the establishment, restoration or sanitation
of indigenous reservations. It will promote reform
Law 715 to correct the inadequate regulation that has
since the indigenous authorities of safeguards under the
protection of mayors and governors, to the detriment of their
autonomy and cultural practices.
It will also ensure that the territories of black communities are included in the general system of shares, equal to indigenous reserves, strengthening their own regulatory systems,
government and food security.
We will give priority to public policies
closing gaps in political, economic, social and cultural inequality among the peoples inhabiting the territory,
incorporating the specific agendas of populations
indigenous and African descent, and giving these people the important role that the Constitution assigns
1991 but have been denied throughout history
our nation.

9.Protección
Integral to
children and
teens
In our government respect and promote the inherent rights of children, girls and will ensure
adolescents, and promote comprehensive training in
to contribute to their physical, psychological, social development and
ethical. Comprehensive protection of the rights of children,
and adolescents is a fundamental basis for overcoming
inequality.
To promote the formation of thought from the
early childhood learning and ensure adequate and
comprehensive care for children will take advantage infrastructure
physical and human talent that have the ICBF and social integration entities operating in the country. It
also it allows special areas adapt destination
Preschool operation. Community mothers
They will be public employees and will move to the Ministry of
Education to become part of the preschool system
Colombia audience.
A program of prevention, rehabilitation will take place
and social rehabilitation for children and adolescents involved
phenomena of consumption and sale of drugs,
alcoholism, prostitution, crime and homelessness. We will advance a comprehensive intervention focused on the factors and causes that lead to addiction and will articulate
inter actions required for handling,
treatment and overcoming dependence and its aftermath. We will launch an advocacy program that

will handle properly represent the rights of
children and adolescents in judicial proceedings and
review the legal status of thousands of institutionalized children.
It is intolerable that children and adolescents suffer
hunger and malnutrition. So they will be created and strengthened
food security programs aimed at the population
with an emphasis on poorer children. These will be made with
a standard of comprehensive care that includes a nutritional component in different social projects
Attention. In addition to the above, will improve the
nutritional monitoring systems in order to identify
timely situations of malnutrition associated with food shortages or obese.

41

10. Young
agents
transformation
Our Government will work on expanding the
opportunities and strengthening the potential
individual and group of young people. Similarly, the development of autonomy of young people and the full exercise of their citizenship be promoted through
participation mechanisms decisively, taking as
overarching principle of stewardship. All previous
will seek the realization of their life projects to benefit themselves and society.
Also, we will work for the prevention and elimination
behaviors that discriminate and stigmatize implicitly or explicitly to young people because of their ethnic, cultural background, gender, sexual orientation, religion, opinion, social status, physical ability, disability status,
place of origin or economic resources. We will do this
through strategies such as promoting and disseminating
values ​​related to equality, non-discrimination,
respect and richness of diversity, in areas such as the
education system, family and the media.
They develop strategies and initiatives that will strengthen
prevent linking youth to the armed conflict.
Young people will be taken as agents of decision
and transformation of their environment. training, appropriation, and claim knowledge of youth rights in the school system will be promoted, organizations and
youth networks. Opportunities, they generate spaces

42

realization and integration for social development
youth and research and promotion processes,
creation, formation and movement, to facilitate recognition and free development of cultural expressions and
arts of young people.
Every soldier and officer who has served
the Armed Forces of the Republic from 2005,
either as a professional soldier or provide your service
Conscription is entitled to enroll in an institution of higher education for their degree
college or technical and has priority to get a
public or private employment, and all this as part of post-conflict policy that will design the new government.
Social, political and cultural conditions and scenarios that ensure the meeting qualified youth participation in the design, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of policies, plans will be provided,
programs and projects that are aimed at them. their participation will be encouraged generating attractive strategies
rapprochement between institutions, organizations and youth
independent at the neighborhood level, and promote their
sense of belonging to their regions. It will be ensured
compliance with the development of sport and recreation
as rights, through democratization and massification of recreational and sporting activities, together with the
use and enjoyment of public space.

11. Opportunities
for the population
Disabled
Our Government will build a culture
on mutual recognition, respect for others and
social solidarity with people in disabling condition. It will work in controlling risk factors and
early detection of disabling conditions.
Strategies will be developed to improve the quality and timeliness of access for people with disabilities and their
families habilitation and rehabilitation.
In education for people with disabilities, it will work in infrastructure and human logistics
and professional. It was also invest in teaching aids
and education that allow them access to people
in disabling condition and in classrooms
special. Decree 366 of 2009, which deals apply
about the organization of educational support services,
and actions to facilitate the socio-occupational integration of people with disabilities will be developed.
In terms of accessibility, we will make a program
with national impact for the removal of physical, architectural, cultural and technological barriers that prevent
people with disabilities to integrate into the medium. They
shall encourage financial support programs in technical, technological and vocational education, with emphasis on
young people with disabilities.

43

12. Warranty
rights
LGBTI
In Colombia there are serious social and institutional obstacles to the enjoyment of fundamental rights
and economic, social and cultural rights by lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and intersex; by
Therefore, our Government will ensure the full exercise
the rights of everyone, regardless of
gender identity or sexual orientation. To do this, we will design and implement a comprehensive public policy
and national level to guarantee the rights of people
LGBTI in which diversity and multiculturalism are one
opportunity to encourage respect among Colombians.
We will work for a country that recognizes and respects the right of everyone to build for himself a definition of his own body, sex, gender and orientation

44

sexual, and for the right of Colombian men and women
to make decisions regarding his personal life. Since the government will contribute to overcoming situations
inequality, exclusion, discrimination and marginalization,
which violate the right to equal treatment and opportunities for people LGBTI sector.
To carry forward the institutional developments
recognition, guarantee and restitution of rights
this sector and generate tools for organizations and individuals have an LGBTI sectors
effective representation of their interests collectively.
We will promote nationwide a civic culture based on recognition, security and restitution law
to a life free of violence and discrimination based on gender identity and sexual orientation.

13. Culture
for Advanced
developing
Culture is a substantial element of nationality,
Hence his promotion, development and protection of all
Ideology manifestations become part of the Polo Unit
Alternative democratic and its government program.
We are committed to the following actions:
• Respect for different languages, myths and legends
country.
• The restoration and maintenance of historic and artistic monuments.
• The construction of archaeological parks.
• The inclusion of the sculptor Ramon Barba, of the
Bachué artists group and other groups and artists
Important collection of the National Museum.
• The collection of popular, ethnic, etc. symphonic music creation and editing of albums at low prices
for wide dissemination.
• The development of a project of historical memory,
Under the study of our history and our geography, articulated throughout the country, which enables the
identification and appropriation by the population
the cultural heritage of the nation.
• To stimulate the production of artists and other cultural workers with national awards that recognize its history and which constitute ongoing support
his creative work.

• Having the presence of cultural managers, intellectuals and artists in the institutions of public administration with the culture and art as
center of attention.
• Ensure the cultural workers, managers, artists and intellectuals decent living conditions,
entitled to social benefits, security
social and pension.
• Recognize the book as a cultural heritage and no
commercial, with a minimum price.
• Consolidate Independent Publishers Network (REIC)
and its union with the network of independent bookstores, promoting a law to address competition
major publishers and bookstores.
• Enrich libraries with the most updated
history, production and artistic and cultural criticism.
• Reviving public printing as a tool for disseminating the writers and art publications and
cultural.
• Provide infrastructure and tools artists
suitable for teaching, production and exhibition
of his work.
• To promote national film and video with sponsorship
government, promoting national and international distribution, the percentage of national works in television and cinema and the screen quota in general.

4. 5

• Restructure the National Salon of Artists, for
is the most representative of artistic creation in Estonia without regional limitations, aesthetic
or artistic.
• Establish national, regional and municipal museums and galleries that welcome all historical trends and
current.
• Reset the National Symphony Orchestra with plant
permanent state funding and promote the establishment of orchestras, bands and choirs in all regions,
giving access to rich international and national repertoire.
• To contribute to the formation of public through projects that extend beyond the artistic taste of the demands of occasional events. This proposal should
complemented by a deep bond with educational institutions and obviously engaged with
arts education (schools, conservatories, etc.).
• regularly organize cultural festivals, peasants, urban and regional, with citizens
to the reality of other cultures, thereby contributing to respect for the values ​​of each community and national unity based on diversity. Similarly,
expand the impact of these and existing in the

46

society as a whole.
• Promoting economic and legally the existence of media (radio, television, press, etc.)
independent and alternative, serving the democratization of culture.
• Promote technological and digital sovereignty and the
concept of free software, supplemented by the
developing our own software and technology,
as well as the implementation of servers and networks
own.
• Promote a policy of true defense of copyright benefits the different creators and artists and not the monopoly of culture.
• Implement legislation covering the various
areas of art and culture and its creators, including
incentives for the creation, dissemination, international promotion, defense against market monopoly
cultural industry and neoliberal globalization.
This involves the reform of the General Law of Culture,
the repeal of other laws and decrees and harmful
adoption of new rules consistent with the character
democratic, sovereign and advanced the country needs.

14. Policy
Tributary
progressive
Our Government will promote a democratic and progressive tax reform, eliminating exemptions
investment income recognized in the current tax legislation and progressively increasing taxes
income. We propose a different regime for income
labor and capital income. To do this, we will implement a reform of the Tax Code to do so
clear and efficient.
To achieve social goals, revive the economy
national and replace the current regressive system, our
Government will lead a new fiscal pact, agreed with the
major players in the economy. In it, the funds are
obtained from taxpayers with higher incomes, of
those with higher incomes and those who are exploiting natural resources. The application thereof is
will with clear objectives and redistributive areas
They defined as strategic in the program we have
presented to stimulate the domestic market.
This is therefore a progressive tax policy, taxation and redistributive application. Some of the
This fiscal pact measures include the elimination of
capital exemptions (reinvestment of profits, contracts
uniempresariales legal and free zones) security, strengthening the progressivity of the income tax for
advance the replacement of indirect taxes and elimination of VAT for all products of food basket.

47

15. System
General and
universal
pensions
The problems of inequality, coverage and financing
the pension system will begin to be solved in our government by ensuring access, retention or
loyalty to the system, the elimination of subsidies to high
pensions, financial sustainability of the system and use
production of reserves. The base of contributors and system resources, including independent workers, Colombians abroad will increase as
yields comprehensive guarantee fund.
The system will have three pillars:
• universal Membership of the working population under the
average premium system, with contributions of up to three minimum wages and payment of social benefits
do not exceed the ceiling provided.
• limited system of individual capitalization, which
come all contributions to be made over three minimum wages, savings and return
reached by their owners.
• Voluntary savings in the individual capitalization system, aimed at those who want a higher allowance and
to achieve greater individual savings.
There will only be a general and universal system in
first of these pillars. Therefore, the regiment

48

special and exempted schemes will be integrated into this system and reserves will constitute a single fund. For the
people who reach old age and have not had
access to the pension scheme or have not met the requirements of permanence, it will create a citizens' pension
meets the nutritional and health needs.
The reserves accumulated in the system will go to expand domestic production capacity with investments in
infrastructure, utilities and industrial deepening. Use in the acquisition of debt and fiscal deficit financing will be limited. It will implement the
old age or disability pension as a right, which stop
It will be set up, while its minimum will be equal to
a legal minimum wage. This process will start opening
a period of transition to a half-raw.

"It will increase the
BASE OF CONTRIBUTORS
AND RESOURCES
SYSTEM "
49

16. Mining itself, but
not
Our Programme for Government is not opposed to mining; on the contrary, it believes that this is an activity
key to economic development. Nevertheless,
Colombia being the first power in biodiversity
square kilometer of the planet, the mining and energy policy of the country should be considered as one aspect
fundamental, which is developed in a responsible
with the environment.
We will launch a public policy
coordinated between all national and regional environmental organizations, mining and mining activity to develop according to the principles of defending the interests and
national sovereignty. With regard to mining, the State,
on an autonomous and sovereign, should set criteria
where, how, how much and what it is done, according to
the country's needs. That is, the rate of exploitation
It will be determined by the needs of the country and not by
the rhythms of foreign capital.
In this sense, mining be performed as a means
to get the country out of poverty, misery, scientific and technological backwardness. It will be a coordinated and complementary policy with agricultural and industrial production and not
Replacement of these. Therefore it must be designed to
live and create linkages with these activities
in the regions.
The State must be a member of the mining activity energéti-

50

ca and not just be relegated to the role of watchdog which determined the current Mining Code (Law 685 of 2001). As a partner,
You must participate in a fair percentage of the business, considering that its investment is extremely valuable: it is providing non-renewable natural resource. Therefore, the structure
Business, as it is raised today, should change.
Mining taking place in various sectors
population about impacts to be identified and
offset, and which can be environmental, social, in
institutions, on workers, on the economic structure of the country (Dutch disease) or small
and medium miners. Among other things, this means
you need to have a complete accounting of mining, not only consider costs for royalties
and taxes, but the costs generated by the environmental, social and labor degradation.
The small and medium scale mining is an issue of particular
importance for the Polo, by the position of defense has
assumed in this sector of the population. We are conscious
the long road we must travel to get it
impose good mining practices in this sector, but
we believe that should be taking the state as
a partner and not an enemy that seeks to small and medium miners. Our government will work to
recognize the right of first refusal on the mining industry are small and medium-na-

tions, above the interests of foreign companies. We must find the way to both
survive, but this means taking bold decisions.
In the contrary, the problem will worsen.
Our Government will consider the theoretical and empirical cumulative exists in the country on this issue and promote a broad discussion with academia, unions
production, communities, environmentalists,
workers, public institutions, organizations
international and other political forces.
The possibility of the presence of technology is not denied
and foreign capital in our country, but always
and when any kind of investment and technical assistance to develop on the basis of national interests.
It can not continue to happen that most of the profits earned by mining end up like
an export of capital instead of using it to pay off
the social debt with the population. They can not be ignored
possession rights of indigenous, black and peasant communities who have exploited deposits
ancestrally. Instead of criminalizing and strip, the
State should formalize and include the necessary environmental protection and make your farms
a model of environmental sustainability.

Regarding the growth in open pit mining
quarries around the country, which profoundly alter the
ecosystems, as committed not only vegetation cover
and other chains that depend on this, but affects
the soil, air and soil supporting base, our Government will improve and apply rigorously
mechanisms to control mining, as
mining permits, management plans and action for the stabilization and recovery of exploited areas as well as the environmental impact assessment. We will require miners
morphological recovery area where you have extracted
construction materials and will promote the use of
lighter in the process of building materials.

51

17. Policy
infrastructure
road and ports
Communication and integration of the territory to support
economic model was developed taking the first
steps towards a multimodal infrastructure system
integrates the navigability of the rivers, rail and double
roads, with priority of the first two. The infrastructure of our government have as a priority
roads connecting centers of food production
the markets and the navigability of the Magdalena River, the main artery of the fertile lands of Colombia.
In keeping with the right to air safety, air navigation infrastructure will be modernized, will be created
the Office of Research and Prevention of Accidents and Incidents and ensure the right conditions for
workers in these areas. With respect to the geostationary orbit, the sovereignty of the fully recover
segment by placing its own satellite, an option that Colombia has ever used, despite its location
privileged. This system will connect our
cities to global networks. Thus, telecommunications networks will support the modernization of a multitude of services such as tele-education, tele-working,
telemedicine and electronic commerce, among others.

52

53

18. Agricultural policy
structural
The agricultural sector is, undoubtedly, one of the poorest and most backward country's economic sectors, but this delay is not due to simple inefficiency problems
by domestic producers as they have been
pointing different characters of traditional politics. He
problem of agriculture is a fundamental problem, structural,
which prevents domestic producers may come
as winners in the international market, and condemns them to be the losers of Free Trade Agreements
(TLC), as they have come to be in the last twenty years
economic liberalization. The deregulation of trade monopolies and fertilizers has increased production costs and caused productions often lost;
sectorization of mining caused a dreaded disease that Dutch industry accelerated wilting
agricultural due to the free flow of capital. All
this has been framed by an agricultural policy
aimed at the destruction of domestic agriculture, which has
been the root cause of poverty, displacement,
violence, lack of food sovereignty, desinstitucionalidad and illegal accumulation of vacant.
Having clarity about the structural causes that have
given the current precarious state of the agricultural sector,
you bet on a real agricultural policy to do so
to do: to solve the conscious errors
committed by past governments.

54

Therefore, during the first year of government we will comply with Dignity Agricultural Agricultural signed the Covenant; Y
also we will demand a renegotiation of the existing NAFTA,
so you can have growth and development in the area
agriculture, especially in the products we are able to produce and which depend million
Colombian families. We work for competitiveness
the rate of change through a macroeconomic policy that allows the entry of our goods to market
International. We will comply, without doubt, the defendant
in the Constitution, to always prime national interest, equity and rural food security. Finally,
We evaluate the current distribution of land grabbing and illegal vacant, aspects that influence high
levels of social inequality in our country.
In our government will control the middlemen and speculators who are part of oligopolies
inflate the prices of inputs and fertilizers, as well as
other factors influencing price reduction
domestic products, increasing losses
Colombian producers. Strengthen and democratize the neglected agricultural institutions, pointing,
finally, technical, technological support, training and education of all stakeholders in the sector,
whether public officials, farmers or workers
agricultural. In the PDA we are convinced of the right to

credit and insurance sector, for it will facilitate
the credits required by producers contribute to
the modernization of the countryside and, therefore, to increase their
productivity.
We will increase the budget for research and innovation in agricultural institutions, which should be
deep relationship with the research centers of the
universities, so that its coordination allows the
country develop knowledge and throw off the yoke of the theoretical uptake of foreign knowledge that keeps us behind overall productivity and competitiveness. Finally, in our national agricultural proposal,
we cemented the foundations for a genuine agricultural development that allows industrialization, formalization
and permanent subsidies for the sector related
industrial growth. For example, multinational
mining subsidize agriculture by reducing
tax exemptions granted to them.
Colombians will bet the farm PDA
It is not utopian, nor ambitious, and populist: it is a proposal
realistic and concrete, which identifies the problem and points
to the solution, which believes in Colombia and its sovereignty,
It creates jobs, reduces poverty and inequality, and make
knowledge.

55

19. True
industrial policy
The task of reducing to a minimum unemployment
begins to design real development policies
agricultural and industrial, articulate properly with the
macroeconomic policy and put an end to monopolies and
abuse of dominant through an accurate state intervention, for which there are instrument but lack
political will, because, unfortunately, the economic power ends up concentrate political power. Have to
to support small and medium producers to
they can intensify agricultural production on the basis of
fair prices and an intelligent state support.
Our proposal aims at industrial matters revival and salvation of the industry in Colombia,
and let sown the seeds of its development and
progressive advance. With this, we intend to also overcome
the serious problem of the country's precarious
employment and unemployment. In Colombia we have advantages for
industry to develop a high quality and competitive: A
strategic geographical location, abundant natural resources, labor, which is among the best in the world and clean energy, produced with water. How can we not take advantage of these benefits? Why let that wealth
from leaking the country, rather than use it to generate
national wealth?
Therefore, the core purpose of our industrial policy is to create a business environment that enables the

56

use of more advanced knowledge and enhance industrial sectors advanced. We also seek to establish a tariff policy that defends
domestic production from foreign competition. Is
As, by their nature, it cuts across all
economic sectors, including agriculture, and clearly
concrete measures will not take strategic support
effect without the effective realization of this.
The industries to develop are in
small and medium sectors, as we believe that the key to industrial progress is to encourage and promote the
development of these. We believe that the state should play a key role in promoting industry and
generating a competitive environment conducive to
the development of small and medium industries. It
clarify that the impulse to SMEs will aim to
firms running a strictly Industrial work and
that generate added value (not to services or trade).
The particular form of realization of industrial policy include the selection of strategic sectors
lead the economic advancement and further development of other Jalonen. Therefore, the revival of the sectors
Industrial is based on the rescue of the Colombian textile sector, which is today threatened with extinction, and
of the auto parts sector. Both sectors are living a situation of concern, despite its high potential to be

Producers of intermediate goods and textile industries
car.
In terms of new industrial developments, medium-tech industries is the best option, taking into account the criteria of potential
growth and intermediate goods. First, because,
like the low-tech, these have an important role in industrial production in advanced countries. This is clear evidence of potential demand that might have. From these criteria, you can
say that the strategic sectors in the new industries
would national chemical industry and metallurgy
(Machinery, capital goods).
To achieve these objectives, they are carried out in a timely manner the following:
• solution will be given to the restrictions they have for the
industrial development of FTAs
that are running and slow down implementation
those that have not been approved, pending
are renegotiated according to national interests.
• government procurement plans will be developed not
last but be the first instance, for the provision of public goods, infrastructure and incentives
to other sectors.
• state policy incentives will be established to
through grants, loans and essential infrastructure

cial for the domestic market: railways and rivers.
• development credit lines will be created, they will be awarded
incentives for competitiveness and give incentives to
innovation
• measures will be implemented to defend freedom
competition and fight against private monopolies.
• The mining and energy policy will aim to transform raw materials (coal, petroleum, nickel)
in value-added industries in petrochemicals, steel and others. Linked industries will also be promoted to
biotechnology.
• Through MSMEs strengthen production
basic manufactures, to have the necessary raw material to allow us to make the leap to capital goods.
• A high-level technology center, develop applied research and to coordinate the policy is created
research and development of labor sectors
production.
An exchange rate equilibrium will be stimulated as
instrument that meets the function of guaranteeing the context of domestic investment in strategic sectors, promoting competitiveness and counteracting the effect of the
Dutch disease.

57

20. Investment
foreign to the
developing
As we have said, our Government will work
by intelligent integration of Colombia to the internationalized knowledge society. The possibility of the presence of technology and capital are not denied
foreigners in our country, but always thinking of
national interests.
In this context, new conditions will be created for
attracting foreign direct investment for the Colombian business alliances; for example, will be
forward a public policy in which the objective is to encourage suppliers chaining companies
foreign capital and investment that favor
contribute to the assets below the ground are
converted into assets above the ground. As
Joseph Stiglitz raises: "Countries that have a better temporary export of diversified weathering the crisis."
The mining and oil revenues have to be planted in development and prevent the country from becoming impoverished. You have to take special care with fragile ecosystems and meet
strict environmental standards and respect the
labor standards, fulfill the right to collective bargaining and ensure the timely payment of taxes.
efficient capital market will be developed and
well regulated. It is necessary to ensure transparency, provide timely and relevant information management
funds, to ensure full respect of the rights of

58

Property and strengthen investor confidence.
Similarly, the investment to help close the social gaps and conflicting developments to be encouraged
limiting interregional consolidation
national, because in our country there are 12 departmental capitals that have unemployment rates ranging from 10
and 18%, ie above the national average. I do not know
will conduct reforms and labor market flexibility
reducing labor costs; These, in the past, not
They have encouraged the creation of new jobs.
Business and foreign investment capital will
invited to play a key role in post-conflict. Peace will not come if we have an economy that will
provide new opportunities for victims of the conflict,
war veterans and demobilized.

21. Statement
sovereignty
national
At this time in Colombia it required strengthening
sovereignty to defend the territorial integrity, recently severed with the failure of The Hague after a
lengthy process happened under the indifferent gaze
several governments which were unable to monitor and
participate in discussions of the International Tribunal for
Show the rights of Colombia and his native islander people. By
So, we will work to defend the sovereignty Colombian territory, with its seas, jungles, deserts and plains, sovereignty for Colombia can not be used as
military base for aggression against any country in the world and,
then sovereignty to deal with national interest
exploration and exploitation of natural resources.
The insertion of Colombia in the world is possible only if
sovereignty in international relations recovers.
That means that the Colombian foreign policy is directed by the Colombians, and not dictated from
no international power center. In our government,
Colombia and demands respect for sovereignty, respect for sovereignty and self-determination of other countries,
It democratize foreign policy through consultation and
participation of various sectors of Colombian society and its political forces.
It will actively participate in the various stages of Latin American integration and contribute to the
creation of a new Latin American sovereignty. Colombian

bia must champion a multilateral constructive dialogue between Latin America and the United States on issues such as regional security, from areas such as UNASUR. In our
Government a process of dialogue aimed at achieving lead reducing offensive weapons in Latin America, to make it a land of peace, and be endorsed
a commitment to keep it free of nuclear weapons.
We will sign agreements on economic integration
are the base of the unit with other Latin American countries, in areas such as energy, water, biodiversity
and the development of science and technology. He will favor the
Latin American integration through investment in networks
physical and virtual networks to multiply flows
regional people, goods, capital, food,
energy and, above all, information, culture and knowledge.
That is, move from the formal integration of trade and financial policies, to the real integration of societies and
regional production systems.
In our new relationship with government will be built
U.S. It is resolutely promote multilateralism in global politics and trade relations.
Colombia's international relations will diversify
to the Pacific Rim and new economic powers like China and India as well as Russia, Indonesia and South Africa.
Along with the other nations of Latin America, Colombia
You must work for democratization and modernization
the United Nations and the Organization
American States. The Government encourages the establishment of
opportunities for participation by the international community
Search and sustainable peace in Colombia.

59

22. Renegotiation
FTA
The clearest example of our lack of sovereignty is the
signing of the FTA with the United States, whose apparent
unchangeable, despite being contrary to international treaty law, has been proclaimed by an American ambassador. How can it be that the people
remain ignorant about the content of the treaties
which supports the government when these are so important about life, food sovereignty and other rights of the Colombian people? Is it acceptable
that Colombia sign a Free Trade Treaty
can not be modified or readjusted? A treaty of eternal character that puts the country in a position of permanent inequality to exercise its economic sovereignty? Is it acceptable that a treaty of this nature is
secretly negotiated and put into effect behind the
Colombian people own one whose name was signed?
Why they are signed treaties investor security
They put the national capital in conditions of inequality
foreign investment? Therefore, within the first
decisions of our government is that of the formation of a team to initiate the renegotiation of the FTA
United States, European Union and others that are in
execution.

60

23. Support
Colombians
exterior
In our Government policy will be implemented to
support Colombians residing
exterior, including the establishment of financial instruments that lower the costs of remittances, as well as
initiatives that help strengthen ties between Colombian migrants, creating the "citizen oversight committees"
for monitoring consular services and more
State support for plans to return to the country.
We carry out a census to provide reliable information on their situation and contribute to reorient policies
our foreign service. We will work for the legalization of their homes and improve their migration, economic and legal conditions. Will advocate
by respect for human, labor and social rights
and politicians, and in particular the rights of Colombian prisoners in other countries. We will promote agreements
international education, culture and environment.
We will promote policies to rationalize the costs of sending remittances, create incentives for the return of
Colombians living abroad, and foster their
sense of belonging to our country.

24. Integration
regional and
sovereignty
continental
In our government's diplomatic service abroad will be improved through the full implementation of the
professionalized career diplomat, whose representatives
They serve the country to be inserted with their own criteria in
international stages.
Colombia will respect its obligations in the
international human rights conventions and host
and will implement immediately the recommendations on human rights have made United Nations and other intergovernmental bodies to
improve the situation of recognition and enjoyment of the
rights and fundamental freedoms. The country will meet fully all judgments and decisions of the organs of
Control issued to people whose rights were
violated by the state and that this is not restored or repaired
integrally.
We will promote early education programs and
citizen and community education, aimed at strengthening the
bonds of brotherhood between our peoples in the areas of
border. We will promote the development of binational business centers in border regions, and foster
trade, creating regional communication axes adequate flow of goods. Develop horizontal experiences of cultural integration, social
from economic and social organizations, enterprises
associations, regional communities and local authorities. In
compliance with the mandates of UNESCO will also promote the return of our archaeological heritage 61
plundered for 514 years.

25. Regions
governance and
capabilities
Progress towards the autonomy of local authorities which allowed the Constitution of 91 have been systematically dismantled. Today, the central government
collection controls and dictates how and where they can spend the
regions. The reforms have taken a sectoral basis
as an effective means to re-centralize decision-making, relegating the role of local authorities in implementing decentralization and reduce the deconcentration
Central government expenditure.
Our goal is to strengthen institutionally
regions to exercise better leadership
their share and not simply running as operators tasks delegated to them by the Government
national. We will strengthen the role of municipalities and departments as primarily responsible for combating
poverty and put in place a comprehensive program
strengthening regional capacities.
The National Planning Department will no longer be
a centralized body and away from the real problems of the
people and territories: he desconcentrará and reinforced, and
all regional directors of national entities
(SENA, ICBF, DAPS, DANE, etc.) shall be appointed on merit through open competition with the participation of universities. Something that will end the regional SENA
It belongs to Senator X and the regional ICBF Senator Y.
We will complete distribution of powers

62

by the Constitution between the federal and local authorities, along with the necessary resources for financing, because this matter made him remove the current government and its Minister German Vargas Lleras, with an alleged
Land use law. We do we guarantee
greater autonomy to local authorities but with greater responsibility, impact goals and citizen control.
Our program of government to ensure and improve governance in the regions poses distribution
express powers between the national government and the entities
territorial by an organic law that meets the
need clear rules that are not subject to
frequent and uncoordinated variations. We also want to introduce a single standard responsibilities
local authorities, so that they can be known and demanded by the public. This law will be a guarantee
the right of local authorities to exercise the powers which they are entitled. Moreover, and perhaps so
more importantly, an organic law better protects the autonomy of a law that ordinary local authorities.
The fundamental purpose of our policy of territorial decentralization will achieve the objectives
in this Plan of Government in providing services,
reducing poverty, reducing inequalities
territorial, guarantee the democratic electoral process and deepening of participatory governance.

According to our view, there are
basic institutional conditions
municipalities and departments overtake good governance in these fields.
However, in a large percentage of
local authorities, because of the ownership interest of the public apparatus
particular, dominated by corruption and patronage at the expense of
the living conditions of most
the population. Therefore, our government
will lead a promotion strategy
decentralization forth between
others, the following:
• Specify the distribution of powers in the various education and health sectors as well as in relation to
such as displaced populations and the extreme poor, and prepare a draft amendment to the Law
2001 715, including the allocation
detailed by levels of government
all sectors.
• Develop a statute that articulates participation spaces scattered in multiple rules, you assign
effective to promote, strengthen the powers of resources spaces
participation and social organizations
and establish social accountability
accounts and stricter mandatory in scope and content.
• Create the Planning Commission
Territorial and Decentralization as
space for dialogue between the three
levels of government and society
civil, which is approved and follow up to comprehensive decentralization policy.

63

26. Reform
justice
Colombian Justice has entered in recent years
a deterioration that has undermined its independence and autonomy. Our government is committed to defending and
strengthen the independence and work harmoniously to ensure the observance of the rights of all
people in a timely and effective manner.
To this end, a growing budget will be guaranteed to meet the needs of the Judicial Branch and
promote their modernization and training. To ensure the
diagnostic quality and transparency and accountability
Branch accounts, the information system of the Higher Judicial Council be strengthened.
To bring people to justice,
promote the introduction of the oral system in all jurisdictions and ensure proper implementation
both logistics and operator training
of Justice. It will also promote, in consultation with the
legal operators, simplification of procedures, so that the successful experience of guardianship,
as an effective simple, effective and to protect the
fundamental rights, extending to the rest of the procedural code.
For the selection of candidates for attorney general
Office, prosecutor and ombudsman, the Government undertakes to perform for the first time, a process
based on extensive consultations with the faculties of law,

64

organizations of lawyers, judges and prosecutors, as well as
civil society organizations interested in the subject,
so that candidates from running and public hearings in which experience, skills and commitment to be evaluated are made. A similar procedure will be followed
to select the candidates to the Disciplinary Tribunal of the Supreme Council of the Judiciary and
that corresponds to the Government proposing to integrate
Constitutional Court.
The investigative work of the police will be enhanced,
so that criminalistics and forensic training
its members is a valuable aid to justice. In addition, judicial cooperation with the United States
It must be directed towards the full realization of the truth,
justice and reparation for crimes against humanity and
war crimes committed in Colombia.

27. Policy
system
territorial
During shaping our Government will promote compact cities, with instruments to facilitate the overall improvement projects and renovation
Urban. Control system will be created for edges
big cities in order to stop illegal urban expansion processes and regulatory mechanisms
processes that can generate intercity and regional integration.
Tool socio-economic stratification for the collection of contributions and the allocation of allowances will be modified in order to better reflect the
ability to pay of citizens.
It will promote and coordinate with local authorities
the application of planning and management instruments
established by Law 388 of 1997, especially those that enable the capture gains from urban use
to the State and free land for the construction of
social housing.
New sources other than direct public investment funding and resources will be exploited will be captured
long term financially leverage the large transformation projects needed by cities and regional environments. A state agency created
National responsible for promoting, coordinating and strengthening
urban management and, in particular, land management.
To improve mobility in big cities

terms of quality, measured by travel time and the level of service satisfaction, in addition to achieving a fee
fairer for lower population strata,
modification and updating of the rules will be promoted
regulating the provision of transport
public in the country. This will give autonomy to the cities above a certain number of inhabitants in
service management.
A Commission Regulation will be created, such as those
They exist for public services, mobility, given its importance as a service with high impact on the quality of life and at the expense of citizens. From
According to the characteristics of each city they will be put into
up progressively transport subsidy schemes.
New sources of funding will be defined works
infrastructure to improve mobility. A
modification required is the vehicle tax, which
should not be caused by the same ownership, but by
the impacts generated by its movement on the road network and
the air in cities.
The cities must become territories of knowledge and facilitate interconnectivity within them and
the world. You must settle the Wi-Fi, or wireless network service, general and public, ensuring access
progressive Internet to the community for free, with the support of companies and institutions within the
frame technology.

65

28.Política
Science and
technology
We define a public policy on long-term
promote scientific research, develop talent
human and linking research to development. They
assign, and respect increase the budget required to support investment in science and technology, and
will strengthen the technological parks, summoning the assistance of State, private sector and universities.
We design a public policy to support research institutions for the development of science and
they are technology-oriented industrial production and
agricultural and solving the major problems of the country. We will encourage training programs and scientific innovation
and technique. We will guarantee the rights of workers and
We establish work incentives to entrepreneurs.

66

29. Creation
Ministry of Peace
and Reconciliation
Our government created the Ministry of Peace and Reconciliation, in harmony with all organs of the
National, departmental and municipal administration, develop policies and post-conflict peace. The draft
law to be submitted to Congress for consideration, discussion,
enrichment and approval are the following objectives, mission, vision and functions of the Ministry:
• Target: The Ministry of Peace and Reconciliation in
the framework of its powers and functions, will
aim to coordinate harmoniously with all government agencies, especially the
Ministries of Education, Culture, Defense, Agriculture, Development, Finance, Health and Labour policies
public peace and post to be put
running around the country.
• Mission: To exercise stewardship and coordination of public policies for the strengthening of peace, peaceful coexistence and participation of all citizens in the enjoyment of civil liberties within
the rule of law. He also exercised leadership in the articulation and dialogue with others
State agencies of the central and decentralized for
implementation of public policies post-conflict.
• Vision: To be recognized as the State agency
successfully convening the civil society and public and private institutions to achieve and validity

the values ​​of peace, tolerance and reconciliation in the
part of a full democracy.
Functions: The Ministry of Peace and Reconciliation, plus
certain functions in the Constitution shall have the following functions:
• Articulate training, adoption, implementation and evaluation
public policy of positive peace and post.
• In coordination with the Ministries of Education and Culture, included in the curriculum for all grades of
preschool and secondary education and basic primary one
program of political history of Colombia since 1946
until the date that peace agreements are signed. (And in
The project will include many more features).

67

30. A new
governance
safety
citizen
Our vision is part of public safety, in
its general approach, within the concept of human security, which is aimed at ensuring the existence of
free people from fear, but freedom from want; entitled to live without fear, without needs and with
equal opportunities to develop their full
human potential. The centerpiece of this concept is the
human person, so we propose to be achieved
security, rather than by force of arms, through
human development. This view combines seven dimensions of security: economic, food, health,
environmental, personal, community and political.
We will work with public security paradigm
and coexistence in which recognition is full
democratic principles, human rights and freedoms, in tune with the human security approach
promoted by the United Nations. As
Alternative government assume the exercise of an authority that is not based on hierarchy and unilateralism,
since this form of government is not enough nor suitable
to address the problems, challenges and challenges
raises Colombia. We develop programs that respond to a logic of anticipation and primary prevention, and work on territories, social events or institutions
serving so recurring stress situations
that can generate different types of conflicts.

68

The guiding principles of this progressive concept
They are state security responsibility, solidarity
as the center of community life, humanism, the role
of communities in conflict resolution. These
values ​​and principles are contrary to those of the conservative school, which the structure on individualism,
commodification of security needs, unequal access to safety. It is understood that multicausal and multifaceted as are security and coexistence phenomena have a single source,
They do not support a single reading and neither can be given
one response of police and judicial court, but require complementary strategies and interventions.
In our government we will work for the achievement of joint multi-agency coordination
competent authorities for investigation and prosecution of criminal organizations. We are committed, in
Consequently, to define, fund and implement policies, programs and actions to address the various forms of
common crime, street violence, domestic violence, particularly affecting children and
women, sexual violence and violence at work.
Given the high rates of arming of the population, we will promote disarmament as those
They have already started in some cities and regions,
to reduce the risk of violent incidents and strengthen

culture of peace and coexistence. For this, they will be developed
broader civic culture policies that disable intolerance and propitiate for disarmament and non-violence.
It shall be dealt with urgently before the Congress
Republic a new Police Code that promotes civic culture of nonviolence and whose purposes are
promote the values, culture and behaviors of tolerance
diversity, difference, social solidarity, commitment and responsibility to public safety,

to prevent conflict situations that may trigger violence or security risks.
Institutional designs that allow to separate the National Police of the Ministry of National Defense will be
and establish it as a public institution and not military
to focus their efforts on new forms of risk
for security, they are as microtrafficking drug,
urban gangs and human trafficking.

69

31. Policy
National defense
Our Government will continue and will expand the
military control of the territory by operations
made within the framework of the functions that the Constitution and international treaties assign him to different
components of the security forces, with scrupulous respect
rights and fundamental freedoms, without which
replace or assume the powers of the authorities
civilians. Will be made in the Land Consolidation Plans
emphasis on strengthening the effectiveness of the State through social investment programs and consolidation
the land distribution program.
military doctrine and training processes to ensure they never happen again are amended or
one false positive. a program of building confidence between the army, the police and will be developed
citizens, in order to replace network strategies
cooperating civil society strengthening program for justice.
Military Criminal Jurisdiction will focus on investigating offenses attributable to members
armed forces on active duty and are typical of the
military or police function.
It will strengthen and restructure the system thoroughly
intelligence, to fulfill its constitutional purpose, and no longer a tool for monitoring and political persecution.

70

32. Rebuild the
public: Towards
Social Status
Law
In our government the branches of government will engage in two clear principles: separation
powers and harmonic and guidance to the fairness and transparency collaboration. Likewise, citizens
and citizens actually have a role of counterweight,
oversight and control responsibilities against public bodies, playing a leading role.
Public policies are an instrument of order
politician contribute, first, to the arrangement
and generation of rules and market regulation
in conditions which ensure compliance and,
Secondly, the orientation of the results of economic activity, ie, seek the benefits to the whole society be expanded in relation to contributions
individual to avoid situations of injustice, deprivation,
inequality or inequality.
Fulfill the mandate of the Constitution and go
towards a social state of law, whose task will focus
primarily on the guarantee of individual and collective rights. State intervention will
at all levels of political organization of society in order to ensure balance and equity, and will be geared to the recognition of the social function of property
Private and realization of democracy as a structural quality of political organization.

71

72
