Presentation
In the past four years Colombia achieved historic progress in
economic and social. There are many evidences that my government
could improve the living conditions of all citizens,
especially the poorest. For example, the continuous descent
unemployment for 44 months overcoming poverty over
2.5 million Colombians (1.3 out of poverty), inflation more
lowest in 60 years, the construction of almost one million homes
(One hundred thousand of them free for the needy) and free of charge
basic education for all children in the country.
However, we have not yet finished the ambitious task of transforming
radically for the better the reality of Colombian life. We have
advanced as never before in the peace process with the FARC, but
we need to conclude the negotiations to end the painful and expensive
conflict that has bled our nation for half a century.
I hope to complete this momentous task in the first year of
my second term, hopefully before the end of 2014, to give birth to
first generation of peace in Colombia.
In my experience as president I have very clear what should be
do in the next four years. In this paper I discuss all
the plans we have designed with the help of experts in each
matter and that we will in the second half supported all
the Colombians. By building the country we dream for
us and our children.
Come for more progress for everyone!

Juan Manuel Santos
President

PRIORITIES

OF THE GOVERNMENT
TO ACHIEVE

HE
COUNTRY
WHAT WE WANT

9

Introduction

SOLIDARITY AND OPPORTUNITIES COUNTRY
· ·
· ·
· ·
· ·
· ·
· ·
· ·

Colombia in 2025 the most educated
Less poverty
Housing: a roof for all
More and better health
More culture
Sport for All
Victims: reparation

COUNTRY WITHOUT FEAR AND PEACE
· ·
· ·
· ·
· ·

Greater public safety
More justice
Fight against corruption
Defense: tirelessly

A MODERN ENTREPRENEUR AND SUSTAINABLE COUNTRY
· ·
· ·
· ·
· ·
· ·
· ·
· ·
· ·
· ·
· ·
· ·

More employment and entrepreneurship
Best entrepreneurship
Let the recovery of agriculture
A competitive industry
Mines and energy: sustainability and development
Colombia: a tourist country
Foreign trade: market access
ICT - Innovation
Better environment: taking care of the future
External relations: the best in decades
Political reform: participatory democracy

GOVERNMENT PROPOSAL FOR SOCIAL SECTOR
Let ·· more for young people
Let ·· more for women
Let ·· more for indigenous
Let ·· more for Afro-Colombians
· · An inclusive society with people with disabilities
Let ·· more for the solidarity sector
· · Attention to childhood
·· Colombians around the world
·· LGBTI: inclusion and respect

eleven

COUNTRY AND SOLIDARITY
OPPORTUNITIES

13

Much to do

COLOMBIA MOST
EDUCATED IN 2025
We have done much
We have come a long way, changes the look and feel people.
Revolutionized care for early childhood with the creation and implementation
Zero to program Always: had a disjointed actions to
focus on each child with their own name, giving a comprehensive quality care
more than 1 million poor and vulnerable children and girls.
Met · · free education to grade 11, benefiting 8.9
millions of children and youth.
· · Create the program to enhance the quality everyone to learn and
Read together with my story is we're benefiting 2,400,000
22,000 children in 88,000 schools with mentors for teachers.
· · We have made investments in school infrastructure without
background in the sector: $ 2.1 billion for 4800 venues
educational and megacolegios. In addition, we have reached more
connectivity and new technologies to all schools
to strengthen in every classroom pedagogical work.
· · We exceeded the 2 million students in higher education and
more than 330,000 young people have benefited from scholarships-credits
ICETEX with 0% real interest rate subsidies and support.
· · 7 million young people received vocational training at SENA and
We create 170,000 places for technical professionals and technologists.
We ·· assure new sources of funding for higher education
public: CREE $ 1.5 billion and $ 5 billion Stamp
pro public universities.

To win the peace in a second time we have to be more ambitious:
Colombia the most educated in Latin America. For each child or young
have a comprehensive development that allows it to be successful. Why? because
Education is the way to reconciliation, solidarity and prosperity.
This is an effort of all need the support of parents, teachers,
rectors companies. Of all society!
In the words of our literature Nobel, "[We need] education
from the cradle to the grave, and thoughtful unhappy that inspire us a new
thinking and incite us to discover who we are in a society
who else wants herself. That maximizes our creativity
inexhaustible and devise a moral one and perhaps our desire for aesthetics
unbridled and legitimate self-improvement. Integrating science and arts
to the basket, according to the designs of a great poet of our
while he is asking not keep loving them separately as two sisters
enemy. To channel towards life the immense creative energy during
centuries have squandered on predation and violence, and we finally open
the second opportunity on earth that did not have the unfortunate race of
Colonel Aureliano Buendia. For the prosperous and just country we dream: to reach
of the kids".
How are we going to do it?
·· Work at all levels starting with the attention
comprehensive early childhood. With our flagship program
Zero will always have universal coverage and attend to the
2.4 million of poorest and most vulnerable children with attention
integral of the best quality. We want businesses in the country
They are linked to the program and support the initiative to invest in centers
Child Development (CDI) near its facilities for the
mothers can give a good future for their children while they work for
present.
· · To become the most educated nation in Latin America means
every father and mother, regardless of their social condition,
commit to educate their children with the skills of the character
enabling them to be successful and people better citizens, with
ethical values ​​of honesty and work. Students will train for
win the peace.

fifteen

· · But it is not just parents. We give incentives to
companies committed to building the capacity of their
employees, and we will link with the productive system and incentives
1000 educational professionals specialized in applied sciences
now reside abroad. From the education sector work
with teachers and families in collaboration with other
sectors such as health, culture and recreation.
And the children go to school free, and we will continue with our major
obsession: to continue transforming the quality of education. For that:
· · Teaching Excellence: radically transform curricula
and ways of learning to foster talent, creativity, development
emotional and citizenship skills.
We ·· work towards greater professionalism and dignity
teachers, as well as in improving their income. The
Teachers will be the heroes in every corner of Colombia. Improve
their salaries to equate with the best careers, expand
You mentoring programs and deepen programs
periodic evaluation.
· · We want the best graduates are the best teachers
from the future. To do this, we will strengthen the Scholarship-Loan Fund and
support grants that were already created in the ICETEX to
fully fund the best graduates with the aim of
to study education and pedagogy.
·· More technology in teaching to put ICT at the service
education. To better prepare our young people in the
public schools and tablet computers will give students,
350,000 teachers and give them computers with training.
· · Increased coverage with everyone to learn, the program
flag of the current government for quality education,
more teachers, tutors and more comprehensive support to all
teachers, students and parents, to extend also
secondary.
· · We will move towards a single day pass for youth
more time in school and less on street activities
encourage creativity and sport. Less unproductive leisure
reduce child crime and teenage pregnancy.

·· In Higher Education will create 600,000 new places with
more resources for public institutions, strengthen the
SENA ICETEX subsidized student loans and scholarships
sustaining. There will be greater coordination with the demands
the productive sector to bridge the gap between technical,
technologists and professionals who graduate and those who really
the country needs.
· · We will implement the National Plan of Bilingualism: Let
to prepare young people for the world. In all schools,
technical and technological schools, and universities will teach English.
From 2018 to promote all graduates will be bilingual.
We incorporate 30,000 new teachers to teach English and 5000
of them will have this language as native.
·· Will offer better educational options for children and youth
disabilities and promote their inclusion in the education system.
· · In the field, improve and build 4,000 rural schools
to have internet, water and roads and other centers
Community coexistence.
· · In the next four years we will triple subsidized credits
(Zero real interest rate) and maintenance grants and create a
background of financial guarantees for student loans. With this
we are taking all the potential demand so
no Colombian was left out of higher education
lack of resources to pay tuition or meet their basic expenses
of maintenance.
Will devote ·· permanently CREE 1 point (which
collects about. $ 1.2 billion a year) exclusively to the
higher education, both to improve infrastructure and development
public institutions, to finance the program
ICETEX-credit scholarships.
· · To be the most educated nation in Latin America means not only that
our brightest minds to study and stay in the country but
that the brightest minds in the world compete for studying and living
In colombia.
· · To be the most educated nation in Latin America means that
at least one of our universities be achieved between 100
best in the world in 2025 and our test scores
It treads are above Latin America.

17

19

Much to do

LESS POVERTY
We have done much
In recent years, 2,500,000 people out of poverty: the equivalent of
the population of Medellin. The poverty rate fell from 37.2% in 2010 to 30.6% in
2013, and extreme poverty fell from 12.2% to 9.1%
How did we do it?
·· Extended the Families in Action program 2.9 million
families and redesigned the Red States (multidimensional poverty).
· · We are providing 100,000 free housing for more
people in need.
We ·· implement free education for all children and
young people from grade 0 to grade 11.
We ·· create opportunities for Colombians to work:
stable performance and employment is the best social policy.
But it is not enough, so we will continue working because reducing
poverty and inequality. So we sow peace, equality and coexistence.

we will eradicate extreme poverty of Colombia before 2020
follows:
·· Will double the monthly subsidy program Families
Action for the poorest within the program.
·· Life insurance will give four million pesos to all
single mothers of Families in Action Program for
have peace of mind that if something happens to them, their children and not be
homeless.
· · In rural pockets of extreme poverty are concentrated. By
So we integrated interventions in priority areas such as the
Pacific and in rural areas where the conflict consolidation has
It has been more violent.
We will strengthen our army ·· Social co-managers and more
support to families in extreme poverty.
·· Quotas will expand at SENA for the poorest young people
they can find jobs and create business. They are not with Families
Action but with Youth in Action. Doubling the quota of
Youth in Action program created in this government.
·· Will build 1,200,000 homes in the four years including
more priority interest housing in cities under all
modes: free housing and subsidized purchase program
lease and purchase with no down payment.
· · We will support our seniors: the program Colombia
Mayor, we will go from 1.2 to 1.8 million seniors
who will benefit from monthly maintenance support
· · We will promote sustainable cities with 12 mega
urban renewal through the National Savings Fund, with
Development plans in 18 cities (8 of them already prepared).

21

2. 3

Much to do

HOUSING: A ROOF
FOR ALL
We have done much
Before the poorest of the poor had no possibility to access a
housing, credit or that it facilitated. In these four years:
· · Let's end the government initiating 900,000 homes,
Three times more than the best government!
We got ·· building off its mark on the activity
economic growth and for the first time the most out
social housing.

The possibility of home ownership is an essential component for peace
total in the second half because it reduces poverty and inequality.
We build 1,200,000 homes, which will eradicate the deficit
housing: we have a roof for everyone! How are we going to do it? With a
housing policy for each segment of the population:
· · For the poorest we continue with the program of housing
Free on developments that will have schools and parks. With the
municipalities move towards greater empowerment of developable land.
· · For workers earning between 1 and 3 minimum wages
will facilitate the financial closure for more than 200,000 families, with a
subsidy of up to 25 minimum salaries and coverage of up to five
points in the interest rate.
· · We will create a lease with no down payment. We will do it
through Public Private Partnerships (PPPs), modifying the Law
current leases and enabling the use of child benefit
housing in the payment of part of the canon.
· · To the middle class, which has grown as ever, and it has saved
to buy housing will continue subsidizing the interest rate
more than 100 thousand families.

· · We launched a program led by our candidate
to vice president, German Vargas Lleras, who is handing
Free housing for 100,000 families out of poverty.

· · In the countryside, where pockets of poverty and greater focus
sources of conflict, improve rural housing to 200,000 families
through the Agrarian Bank. And build and improve 400 000
rural schools, true reconciliation centers, water
drinking, internet, virtual library and access roads

·· Also created a program for 86,000 homes
Colombian minimum wage.

· · We will work to title more than 200,000 homes already built
lacking property titles. This will facilitate access to
credit and financial leverage to get ahead.

· · In the field we will deliver another 100,000 homes,
between new and improved. 80% at no cost to
the farmer.

· · We commit to improving neighborhoods to 250,000 families
the whole country. These will have a new face, with schools, parks,
platforms and nurseries, clean water programs, sanitation
and intra-domicialiaras basic connections. will be improved and the
conditions of coexistence and citizen security., and will reduce the
segregation in the country.
· · We will promote sustainable cities with 12 mega
urban renewal through the National Savings Fund, with
Development plans in 18 cities.

25

27

Much to do

MORE AND BETTER HEALTH

To win peace, we continue to reform the system so that the patient is as
First. Because:
System will overturn towards the quality of patient care:
·· Less delays in getting appointments with specialists, how? Forming
more and repatriating our medical specialists abroad.

We have done much
· · Less paperwork with a POS that includes all treatments
except experimental and luxury. Currently, patients
Cancer must do the procedure for approval each time
seeking treatment. This will end.
An efficient management of health resources:

We get a system in intensive care, with social emergency. Barely
we had three emergency measures:
Dimos ·· liquidity to hospitals that do not close (direct rotation
$ 15 billion).
· · We control the price of the most expensive drugs in the world.
So we save $ 500,000 million annually, now reinvested in
the system.
· · We intervened irregularities in the management of the EPS.
Then began the task of reforming the system thoroughly:
·· Created the Ministry of Health which will focus on the subject.
We ·· unify the Mandatory Health Plan (POS) that did not exist
second-class patients.
· · We include 400 new medicines in the subsidized POS
Trastuzamab example, for cancer patients, which it costs $ 7
million, and it is now in the POS without guardianship.
·· Increased the coverage from 87% to 97% of the population. Today
we have full coverage.
·· We vaccination plan broader Latin America (14
vaccines) covering 92% of children.

·· Continue to control drug prices, priority
this government.
· · We will ensure that resources reach hospitals and
Health employees. We will have a new model to
efficiency and transparency in the collection, the collection portfolio,
investments and affiliations. The possibility will be analyzed and
advisability of creating a Health Guarantee Fund,
aimed at solving the liquidity problems of the sector, and
Asset management entity.
·· Debt restructuring measures will be implemented,
payment arrangements and authorization of resources to enable them to
EPS recover their solvency and financial indicators, and its role
articulating between health service users and the system.
·· Work with departments and municipalities plan
investment in public hospitals in order to improve its infrastructure
physics, technology, and provide better service for Colombians.
· · We will improve the conditions of those working in the
health sector labor formalization, better training for
general practitioners, more and better specialists.
Also, we will work hard on prevention:
· · We will encourage healthier eating habits for the population.
· · Primary health care with medical brigades in neighborhoods.
·· Continue expanding vaccination campaigns to achieve
universal coverage.
· · We continue to strengthen coordination and response
Intersectoral to reduce teen pregnancy.

29

31

Much to do

MORE CULTURE

Culture is not just libraries and theaters, culture is creativity and coexistence
we need to win the peace and encourage the talents of all Colombians.
Our culture is our greatest pride and we want to share with
the world!
How are we going to do it?

We have done much
The culture has been one of our big bets in the last four years:
· · With the National Reading Plan of books filled the country: from
101 new public libraries, to 100,000 free homes,
each is provided with a library of at least 9 books.
Shooting ·· Colombia promulgate the law or "Film Law" that
promotes film making in the country and has boosted the
industry, generated employment, also seeking to promote
Colombia as a tourist destination. Law 1493 of 2011 repealed
taxes on public shows of performing arts.
We strengthened ·· 180 music schools for children and create 139
completely new, which together with the Batuta centers serve
150,000 children across the country.
· · We increased public investment in culture by 84% compared to
previous four years, which allowed to protect 38 property interest
cultural dance build 45 rooms, 7 houses of culture, 4 theaters and
4 new museums.
· · We obtained the recognition of 4 new Unesco Heritage
of Colombia for Humanity: Coffee Cultural Landscape, Tradition
Shamans of Yurupari of Parana and Wayuú Institution babbler
San Pacho festivities.

· · The culture is expressed through folk art like
carpentry, regional cuisine and construction materials
traditional. We will strengthen the workshop schools and to create eight
new areas of consolidation, to support reconstruction
social fabric in areas affected by the conflict.
·· The Reading Plan has been a success: we go for a second phase
where we will build 100 libraries nationwide, providing them with
new collections, and create the National School Promoters
Reading for young people who are leaders in their cultural
communities.
· · We will draw on the experience with Social Laboratories
Culture and Entrepreneurship (television cultural projects,
dance, music and theater, among others) to extend it to all areas
artistic artists supporting entrepreneurs with seed capital.
We will promote the symbiosis between culture and tourism.
· · Let's finish the restoration and expansion of the Teatro Colón and
initiating the expansion of the National Museum, a subject that has more than 50
years in the cultural agenda. Through the Museum we will learn and
understand our history, central to the post-conflict.
·· National Music Plan for Coexistence. Currently 850
municipalities have municipal music schools, we are on the
100% of the municipalities: a child who never raises an instrument
raises a gun. We develop the National Plan for the Arts
coexistence and post-conflict.
We ·· seek more recognition as cultural heritage
World Heritage and take advantage as attractive
tourism in the country.
· · We will build an alliance between cultural and tourism sector, and
We support the development of cultural industries.

33

35

Much to do

SPORT FOR ALL

Sport unites us as a country, the selection has given us an example of that
working together we can succeed!
Colombia is more: in the second half will consolidate as a
regional sports power.
How are we going to do it?

We have done much
We show in this first time that our athletes are capable of
success worldwide:

· · Increasing investment in our top athletes
performance to compete internationally. Our
goal is to overcome the Rio 2016 Olympic number
medals we win in London, and increase participation
in world sports championships. Strengthen the
Sports federations not only with financial support but with
advisory for the structuring and presentation of projects.

· · In London 2012 Olympic achieving the best presentation
a Colombian delegation in history. We managed 8 medals,
including one gold.

·· Taking the sport to the neighborhoods to generate spaces
coexistence: the sport is for everyone, not just for athletes.

· · The country exceeded expectations as host of several events
sports of international order, as the World Cup U-20
in 2011 and the World Games in Cali in 2013.

· · Sport arrive to parks and other public spaces for
all Colombians (children, youth, adults and people
elderly) can participate.

· · To perform such events and to build infrastructure
Sports have invested $ 456,000 million in more than 150
projects in the country.

·· Will promote peace through sports, especially in
consolidation areas. With the support of our glories
football work on a Culture of Peace for the "bars".

· · We strengthened as never Sport institutions to raise
COLDEPORTES Administrative Department and give a seat on the
Council of Ministers.

·· Continue to invest in new sports venues and the
adequacy of the sports infrastructure that has the
country. Coldeportes continue to work in schools and nurseries
athletes

· · In the 2010 campaign we promised to create the National System
Sports competitions known as 'Get Ahead' and deliver.
Today 'Get Ahead' organized competitions between schools throughout the
country, with over 300,000 young people involved.

And our team returned to the World!

· · Support the sports diplomacy program of the Foreign Ministry,
so getting younger undertake trips and exchanges
international enabling them to know other cultures and give
know our country through sports.

37

VICTIMS:
Reparation
We have done much
· · Colombia is the only country that has begun repair processes
in the midst of armed conflict, because he knows that peace and
only they build reconciliation with the victims.
·· 195 164 victims have an individual plan for repair
integral. They have compensated administratively more than 360 000
victims, with an investment of more than $ 2.2 billion.
Coordination and joint ·· 51 national entities to
ensure the implementation and enforcement of the Law 1448 of 2011, achieving
an investment in 2013 of $ 6.6 billion and the allocation of about
$ 7 billion for 2014.
·· During the period of government we answered over 2.5 million
requests for emergency humanitarian assistance and transition,
an investment of approximately $ 2.2 trillion, exceeding by more than
150% of the $ 864 billion the previous four years.
· · To the Victims Unit has assisted and accompanied more than 2,200
humanitarian missions and emergency prevention. It has been realized
1483 care sessions in different distant municipalities to
promote access of victims to the institutional offer.

39

· · For the first time in Colombia, the State ordered a panel
judges to resolve land conflicts. Thanks to this
victims of dispossession have 39 judges and 15 judges
specialized in the field. In addition, the unit was created
Land Restitution, an organization that serves and supports victims
dispossession. Today we have 21 offices in more areas

Much to do
With peace, we need to deepen the implementation of the Law of Victims and
Land Restitution. To do this we:

affected by this scourge.
· · A closer coordination in the implementation of policies and
· · There have been 20,119 applications for admission to register
land comprising 745 292 hectares. We have 1742 cases
in lawsuits over 100 thousand hectares. We look forward
Fault and already there have been 70 statements that return
about 12 thousand hectares. This development is only the
beginning of a process aimed at settling the historical debt to
Colombian victims of armed conflict.

programs for victims. We want no dispersion
policy responsibilities.
·· Accelerate full reparation to victims, following the
deadlines established by law.
· · A strong territorial approach, especially toward areas
traditionally abandoned by the state and in which the groups
They have greater armed presence.

· · There have been formalized and awarded more than 2 million hectares
benefiting more than 69,000 families.

· · We will create the possibility of administrative restitution to accelerate
the pace of thousands of hectares that remain undone.

·· The time it takes a process of restitution was reduced to 15 years
a period of 8 to 12 months. 6732 claims are being processed
restitution comprising 314,459 hectares in 82 areas
country most affected by the violence in Colombia.

·· Will focus the problem of the safety of victims so
structural, with research, capture and prosecution of those
They violate their physical integrity.
·· Strengthen protection systems for leaders

· · Victims Act has attacked the main despoilers of

land restitution and victims.

land in the country, quickly and decisively, respecting
times established by it. At Santa Paula, Cordoba,

·· Carry weapons in all circumstances be prohibited in areas

agricultural judges ruled in only 4 months processes

where there is a pattern of murders, threats and harassment

normally it takes years. In Ataco, Tolima, have returned the

land claimants and leaders of victims.

land that FARC forced to leave.

COUNTRY WITHOUT FEAR
AND PEACE

43

SAFER
CITIZEN
We have done much
We forward with the first phase of the Comprehensive Strategy of Public Safety:
·· Met lowest rates of homicide and kidnapping
extortion in 20 years.
·· Increased the number of troops by 5,000 soldiers and 25,000 police.
· · In August Metropolitan Police found in 2010, we have
9 activated more, for a total of 17.
·· He designed and implemented the National Plan for Community Policing
Quadrants in more than 260 municipalities with 3656 quarters.
· · It was designed for the first time in the history of Colombia, a Political
National Citizen Security.
·· Comprehensive security plans were formulated in 852 municipalities and
cities.

4. 5

Much to do
We have a big challenge in public security, Colombians are outraged
with street robbery. Not lower our guard against armed groups
criminal gangs, to win peace declare total war against
robbers so that Colombians can live without fear, with more
citizen security.
We propose the second stage of the Integral Security Strategy
Citizens, based on 8 pillars:
Create blocks with elite forces search for the 7 major crimes
impact: the theft of mobile phones, the microextorsión, microtrafficking, the freight costs, the
Millionaire walk, smuggling and criminal mining.
· · These are organized gangs whose leaders will become
high-value targets. It must be addressed as organizations and
criminal networks will not rest easy!
·· We continue destroying microtrafficking pots, as we have
I been doing.
· · We will promote the adoption of the draft Law 091/2013 that
He presented the government to strengthen the legal tools against
micro-trafficking, extortion, smuggling and illegal mining.
Justice mobsters can not get back out on the street the next day.
We ·· work with the Judicial Branch in a reform that reduces the
impunity for so-called minor offenses which are not when
mobsters killed by a cell. The prosecution has already created Unit
Citizen security.
·· Strengthen the Judicial Police, improving criminal investigation
processes and evidence (DNA register).
· · We will create more places in prisons with rapid project implementation.
We will use more technology and citizen cooperation.
We ·· multiply by five the use of surveillance cameras, and
encadenaremos with the cameras used by private security
to work in crime prevention. We will use tactical systems
unmanned remotely where necessary, even certain
urban areas.
·· We will strengthen cooperation between the police and private security
citizen support networks.
We ·· develop and implement National Cyber ​​Security systems.

·· Will reduce prison overcrowding by creating new quotas,
making use of public-private partnerships to build more
infrastructure.
We ·· surveillance in certain urban areas using systems
tactical unmanned remotely.
Creation of the Ministry of Public Safety.
· · We will create a Ministry of Public Security taking the best of
Examples of other countries. The Ministry will have ample resources,
and it will be dedicated to safety. in addition to the police, it includes other
entities to work in a coordinated manner in the fight against
crime. Also we strengthen public safety in rural areas.
More police, better equipped and well located.
· · The action of the police must be timely: when people need it.
We will incorporate 25,000 new police officers over the next four years and
Quadrant Plan will continue: more police on the sites
crimes are concentrated.
· · We will create mobile quadrants. Criminals move, police
also you have to.
·· 15 Metropolitan Police will activate command centers
monitoring and control.
More promotion of citizen safety culture for prevention.
· · We will implement a national crime prevention program
"Together we can".
·· Will use social networks in the interest of safety.
·· Will facilitate the citizen complaint unifying line 123 level
a national traceability system. This will improve the
monitoring and response times.
· · We will launch a program to prevent drug use and
comprehensive youth policy.
·· Will identify 50 areas of urban renewal in 20 cities and we
to intervene in them to generate security environments.
Protection for Children and Women
We ·· retake the flags of Gilma Jimenez, and impose penalties
severe and effective against rapists and abusers of children.
·· Strengthen Family Commissions to better serve the
reports of domestic violence and sexual abuse.
We ·· Strengthen the Prosecutor units that cater cases
domestic violence and sexual violence.
Code of Coexistence
· · Coexistence will update the Code to have rules
strengthen coexistence among citizens.

47

MORE JUSTICE
We have done much
Improving the justice system has been one of the objectives in this government. We have
made substantive changes in the structure and functioning of the judiciary:

· · We restored the Ministry of Justice.
· · We solve the interim in the Attorney General's Office.
We ·· retake the institutional dialogue with the High Courts.
·· They began to implement the new codes, such as the General Code
Process for speedier justice.
· · We increased budgetary allocations for the operation of the
judicial branch.
· · The legal framework for peace we established the foundations of
Transitional Justice for ending the conflict.

49

Much to do
Peace means that all Colombians have access to justice, which
supposed to act in solving their disputes with speed and respect for due
process. Justice does not work well and we can improve it. It is a pending task
which we will give all the relevant. For this, we have five purposes:
THERE LEGAL SECURITY: Let's return to the public the
certainty of the application of legal rules. Pass laws of a country with a
country of laws.
· · Compilation and simplification of existing laws.
·· Stability and respect for judicial decisions.
· · Legal reforms to avoid the exorbitant actions
watchdogs, but also strengthening its mission to fight
corruption.

Make justice work: We will execute all actions immediately
to decongest justice within the framework of existing rules:

They run the endless lawsuits: will be launched
New rules General Code of Procedure to establish orality
processes.
· · Before 2017 no process may take more than a year
in the first instance and more than 6 months in the second instance.
And apply sanctions provided by law for judges
do not meet these deadlines.
·· Will allocate the necessary resources for the establishment and
operation of courtrooms with the latest technology.
JUSTICE THAT HAVE MANAGEMENT: We need a real manager
justice that define priorities in the allocation of resources, ensure its implementation,
unlock the operation of courts, and implement a
new model for operation.
·· We will constitute a mechanism for a good investment
resources in the Justice Sector with the support of the Ministry of Finance,
Ministry of Justice and the Comptroller.
YOU HAVE ZERO CORRUPTION IN OPERATION:
We ·· seek to ensure that the judiciary is fully implemented in
benefit of better administration of justice.

Figure ·· Apply finishing processes for inactivity of some
of the parties (tacit withdrawal), which could be terminated
500,000 processes.

·· Restructuraremos functions control agencies
avoid duplication, excesses and contradictory decisions to
they can effectively combat corruption.

·· Seek "tutelizar" the administration of justice, ie the
ordinary judges overtake ordinary cases with very quickly
guardianship.

·· Disabilities will strengthen the regime to give justice to all
independence is required.

· · Change the appointment of judges by the creation decongestion
permanent positions.
·· Strengthen a real "army of conciliators" to facilitate
dispute settlement.
·· Will train officials of the judicial branch in ICT. And the
Digital records can be viewed online.
· · We will create 50,000 new spaces in prisons to facilitate
resocialization and ensure the safety of the population.

· · We will lead actions in association with the high courts to prevent and
combating corruption in the judiciary.

·· Will modify the system of election of judges of the high
Courts, Attorney, Attorney and the Controller.
·· Will remove all functions of nomination and appointment
currently assigned to the high courts.

51

53

FIGHT AGAINST
THE CORRUPTION

Much to do
Now let's make the necessary adjustments to protect firmly
heritage of all Colombians and punish those who use positions
privileged for personal gain.
· · We will corrupt the target of the criminal policy
Been. Corrupt are high value targets.

We have done much
We found high levels of corruption in the public sector, as in the
private. To counter this situation, we took several measures:
· · We issued the Anti-Corruption Statute.
·· We took heavy blows to dismantle gangs and DIAN
Health sector.
We ·· subscribe interagency agreements to provide the prosecution with
specialized agents for white collar crimes.

·· Reinforce the accusatory penal system, to correct the
the system has flaws evident after 10 years
operation.
·· Will review the figure of the principle of opportunity to avoid
abuses and strengthen its usefulness.
· · Strengthen the National Anti-Corruption Unit with technical and
high profile researchers with an emphasis on finance and economics.
· · We will promote the creation of the National Crime Unit
Financial and Contraband.
·· Reglamentaremos the Anti-Corruption Statute measures
drastic measures to fight corruption in the health sector.
·· Improve coordination between the Superintendent of
Companies Financial Superintendency, the Superintendency of
Health, the Comptroller, the Attorney General, the Audit and DIAN for monitoring
and punish suspicious activity.
·· Will reform the operation of the control entities,
to avoid the paralysis of public administration and to avoid
stigmatization and persecution of honest officials.

55

57

DEFENSE:
WITHOUT A REST

Much to do
End conflict and hasten peace: persist, intensify
and adapted:
· · We will not reduce the military forces at all.
· · Zero terrorist groups in the country and zero criminal gangs.

We have done much
·· Have not dropped their guard: 53 FARC leaders neutralized,
including Alfonso Cano and Mono Jojoy. They have fallen 16
ELN leaders.
·· Neutralized 38 heads of criminal gangs and criminal structures
Los Paisas and ERPAC totally eliminated.
· · About 96% of the country's municipalities today do not suffer terrorism
guerrillas or criminal gangs.

·· Heritage will confront any illegal armed groups
emerging from conflict.
· · Colombia is the lower producer of coca in the region
Andina, take illicit crop to a record low.
· · Zero tolerance smuggling, criminal mining and
cybercrime.
More welfare and legal certainty for the Armed Forces:
·· Will resolve wage issues of greatest impact.
· · We will improve the efficiency and reliability of health.
· · Increased access to housing for soldiers and disabled.
Total protection ·· our heroes wounded in combat.

·· Highest in the welfare of our soldiers and policemen Investment: ·
more than 1.2 billion in education, housing, health and salary issues.

We ·· invest more in the education of our men.
·· More resources for defense of the security forces through Fondetec.

· · We have worked for the legal security of our Armed Forces
as it was not done for decades.
We ·· implement Technical Defense Fund (Fondetec) to
finance a defense of the Armed Forces with quality.
Peace is the victory of our soldiers and policemen who have never lowered
guard. They ensure that peace is sustainable, any threat to
security of Colombians will be confronted with all our forcefulness
Public force.

· · Reform military courts and legal benefits.
We will promote reforms to protect and dignify the lives of
all our veterans, especially those who have participated in
international conflicts.
Modernizing the defense sector - Transformation for victory:
·· Special program efficiency and ethics in the management of resources,
more education for all, more welfare, more and better equipment.
"More and more muscle, but less fat." ·
Our goal is that Colombia is the main supplier in cooperation
Security in Latin America against transnational organized crime.

59

A modern country,
ENTREPRENEUR AND
SUSTAINABLE

61

MORE JOBS AND
ENTREPRENEURSHIP
We have done much
In the 2010 campaign we promised to create 2.4 million jobs and we
to fulfill: On 31 December last year we generated 2.2 million and
overcome the goal before 7 August.
· · We are seeded in reducing unemployment and the
job creation in the region.
· · The First Employment Law urge the youth work and
Tax Reform parafiscal reduced to increase formality.
· · 7 million Colombians were trained in SENA
We create 170,000 new places for training professionals
technicians and technologists.

Much to do
We have created more than two million jobs and are seeded in
reducing unemployment in Latin America. But much remains to be done and the
second time will create 2.5 million, with particular emphasis on jobs
quality: better paid and stable performance. This will lower the rate
unemployment to 7.5%.

·· The economy will continue to grow at high rates. Growth
industry, tourism and the service sector will create
many quality jobs. More investments in modernization
formalization and more productive SMEs, more sophisticated,
and more internationalized. Since the regions develop
local and global chains value. We will make war on
smuggling and unfair competition. With countries
Pacific Alliance go by tourists from Asia, doubling
the number of tourists in the country. Finally we begin
export high value-added services: We will be leaders in
Latin America BPO, Call Centers and Software in Colombia
increasingly bilingual.
· · Public investment in strategic sectors will create
quality jobs in agriculture, industry, housing and
infrastructure. Rural employment is a priority.
We will create more than 1,000,000 jobs in large
agro projects (altillanura - 300,000 jobs), housing
(1,200,000 homes - 1.5 million jobs) and infrastructure
(Highway 4G - 180,000 jobs).
· · To that Colombians can get jobs without levers
doubling the public employment service 500 points in
32 departments.
· · The revolution SENA will continue, with technical training and
technology for the use of the highest quality. The companies
they fight for SENA graduates and Europe.
·· Will use ICT to make it increasingly easy to search
I work online.
·· Demand will promote higher education becascrédito ICETEX forming younger for a job
quality.
·· Will support the creation of new businesses. Bancóldex
iNNpulsa and have more resources to seed capital,
support the ideas of those who want to become entrepreneurs.
We want more young people graduate from college with the
vocation to generate employment.
· · The best way to reduce poverty with jobs
quality. We will support small businesses and will increase the
microloans of $ 4 to $ 8 billion to double the number of
Companies with this funding.
·· Work for many of the new jobs have
performance. And with the development of three we achieve BEPS
million additional people save for their pension.
·· Emularemos countries like Brazil to strengthen organizations
solidarity economy, taking advantage of economies of scale
Shopping potential in helping banks assess risk
of its members, exporting more and better.

How are we going to do it?

We ·· continue implementing a firm policy against tax
evasion but friendly to job creation.

We will create a new era of economic expansion, we will have more people
trained and protected, and you bet to those who risk to create a country
of entrepreneurs.

· · The additional growth that will provide peace will create 1.5
million new jobs in eight years.

63

65

Much to do

BEST
INFRASTRUCTURE
We received a paralyzed sector after a lost decade in infrastructure.
We had the worst roads in the region with 50% of the road network in poor condition.

We have done much
In the first half we put the house in order:
· · We restructured the sector: We create the ANI (to structure
projects responsibly before studies were awarded
and precarious designs, and contracts are renegotiated 20 times
on average), we created the Vice Ministry of Infrastructure and
National Development Finance to finance projects. we create
Unit Transport Infrastructure Planning (UPIT), the
Regulatory Commission for Infrastructure and Transport (CRIT) and
Road Safety Agency.
·· Invest more than ever, we tripled the investment had a $ 2.2
billion annual average of $ 7 billion.
· · Law on Public Private Partnerships (PPPs) to facilitate the arrival
Private Equity and Infrastructure Act eliminates necks
bottle on environmental licensing and farm expropriation.

In the second half the most ambitious construction program comes from
roads of history, the time of execution:
·· Will award concessions Fourth Generation. These projects
by $ 47 trillion that will reduce travel time by one-third and
They generate about 400,000 new jobs generated by 4G.
· · Thinking in the long term we will structure projects post-4G
identified as priorities for development and competitiveness
as the road-Puerto Carreno Puerto Gaitan.
·· We can not forget the secondary and tertiary roads: $ 8 billion
cofinanced with departments and municipalities.
·· Back rail: Public Associations are structuring
Private partnerships (PPPs) for the Railway Carare ($ 3.4 billion), Chiriguaná -
Dibulla ($ 1.3 billion), the connection with the Central Pacific Railroad
($ 4.4billones) and Tibu - La Mata ($ 1,8billones).
· · Ports and airports: the airport will advance structuring
Supplemental Bogota in Madrid, the airport and Coffee
remodeling secondary airports.
· · On the subject of mobility in cities continue to promote
and funding programs Integrated Transport System
Mass (BRT), and in the case of Bogotá building new
Transmilenio and the first subway line.
We ·· define where to build a second port in the Pacific and
modernize other ports.

67

We go through
RECOVERY
OF AGRO
We have done much
In the last 50 years the conflict has prevented the development of the field, but we
advanced and we did:
·· The positive trend of agricultural growth was recovered in the
country. In 2013 it was 5.2%, the highest in the last 13 years. He
average growth in the last 4 years (2.94%) is higher than in
any presidential term since 1990.
· · Over 800,000 farmers have received credits, incentives and
technical assistance for rural development.
· · Infrastructure: more than 163,000 hectares adapt works
of irrigation and drainage infrastructure through INCODER.
·· Recovered the coffee industry: we spend 7 to 11 million sacks
$ 3.8 billion in aid to farmers. We reach 14 million
sacks over the next four years.

69

Investment Accelerators What are they?

Much to do
· · Financial support: FINAGRO mobilized credits for $ 21 billion
during the current administration for small and medium
producers. $ 1.5 billion in ICR for late yielding crops.
· · Victims: this Government Act was approved and Victim Restitution
Land. It is the highest recognition in the field of plunder. By
the first time the country has specialized judges in land.
·· Have graduated more than 1 million hectares.
· · It is advancing the first agricultural census in 40 years,
It will give us precise information industry.
The relationship between peace and agro is direct and two-way: to win peace,
field needs to thrive and prosper the country, we need peace.
With peace, the investment has not entered the field due to violence finally
reach. Our goal is a field that is not a source of wealth and poverty polo.
Colombia needs a profitable agriculture that promotes investment.
We have access to 1.4 billion consumers. A modern country and peace
that has public goods and knowledge can become the pantry
of the world. Other countries such as Chile, Peru and Mexico have,
we too can.
How are we going to do it?
Investing in rural public goods. What are rural public goods?
· · This year they will invest more than $ 5 billion in agriculture and least
these resources will be maintained each year for the coming years. He
public spending directed to the agricultural sector accounted for less than 6%
investment budget in 2010 and increased to 12% in 2014.
·· Tertiary routes: $ 8 billion or co-financed with 15,000 km
departments and municipalities.
· · Irrigation Districts and land improvement. Colombia will have 350
thousand additional hectares under irrigation.
· · Technical assistance: What do you mean? Improved seeds, training
peasants, SPS support to export. We want
250,000 producers are sheltered by a national program
technical assistance and business development of family farming.
·· Rural Wellness: We will end extreme poverty in the countryside. More
rural housing, electrification, 1,500 rural schools to peace and
aqueducts.

· · Boosting partnership projects for investment. There are field
for all.
· · Support for farmers to add value to their
products and improve marketing.
·· Clear in the land market (UAF) Rules.
·· Development altillanura as a region of great agricultural potential
with at least 1.5 million hectares. schemes will be designed
innovative investment in this region with the participation of
private sector. It will be an economic development zone.
· · Easy access to credit redraw financial instruments
for farmers in the country, so that they serve the whole chain
productive. We offer crop insurance and incentives for
improvements within the premises, all suited to cycles
planting and harvesting.
·· Seed credit with special conditions to young
entrepreneurs who want to return and work in the field.
·· Participatory budgets for agriculture, from exercises
democratic as the National Pact for Agro allowing
the financing of productive projects proposed by the
peasant associations.
·· Will support the marketing of agricultural products
throughout the country.
We ·· Strengthen productive alliances and partnerships
We incentivize producers and productivity in the field.
·· Rural land will be modernized and inventory use
ground potential. We continue the titration and formalizing
properties with additional 2 million hectares.
· · We will be more efficient in health quality and execution
production and land improvement projects with an offer
institution that meets the needs of farmers
·· Will reduce intermediation costs of production
Agricultural and will increase the resources to implement the policy
science and technology in the agricultural sector.
Ending abuses. How?
·· Will control the input prices, in the same way that
control drug
We ·· tirelessly fight against smuggling. We will use measures
Additional to combat smuggling of food and supplies to
more effectively.
We ·· review the high cost of energy in the field.

71

AN INDUSTRY
COMPETITIVE
We have done much
In recent years the Colombian industry has faced challenges as the crisis
global financial 2008, the revaluation of the peso, reduction of trade with
Venezuela and smuggling. However, the average growth of the industry
the period 2010-2013 was not far from Chile, Peru and Argentina.
From the first day in office, we took on the task of reviving the industrial sector
and we did a lot:
·· Eliminated the surtax of energy for industrial users.
· · Create the Plan to Enhance Productivity and employment.
· · Create the High Council for Competitiveness and Employment
Strategic.
·· Eliminated parafiscal charges to the payroll tax reform.
· · We opened new markets and launched megaprojects
infrastructure and housing that marked industrial production.
We ·· dynamize the Productive Transformation Program (PTP) and
Buy Colombian. Additionally we created to support iNNpulsa
business innovation.
We ·· create new lines of credit and factoring Bancóldex.
· · We attack the unfair trade with the Comprehensive Strategy against
Illegality (Law and implementing anti-smuggling measures WTO).

73

Now we must accelerate the pace and capitalize on the circumstances.
The pendulum of the global economy returns to an era of growth and rate
change improve for the export sector. In fact, growth is forecast
over 3% in 2014 industrialist.

Much to do

· · We will lower logistics costs thanks to investments in
infrastructure and connectivity.
· · We collaborative work with local authorities to improve
competibilidad tax.

Promote strategic projects.
· · We will create a center that will ensure fair trade
balanced competition combating dumping and smuggling.

We have the opportunity for further development of the domestic market and conquer
millions of new consumers. We will be partners for business
grow, compete, create jobs and conquer world markets.

Line ·· building with FINDETER to adapt industrial areas
by local authorities and development ZIDES (Integrated zones for
Business and Social Development).

Development of local and global value chains.

·· Will support entrepreneurs to take advantage of Zones
Special Economic, recently eased to Cucuta,
Valledupar, Ipiales and Buenaventura.

·· With public procurement policy, in partnership with the Agency
Efficient Purchase Colombia will promote domestic purchases
national and regional level.

We ·· continue to become specialized in offering training
human capital for industry upgrade cycles in partnership
with SENA and the Ministry of Education.

·· Will strengthen production linkages with strings
Global value in regions and sectors
housing, infrastructure and agribusiness.

We ·· continue to promote exports and investment management
Proexport.

· · We will develop strategies and development plans bet
Sector, based on the experience of the Transformation Program
Production and other initiatives supported us well
indicate areas of high growth potential.

Lower costs for industry.
·· With electricity and gas at competitive prices, with priority
plans for efficient use in companies.
·· Will remove the VAT on capital goods and will expedite its
return.
· · We will lower labor costs through tax reform
the current government.
·· Will order the priorities and strengthen our institutions
as SIC (labeling), ICA, INVIMA and DIAN.
We ·· reform to shorten payment times from
big surfaces.

Increased business and innovation applied capital injection:
·· Refund Bancóldex as Business Development Bank.
· · We will create a "fund of funds" venture capital to support the
entrepreneurship in all its stages.
·· Work in the institutional redesign of science, technology
and innovation in the business sector. Regional Networks
Entrepreneurship will be key partners in promoting
culture of entrepreneurship and innovation.
· · Increased resources for business innovation and entrepreneurship in
iNNpulsa with a market approach to royalties for innovation,
seed capital tax benefits for entrepreneurship and innovation.
· · We will give additional incentives for the return of the diaspora and
We will promote the policy of attracting experts from all countries.
· · We will provide greater support to SMEs and projects
Special for areas with higher unemployment.

75

77

Much to do

MINES AND ENERGY:

Sustainability and Development

We have done much

We get the mining and energy sector to become the engine box and
development. Today Colombians have more access to energy, and
taxes, royalties and contributions sufficient to finance 75% of the investment
government, including early childhood programs, health, basic education,
job training, free housing and environmental protection. Because:
· · We place Colombia in the 20 largest producers
oil in the world, surpassing the one million bpd
in order to have more investment, more jobs and more resources for
fight poverty.
· · We ensure the expansion of the supply of electricity to meet
demand and established clear rules for coping
drought.
· · We reformed the mining institutions to decongest
Applications dammed and monitor 100% of existing titles,
thus increasing the collection of royalties, reducing accidents and
improving operating standards.
We ·· carry natural gas to more than 1,100,000 households, 300,000
rural families without access to electricity service
Today you have it, and 30 of the 39 municipal centers in the areas most
poor and remote country now have service 24 hours.
We restored ·· energy relations with our neighbors and have
assumed a regional leadership and cooperation projects.

The mining and energy sector is the major partner in the eradication of poverty.
These resources will support financially million compatriots
They need. We can not leave buried the mining and energy wealth
if we want to improve the quality of life of all Colombians. To continue
helping to build a peaceful country and greater opportunities for all,
we must ensure that the sector is strong, dynamic and socially responsible and
environmentally.
How are we going to do it?
· With openness to investment, licensing and timely
rigorous monitoring that allows us to develop our resources
mining and energy. We will support companies to do the
thing and exemplarily punish those that do not.
· Increasing exploration to expand our reserves
hydrocarbons, in order to maintain and hopefully increase
production.
· · Increasing in another million families with access to natural gas and
halving the deficit coverage for the poor. You included
all of the municipalities with the most remote areas
electricity 24 hours.
·· Front fight against illegal mining and smuggling of fuels
that finance organized crime and destroy the environment.
·· With formalize contracts that really will serve the small
Informal mining.
· · We will ensure that power projects done right and time
They are needed to meet demand and boosting interconnections
with Panama and Chile.
We will ·· a solution of clean, affordable energy to many
compatriots living in remote areas without electricity.
· · We will ensure that more individuals and public service vehicles to use sources
clean and economical, such as natural gas and electricity energy.

79

81

Much to do

COLOMBIA:

COUNTRY RESORT

In the second half we will do much more, taking advantage of the momentum
which runs through Colombia and the challenges it faces: will tourism
simultaneously the seed and fruit of peace.
How are we going to do it?

More domestic tourism diversification seasons:

We have done much

· · Construction of hostels road by concessions
to exploit new roads and better roads and tourism
in the Magdalena river and Sinu rivers, among others.

In 2010 Colombia was out of international isolation. Thanks to our
efforts on security, foreign policy and promotion, rescue the good name
and we position the country as a tourist destination of first line in the continent
American.

· · Supporting the special mode of terrestrial tourist transport. They
will consider the inclusion of tourism projects in the railway concessions.

During this government, we did a lot:
· · Institutional Strengthening: Law 558/12 strengthened with Fontur
resources, autonomy and flexibility. 6 multiply contributions to
Fontur: $ 400 000 million in four years.
·· Special programs: Red Tourism of Peoples Heritage Advisory
Projects Royalties, card lives Young Colombia, Network and Diving
Network strengthened Tourist Information Points.
· · 3.7 million visitors in 2013 and 28 million passengers on flights
national and international. More than 3,500 million.
·· Eliminated the visa requirement for citizens of 50 countries to
visit our country.
·· 7.15% in the sector job growth between 2010 and 2012 and contribution
2.2% to national GDP.
·· $ 241 billion in investment projects for competitiveness between
International support for the construction of convention centers.
· · We improve the airport infrastructure and policy flexibilizamos
air.
·· Increased the capacity and quality of the hotel industry.

·· Strengthen the program Peoples Heritage Network.

Supporting tourism investment
·· Be proposed to Congress the extension of the tax incentive
for remodeling the hotel. Organized sectors will be protected and
consumers from informal competition. It will be discussed in all
sector regulations that provide the competitive instruments. The use
Internet in tourism marketing tools available
tax control and consumer protection. A law to be proposed
second home.

High tourism value chains Pacific Alliance:
Tourism ·· high (cruise and tourism business) and second homes.

Saving our beaches:
·· Gran containment plan coastal erosion, cleaning and comprehensive policy
and environmental protection of beaches through strict regulation.

Colombia, country skies and open:
·· Deepen the open skies policy to attract more airlines,
stimulating greater competition. We continue in the program
elimination of visas, with priority Asian countries.

83

85

Much to do

FOREIGN TRADE:
MARKET ACCESS

In the first half we build bridges to connect the country with the world, in the
Secondly we will take advantage of access to these markets.
How are we going to do it?
We will provide support to productive activities and field
industry in order to create an export culture in the regions. For that

We have done much
The Colombian economy remains relatively closed to
trade, with just partial to global value chains connection.
But we have made significant progress:
·· Consolidate investor confidence and in 2013 broke the
record investment with US $ 17,000 million.
· · We launched six trade agreements (Canada, EFTA, USA,
European Union, Venezuela and Pacific Alliance), achieving
landmark enforce such negotiations with countries
developed.
· · Exports grew 48%, from $ 40,000 million
2010 to US $ 59,000 million in 2013. We are leveraging
Trade Agreements to sell more to the world.
·· Measures were taken to prevent the sharp revaluation
exchange rate. The Central Bank bought many more
dollars in the past and nominal tariffs were reduced.

We reach all departmental capitals.
· · The maximum possible support to the field and industry,
an environment of high decentralization. We reach all
departmental capitals.
·· Will put the pedal to the Pacific Alliance to win
Asian markets and exploit plus other agreements
Business.
·· Will increase by 40% per year our exports
different from the mining and energy.
· · We will lead an international offensive to the WTO and to other
forums on the problem of smuggling.
We ·· institutional reform to strengthen customs control
at the borders.
We ·· propose a relatively homogeneous Tariff
special treatment for agriculture, which will facilitate the
emergence of new productive sectors.
· · The nationalization of the goods shall take within 48 hours.
· · The whole process of foreign trade will
electronically (including logistics and customs).

87

89

Much to do

ICT - INNOVATION
We have done much
The Vive Digital plan has been a success, and recognizes the country and the world.

In the first half we build the infrastructure of connectivity, in the second
time will generate content to seize it better.
How are we going to do it?
· · Smart Tablet will deliver education
free computers to all teachers and 350,000 tablets at all
10th grade students to better prepare our young people.
Digital cities ·· public areas with wireless internet with
intelligent traffic systems and traffic lights, with coverage
video surveillance.

· · We connect all municipalities in fiber optics. We spent 2.2
million 8.8 million Internet connections.

· · Digital Health: digital medical records (now on paper). Besides using
optical fiber installed for telehealth and telemedicine services
in remote areas.

We ·· 5-9 of submarine cables, telephony licenses were allocated
4G and reached 7621 Vive Digital kiosks.

·· Justice will support the modernization of the industry to reach
Online court documents.

We ·· deliver 650,000 computers and 1,130,000 tablets.

· · Digital Entrepreneurship: APPS.CO to strengthen the
Colombian generate applications and programs for SMEs (large
Tappsi success or police quadrant). We want Colombia
It will become the largest producer in the world for applications
the social base of the pyramid, and for this we must be more
engineers and programmers.

· · We have the cheapest computers in the region thanks to the impact of
tax benefits.
·· With programs like APPS.CO support to 80,000 digital entrepreneurs.
We paid ·· 1,574,000 in subsidies for internet strata 1 and 2.

· · With regulation we will improve the quality and service prices
cell, as we have done with the prices of computers and
the Internet.
·· Intensify the struggle to combat theft of mobile phones.
·· 2018, Colombia is a leader in the public procurement system and
informacón systems industry in Latin America.

91

93

Much to do

BETTER ENVIRONMENT:
CARING FOR THE FUTURE

Total peace will not be complete without the protection of the environment for
future generations. In Colombia alone we can protect more. At
second time Colombia will consolidate a sustainable, consistent with
the climate and the environment.
We will achieve keeping these main areas:
·· Green economy: will provide financial incentives and tax
designed to boost businesses that generate environmental benefits
such as reforestation, restoration, ecotourism and biotechnology.

We have done much
Climate change is one of the biggest challenges facing Colombia. At
first time we had to face the rainy season which led us to create the Fund
Adaptation, which invested heavily in tackling climate change and
We move forward in building a more sustainable country.
·· Created the Ministry of Environment, Housing and Territorial Development,
separating the Housing.
·· We extended the Chiribiquete National Park, the largest park
Amazon with 2.3 million hectares.
· · We lead the negotiation of Sustainable Development Goals
(ODS) in Rio de Janeiro.
We ·· create a policy that makes it compulsory to compensate
the damage done to the environment and biodiversity.

· · Land management with areas closed to mining:
We develop a mining and energy sector with a vision of territory
protect moors, wetlands and areas of high biodiversity.
· · Strategic vision of the Amazon by 2018 will reduce to zero
Deforestation in the Amazon colonization by stabilizing and strengthening the
Local governments in indigenous communities, and the regional system
protected areas.
· · Sustainable Cities: less vulnerable to climate change and
more efficient use of strategic resources such as water
and energy, promoting the use of clean and renewable energy.
We will support the construction of bike paths and the use of alternative
complimentary clean.
·· Will conduct activities for decontamination of the Bogotá River. He
Bogota River will be a priority, as part of a comprehensive water policy
to reduce the dumping of waste and promote best practices
through the creation of national agricultural agency.
·· Shock Strategy: strengthen the control and monitoring of the sector
environment through a comprehensive reform of the Autonomous Corporations
Regionals.
We will devote ·· 624 000 hectares for the conservation and sustainable use of
water from environmental regulation.
· · We will develop a special scheme for the biosphere reserve
Seaflower, in the Archipelago Department of San Andres and Providencia
Santa Catalina, as part of a comprehensive policy for the management of
Oceans and coastal and island regions.

95

97

Much to do

EXTERNAL RELATIONSHIPS:
THE BEST IN DECADES

In the second half we will win the peace and consolidate regional leadership
based on the pride we all feel to be Colombians. Continue
working for Colombia is a country increasingly influential day
international stage. Our greatest external relevance accompanied by
investment and employment opportunities for all compatriots.
How are we going to do it?

We have done much
Four years ago we were isolated, now the world sees us with admiration:
· · We restored relations with neighbors, based on respect for
the differences.
· · They opened the doors of the world: 9 EU countries and us
They lifted the visa requirement.
·· Create the Pacific Alliance: economic integration initiative
most important of the region.
· · We expand and deepen trade relations between Colombia
through the FTAs ​​with Canada, the United States and the European Union.
·· Opened or reopened in August embassies and 9 consulates
to strengthen our presence in the world.
We ·· begin the process of joining the Organization for Economic Cooperation
and Economic Development (OECD).

We ·· deepen the Pacific Alliance and will continue integrating us
with neighbors through common infrastructure projects.
· · Through our participation in multilateral forums such as the
OECD (club of best practices in developed countries), the Rio +20
(Sustainable development objectives) and the INCB (new drug policy)
We demonstrate regional leadership.
· · We will implement for post-conflict diplomacy: Cooperation
South-South, will share our experience with other countries
issues such as security and reintegration.
· · Before there was a country that Colombians were gone, now there
a country to return: will strengthen the 'Return Plan' for
our talents back to the country.
·· Our borders will continue to invest in more infrastructure
and social programs.
·· Colombians increasingly need visas to go
other countries.
We ·· defend our interests and our sovereign territory
vehemently. We will use all legal tools
available to enforce our rights in litigation
Nicaragua.

99

101

·· The same rules apply to the mayors,
governors and the president: or period is amended
mayors and governors or the ability to be implemented
re-election for one term.

POLITICAL REFORM:
Participatory Democracy
Much to do
In the second half we will work for peace and introduce a reform
consolidate constitutional democratic opening began with the
1991 Constitution with the following lines:
·· Will remove presidential term to well
strengthen democratic pluralism and the alternation in power.
At the same time the President would be extended period.
Mixed ·· Constituency for the election of the Senate:
Colombia requires the territorial jurisdiction to allow
greater regional representation and national constituency
to boost national leadership and representation
minorities.

· · Removing the preferential vote: the preferential vote prevents
a party system is properly consolidated and that is why
that will promote the adoption of closed lists in all
the elections.

·· Strengthening of state campaign finance
election: state funding will ensure a
transparency secured to prevent outbreaks of corruption
They distort democracy in the electoral process.
·· Statute for elected public officials:
We will promote a statute for public servants
popular election in order to review the rules of disabilities and
incompatibilities. Through this we will ensure the efficacy of
combating corruption and rights to elect and be elected.
·· During the period beginning in August 2014, we advance
in the search for peace and promote a new opening
to consolidate the inclusive democratic political system and
pluralist with an adequate system of checks and balances

105

107

Government proposal for social sectors

LETS GO FOR MORE
FOR YOUTH

Much to do
· · We will create the National Bank of Youth Projects (BNPJ) that
will support our young entrepreneurs with seed capital for
project becomes reality, it will be articulately
with iNNpulsa Bancóldex program that supports innovation and
entrepreneurship.

We have done much

·· Strengthen the Young Colombia Presidential Program for
have a greater territorial presence in the Municipal Councils and
Youth department.

· · We issued the Law 1622 of 2013 "Status of Youth Citizenship".
We ·· provide free education in all public institutions more
of students 8,900,000.
· · We expanded school coverage for children and young peasants:
more than 80,000 children and young people benefited.
·· Working to reduce interest on loans ICETEX is
It achieved a real interest rate of 0%.
· · We encourage innovation and entrepreneurship in 32 departments
the country with the creation of iNNpulsa.
·· We fostered projects offered by the Colombia program
Young: House of Youth, Employment and Entrepreneurship, card
Golombiao young.
·· They were formed and strengthened 234 Municipal Councils, 17 Tips
Departmental and 4 District Youth Councils.

· · We will strengthen mechanisms for citizen participation
youth included in the National System of Youth.
·· Continue and expand the supply of credit-scholarships ICETEX
with a real interest rate of 0%, so that more young people can
access to higher education.
· · Through SENA we will continue to offer training courses
to facilitate the entry of young people into the labor market.
· · The Government will support the program Youth card
promote youth tourism in the country.

109

111

Government proposal for social sectors

LETS GO FOR MORE
FOR THE WOMEN
We have done much
· ·

Promoted equality in pay scale for women
and men.

· ·

We create zero tolerance policy against sexual harassment in the
workplace, and prevention of violence against women.

· ·

We developed protocols of care for women victims.

· ·

We issued the Public Policy for Gender Equity.

· ·

We approved CONPES 3784 of 2013 "Policy Guidelines
Public risk prevention, protection and guarantee
rights of women victims of armed conflict ".

· ·

We approve the document CONPES 161 of 2013 on equity
for women.

· ·

We formulated the Comprehensive Plan to guarantee women a life
free from violence.

· ·

New indicators included in the 3726 CONPES 2012 document.

· ·

We created the Presidential Adviser on Equality ·
Women (ACPEM).

· ·

The ACPEM, with support from the Ministry of Health and the ICBF, led the
intersectoral strategy for the prevention of teen pregnancy.

· ·

We served over 178,912 Women Savers in Action.

Much to do
We ·· implement the Gender Equality Policy and the National Plan
combating gender violence with a strategy
permanent communication, to prevent violence against
women and improve the information systems that record
different kinds of violence against women.
·· Will promote greater access for women to justice, adopting
measures to combat impunity and strengthen the capacity
of the Family Commissions and judges in knowledge, and
understanding of gender violence.
· · We will implement the plan of formal employment for women over
40 years.
· · We will strengthen gender mainstreaming in the program strategy
Zero to always.
· · We will promote the training of teachers in gender equity
all levels of education.
· · We will promote the entry of women into technical programs and
technology offered by SENA and other institutions in sectors
traditionally male.
· · We will increase the number of qualified women in management
public and leadership.
· · We will increase the number of companies certified with the Seal
Equipares, including public bodies.
·· Strategy will expand the training of labor inspectors
to verify compliance with equality in companies around the country.
·· Continue processes in digital literacy and ceriticación
use of ICT.
·· Strengthen credit programs and certification for ICT
small and medium entrepreneurs.

113

115

Government proposal for social sectors

Much to do

Let BY MORE FOR
INDIGENOUS

·· Will generate a process of joint nation-territory,
calling on governments and municipalities to build agendas
joint for the inclusion of indigenous components.

We have done much

·· Will invite indigenous peoples to participate in building
It is lasting peace from their ancestral territories.

We ·· formulate guarantee programs for indigenous peoples and
protection of the rights of displaced indigenous women
at risk.
We ·· urge whole life plans and the development itself
indigenous communities.
·· Design and implement the National Training Program
Training and consultation with academic focus, directed
public officials at national and regional level, entrepreneurs and
Indians.
·· We got the presidential program was recognized by
indigenous organizations, cooperation agencies and entities
academic as the advisory body of the National Government.
We ·· develop programs of interagency coordination with the
in order to boost state agencies including the approach
Rights for the differential care of women and indigenous children.
· · We have ensured the implementation of the overall system resources
shares to indigenous reserves and have formed tables
consultation with indigenous peoples.

·· Adopt the CONPES in Indian Public Policy:
Implement the Indian education system itself and the
intercultural health system for indigenous peoples.

· · Formulate policies with social and environmental emphasis for
physical and cultural protection of indigenous peoples.
·· Strengthen indigenous institutions and representation in
National government.

117

119

Government proposal for social sectors

LETS GO FOR MORE
FOR THE
Afro

Much to do
·· Opportunities for Afro: expand programs
ICETEX differential and scholarships for students from the SENA
negritudes and network for African States.
Beat the game ·· discrimination: create stamp
Racism zero.

We have done much
·· African States launched the strategy to ensure that the
RED STATES effectively reach the African population,
offering their own culture inspired solutions, experiences
and customs.
· · We expanded the mechanisms of communication and consultation with
Black communities: we create a national forum for dialogue
and high-level advisory committee for the consultation of
legislative initiatives.
· · Reactivate the institutional committee for the construction ·
specific plans to protect and care for
black communities.
·· Was achieved that a large majority of national business sign
Declaration of Racial Equality and Equal Opportunities in
that employers undertake to create more opportunities
Job to the Afro-Colombian population.

·· Work in political reform, clear regulations ·
of seats for black communities, Afro-Colombian,
Raizal and Palenque.
·· Best African reprensentación: strengthen the institutional
responsible for the issues that are of particular interest to the population
African and participation in this government.

121

123

Government proposal for social sectors

An inclusive society
WITH PEOPLE
DISABILITY
We have done much
· · We promoted the issuance of the Statutory Law 1618 of 2013, which
seeks to guarantee and ensure effective exercise of rights
people on disability status.
·· Met ratification of the UN Convention
on the rights of people with disabilities.
CONPES 166 ·· Disability was signed by which
He redesigned the current political transforming the simple assistance
comprehensive protection policies in human development.
· · Through the Ministry of Interior they were first developed
training programs that promote the participation of people
with disabilities.
·· Convert to Colombia in a South American benchmark studies,
technological advances and research in sports sciences
Therapeutic and sports.
· · Thanks to the significant investment we make in processes
sports training, support to athletes in events
national and international and non-traditional sports in the
country, we we could have for our government
with the largest representation of athletes at the Games
Olympic and Paralympic Games in London 2012.

Met · · consolidation of the document "Broad
for providing education to disabled populations in the
under the Right to Education ".
·· Document-Education Policy Guidelines were introduced
Inclusive Superior, a pioneer in Latin America document.

Much to do
·· Reglamentaremos February 1618 Law on the Rights of 2013
people on disability status.
·· Will achieve the characterization of people with disabilities
in the country.
· · We will promote the reform of Law 582 of 2000 "System
Paralympic Colombiano "adapting it to the current reality of sport
Paralympic world.
·· Will achieve equal rights for Olympians
and Paralympians.
·· Ratify the Optional Protocol to the Convention of Nations
United on the rights of people with disabilities.
· · Caregivers will promote a law.
· · We will offer the best educational options for children and youth
with disabilities and promote their inclusion in the education system.
·· Will generate additional labor inclusion policies that serve
bridge between the skills of people with disabilities and
needs of the productive sector.

125

127

Government proposal for social sectors

LETS GO FOR MORE
FOR THE SECTOR
SOLIDARITY

Much to do
·· The joint partnership model will constitute one of the vehicles
execution of public policy aiming to reduce the
poverty, equal opportunities, social fabric and building
the consolidation of peace.
· · To this end various governmental entities in the implementation

We have done much

policies, plans, programs and projects, will appreciate the advantages and
benefits of solidarity and partnership model suitable tool
for implementation.

· · We created the Special Administrative Unit Organizations
Solidarity as part of the Ministry of Labour Institution.
·· We recorded 581 new social economy organizations ·
(Employee funds, mutuals and cooperatives).
·· 5615 recorded new development solidarity organizations
chambers of commerce which, together with the 581 solidarity economy,
6196 total new organizations in the service of solidarity sector
without the voluntary and community organizations.
·· Special Administrative Unit of Solidarity Organizations
He has been working for the inclusion of training in solidarity
formal education through support to the strategy
the Ministry of Education to promote culture,
entrepreneurship and business development in about 900
educational establishments of the country.

·· Regulations updating the laws of solidarity sector is required
because there is no legislative unit that identifies and warranty
the development of the social economy sector.
·· Will review the various standards that limit or prevent the association and
strengthen the institutional framework that promotes ·
cooperativism.
· · We will promote a culture of solidarity and partnership through the
including the joint training.
·· Processes will support cooperative association of MSMEs,
in order to achieve economic balance in their activities.
· · We discuss the best models related to rural development
cooperative, with the aim to implement the most suitable for
development of the sector.
· · We discuss the possibility of making it mandatory to entities
monitoring and control, the report of the Social and PESEM ·
(Education Business Partnership Plan), by sector entities.

129

131

Government proposal for social sectors

ATTENTION TO
OUR CHILDREN

Much to do
Now we will promote a deep transformation of the state and society
so that children can realize their full potential in an environment of
security, happiness, respect and care. This is a prerequisite for
peace.
We ·· Strengthen the implementation of the policy on sexual health
and unwanted pregnancy prevention, adopted by the
CONPES 147 of 2012.

We have done much
The protection of children has been a priority of the State during
this government.
· · Create the De Cero program always running
planned actions aimed at ensuring the development
child early.
· · Zero to Forever has become the first comprehensive effort
State to attend early childhood, an essential pillar
education policy that will cover the end of 2014
1.2 million children. By its cross-cutting nature
and comprehensive, De Cero a Siempre has become a benchmark
for Latin America.
·· Comprehensive care is education, nutrition and stimulation to
Creativity of children from zero to Cino years.

· · We harsher punishments against physical and sexual violence,
promoting the referendum life imprisonment against violators,
murderers, kidnappers and child abusers.
· · We will promote education policies and artistic skills
cognitive and noncognitive for the integral development of children
and girls.
We will ·· Code of Responsible Parenthood
Congress.
·· Will train to homes, schools and civil society on
the importance of avoiding physical and emotional abuse, promoting
good parenting practices that ensure the physical health and
emotional development of children.
·· Prevalent work in providing health care for children and
Total care for serious illnesses.
·· Program will promote breastfeeding.
· · We will review the background of the institutional system
National Family Welfare, making the necessary adjustments to
better protect children.

133

135

Government proposal for social sectors

COLOMBIAN
AROUND THE
WORLD
We have done much

·· 9 countries abolished visa requirements for Colombians: Haiti
(For holders of US visa or Schengen), Georgia,
Jamaica, Russian Federation, El Salvador, Turkey, Mexico, Guatemala
and Venezuela.
· · United States was achieved extended to 10 years in force the
tourist visa.
· · The European Union removed the visa requirement for Colombians
airport transit in France, Belgium, Luxembourg
and the Netherlands.
We ·· implement consular services online to national
and foreigners, reducing paperwork and costs when
apostille and legalization of documents, issuing visas and digital
implement the passport with machine-readable zone.
·· Reestablished diplomatic relations with Venezuela
and Ecuador, obtaining payment of outstanding debts
Colombian entrepreneurs.

· · In 2012, the agreement entered into force to avoid double taxation
with Canada.
·· Agreement MERCOSUR Travel Document was signed,
as the country's accession to the agreement of Residence
Temporary MERCOSUR.
· · Opening of new diplomatic missions in Turkey,
Ghana and United Arab Emirates, reopened representations
Trinidad and Tobago, Finland, Morocco, Indonesia, Thailand, Algeria,
Azerbaijan, Vietnam and Singapore.
·· Reopened consulates in Auckland in New Zealand, Shanghai
and Canton (Guangzhou) in China, Antofagasta in Chile, Calgary
Vancouver in Canada, Jaqué in Panama, and Newark and Orlando
U.S.

Much to do
· · We will bring Colombian consulates abroad.
·· Work for the recognition of qualifications of Colombians
Outside both primary, secondary, technical, professional,
to graduate.
· · Recognition of primary and secondary titles Colombian
on the outside.
·· Strengthening the return of Colombians at all levels.
·· Electronic vote for Colombians abroad.
· · Signing of agreements on social security for Colombians abroad.
· · Opening of investment opportunities Colombians
Outside in Colombia.
· · Modernization of infrastructure to facilitate border crossing
border.

137

Government proposal for social sectors

LGBTI:

INCLUSION AND RESPECT
We have done much
·· Launching a massive awareness campaign was conducted,
television and radio "respect for sexual freedom and gender"
· · Progress was made in the formulation of public policy
LGBTI sectors according to the "route to formulate policy
LGBTI public sectors in Colombia. "
·· The political and conceptual framework was developed, fulfilling 4
9 points socialized line basis, and were made in June
regional meetings.
·· Table was created urgent cases in order to inform the
civil society cases of violation of human rights
LGBTI population.

Much to do
· · Equal Opportunities for LGBTI communities: impact
effectively in the adoption of CONPES for the period
2016-2017 in order to have a successful public policy
advocate for the rights of the LGBTI community in Colombia.

139

JuanManSantos

German_Vargas

Juan Manuel Santos - President

Juan Manuel Santos
juanmanuelsantos

www.juanmanuelsantospresidente.com
