Successful together
for Germany.
Government Programme 2013 - 2017

Successful together for Germany | Government Programme 2013 - 2017

Table of Contents
Preamble? 3

1

Germany's future in Europe? 8

2

Secure Germany's prosperity? 11

2.1 Social Market Economy - foundation of our success?

11

2.2 SMEs and industry give our country strength?

12

2.3 Record employment - work for all?

15

2.4 Solid finances - Germany's strength?

17

2.5 Responsible fiscal policy - performance must be worthwhile?

17

2.6 Strict rules for the financial markets?

19

2.7 Sustainable growth creates quality of life?

19

3

Use Germany's chances? 21

3.1 Education Republic of Germany?

21

3.2 Population Change - Responsibility for all generations?

24

3.3 Technical progress and research to bring our country forward?

26

3.4 Secure, affordable and clean energy?

28

3.5 Mobility for all - road, rail, water and in the air?

30

3.6 Founders create the future?

33

3.7 Digital growth country number 1 in Europe?

34

3.8 Future East - a chance for the whole of Germany?

36

4 Germany cohesion strengths? 38
4.1 foster families - in every stage of your life?

38

4.2 Women - use skills more and open up opportunities?

39

Successful together for Germany | Government Programme 2013 - 2017

4.3 Diversity enriches - create welcoming culture?

40

4.4 Every talent counts - people with disabilities?

42

Promote volunteering and Sport - 4.5 everyday heroes?

43

4.6 For a good life in old age - secure retirement?

45

4.7 Healthy Country - good care for all?

46

4.8 repatriates and expellees - a win for our country?

49

5

Protect Germany livable home? 51

5.1 Intact secure environment?

51

5.2 Reliable country in urban and rural areas?

53

5.3 More housing for affordable rent?

57

5.4 Good food - sustainable agriculture?

58

5.5 strengthen consumer?

61

5.6 Culture and the Media - protect creativity and diversity?

63

5.7 Contribute! Mixing! More citizen involvement?

67

5.8 values ​​strengthen our country - churches and religious communities?

68

6

Germany: Commitment to Freedom and Security 69?

6.1 Secure Germany?

69

6.2 Europe: strong in the world?

73

6.3 for peace and human rights around the world come?

74

6.4 Sustainable Development and more global justice?

77

7 election manifesto? 78

Successful together for Germany | Government Programme 2013 - 2017

Dear citizens,
September 22, choose a new parliament.
That is a policy decision for our country and
for each individual. It's about whether a Germany
strong and successful country remains. A country with a
stable euro, where people secure jobs
and who can provide for themselves and their families. On
Country where everyone has the chance, from his
To make life a little and at the same time unemployment,
Illness, care or aged is well secured. On
Country of cohesion, in which people like and
live safely. All this can only succeed if German
country is well governed in the future. It thus goes on
September 22 also about your personal future!

Our population is the oldest in Europe, we will
less and the society will be more diverse, because of
Proportion of migrant people RESIZE
SSSR is. At the same time the population in other growing
Regions of the world rapidly. Meanwhile, live more than seven
Billion people in the world. The vast majority of au
ßerhalb Europe. This is not without consequences for our
Economy. The major sales markets of the future lie
no longer just on our doorstep, but in the on
aspiring countries Asia and Latin America, in Africa
and the Arab world. This new Märk opens
te and opportunities, these countries are at the same time but also
Competitors in the global competition.

Before the last general election of 2009, concerns were
big about the future. Germany and Europe experienced
the most severe economic crisis since the Second World
war. Today, Germany is once again a successful
and strong country, one of the strongest world. That shows:
Our joint efforts have much to
Good developed. Europe and the euro are progressing.
This also makes our country stronger. Never before had so
many adults were in a workplace as it is today.
This means security for the people and the Chan
ce, under its own power in society teilzu
have. The incomes and pensions are rising, prices
are stable. The shows of the correct policy of CDU
CSU and all people have something.

Technological advances, particularly the digitalization
tion changed, with our high speed
Way of life, work and trainees us together
exchange. This opens up many new opportunities in future
sustainable jobs and future prosperity, but
Industries and businesses also lose the connection,
if it is not timely to the changes rea
yaw.

If you look in the states of Europe, knows this
good development of our country is not Selbstver
intelligibility. And the danger is great, due to incorrect Ent
decisions the stability of our currency, German
country's economic strength and thus on jobs
Taking game. The Union is the guarantor of a wise
Policy, for a solid currency, stable finances host,
nomic strength and secure jobs.
The European debt crisis is not over yet. Your
Coping is a challenge of historic
Extent. As the largest economy and growth engine
Europe comes in our country in this situation be
special responsibility to. We are committed to this responsibility
tion, because we know that Germany in the long run only strong
can be successful and if it goes well also Europe.
Germany and Europe are experiencing a population
change of unknown extent not yet.

For too long we have in Germany, Europe and Darue
ber also lived at the expense of future generations -
This applies both with views of the finances as well as on the
Environment. The limits of this action will always
more visible. That is why we need a sustainable
Economy, livelihoods and life
opportunities for future generations assures.
We also want in the next four years in this
changing world, the right course for the future
put. We invite all people in our country,
go along this path, mitzugestal him with their ideas
th and our country together in a good future
lead. In this way, the CDU and CSU lead clear ago
positions and principles:
We want Europe to emerge stronger from the crisis stronger
going and the euro a strong and stable currency
remains. We need more efforts and
Reforms, especially in the States, the brewing our help
chen. Red-green contrast relies on a Vergemeinschaf
tion of the debt and euro bonds. This would be the way in
a European debt union, in the German tax
payers almost unlimited for the debts of other County
the would vouch. We reject.
3

Successful together for Germany | Government Programme 2013 - 2017

We want to strengthen the social market economy and their
Principles in Europe and beyond Veran
core. She has our country in the past 60 years
Prosperity and social security brought. It strengthens the
social cohesion and the social Off
equal in our country. It is therefore a prerequisite
for a strong center in our country. Lead Our goals
Ben work for all - safe and well paid - and safe
safety for the people. For this purpose, we rely on energy, Ide
enreichtum and technical progress - and not to
red-green redistributive policies.
We are sure that performance is worthwhile. Therefore ent
We Blame the people. SPD and Greens want to contrast
people burden. From their Steuererhöhungsplä
NEN would especially our strong middle class with
its many craftsmen and family entrepreneurs
affected. Thus would the good economic Ent
set development of our country at stake and work
places destroyed.
We see Germany's chances in a sustainable
and internationally competitive economy whose
Core continues to be a modern, industrial producti
on is. Education and research are the foundations for
social participation and economic success.
We want the results of our Forschungsan
produced efforts in Germany and Europe
and thus jobs, prosperity and social Safe
unit to be created by us. But we want a
remain technology-friendly country that says yes to new
Technologies and responsible dealing with risks.
We design policies for those who are their Kin
take care of, grandchildren and family and honor her
official commitment to a good cooperation in the UN
serem country contribute. These men and women are the
Everyday heroes that make our country strong. they
need a reliable state of them and their
Families security and stability there. Therefore, we want
support all families even better while RedGreen will weigh on families. For us count the Ent
decisions of families as they live their lives wol
len. For when the parties with a Christian man
picture we trust the people and their decisions
gene. Red-green Bevormundungspolitik we reject.
We advocate for a liveable home and good to
future prospects anywhere in Germany, regardless of whether
in the city or in the countryside. We want all Kin
4

visit of a school, in which they learn what more
TIG is for their future. We want that people si
can live protected cher and against crime. Us
want them in a functioning public
Traffic traveling and benut decent roads
zen can. We want them to a healthy
care system can leave that to them anywhere, ever
currently ensures a good supply.
Dear citizens, wol together with you
we recommend lead Germany to a good future. That's why
we along with you on that Regierungspro
program worked. Thousands have ideas and suggestions
introduced and discussed with us about it.
This program has been created, with which we aufzei
gen, how our country successful in the future and strong
can remain. This ten projects are particularly important:

Ten projects for Germany
good future:
Europe's strong position secure in the world -
Strengthen competitiveness
Germany's leading industrial and exporting nation
it's all good in the long run, if it goes well also Europe.
We are convinced that Europe for a life in
Peace, freedom and prosperity is indispensable. Therefore
We want Europe to emerge stronger from the crisis coming. Since
with the euro remains a strong and stable currency, brewing
We Chen further efforts and reforms mainly
in the States, take the help. We brewing
Chen throughout Europe sound fiscal policies, growth
promoting structural reforms and Invest More
NEN in Education and Research. Therefore we want for
new priorities to strengthen competitiveness
running speed. We will also advertise for our he
successful dual education in schools and enterprises in at
introduce the European countries because they young
People can open a good professional future.
Our goal remains: Europe together with our Part
ners strengthened from the crisis lead. Therefore,
we work together with our partners for
that the European Union - its Member States - their
Force and their efforts bundles and the sus
GE strengthen the economic performance in the
Heart of its activities represents. Only then can we on
Reach our goal Duration: growth and employment
for the benefit of the citizens of Europe!

Successful together for Germany | Government Programme 2013 - 2017

Solid finances - stop borrowing,
Repay debt and in the future?
invest
Frugal budgetary policy is the basis for stable
economic conditions and sustainable growth.
That is why we have the debt ceiling in Grundge
Put anchored and their rules eingehal from the outset
th. We are in 2014 in the federal budget less money
impersonate 2010. At the same time we have our
Successful economic and employment policies, the
Increased revenue at all levels of the state, so
that we could reduce the debt consistently
th. have through redeployment in the federal budget
we created room for new priorities. To
We could, for example, more of Education and
Research spending than any other federal government previously,
advance the Kita-expansion and municipalities after
sustainably relieve. This shows that savings and investment are
no contradiction, but two sides of the same Medail
le. So our policy builds trust and encourages Un
entrepreneurs to invest in the future of their businesses.
This also has the economic strength of our country
increased by more than eight percent since of 2009. This
Course of consolidating stability and growth who
we therefore decided to continue in the future. With
sound finances, we are creating the conditions for a
stable currency, growth and secure jobs.
Through our successful fiscal policy is sustainable,
balanced budget is within reach. The Fort
termination of this success rate and rising STEU
we can ereinnahmen in the next parliamentary term
Traced back debt, while especially the Fa
milienförderung and important investments in the future in
Education, research and infrastructure strengthening.

Full employment and minimum wage tariff
In Germany there are now almost 42 million men
and women who work. Since the late director
insurance period of red-green has the unemployment rate
almost halved. More people than ever can
Today in our country by working for themselves and their Fa
milia care and their lives according to their wishes decor with dark
th. We are working for even more jobs. Our goal
is: Full employment! For this purpose, we rely on hard work, new
Ideas and technological progress as the basis for the
Maintaining and creating new jobs. Plus
we rely on lived social partnership in the operatio
Ben and between management and labor. A Lohnfestset

tion by the policy we reject. But it is for the
Policy to create the conditions that the Men
rule everywhere in Germany the chance to or
have nary wage. Therefore we want for the preparation
che, where there are no collective agreements, the social partners
law of their duty. They should jointly ei
NEN minimum wage for set.

Strengthen economic power -
Promote SME and Founder
We want reliable in the future Rahmenbedin
conditions for businesses in Germany. Therefore remain our
Aim to keep wage costs stable. Therefore leh
we nen from tax increases. The proposals of SPD
and Greens threaten the competitiveness just
German SMEs and thus thousands of labor
places in our country. We do not want companies ge
endanger, but on the contrary as many people
encourage them to establish businesses and jobs
create. Especially start-ups need to ensure
transition from low-cost financing options and Dür
fen not be hampered by unnecessary bureaucracy.

Performance must be worthwhile -
Relieve citizens
We want the service providers at the center of our Ge
company - unlike red-green - not with Steuererhö
BE relations for their efforts and daily work
punish, but relieve them. We want Lohner
increases, the compensation of the price increases
nen no longer automatically by a higher tax
tariff may be consumed. With the mitigation of these so
called cold progression, we are creating more Leis
tion of justice and help people with just Klei
and medium-sized incomes.

Prosperity and growth back up -
invest in the future of our country
The basis of our prosperity masterminds, ideas
and technical progress, from which products and
Services arise, we sell worldwide.
For that we need investment in education, research
and infrastructure. The proportion of research and development
Meeting on gross domestic product, we aim to further increase.
For this purpose should in future also have a tax Forschungsför
ation include, entrepreneurial efforts
support for new ideas and technologies. As a
5

Successful together for Germany | Government Programme 2013 - 2017

the most successful countries in the export of goods and
Services we rely on powerful Straßenund rail links. We want the
semi strengthen the infrastructure of our country and the
Federal trunk roads with a 25 billion euro investment
tion program redevelop and expand. The energy turnaround
is one of the greatest challenges of our country.
We want to build up a domestic and locally
organized energy supply jobs and value
creation secure in their own country. At the same time we are
continue for affordable energy costs for consumers but
also provide for our industry, so that they contest
remains capable. So we allow SME and industry,
Growth and creating new jobs.

Embracing digitization use -?
Germany fit for the digital future
The Internet and digital technology shape our
Life. Smartphones and tablets are today from space
indispensable daily life. The Internet
is a growth driver for our economy. To the
Seizing opportunities of the Internet for our country even better
can, we want to in our children's education
catch. In a joint pact of municipalities,
State and federal level, we want to ensure that our
Schools are equipped on the amount of time. To
for example, include modern amenities such
Computer technology, digital learning opportunities and a Besse
re networking of schools. If the classroom to
Finds way into the digital world, opens up a new
Education world in which children naturally the
new technical possibilities to get to know. In order to
everyone in town and country, the chances of rapid interactivity
may use nets, we want fast Internet by 2018
make widely available and in this way
allow to use Internet TV and banking transactions,
Citizen or telemedicine services
handle. This is an important step for German
land is for digital growth country no. 1 in Europe
and a strong role in the attractive markets of the future
secures.

Better support families -
Introduce family splitting and time
allow for family
We want strong families in Germany. In the family
Look for and find people love, security and
helping each other. We will continue to Marriage and Family
6

strengthen. Therefore, we want the existing spouses
splitting obtain and complete a family splitting.
For this we are the tax into account
Children gradually to the level of the allowance for He
adult lift. In addition, we are the child allowance
as well as the children's allowance raise. We want to
All mothers and fathers whose children born before 1992
were that education performance with an additional
Consider pension point in the pension and
thus recognize better than before. Besides money brewing
Chen families especially time for each other. In our BE
occupationally often very hectic and busy time is
that for people often the most important thing. We want
publishing pictures with a new lifetime policy options
NEN to professional-outs for the education of children,
for training, but also for the care of their own
To allow parents or relatives better. The Fra
ge, what makes a good life, is forever
more people. This includes time for family and rejoice
de, learning new languages ​​and maintaining their own
Interests, a sense of belonging, home or
to be simply the knowledge needed. We want
Better quality of life through political action and
promote targeted and quality of life and their
Improvement report regularly.

Secure Germany
We want all the people in Germany and free
certainly be able to live - at home, in streets, squares,
in buses or trains, by day or by night as well
as well as in view of the risks, for example with
are connected to Islamist terrorism. We ste
hen for a framework that our security
allow forces, this danger still best
to fight. That is why we want, even to violence and
Ward off robberies and the elucidation of criminal
did the use of video technology at focal points
reinforce such as railway stations. Given the Stei
ing number of burglaries and to ge
rings clearance rate we want to search Print
on gangs and individual criminals, especially when they cross
are border activities, increase. In addition, we are on
applications for securing their own homes also
tax favor.
Livable home - Strong communities, affordable
Provide housing and infrastructure in rural
Regions strengthen - preserve cultural heritage and wei
terentwickeln.

Successful together for Germany | Government Programme 2013 - 2017

We want a liveable home for the people of
the city and secure in rural areas. Vorausset
tion of these are powerful cities and towns.
That is why we are the financial strength of municipalities wei
ter strengthen. Just heard in the cities to the fact that it
enough affordable homes are. Best With
tel for this is the construction of new housing. We want it
with targeted incentives such as better tax possi
liabilities and grants, the conditions ver
mend. To flexibly to the rental development in Bal
to react treatment rooms, we have the County
countries given the opportunity knap in areas with
PEM housing supply, the limit for rent increases
within three years from 20 to 15 percent to sen
ken. Even with the re-leasing of existing
Flats we want to open up the possibility to be
stressed markets, rent increases in the future 10
Percent above the local comparative rent to be
limit. Rural areas have a future

livable home stay. These include a strong
Agriculture, good educational institutions, child heritage
treuungsangebote and a broad voluntary Enga
management. Even a high-quality medical
Supply is still easily accessible for everyone
be.

Dr. Angela Merkel MP
Chancellor
Chairman of the CDU Germany

Horst Seehofer
Prime minister
Chairman of the CSU

We want to be supplied by doctors and crane
tals, especially in rural areas, continue ver
improve and ensure for example the attractiveness of the
Increase practitioner profession.
Germany is a nation of culture. We are the rich
preserve cultural heritage of our country and want it
continue to develop at all levels.
Together with you, we want to work to ensure that
Germany continues to remain successful. We ask for
to your confidence.

7

Successful together for Germany | Government Programme 2013 - 2017

1. Germany's future in Europe
CDU and CSU want a strong Europe. Our doctrine
was from the history and the desire, "as Equal
Untitled partner in a united Europe of peace
to serve the world ", as in our Basic Law
called. This commitment to Europe is for us a question
of reason, but also a labor of love.
CDU and CSU are the German European parties. Among
our leadership is from the beginnings of closer
economic cooperation in 60 years an inter
nationally respected and influential association of states
become. The European Union is a world
repeated values ​​and legal community. It stands for
Freedom and human rights, tolerance and peaceful
Ches together inwards and outwards, for
Prosperity and social security.
That our life in Germany and Europe no Mau
ren and no more barriers knows that we in Euro
pa to travel freely, to live everywhere, work and learn Kings
NEN, shows the outstanding success of the European egg
certificate for the people on our continent. This
Success obliges and encourages us fortzuset the way
zen, the peaceful and democratic unification of a
Europe stands.
We want a Europe that is christlichabendländischen to his roots and the ideas of the Enlightenment
confesses and lives out of them. We remain committed to our goal
determined that emphasized in the Basic Law of responsibility
To make God in the EU treaty clearly.
For many in Europe and in the world, Germany is today
a role model when it and to good policy for a stable
sustainable development goes. The Social Marktwirt
Community and the wise policy decisions to their
Further serve others as a model for their own
Efforts. Our balanced economic Struk
ture with a strong middle class, a powerful
Industry and our lived social partnership
Unions and employers' associations is regarded worldwide
as a rolemodel. These successes bring us world recog
opening a. A survey by the British BBC to
follow Germany is 2013, the most popular country in the world.
With the successful policy of the CDU and CSU is German
land for an anchor of stability and growth engine of Europe
become. Therefore, we have a special responsibility to
8th

sibility to solve the debt crisis in Europe.
We accept this task because we know that a
common currency in Europe strengthens economic power
Europe and our future to live in peace, free
safety and prosperity.

Europe's strength in a changing
Preserve world
In our generation will determine whether we in Europe
together the challenges of the 21st century
master.
Of the more than seven billion people in the world
now lives just over one in a hundred in German
country. The European Union is still for about
seven percent of the world population. By 2050, the
global population to more than nine billion people
rule to rise, while the German and European
Population continues to decline. China alone today
already more inhabitants than Europe, North and Central
America together. The trade flows and host
economic powerhouses shift. China has
Replaced Germany as the world's leading exporter and growing
continue. Emerging markets such as India, Brazil and many
others play an increasingly important role.
In view of these economic displacements of the
Weights we can only safeguard our prosperity,
if Europe a more competitive continent remains,
the world is oriented to the top. That's why
we are fighting for a strong and competitive Euro
pean Union, which emerged from the debt crisis ago
manages. A Back to old errors must not ge
ben. For that we want in the next four years wei
ter set the right course, by cooperation with
provide our partners at European level for
that the strengthening and promotion of economic
Performance foundation for Employment, Social
Safety and sustainability core of our actions
is at all levels. Together we can Europeans
then continue our contribution to the solution of the great
afford SSEN global challenges.

Successful reforms brought on the way
Since the outbreak of the euro sovereign debt crisis to three
We have the cohesion of the monetary union years
successfully consolidated and important reforms for life
brought exemplary stability on the road. We have in common

Successful together for Germany | Government Programme 2013 - 2017

sam with our European partners Schuldenbrem
sen on the German model in the euro area countries by
set and tightened up the Stability Pact. At the same time ha
we ben with structural reforms the way to more competitive
tiveness, sustainable growth and employment
tion leveled. Both belong together and forms the
To zurückzu basis lost trust
. win
The new debt in the euro zone was on this
Way in the last three years will be halved. Our
Partners have important economic reforms in transition ge
sets. The euro sovereign debt crisis has been characterized ent
sharpens, but she is far from solved. Thus, the
Euro remains a strong and stable currency, we must
Staying the course and must not relax our efforts
ease up.

Help only own services
We are committed to solidarity with our Europeanised
rule neighbors. However: Who needs help, needs to
contribute own achievements to the trouble lö
sen. This includes, reduce debt mountains and the egg
Gene competitiveness through reforms and
future investments in education, research and Technolo
strategy to increase. Therefore we want to ensure that the
Support from the European Union more strongly on projects
are aligned, the Stei competitiveness
like and create jobs. This is especially true
for measures to combat the high youth unemployment in
many European crisis countries.

Europe needs to ensure stable money
We stand for a strong euro and stable prices. In
the is a key prerequisite for the success Unse
rer economy and the creation of new Arbeitsplät
zen. Almost 40 percent of German exports go to
the euro zone, 60 per cent in the EU as a whole and secure
with us millions of well-paid jobs. A ge
common currency is an indispensable tool
in international trade and in the global currency
discrimination policy. We therefore advocate the further reduction
the borrowing and strict adherence natio
nal debt brakes.
In addition, we focus on balanced budgets in all
EU member states and defend the independence
the European Central Bank, which along the lines of

Deutsche Bundesbank was enforced by us.
This in spite of the crisis to a high degree of Preissta
bility out. We want that all euro countries together
Men defend the euro.

No debt union, none Transfer Union
SPD and the Greens have in her reign four times
the Stability and Growth Pact and its broken
Rules softened. Unfortunately, they have not learned anything.
Red-green color puts on a pooling of school
the introduction of euro bonds by. This would be the
Way into a European debt union, in German
Taxpayers almost unlimited for the debts of others
Countries would have to stand up. We reject. To SEL
re the principle "No power unrequited" au
SSSR force set. We do not want a euro government
at the expense of its neighbors and further into debt
shirk uncomfortable reform efforts
can.

Strengthening of economic and monetary union as a stability union
We want confidence in the stability of the euro and
further strengthen the future of Europe. These are more
Reforms and efforts towards the Stabili
tätsunion required. We focus on three key
Fields of action:
Banking union
We want an effective European banking supervision
at the European Central Bank for the large system
relevant banks as well as procedures for the settlement
over-indebted banks. For the other financial institutions,
not least the savings and cooperative banks,
it remains at the previous proven banking supervision.
We will ensure that the withdrawal of money
from the euro bailout fund to restructure banks
of the working capacity of the European Bankenauf
view depends. Savers must in any EU country
ver a functioning deposit guarantee scheme
can. This is about the unified Min
mum standards of national deposit guarantee schemes
guaranteed. A Europe-wide deposit guarantee leh
NEN we from, because that would the liability risk Verge
meinschaftet and German savers would have for the Invitation
gen liable in other countries.
9

Successful together for Germany | Government Programme 2013 - 2017

Adherence to strict budgetary rules
We advocate that the rules strengthened
Stability and Growth Pact and the fiscal compact
be strictly implemented. Anyone against the agreed
Limits of the Stability and Growth Pact ver
encounters, must reckon with sanctions. For this purpose we want
the possibilities for monitoring and checking
of national budgets by the European Com
Mission Strengths. In addition, we are committed, intra
Half of the euro zone debt restructuring process for States
to develop ten, no longer having their debts
be able.

Europe needs a strong Franco-German partnership
The challenges facing Europe are,
big. A trusting relationship between the
Partners is essential for the common success. Us
want to act together as possible with all EU partners
anschreiten and it find ways that the
Merge different positions. But we
also know that European integration is a Mo
tor needs. Therefore, the Franco-German comes
Partnership is of particular importance. We are
this responsibility and you also want to in
future in the interest of Europe to meet.

Strengthening competitiveness across Europe
We want an economically strong and successful
Europe, the global competition in the future He
success has. Find 90 percent of world growth
outside Europe instead. We want good and betting
petitive products and services our
Search and seize opportunities to it in those markets
successfully to be. We therefore want Europe competition
make capable to permanently sustainable growth
enable and preserve our social model and continue
be able to develop. For this we need a stronger
coordination of economic policies on how we
Improve Europe's competitiveness. Us
want to be a pact for competitiveness
close, in which the nation-states with the euro
Verstaen European Commission on concrete measures
ended in order to improve their situation accurately. This
our goal is to strengthen the weak and the Leis
to make the best device to measure of all. With In
investments in education, research and Zukunftstechnolo
gies we want Europe's chances on the international
Markets secure. Also, we will other European
Assist countries in the dual training in Schu
le and introduce operating because they egg young people
can open up ne good professional future.
Further steps towards a common
European labor market are in a better Ver
mediation of languages ​​as well as a better transfer
availability of educational qualifications and social Absiche
tion. We want to have placed on our way
Continue and expand EU Youth initiative. With her
are investments and measures to combat
ge of youth unemployment in Europe on the way
introduced.
10

Poland is one of our most important partners among the new
en EU Member States. We want our partnership
deepen with Poland and the diverse nachbarschaftli
use chen relations to the personal Begeg
expand tions between people and the le
bendigen economic relations weiterzuentwi
velop. This goal is also the cooperation of
France, Poland and Germany in the Weimar Triangle.

Unity in Diversity
For the CDU and CSU, the nation states and the regions
formative components of a Europe of unity in diversity.
We do not want a centralized organized and governed Eu
ropa. CDU and CSU want a Europe which citizens the
serves. A Europe in diversity secures quality of life in the Re
regions and respects different ways of life. To
Improving accountability and in the interests RESIZE
ßerer citizens should all European decisions
be accessible to the citizens in an appropriate manner. The Infor
mation must be simple, understandable and easy to find
be. The internet here offers good possibilities.
German is the most widely spoken mother tongue and
the three procedural languages ​​of the European Union.
We are committed, the German language in Europe
to further strengthen. Our goal is that they are in the EU authorities
the administrative offices, including the English and and a French
rule is treated equally.

Europe thrives on meeting
its people
We want Europe for Citizens
is directly experienced and thus their professional and

Successful together for Germany | Government Programme 2013 - 2017

can enrich private life. Therefore, we are committed
for language learning and for exchange
programs for young people, workers, students
and researchers in Europe. The European Community
Community sense can be strengthened. Partnerships
want between German and European cities
we initiate and give a new life to the euro
European thought and mutual understanding to
strengthen. In such partnerships also be
Exchange of experiences and enables support for Re
regions and countries organized that Her face special
challenges facing their competitiveness,
the strengthening of Education and Science or the Be
combating youth unemployment standing.

2. Secure? Germany's prosperity
2.1. ?Social market economy -
Foundation of our success
Our mission is the social market economy. She brings
our country prosperity and social security. Because
It is based on two pillars: on efficient, responsibility
sible citizen and on a reliable government. To
cial market economy does not dictate the citizens,
but trust them to something. And it relies on a
State which is even tomorrow be able to his role
to meet as a guardian of order. So combines Social
Market economy in a unique way the advantages of a
Market economy with the commitment to social Ge
justice and ecological responsibility. It is there
produces the best economic system for free people
and a caring society.
Thanks to the social market economy Germany is host
cally active and has one of the safest way
cial systems in the world. While Germany was the taillight of Europe under RedGreen, our country is today
again the growth engine. With responsible
Policy under the leadership of the CDU and CSU, we want our
Country to continue in a good future. We stand for egg
ne policies that each country in our chances on
rose and opened a bright future. We are about
testifies that work, stable finances and good education
and research the best foundation for a bright future
are. Left redistributive and Bevormundungspolitik
We reject. Tax increases and the Vergemein
agement of debt in Europe would zurückwer us
destroy fen, jobs and opportunities for the future.
Politics in the social market economy is fine Poli
tik. You need a reliable State Rahmenbe
conditions for effective competition, for
Legal certainty and for a good economic Ent
ment ensured. The public sector comes
an important role to play. CDU and CSU are the
Convinced that an effective public
Service and the civil service made important contributions
afford to the prosperity of our country. For that we want
continue to create the conditions and for the
Employees and officials be a reliable partner.
We are convinced: No other economic and
Social model can better succeed, our
To ensure prosperity in the future. Understand why
11

Successful together for Germany | Government Programme 2013 - 2017

We the social market economy in Germany as Chan
cengesellschaft: prosperity for everyone through opportunities to
Success and advancement for everyone.
For a chance in a society we need is
rapidly changing world, a curious and ideenrei
Ches Germany. Unlike red-green we profess
Therefore, new technologies and want to continue it
research. We trust the people who are new opportunities
he responsibility to exploit developments and risks
sibly deal. We are open to new ideas, not
fundamentally opposed.
We want a society and economy based on a
Sets growth of new ideas and solutions to
contribute, environment and the economy together to better
agree. Such solutions may include both new For
men mobility in large cities or environmentally
friendly, safe and affordable Energieversor
his confirmation. There are solutions that are not only Germany
future fixed and can make livable. There are
also solutions that sustainable growth to ent
distinctive competitive advantage for our economy
make, by answers to the global challenges
enter receivables and thus the basis for new Ex
make port success and jobs at home.
If ideas into new products and jobs entste
to hen, we need efficient and well-trained Ar
ployees. And just as we need people to be
Riding are corporate responsibility and Personal Trainer
che risks to take. For this purpose, we want to Men
rule encouraging. We want people with courage under
support to escape from their business ideas company
develop and create jobs. Because person responsible
Ches entrepreneurship strengthens our country. These include ago
especially the many private company owners in crafts and
SME, the per for their economic engagement
personally liable and stand up straight. They not only stand for
their own success or failure, but also for socio
ale responsibility towards its employees and the
Company. We expect this attitude and responsibility
tion acquisition of all entrepreneurs and businesses
men. Because conversely supports the state by good
Environment, social stability, education and
The rule of law whose work and dedication. For this must
afford each his contribution - in the form of taxes
and contributions. Likewise, anyone who odds
has also liable for the losses. This relationship
of decision-making responsibility and liability on the
12

international financial markets for too long disregarded wor
the. We therefore advocate in Europe and internationally for ei
ne a more effective regulation. Germany is among the
Leadership of the Union model and pacemaker simultaneously.
Especially at the European level we have achieved a lot,
what needs to be international nor enforced.

2.2. M
? ittelstand and industry
give our country strength
The middle class is the backbone of our economy
and one of the guarantors of our prosperity. His Be
transmission and companies are not only the largest Ar
employer in the country, but also pulse and
Idea factories. But not only the economic success
is important. Particularly in the SME principles of
Social market economy filled with life: The partners
stem between employers and employees about
or responsible entrepreneurship.
This is especially true in the numerous family business
men, the liberal professions and the handicraft. Just the
Master of the craft enterprises are also those who
Traditions and skills partly already since year
adapt to the challenges of time hundreds
and to pass on to the next generation. they offer
so that employment prospects for young people
and make an important carrier of a continuing tradition
Step pending with Germany.
We have the conditions for the SME sector since 2005
decisively improved. 2005 assessed 90 percent of
Respondents under Red-Green politics for the site
Germany negatively. Today 80 percent of BE Rate
asked midsize our site policy positive. This
Success confirms our policy and encourages us, our country
as a competitive location of industry and resources
was continued to strengthen. We want our attractive
Economic structure of large-scale industry and medium-sized businesses, in
of manufacturing companies and service providers in Hand
Hand work is maintained and developed. Just this
Structure has given our country in crisis stability.

Market prospects of the middle class
strengthen at home and abroad
SMEs and industry benefit from a fair
and effective competition. Countervailing power failure
consumption and threat to competition because we are

Successful together for Germany | Government Programme 2013 - 2017

her strong stance. Facing the opportunities un
Serer economy on the world market, we want to also
continue for German products and research results
Nisse make strong. This is especially true for patents and
Standards. We also want the Außenwirtschaftsoffensi
ve the Federal Government as well as the campaign "German
"Continue Mittelstand.
Want The Central Innovation Programme for SMEs
we perpetuate. It applies, access to research results
facilitate Nissen and innovation, especially for small
A minimum of bureaucratic push companies.

Fiscal Framework and finance
improve conditions
Medium-sized entrepreneurs think, plan and han
punching long term. A reliable tax policy for
se predictability indispensable. Tax increases
We reject, therefore, from consistent.
The tax plans of the SPD and Greens are an attack on
the substance of the company. They threaten the betting
tiveness of German SMEs and thus
thousands of jobs in our country. This is responsible
wortungslos. Instead, we want with reliable
Environment and targeted funding policy the
Strengthen competitiveness of our businesses.
This includes for us to introduce a tax For
research funding. We want the Forschungsan
efforts particularly of SMEs continues Stei
like and a contribution to increasing competition
ability just facing the international Konkur
ence afford.
We also want the tax framework
improve for investors who with their money young,
support growth companies primarily in the high-TechBereich.
The tax incentives for better Ausstat
tion with equity, we will continue to expand, by
Reduce disadvantages compared to debt financing. Egg
equity capital is currently playing for SME and Familienun
companies a major role. Entrepreneurial decisions
applications are also in the financing in the first Li
never by economic rather than by tax
Viewpoints judge. This promotes sustainable
economic development and responsible individuals

tes entrepreneurship. For the same reason may also
Company transfers not tax too heavily loaded who
the. We want the continuation of the company about
promote family-owned and contractor not in Ver
sale or abandonment of pushing.
We are in the implementation of more stringent Eigenkapi
talvorschriften ("Basel III") the concerns of the middle class
consider. Our concern is that the special
Financing structure of small and medium companies
does not lead to disadvantages in their credit supply.

Keep wage costs stable
Our motto: Think work! Therefore remain our
Target, the sliding of employers and employees to
Chen parts funded wage costs under stable
To keep 40 percent.

Companies relieve - reduce bureaucracy
An efficient and citizen-oriented public adminis
tion is an important locational advantage. Plated
But bureaucracy is an impediment to growth. We want,
that the company their money for new ideas and Ar
spend beitsplätze and not for bureaucracy. We wol
len therefore continue to remove unnecessary bureaucracy. For
2006, our company have been the costs of bureaucracy
relieved in the amount of 12 billion euros per year and because
with the goal achieved, the administrative costs of the economy
to reduce by 25 percent. This is a Wachstumspro
program at no cost. Simpler, more targeted legislation
no new administrative burdens to help everyone.
We want the Regulatory than proven "office
Kratie-TÜV "strengthen. We are new concrete degradation
objectives set. In future, the costs of bureaucracy
the municipalities and public administration einbe
be subjected. We also want the burden of the
Reduce implementation of laws. So we are the
Retention periods for tax documents shorten,
reduce statistical reporting requirements and the award of
ensure right for quicker procedures.
At European level, we want a bureaucracy
Verification anchor. The European Union should
limit just when dealing with the bureaucracy itself and
avoid unnecessary rules and regulations. The
Industry, small and medium enterprises farmer,
nomic establishments that liberal professions and the handicraft
13

Successful together for Germany | Government Programme 2013 - 2017

must be relieved of unnecessary regulations.
To this end, we need an early warning system at European
shear plane, especially for measures that use the
midmarket concern. In addition, we are committed
one that checked in all future EU legislation
is whether small and medium enterprises of limited hours
TEN regulations are exempted.

Fair competition
for key industries
We want our key industries in Germany
maintain and expand. The technology leadership Unse
sized enterprises is the prerequisite for success
German products on world markets. Therefore want
we targeted in significant future technologies, such
Example microelectronics and aerospace,
invest and thus the competitiveness of our
Strengthen the country and expand. We are committed to ge
against harmful distortion of competition and fair
Playing field for our businesses in al
len countries. Even the middle class requires fair Rah
ditions in global competition. That's why
we are in creating the conditions
at national level, the impact on its interna
maintain national competitiveness in view.

For the prosperity of tomorrow
Secure professionals
One of the greatest challenges for our host
economy is the need for well-trained employees.
Already, there are sectors and regions that host
could be cally successful when it suffi
accordingly professionals would be. Therefore, the unions
led government to implement its Trade
forces concept started. It focuses on the Qua
lifizierung of workers.

Success Factor dual training
The dual training in schools and enterprises has Unse
ren young people good opportunities in the labor
market. They are so designed as possible and to
their future profession prepared. The forming Be
driven in turn lends itself so early on the possible
speed, young people gain as junior staff.
This strength we want to cooperate with employers
secure and durable unions and Developement
velop.
14

Play an important role for us in the youth
education agencies, representing the interests of the trainees
bring forming and running in this way at the
the improvement of education work in the operatio
ben involved.

We want the best minds
bring to Germany
Facing the skills shortage we need more
highly qualified and motivated people to
their countries. You are welcome. For them and their
Families we want our country to live and work
even more attractive. Citizens of EU countries can
and to the prospects of free movement within the EU
pean Union use. Bureaucratic obstacles
these goals conflict, we want to break down.
For highly qualified persons from non-EU countries we have with
the "Blue Card" the doors for the German labor
market already open. We want the acceptance of
Check the "Blue Card" regularly and continue to develop.
In addition, we want a targeted approach of high quality
fied achieve in their home countries. For this purpose we want
u. a. the cooperation of the Federal Employment Agency with the
German missions abroad and Außenhandelskam
strengthen chambers. They should comply with the structure
the offers for points of contact for students, university
graduates and highly qualified abroad develop.
To break down language barriers, we want the possible answer
th improve the learning of the German language.

Commodities - supply through cooperation
secure and strategic partnerships
Many sectors of our economy are on raw materials to
rejected, which does not exist in our country. To Siche
We use tion of a stable supply of raw materials
on strategic partnerships and the abolition
of export restrictions which it currently in numerous
Countries are. We want the issue of raw material supply
and availability more than ever in the negotia-
gene within the World Trade Organisation and in free
anchor trade agreements with other countries. Us
want in terms of a safe and sustainable versor
supply of raw materials in the producing countries to the
responsible use of raw materials hinwir
ken. This is especially true for the protection of human
rights and the observance of internationally recognized sozi
Aler and ecological standards.

Successful together for Germany | Government Programme 2013 - 2017

We welcome the initiatives of the German economy
to build a resource alliance. You should supply
our economy legal leis long commodities
th. We want this development with reinforced For
accompany research efforts to secure raw materials
and to international cooperation with impor
gen commodity-producing countries in the region strengthen science.
The efforts to re-use and
increased use of local raw materials used as
to reduce dependence on imports. To
also includes the use of domestic brown coal
as a raw material for the chemical industry.

Green light for the largest market in the world -
Free trade between EU and USA
Free trade strengthens global prosperity. CDU and
CSU reject trade restrictions and want to
international free trade strengthen - through Fortfüh
tion of the so-called "Doha round" in which a white
tere opening of markets and greater involvement of
Developing countries will be negotiated in the World Trade.
In particular, however, we want between the two strong
Economic regions EU-US comprehensive Partner
achieve company for trading. A North Atlantic Freihan
Trade Area creates the world's largest economic area.
Thus, it ensures growth and employment in
sides of the Atlantic, and improved for our Under
take the access to the largest free market in the world.
We are making sure that the strength of our
Companies and markets are preserved.

2.3. Record employment - work for all
So many people have never had in Germany Ar
Beit like today. This is a joint success, the
we can all be proud. In Germany, almost 42
Million people in employment. These are just three
Million more than in 2005. Since the end of the government
time of red-green has the unemployment rate almost
halved. Particularly good news for our youth there
sufficient training places. This gives our
Country good perspectives and the human prospect
a secure future.
Once again it appears that the good cooperation in the
Holdings is a locational advantage for our country, we
want to retain and continue to promote. Employers
and trade unions have with verantwortungsvol

len decisions both competitiveness
the company as well as the participation of workers
keep on the good economic development in view.
In the reign of the red-green scissors was between
tween the lower and upper income apart
gone. In recent years, this development was
ment to be stopped, and the Scissors begins again
close. We intend to continue this development.
Our goal is full employment. We want to help
carry that good for more people opportunities
Open to shape their own lives, and that they the
can achieve total income that allows you to
can provide themselves and their families.

Good work gives security
and needs strong social partners
Secure career prospects facilitate Lebensentscheidun
gene as marriage or the establishment of a Fa
milie. That is why we want to be a wise economic
creating policy conditions that will allow just
young people a good chance of a Festa Stel
get treatment. This must continue to be the rule,
be. But we also see in other forms of Ar
beitsverhältnissen such as temporary work and fixed-term contracts, the
Possibility of creating career prospects and
for example to cope with peak periods. We believe in
this context, work contracts for a more
term instrument in the labor market. That is why wol
but we len with the social partners to ensure that they
are not abused to existing work rules
and to undermine wage limits.
Overall, we are convinced that the responsibility
for a good working relationship between workers and
Employers primarily with the social partners and in
the factories situated.
The interaction of trade unions, business and
Staff councils and employers has become just as much
such as collective bargaining, especially in the financial and
Depression proved. For us to remain social partners
economy, collective bargaining and participation essential
Foundations of our social market economy.

Bargaining unit
The principle of collective unity, which means that in a Be
drove only a uniform tariff regime applied who
the must, has proven itself over decades. The by
15

Successful together for Germany | Government Programme 2013 - 2017

Court ruling necessitated adapting want
we implement a law on the bargaining unit and
thus strengthen the collective partnership.

Ordinary wage for good work -
tariff minimum wage
Our motto is: Those who work hard must be paid properly
become. Therefore, we have with the unions Min
least wages in many industries with a total of four
Created millions of workers and wish for
Areas where there are no collective agreements which tariff
Partners take legally in the duty. They should ge
together in a Commission with a minimum tariff
set wage, whereby the different situations
be taken into account in the regions and sectors
be able. Reject a wage determination by the policy
we from. But it is a matter of policy, the conditions
create that people everywhere in Germany
have a chance at a decent wage.

Equal pay for equal work
at the same place
Time work, mini-jobs and part-time employment are
long to the labor market. They allow many
People to enter the working world or the Chan
ce, located dazuzu without much bureaucracy money
earn. For companies and businesses they offer
Chance to respond flexibly to the order situation. These
Flexibility must not lead to abuse but. The
Companies and businesses are here in the respon
sibility. CDU and CSU are in favor, the
Principle of "equal pay for equal work in the same
Place "for temporary employees to consistently implement. Us
want the unions support along the way, the
sen principle, taking into account appropriate over
gangs- and training periods in the company
Implement practice.

All are needed
Our motto is: All are needed, no one may be
be limited. That is why we also want the power
help weaker for career entry or them
allow re-entry. Especially young Rate Adults
sene without vocational training need special
Promotion. We want to further efforts un
companies, so that as many their education after
can bring or take out.
16

An important role is also long-term unemployed
to make them fit for the primary labor market. Therefore whoever
we instruct the Federal Employment Agency, here
to set a focus. By reducing bureaucracy,
clear objectives, priority of qualification and
then a much better placement to
Sustainable long-term unemployed again a work
find space. Especially single mothers and Men
rule without vocational qualifications obtained as new opportunities.
Also, the program "Perspektive 50plus", which from it
aims to bring older people back to work who
we continue due to its success.

Human world of work
The modern working world opens up many new possible answer
th for workers. But we also see with concern
the increase of mental illness as a result of
Stress, overload and the pressure constant Accessible
speed through email and mobile communications. We want
help to ensure that employees mentally and physically
Lich stay healthy. For this, new preventive Kon
concepts required. We are convinced that even
Here, the best solutions by employers and Ar
ees need to find partners.

Improve employee participation continued
The participation of employees in profits and ownership
for us a central concern. We want the prerequisites
gene for improved further by the applicable steu
variable and social insurance Rahmenbedin
Check conditions and embellish progressively more attractive.
We are convinced that companies that their
Participate in the success of workers, more productive and because
are competitive. Because lived Partner
Community strengthens the loyalty felt by employees ih
SEM company that promotes cooperation and opened
the workers a new source of income. Next
wealth creation among workers coming
employee participation in the face of population
approximate change of growing importance: Firstly,
it is an important instrument to qualified Strengthens
te to bind the company. Secondly, let
be corporate succession through employee share
facilitate investments by previous com
mer operation or parts of it to the workforce
passed. This allows companies and work

Successful together for Germany | Government Programme 2013 - 2017

Courses are secured. We want to examine how in sol
Chen cases - for example, by loans from the KfW -
can be effectively helped.

2.4. S
? olides Finance - Germany's strength
A reliable state needs sound finances. Our
Show successes of recent years, that growth for Stei
ing tax revenue provides. These do not have to the
Tax increase as red-green. The truth is rather, Sorg
Sam deal with the government revenue.
Therefore, we have limited the spending, the debt
Brake introduced and its rules on the gradual
Reduction of debt respected from the outset.
For the first time in 40 years we want in the next election
Period submit a budget without new debt.
This is also a strong signal for Europe.

On the debt ceiling
follows the debt
We will begin that is decades
accumulated debt to repay. We welcome our
No expectant children and grandchildren getting bigger
Leave a mountain of debt. At the same time we want the Ge
samtverschuldung the state gradually to a maximum of
Reduce 60 percent of economic output. Beken order
we NEN we strongly adhere to the Europeanized
rule Stability and Growth Pact.

Financial resources of countries
and make municipalities future proof
States and municipalities need a sensible financial
equipment to perform their tasks. With the
Financial equalization provides the basic law is a
measured balance between financially strong and financially
weak ahead of countries. At an appropriate Länderfi
nanzausgleich we are just like on the obligations
gen Solidarity Pact. We want the state fiscal equalization
organize for the future so that the donor countries do not have
Charged fee and the fruits of their successful Po
policy be brought, that it is for the beneficiary countries
more than ever worthwhile to improve their situation, and that
structurally weak regions in the new and in the old
Countries be encouraged according to uniform criteria. Too
will this reorganization of federal-state relations
we use a third Federalism Commission.

We are convinced that in the diversity of our
Country and in the ability to different out
to be able to react flexibly demands, a Customised
re strength lies. That is what federalism. We want
strengthen it and develop it further. This includes the
Commitment, new federal long as a priority in
to settle the new countries, until it Annae to
mately equivalent distribution of sites in Bun
has come desgebiet. Similarly, we are uneinge
limited to the terms of the Bonn / Berlin-Geset
ZES. The city of Bonn is the second bundespoliti
cal center. We want to Bonn as a German site
the United Nations, as the seat of international Nichtre
governmental and location for international
Strengthen congresses and conferences.

2.5. ? Responsible fiscal policy -
Achievement must be rewarded
Strong shoulders must bear more than weak. That
is because of our progressive tax system already
Today, the situation Thus, in 2011 the top five
Percent of taxpayers 41.5 percent of incomes

mens expensive load carried. The top 25 percent of the CON
erpflichtigen have 76.9 percent of personal income tax
volume shouldered. Who turns the screw,
endangers the stability and weakens the Leis
tion of the people.

Middle class relieve -
Remove the bracket creep
Performance must be worthwhile. We therefore want the Leis
device carrier in the middle of our society continue ent
loads. For this purpose we want the so-called cold progression
break down. This ensures that wage increases that le
diglich to compensate for price increases are,
not offset by a higher tax rate
become. SPD and the Greens want the government continues on
Earned compensate for inflation. But we think that
Money belongs to the workers.

No to the wealth tax - No increase
inheritance tax
Most people believe that they are of a Ver
wealth tax would not be affected. That is a mistake:
Who wants to introduce a property tax, you must first
once for all 80.2 million people in Germany
17

Successful together for Germany | Government Programme 2013 - 2017

the financial circumstances determine. The only way to ensure
be found that no assets undetected lead
ben. This access to all Germans conceal SPD
and Green and scatter like humans instead
Sand in the eyes.
Clear, however, is that German companies to the sufferer
bearing would include. In Germany there are
around 1,500 companies with its products world
market leaders. These companies make us
its cutting-edge products to one of the leading export
Nations. The vast majority of them are mediumsized
sized enterprises: 70 percent of them are in families
possession of more than 90 percent belong to the manufacturing sector. Their work requires on a high
price map Germany as expensive production. Companies therefore have corre
accordingly high corporate assets, by the red-green
O ne higher inheritance tax plans and new
Property taxes would be particularly affected. Thereby
these companies will be deprived of the opportunity,
in new jobs, in education and training, in
Research and development to invest - or Weih
night money to pay.
The inheritance tax applies in Germany for
predominantly corporate and real property.
If the heirs have to sell part of the assets to
to be able to pay the inheritance tax, the ver
have devastating consequences for workers and tenants.
A reintroduction of wealth tax and raised stabili
Hung inheritance tax thus harm our competitive
tiveness and destroys jobs. That's why
leaning CDU and CSU both decisively.

Develop corporate taxation growth friendly
The Union is a growth-friendly sub
Business Taxation. We have the Unternehmenssteu
Crises tax reform from 2008 with numerous measures
firmly developed. However, it will continue to be more
tant that the German corporate tax law with the
international developments keep pace. It's explanatory
tes objective of the Union that Germany is an internationally at
tractive industrial location remains. We will continue as
Ran work, to corporate taxes in Europe
same. Companies to products and services
services do not compete, with the help of tax Kanz
leien.
18

Effectively combat fraud
Tax evasion is criminal and adds our Ge
my being heavy damage. Evaded Taxes
missing the State for the construction of roads, rehabilitation
of schools, kindergartens, the police and go with it
at the expense of all citizens. We will tax
continue fight resolutely and tax claims
also beyond the borders of nation-states away
prevail. The main objective remains the ingestion of
Taxes - no one is allowed to escape. Those who still
doing, the consequences of the law must get to feel.
Tax offenses, we will continue with vigor
. track For this purpose we set ourselves at the country level for
one that focus public prosecutors set
become. At the international level, we want to co
tion of tax investigation authorities, for example,
ver by the Convention for information exchange
mend.
With the black money fighting law has the unions
led government in early 2011, the rules for
amnesty voluntary tightened massively. Us
considered together with the countries and experts from
Science and practice, the extent to which even weiterge
is immediate tightening reasonable and feasible.
As early as 1996, the Union led government with
an initiative in the Organisation for Economic
Cooperation and Development (OECD) the reason
stone for the international force since 2005. Musterab
ge come to mutual exchange of information
sets. Since the enactment of the Model Convention has
the union led government 42 such Abkom
men signed with other countries - 36 alone in the
ser legislature.
A union led government will continue
make out that tax havens by improving in
international cooperation to be drained.

Coordinate better tax enforcement
The tax enforcement should still be responsible
the countries are. Our tax inspectors are doing a good
Work. Given often very complicated testing procedures
in international companies, we want them there
with special support. Therefore, we are committed to

Successful together for Germany | Government Programme 2013 - 2017

Stronger cooperation among countries in the control
a volunteer. We will consider how skills
and experience can be bundled - as in
The sense of a coordinating body at the Federal Central Tax Office
for taxes.

International corporations
appropriate taxing
Who is economically active in Germany, should also
Pay taxes. A plated and aggressive
Exploitation of differences in the tax systems
of different countries must be discouraged. Co
Men with partners such as Britain and France
Germany has success under the leadership of the Union
Reich used therefor, whether on an intergovernmental
Level progress more quickly. Through this Engage
ment on the question of a common approach ge
gen exuberant international tax planning now
high on the agenda of the proceedings of the
G8, the G20, the International Monetary Fund and
the OECD.

2.6. Strict rules for financial markets
Social market economy means that the economy must
serve people. We have also for the fi
cial markets prevail. Firstly applies for us: The To
relationship between decision-making responsibility
and liability must apply in the financial market right. Who
freedom will, with risky transactions high profits
achieve, must also ensure vouch if it wrong
goes. Secondly, we say that we want rules for each
Product and every player on every financial market. At the
Construction of these rules we have made good progress.
Germany is not only a pioneer in the nationa
len implementation, but also international driving
Force.

Control shadow banking
Particular attention will be placed on so
devote called shadow banks. We want ver
Avoid that special purpose entities, money market funds
or hedge funds classic offshore banking
the regulated banking sector to handle. Otherwise entste
hen new risks associated with all existing and future
Regulatory measures are being avoided
Should.

FTT
introduce world
We have, together with ten other EU countries ver
abredet, as soon as possible a financial transaction tax
introduce. While others just talk, has the unions
led government acted. In implementing
we will make sure that Wettbewerbsverzerrun
avoided Gen and the interests of the financial center
Germany remain safeguarded. Only as a strong and
competitive financial center can also Germany
continue to actively regulate the international financial
cial markets shape. It remains our goal here, the
Control not only in Europe but worldwide in the long term
introduce.

Universal banking system received -
Ensure SME financing
Our banking structure with cooperative banks, Pri
vatbanken and savings banks in particular in the
Financial crisis proved to be stable. We want this
Maintain and strengthen structural. Because it not only ensures
the financing of the middle class, but provides the
People also diverse Bank estimates for your everyday life
available on-site. At the same time we want to avoid
the that risks from proprietary trading transactions of banks
Savings and credit transactions, the investor dangerous
the. That is why we have ensured that certain
highly speculative transactions from deposits and Kreditge
business are separated.

2.7 N
? achhaltiges growth
creates quality of life
Growth has the lives of many people in our
Verbes country but also around the world, in an unprecedented manner
sert and prosperity possible. This growth is in
the social market economy an end in itself. Market
economic growth and have the people
NEN. In this sense, the social market economy must
are always continuously developed. This includes the ge
societal and economic Entwicklungsmög
liabilities rising generations stronger than up
ago to secure. Therefore, we want growth that
Economy, ecology and social responsibility together.
This is particularly true in view of the ahead-out
demands such as global climate change, the versor
supply a growing world population
19

Successful together for Germany | Government Programme 2013 - 2017

and the economic and financial crisis. Sustainable wax
growth does not simply mean "more", but above all
To create "better". We want an economy that
A pioneer in sustainable products, intelligent solu
solutions and strategies to improve Compatible
ness of the environment and economy.

Sustainability in all areas of life
and achieve world
Our understanding of growth and prosperity has
beyond the day and will have three aspects of sustain-
fulfill activity:
1.? Sustainability must operate in a networked and Globa
ized world are anchored and internationally.
An international governance of sustainable
ness must work towards locally and globally, in ENT
oped industrial countries and in emerging markets developmental and the transition to the age
energy-efficient environmentally friendly production,
to more stable financial and high social standards
initiate and accompany partnership.
2.? Economically and financially sustainable growth
requires above all that debt policies to be
end up. Due to the international financial crisis be
is now a historic opportunity, sustainable
Fiscal policy in Germany, Europe and the world
enforce.
3.? Man is part of creation. To protect you
is our mission. The principle of sustainability
integral part of our policy. We want Unse
Ren descendants preserve a world and hinterlas
sen, which is worth living even tomorrow. Full ent
is distinctive for ecological sustainability that
already a significant decoupling of economic
growth and resource consumption has succeeded.
This way it is to continue. People to part
have to empower and therefore the societal
to strengthen Chen cohesion - that is social
Sustainability. Everyone should be in accordance with its
Participate skills, contribute and contribute
for the benefit of all can afford. This means in particular
ticular, further education in all stages of life
promote, even more job seekers into work
bring and the willingness of people for eh
renamtliches commitment more than ever to
to lift.
20

New standards for measuring wealth
This understanding of wealth, the Bruttoin
domestic product (GDP) alone do not reflect. It's a good
To measure measure the economic performance and because
for it is also still necessary. But more can not
measure. Therefore, we believe that we have a
need a new instrument that this comprehensive
Understanding of prosperity and quality of living
becomes. Against this background, we welcome the Vorschlä
ge of the Study Commission "growth, prosperity, Le
quality of life "of the German Bundestag. So should ne
ben the gross domestic product, among other things
Debts of the state and private households, employment
employment rate, educational attainment and training and further
Education quote, health, democratic participation
and air pollution and biodiversity in national
and an international perspective are determined. In order to
would a comprehensive picture of prosperity
possible. As a step in this direction we want at
government measures will be strengthened in the benefits
Representing a view to sustainable development. Since
with we create the conditions for a more than pure
Costings beyond consideration.

Successful together for Germany | Government Programme 2013 - 2017

3. Use Germany's chances
3.1. Education Republic of Germany
Education begins at home, with the youngest: mother
start and father what Kita, schools, companies and high
continue school. But that is far from
Final: Lifelong learning is for our country and
its people more and more important. That is why we
brought the formation Republic of Germany on the way
and want to continue their expansion in the coming years
set. Every child deserves the best possible start to his
To develop skills as possible. We wol
verbin len School and education with digital learning
the, first-class education and study conditions
care and a "National Initiative training"
Abut.
Therefore, education remains the focus of our
Action. Since 2005, we have spending on education
Increases year after year. Only the assistance of the Federal Government for
Have higher education in the past eight years
doubled. We want the public and private Bil
education expenditures continue to increase.

Equal educational opportunities
from the beginning
Children are born explorers and researchers. Of Kin
desbeinen order to want to figure out how the world
it works around. With a good early childhood
Education, we support them. Unfortunately,
there are a growing number of children who are at home
from their parents insufficiently the German language
learn. Therefore, we are committed to language tests for all Kin
the one from three years. Where it turns out that the
Language skills are not sufficient, to an obligation
tends language promotion in the kindergarten and at school he
consequences.

The best school
for our children
We are committed to a diverse and durchlässi
Independent Education offer. The concept of red-green A
comprehensive school is an aberration. It fails to recognize that every child
is unique and thus goes to the needs and
Interests of our children over. With us is the one
individual child at the center. We want every child ent
promote his speaking opportunities and challenge. Since

we put on a good and trusting co
operation with the parents. CDU and CSU are to
future of the high school, the school for powerful
Preparation especially vocational training and the
Equivalence of general and vocational Bil
tion. Instead pabulum we want for our children a
Diversity of educational pathways, the diverse Berufsund open up paths of life. For us the target is applied: no Ab
circuit without connecting.

Pact for a good education
Every day our children go to school in the morning -
from basic to vocational school. It is the most impor
te place of learning. We want the chances of it
improve successful schooling. With a Bildungspakt
between federal, state and local authorities, we want it
create the conditions. This includes:

Expansion of all-day care
High-quality all-day schools support this goal.
Therefore, we want a demand Ganztagsbetreu
ung also involving extracurricular Strengthens
TEN, such as clubs or volunteer
Structures ensuring throughout Germany. Simultaneity
time, we do so also a decisive contribution to
better work-life balance.

School 2.0
The rapid development of information technologies
offers new opportunities in education. Use digita
ler media in our schools must match the digital
Keep developing better step. We want Unse
Children re overlooking the great opportunities of Digitali
tion for the later working life at school
a responsible and sensible use of the
learn new technical possibilities and them
equal to new, interesting ways of knowledge transfer
be opened. We want to ensure that our
Schools are equipped on the amount of time. To
include, for example, modern computer technology, digita
le learning opportunities and better networking of Schu
len. If the classroom the way into the digital
Place world, a new world of education, in the opening up
Children naturally the new technical
Opportunities to get to know. Digital education has significant
Lich more than ever part of the education and training
be teachers.
21

Successful together for Germany | Government Programme 2013 - 2017

Good teachers
Good school is good teaching and the basis for good teaching, are highly trained and highly
motivated teachers. We want from the Magisterium
Students are teachers who this profession About
take procreation and filled with passion. To you
an excellent education on the way to
give, we are half a billion euros for a
Provide "quality offensive Teacher Education", with
the good education concepts at universities for
a modern teaching on the amount of time under
are supported. The service of the children is one of the
most important tasks for a good future of our
Country. That is why we want the work of teaching
gutters and teachers better socially accepted
becomes.

Media and information literacy
Strengthen
People should the opportunities and risks of Digi
assess capitalization itself and secure in digital
Can move the age. Therefore, we want the Me
diene and improve information literacy. We want
People of all ages with the knowledge ausstat
th, which is the basis for self-reliant Han
spindles as online forms offline.

Independent schools and private institutions
guarantee diversity
In addition to public schools enrich schools
free and privately funded our educational farm
economy and encourage competition between the shoes
len. They are the expression of a large civic
and ecclesial commitment. We are committed to reliably
our support of these schools.

Religious instruction belongs in the canon of subjects
Religious education must as a separate subject at UN
be anchored sera schools. Those who, like the Greens, the Ab
creation of denominational religious instruction
Richts calls, paving the way to an erosion of
for our society formative Christian values.
We are facing opposed decided. Other Un
terrichtsinhalte as philosophy or ethics are not He
sentence for religious instruction and meet difficult
22

the order of our constitution. Based on
the Constitution we stand for Islamic Religions
teaching an in schools.

More co-operation between the federal government
and countries
CDU and CSU stand for a goal-oriented co
cooperation in education policy and for clear competent
speeds between federal and state governments. The human
should know who is responsible for the decisions.
Countries bear the central responsibility for Bil
tion. However, we need better Comparable
ness of the statements between the countries. Especially with
Look at the many families and their children, who each
Year for professional reasons between countries ih
Change Location reindeer, we need common Che
Fung standards that the equal status of the financial statements
to ensure.
We will therefore continue for national education
standards used. Together with the countries
we want for opportunities for a better to
looking cooperation and existing barriers
reduce by mutual agreement for better cooperation.

Strengthen vocational training
Who present a completed vocational training
can, has the best chances on the labor market. Our
The aim is therefore that in the future any training Willi
GE and able young people a training program he
holding, leading to a recognized qualification. Our
dual training in companies and vocational schools is valid for
as a model worldwide. It is an important reason,
that we have the lowest youth unemployment rate in the whole of Eu
ropa have and for young educated people NIR
gendwo is easier to find a job than in German
country.
We want more young people the opportunities
the dual training system can be used, and want it
together with the private sector the conditions
create. This is especially true for people with too
immigration history, in part-time education or with egg
ner disability. Anyone who interrupts his studies, is targeted
be recovered for vocational training and the
at the University successfully passed exams
better get recognized.

Successful together for Germany | Government Programme 2013 - 2017

Facilitate vocational - school transition
The transition from school to training is on
quite a few young people difficult. Is at a
the school career does not run as desired, and
at the end lacks the qualifications to meet the require-
ments for an apprenticeship to meet. Other
Youngsters there is a special educational needs. That
may in young people with a disability of
His case. In other cases, there are a missing or un
a low level of support from the parents' home or a
Immigration history, which lead to trouble.
Overlooking the chances of these young people and the
high demand for skilled workers our economy we want
additional efforts to possible
many of these people without detours and waiting Schlei
fen their way into working life to pave. Just Ju
quietly union with disabilities has to unbürokrati
cal support available. Let since
to the practical vocational orientation in all Schulfor
Removing men further and more practical deals
Provide learning, work experience and occupational
Lessons together.
Longer pre-employment internships for schwä
Chere teenagers can make an important contribution to
make successful career start. We want sol
support che measures strengthened. For this purpose we want
with the "accompanying training", especially for small and
medium-sized enterprises in the field of craft and resources
stands as a bridge between training and operation
Trainees beat. The questions available
Support services to a mutually
Make contribution to the successful training.

Colleges future mooring
A wide and diverse range of outstanding
Universities is essential for our country. Justifiably
We are proud of our excellent universities,
the instrumental with their performance in research and teaching
contribute to our reputation in the world. Knowledge
nomic success translated into products, create Ar
beitsplätze and safeguard our prosperity. For us
crucial that our universities in each
Can measure respects with the best in the world.
We employ a diverse higher education landscape,
the different needs and interests
Into account. To enable dual courses of study
and distance-learning programs, work and study well mitein

other to join. Even private colleges prepared
Chern this diversity. We are you a reliable
Partner.

Studying is not the wallet
the parents depend - Student Financial Aid
improve
We want everyone to pursue his talents
can, regardless of the wallet of the parents a gu
te gets training. That is why we are the studies
expand funding and is set to student loans to the
Cost of living and changing educational pathways
to adjust. Trainees who is studying or scatterbrained
lic education may attend only part-time because
they care that require children to better
Receive funding conditions. This is also true for Studying
de, the already completed vocational training
and have experience in professional life and on the
Want to continue to qualify college. In addition to the BE
proven BAföG we also want to scholarships as a good
Possibility of financing and important part of the Be
further advance gabtenförderung. The new
Germany scholarship to a good start. In this set
we do not for the further expansion of scholarships Culture
only to the state. Even private sponsors from the host
Community will increasingly contribute.

The Higher Education Pact allows good study conditions
More and more young people to study in Germany,
the substantive challenges to take in the face
an increasingly internationalized to. Our
Colleges master hervorra these new responsibilities
quietly and yet we need additional efforts,
to increase the performance of universities
and increasing numbers of Next Studienan
prepare scavengers. We want this task ge
Together with the university teachers, students
Community, the academic and non-academic
Tackle staff of universities. An important
Step is the continuation of the Higher Education Pact. A BE
special emphasis is improving Studi
form ew ork. The "Teaching Quality Pact" and
"Quality offensive Teacher Education" are important steps
in this direction. The internationalization of the
Colleges we want to continue developing. The aim must
be it, the best students and researchers world
to bring to our universities. For this purpose, we want to close
23

Successful together for Germany | Government Programme 2013 - 2017

lischsprachige study programs as well as in international
Cooperation jointly offered courses wei
Removing ter.

Studying with a child should be easier
Studies and parenthood should not be ruled out.
We want young people not between
Must decide Studies and child, but both
reconcile. These include affordable
Housing, a flexible design of Unialltags, as in
for example child-friendly opening hours, childcare
in the library or children's meals in the cafeteria. In ei
nem competition we want especially familienfreundli
che universities with good ideas and identify them for it
distinguished. In addition to family policy Ele
considered instruments in the study finance more
and in the Temporary Science Employment Law consistently
be turned over.

Top talent for science
The employment situation of young knowledge
tists has developed positively. With more than one
half a million people have as many people as
never employed at German universities. This is
a strong signal for the future. At the same time in order to rise
know the expectations for a better planning of
Community careers. Here we want to share with
universities just for the academic resources
build new accents, for example, with a För
program for in reliable career paths to high
schools. Want time limits in the academic background
we degrade.

Online university?
The Internet has revolutionized learning
The Internet leads to completely new forms of teaching at
universities. Around the world, new online Stu
developed serving models of specialized courses
up to global platforms range. Here arises
great future market, the higher education sus
will change tig. We have to be there when the
Internet-University of the future is being created. Therefore wol
len we at attractive universities along the way and
competitive offers for digital learning
support and encourage them, strategies for quality
hedging, financing, supervision of students
to develop and crediting of study achievements.
24

Future opportunities through lifelong
Secure Learn
The knowledge available in the world today, all doubles
four years. Given this rapid development is our
Country angewie more than ever on highly trained professionals
sen. For that we want to work together with industry and Be
ees a new awareness of a "Lifelong Ler
create NEN ". With attractive terms, we want to
Convince workers of
even more time and energy to their professional development
apply. For this purpose, we want life time accounts more attractive
customize, develop the education savings and so pos
Open lichst many families and improved possible answer
th to promote training Introd
ren. As part of a "National Initiative training"
We are together with the social partners, the staatli
Chen actors, employment agencies, universities and
private providers are undertaking joint objectives and
develop new ideas, such as occupational Next
Education can take place in everyday work regularly.

3.2 make people change? -
Responsibility for all generations
Never before have the prospects for a long and healthy
and fulfilling life as great as it is today in our country.
Life expectancy is rising steadily. At the same time
fewer children are born, and the number of inhabitants
decreases. The consequences are u. A .: More and fewer workers
must ensure more and more people who are not in
Working life are. The number of students is declining,
the companies face a shortage of skilled labor. For
the elders - and the people with disabilities - are
there is too little barrier-free apartments and houses, currency
rend in some places housing stands empty.
All this makes the transition to a population of
the biggest challenges of our country. Him to be
wältigen we see as a national task, all
relates to social groups. We have in common
sam solutions to urgent questions, see: These include
u. a. the education and medical care in the country, to
future of the pension, the assurance of skilled workers, better
Opportunities for women and older people in the labor market and
successful integration of immigrants.
In the union-run federal government, we have to
these challenges with a comprehensive Demo

Successful together for Germany | Government Programme 2013 - 2017

grafiestrategie responded that we, together with the County
develop countries, local authorities and social partners
become. We know: Only if we collectively as GESAM
tackle te company, we can these tasks
master. And only together we can also use the Chan
use opportunities arising from it.

Germany needs a good home
be strong for families
Our society needs strong families. You are the
Foundation of our society. And it includes all
Generations. That is why we want to strengthen families. Before
all we say yes to children. You are an asset
for our country. We want young men and women he
brave, to decide for children.

Social cohesion
strengthen
CDU and CSU stand for a good working relationship of Ge
generations. We therefore intend to continue to bridges
build intergenerational and talk ent
eliminated against any form of discrimination against men
rule out because of their age. The experience
just our senior citizens is a large, previously
often unused power for our country, we strongly to
Want to bring development. Therefore, we will generatio
nenübergreifende projects such as the successful Mehrge
nerationenhäuser continue to promote, where people
encounter different ages and mutually
support. We want to this multi-generational housing
Town houses evolve. They offer a wide
Spectrum of activities for all ages and
are a hub for different services
and focal points for civic engagement.
According to the basic concept of "caring community
companies "to neighborhood help with professionel
len services are better linked. So is
for example, the care of elderly citizens more to Ge
Joint Task. Volunteering, self-help
and neighborhood are then with a family and
professional care connected.

Use the skills Mature stronger
The economic estimates the value of older workers
increasingly. The employment rate of 55- to
64-year-old is Germany with over 60 percent inzwi

rule across the EU on space 2. In no other Altersgrup
PE has risen more employment. This Ent
We aim to continue development. For this purpose, we want to
Insert a new image of old age. Shared
Teams of young and older workers have often
more and better ideas, link different
Skills and foster cohesion in the sub
take. We want for this mixed-age teams
advertise. The operating and tariff partners, we encourage,
enhanced training pacts in collective agreements and
Anchor operating agreements.
Together with the collective bargaining, health and
other partners, we also want the company Ge
strengthening health management and new attractive Ange
bote develop. We want older workers
open up more chances for a good job.
We finally are committed, rigid age limits
to be put under scrutiny. As more and more mature and
want to remain professionally active in the retirement age, we will
together with the social partners better opportunities
create it. The civil service is here as a model
serve.

Flexible on regional differences
React
The population change ensures greater differences
between growing cities and sparsely populated
Regions. We must learn to live with these differences
deal with it and develop a willingness on with
to provide flexible approaches the right answers. Un
ser aim is everywhere the conditions for good
To provide care for the population. For this we use
new responses that are flexible and clever with the new
Challenges circumvent, for example by
increasingly rely on digital and mobile solutions.

Demography check for laws
and introduce public investment
We are all proposed legislation, policies, and in
Check investments to determine which effects
are thus connected to the coming generations. Since
with aims to ensure that investment in
for example in schools or roads are planned,
that they also in a changing population
number can be put to good use and affordable
are.
25

Successful together for Germany | Government Programme 2013 - 2017

Competing with the best solutions
be prepared for the future
We will sup with a competitive regions
zen, the answers to the changes in population
looking accumulation structure. Our goal is to provide the best ideas
to find and implement. The solutions found here
can become a model for others who in some
Years ago the same challenges as
the regions as a pioneer of today the off
effects are concerned.

Take advantage of opportunities for change offensively
Germany has the best conditions to be
Lead market and lead new products and services
to develop services that meet the needs of Äl
direct generation tailored. We are
convinced that the quality of life for all people in
our country is increasing, if we succeed, this new Ak
Zente set. Because much of what is good for older men
rule is, is also good for young families. Buses, roads
Trains, subways and trains with low entrances
are as important as for walkers and wheelchairs
for prams.
Germany is feeling the impact of aging
Society already clearly than other countries. The
Most regions of the world, especially in Europe, Asia
and North America will follow in the near future. Our
Country can therefore in tackling demografi
his rule change pioneer and through early
Decisions a head start on the corre
relevant markets secure. The demographic changes bie
tet a great opportunity for our country, a pioneer in new
s social and technological developments
be and continue to make our country worth living.

3.3? Technical progress and research
bring forward our country
From Johannes Gutenberg about Gottlieb Daimler and Carl
Zeiss to Max Planck: Germany was not only
always been a country of poets and thinkers, but it was
Anyway a land of explorers, researchers and
Tinkerers. Germany is a curious country. And if
we continue to operate on an international competition of ideas
want to stay ne, we have this as a whole Gesell
economy remain - cosmopolitan, friendly technology and wis
26

sensdurstig. Because in the future: We are Unse
re products compared to others in the world only so
able to sell much more expensive, as they are better.
The policy has the task best conditions
Science and Technology to develop. Because we
know: The investment in research and development
today tomorrow mean jobs, prosperity
and quality of life for the people.
It is therefore good that in Germany has never been so much
was spent on research and development as in
this legislature. The target of three percent of
Gross domestic product, we have virtually achieved.
We intend to continue this successful path.

Prosperity of tomorrow -
Predictability and new instruments
for a successful research
Because the proportion of new products in overall sales increasingly
increases, it is important that ideas quickly new production
te be. Therefore, we want our research funding
focus even more closely tion on:
We are projects along the entire value
support chain from the laboratory to the prototype.
For the implementation of new knowledge, we want to
divisional reinforced and cross-thematic projects
enable.
We will research institutions reliable för
countries, so that they security for their planning and their Investing
have investments.
With the tax benefits we are creating
a new tool that will help our company
intended to advance their own research. They can
further in international competition to be successful.

Science facilities
strengthen and university research
Germany's science is well positioned
and a magnet for researchers from around the world. Your
Strength lies in its diversity, from the grundlagenori
oriented research to application all abbil
Det. This is especially true for the universities and other higher
Schools as ventricles of science. This is true but
also for the Fraunhofer-Gesellschaft, the Helmholtz-Ge

Successful together for Germany | Government Programme 2013 - 2017

munity, the Leibniz Association, the Max Planck Society and the German Research Foundation
Community. Even the scientific academies, the Alex
other von Humboldt Foundation and the German Aca
shuffle exchange service take a major
Place at the science location Germany.

simplifying digital study materials at universities
fold. Scientific knowledge that with staatli
Cher promoting arise should after appro
NEN time for all citizens to be freely accessible. To
we will cooperate with the scientific community, a so-
called developing "open-access" strategy.

With the Excellence Initiative has succeeded to the country
Map of the world's best universities and German
To put universities. At the same time be connected to the high
Education Pact universities in research and teaching ge
strengthens and created 625 000 new student places.

High-Tech Strategy 2020

We know that good research requires reliability:
That is why we are on the one hand the Pact for Research and
Extend innovation to 2020th On the other hand we are
the extramural research institutions solid
growing households in the amount of five percent per year
guarantee to 2020th We create reliable Karri
ereperspektiven for young scientists.
The successful Excellence Initiative, we want to cooperate
evolve with science and the course
make so that the promotion beyond 2017 advanced training courses
can be set. Strong research universities under
we support through project funding, as well as by
said program packages. These cover the per
jektbedingten Surcharges from and are for good high
university research is essential.

Cooperation between universities
Removing and research institutions
Wise policy is always to consider how POWERFUL
hige facilities can be even better. We wol
Len in the future outstanding research achievements
enable in the top and in the width. Thus
the federal government participate in this task permanently more
can, we want the opportunities for cooperation
federal and state by amending the basic
Act strengthen. We expect additional
Encouragement of research and education that the technolo
secure cal performance of our country.

With a contemporary copyright
support science
Science, business, art and culture need to
Protection of intellectual property. At the same time we want to
a reliable, modern copyright use

With our high-tech 2020 we bundle For
search and innovation activities and point it at
The major challenges and future markets of:
Environment and energy, health and nutrition, Mobili
ity, security and communication. Germany is here
Be a pioneer and ideas. We promote targeted
Combinations of leading companies and For
research institutions that there forces in a Regi
on bundling. With a new "Open Innovation" initiative
we want opportunities, especially for small, imaginative Under
take provide. "Open Innovation" means EXISTING
Denes knowledge in organizations for outsiders
make available to advance new ideas.
Our view is but about the year 2020. We wol
len set the course that our country also in
is successfully coming decade. In an increasingly
more globalized and knowledge-based economy
is the proportion of research-intensive sectors continue to
take. That is why we are the High-Tech Strategy in
develop the next parliamentary term, and on
Preparing the challenges of the future.

Research in Europe ahead -
our scientific system internationally
network
Good research conditions are an important reason
Location of growth and prosperity - this applies to
Germany and for Europe. Therefore, we will increase our
Ver efforts for a European Research Area
strengthen and to the success of high-tech Strate
energy to Europe bear. Engine for these new For
research development to the EU program "Horizon
In 2020, "that in all research activities from 2014
Europe bundles. We want to ensure that German
Scientists and companies the best conditions
get to benefit from the opportunities this program.
For this purpose we will firstly a transnational
Establish network of Regions of Innovation. On the other hand
we want close contact with strong scientific institutions
establish directions in the new EU Member States.
27

Successful together for Germany | Government Programme 2013 - 2017

Promote enthusiasm for technology and talent
win for the future
Research should be open and understandable to all citizens.
With the "House of Little Scientists" and student lab
in all regions of Germany, we promote today
interest in technology, natural sciences and in
Children. They are the young researchers to the
future. We want a Germany technikfreundli
Ches country remains, in which people risks and Chan
CEN of new technologies can reasonable rate.
That is why we also want the science yet
more efforts is to get people to
inform: on new technologies, the value of Wis
science and on the frontiers of knowledge. about
"Window of Science" in particular the
"House of the Future" in Berlin and Science dialogues
we want to many people about the prerequisites
get talking good science gen.

Observe safety and ethical boundaries
Freedom of research is: freedom in responsibility
for ethical boundaries. Man must not everything he
can. Researches how the consumptive embryo
research, we reject on ethical grounds. Animals
are our fellow creatures, that is why we are our
world model research to develop Al
Continue alternatives to animal testing. In addition to best
Research conditions we want to sup good humanities and social scientific accompanying research
zen to the responsible use of the
To strengthen research and its results.

3.4? Safe, affordable and clean energy
The energy transition is one of the major political, host
economic and scientific challenges
Our large and crucial for the future
res country. Consumers and business need
long term secure, affordable and clean energy con
supply. With a supply which on renewable energy
sets strategies and lower energy consumption, Shakers
We also utilize our environment and promote climate
protection. In this way, we have already achieved a great deal.
Every fourth kilowatt hour of electricity is RETRY today
won energies. This makes us independent he
ger of oil and gas imports. At the same time we with secure
the expansion of a foot ends on renewable energy
28

Energy supply jobs and value added in
own country. Therefore, we want the energy turnaround ent
closed, keep it moving smoothly and with good judgment.

Germany remains an industrial location -
with reliable framework
and affordable energy prices
Needs The conversion of energy supply and stable
reliable conditions. Planning security is the
Basis for investment in the construction of new wind farms
on the high seas or for modern power plants. Consumer
and businesses need clarity about the development
development of energy prices. Therefore we focus on market
economical solutions with fair competition, tech
nologieoffenheit and new technological developments
lungs.
The energy transition is a long-term task and with
connected large financial efforts. We wol
len they implement economically justifiable. Un
ser goal is that Germany is a competitive In
dustrieland remains. Affordable energy is for special
larly important, especially for energy-intensive industries in
Competition with foreign competition. Almost a Mil
lion employees and their families were the Verlie
rer when their businesses in international competition
could not exist. That is why we want this sub
take in future relieve precisely to cons
by different international Rahmenbedingun
gene to compensate for taxes and fees.
The Renewable Energy Sources Act (EEG) has the expansion
renewable energy accelerates and Germany
this secured a leading position. After the rapid
Development in recent years, it is important that
next steps closely with the accelerated expansion
electricity networks and other energy sources to ver
Teething: A nifty mesh unterschiedli
cher elements and energy stabilizes the versor
supply and relieve the consumer of cost.
For this purpose we want the Renewable Energies Act wei
terentwickeln. Our goal is reliable Rahmenbedin
conditions in the coming years, the safety of In
creating investment and planning. Against this background
why we are not retroactive intervention in best
make immediate investments. According to the previous On
up funding the aim must be now, competi
to Errei petitive prices for renewable energy

Successful together for Germany | Government Programme 2013 - 2017

chen, so that they be without government aid on the market
assert can. At the same time they are more responsible
assume for a stable power supply.

me use, link them together intelligently and
on a healthy mix of power generation types
eighth.

Security guarantee -
Expand networks and storage

We need greater international market presence energy
utilities, many public utilities and private Energieer
producers as well as the science alike. Des
half we encourage all, in the interest of our country to
pull together to.

This power in the future always in every place and to
is always at your disposal, we are driving the expansion
the power grids ahead and develop new Speichertech
nologies. Of particular importance is the construction of the largest
SSEN power lines, the electricity from the wind-rich
Regions in the North and in the metropolitan areas in
Transported south and west of our country.
The regional networks that the current spot to the Ver
bring consumers, we want to use modern Infor
mation and communication technology to produce intelligent
Networks evolve. The aim of this "intelligent networks"
It is then possible that the current is consumed,
when a lot of energy produced and is available on the net.
The current is characterized for the consumer cheaper because
He then consumes him when he OFFE cost
th is. At the same time the nets are made of uniform
weighed and are therefore more stable and less ausfallge
endangered.
The use of renewable energies is far Wesent
Lich dependent on the sun is shining or it out
is sufficiently windy. Both are not always given.
Nevertheless, we need reliable at all hours
Nighttime electricity. Therefore, the maintenance and expansion of
Storage is particularly important. We set as our
for that existing and future storage as
example Pumpspeicherwerke but also hydrogen ("Power to Gas") or compressed air energy storage through appropriate
legal framework operated economically
Ben can be. Also electric vehicles can in
example excess wind energy in verbrauchsar
accommodate men hours. They are therefore also an important
Part of the energy revolution. We want the development
of new storage technologies through measures
Support frame of the high-tech strategy.

Until the interaction of renewable energies, Net
zen and storage technology in a few decades our
Can secure energy supply, we need modern
Coal and gas power plants in order he fluctuations in
renewable energies compensate effectively. In order for the
environmental and climate-friendly is done, we want to
Construction of new, more efficient power plants accelerate. Therefore
We want investors stable and reliable Bedin
create conditions to ensure that the operation of such Reservekapa
has capacities economically. Through the use of advanced
Technologies can also domestic lignite a
play an important role.
With a view to extracting gas by the so-
called fracking is clear for the CDU and CSU: threats
people and our drinking water from having to
getting closed. The security has for the Union from
absolute priority. A gas extraction means healthy
unit hazardous chemicals we reject.

Energy transition needs acceptance on site
We want to ensure that the citizens
Also financially be the expansion and use of the networks
piece can. This increases the acceptance of notwendi
gen investments and facilitate the financing. Before
especially those whose land or region UNMIT
are applicable touched by a grid expansion, should play
can acquire the network and a "citizen dividends
de "regularly participate in the profits.

The energy supply of tomorrow
is varied

We welcome and support the many forms
energy cooperatives, citizens' networks, community wind
parks or common solar projects, with which
Citizens directly on the Energiewen
de participate.

The energy supply of the future will be more diverse. Us
want the diversity of wind energy on land and at the
Sea, sun and bioenergy, hydropower and Erdwär

When necessary construction of new power lines, we want to egg
ne early involvement of local citizens ensure STEL
Search len and dialogue. In line relocations in
29

Successful together for Germany | Government Programme 2013 - 2017

Location close we want - where this after weighing of
Costs and benefits of possible and reasonable - even
Underground cable laying.

Increase energy efficiency and energy
promote savings
Every kilowatt hour that is not consumed, must do
are not only generated. Therefore, energy conservation is a
Key to the success of the energy turnaround. The most
Energy in Germany is required in buildings - as
is warm with it in the winter, we do not sit in the dark
or the refrigerator is running. With better information
through efficient appliances, heating and a consultation on
the sensible insulation of our homes, we want to
big savings point. This track
we the principle of openness to technology: We never want to
mandem dictate which technology to use COM
Men should. By 2020, we want so the energy con
consumption by 20 percent and power consumption by min
reduce least ten percent in buildings. Investitio
NEN in energy saving measures we intend to financially för
countries. The implementation should be for owners and tenants
worth. For this we are successful CO2 Building
restructuring program to continue. Concerning fiscal
Promotion we want to create additional incentives for private investment
trigger investments in building renovation. This strengthens
also the craft, which implements the policies on the ground.

European energy supply -
more closely with each
Fluctuations in power generation can be better
be compensated if power freely across
Can flow limits and its European Speicherfä
ability is improved. We will therefore for an
European internal energy market. In the north Euro
pas, for example, a large hydro
Contribution to make electricity storage. In southern County
countries with many hours of sunshine is the expansion of Photo
voltaics a promising possibility. We sit
on closer coordination in the EU and a wide
ren expansion of the European electricity network. For the
we need European electricity exchange enough
and especially powerful interconnections between
between the individual countries.
We are committed to ensuring the safety of all nuclear power
improving works in the European Union. Risks
do not stop at borders. Therefore, we want to un
30

sera energy policy course even in our Europeanised
recruit's neighbors. We advocate for all
Nuclear power plants in the European Union have legally
einzu dividend requirements on the basis of stress tests
lead.

Resolve issue of final disposal - from Responsibility
for our children and grandchildren
We have the final phasing out of nuclear energy
decided to 2022nd A suitable repository for the si
Chere storage of highly radioactive waste to
find, is a requirement of responsibility for us to
about our children and grandchildren. As the issue of Off
Stieg out of nuclear energy, we also want the repository
Seeking cooperation with the citizens lö
sen. We have to the site selection and the law
Establishment of a commission of representatives of the federal government,
Countries as well as science and society
Brought groups on the way. It is 2015 objekti
ve set criteria that meet a repository site
got to. We stand for an open-ended, alone is objective
tive selection criteria focused search for a
Repository site.
We assume our responsibility of Federal Government for
safe retrieval of the stored in the shaft Asse II
Nuclear waste. At the same time we take responsibility
for the region, by the Fund with resources for Aces
equip a disadvantage compensation for the region.

? 3.5 Mobility for all - road, rail,
Water and in the air
We want that Germany remains mobile. Because Mobili
ity, the free ride from one place to another, is a
Basic human need. And in the globalized
World of the 21st century it is one of the crucial
Conditions for sustainable prosperity. For how
hardly another country draws its host Germany
nomic power from international trade, especially
from the export of our goods and products.
Roads, bridges, railways and canals are the Ver
traffic arteries of our country. Thus Germany mobile
remains, we need a strong transport infrastructure.
But this was in the past decades mas
SIV claimed. And the burden is being carried
the further increase in freight transport continue to rise. Since

Successful together for Germany | Government Programme 2013 - 2017

with Germany in the future of a modern and
powerful transport infrastructure has, we want
this challenge in the next legislature
by additional expenditures for a special
Making focus of our policy.

We will also enhances the possibilities to
cooperation of public and private sector in the so-called public-private partner Sheep
th (PPPs) to use when this saves costs and
Projects can be implemented more quickly.

We stand for a reliable State for leis
mance roads, railways, waterways and competitive
petitive airports as well as provide for cleaner air
and an intact environment. We want no bevormun
Denden State requiring the people as they are
should move. We therefore reject a general
Speed ​​limit on German motorways. Beschränkun
gen need targeted traffic-related circumstances or
are temporal requirements.

Consolidate our role as an exporting nation -
Expand European transport axes
strengthen and aviation

A reliable transport policy for the 21st century
needs of the real needs of people and
economic thinking ago. We want to ensure that the
Fewer people in the traffic jam, the trains more punctual
drive, our goods safely and quickly get there,
where they are needed, and the noise and exhaust Belas
tions go back through the traffic. One ideologi
European transport policy, which unilaterally on certain Ver
portation sets and other disadvantaged specifically, occur
we receive.
We also take into account the regional sub-
differences in Germany: In many rural areas
your car will remain indispensable. Especially in the
Cities in turn offer new possibilities,
the different modes of transport with their respective
Strengths to dovetail with the latest technology. From The
construction of transport infrastructure provides for the people
Germany great opportunities - we want to use them.

Removing location advantage Infrastructure
We want by the increasing traffic needs
Carry investments in our infrastructure bill.
For this we are a financial envelope for our Ver
transport routes significantly increase.
So we are having a 25 billion euro investment
program for the maintenance and expansion of the federal trunk
Customised a road in the next parliamentary term
Ren put emphasis. This will create Planungsund financing security and afford a moder
NEN infrastructure an important contribution to higher
Competitiveness.

As a successful export nation we need a well-
bautes road and rail networks as well as performance
strong airports and waterways. This includes the
major European transport axes, of which more than
half go through our country. Together with the EU
We intend to expand these corridors on. As well
essential for growth and prosperity is a competitive
tive aviation. CDU and CSU are reliable
Conditions for the German aviation host
create community, so that they do in a tough international
can say len competitive environment. This includes the
For fair international competition
also in view of the overall tax burden. That's why
we will examine whether the abolition of Luftverkehrssteu
it is necessary and feasible in the next legislature.

Finish Federal Transport Infrastructure Plan
For the construction of transport routes all planned
Building measures listed in the Federal Transport Infrastructure Plan.
We are the new Federal Transport Infrastructure Plan (FTIP
2015) be speedily completed. The citizens who
we participate in the preparation process and the Festle
conditions make it traceable. We want investment
tions carried out on the market especially where the
bring most benefit. The elimination of bottlenecks
and closing gaps reducing congestion play a
important role. It has the maintenance and upgrading
existing roads priority over new construction.

Public transport
Support - strengthen bicycle traffic
An efficient public Personennahver
traffic is for the people in everyday life is of enormous importance
tion - in the big cities and in the countryside. CDU and
CSU will ensure that the federal government a reliable
Partner of the municipalities in financing the commu
tional traffic remains. Together with the countries wol
we recommend to ensure a good infrastructure.
31

Successful together for Germany | Government Programme 2013 - 2017

Anyone can own responsibility to reduce the ver
traffic-related pollution contribute. The driving
rad plays as an environmentally friendly transport a
important role. We want to share the Fahrradver
traffic as an attractive and environmentally friendly alternative
further increase to the car.
Therefore, we will expand the network of cycle paths and the
Bicycle better dovetail with other means of transportation.
The increasing use of electric bicycles (Pe
delecs) here is creating new opportunities.

Increase traffic safety
Road safety is a priority for us. Each Unfallop
fer is one too many. The number of victims we want
therefore further reduce significantly and thus the declining
Continue development of recent years. Therefore put
we firstly on technical measures such In
play more traffic lights or hazard warnings. This applies to
particular in the vicinity of schools and kindergartens.
On the other hand we want to date by construction
Making black spots safer. The safety of
Pedestrians and cyclists, we want to, among other things
increase with better walking and cycling trails.

Expand logistics location Germany
The smooth transport of goods is for us as Ex
Portland crucial for host
nomic success. The logistics industry has become a
escape key growth engine for our economy
oped. Our strong competitive position on the inter
national markets we want by expanding and
Improving logistics and value chains
to consolidate and expand. The Action Plan "Güterver
listed transport and logistics "of the Federal Government
Measures, we will continue and escape
velop. Wherever it makes sense, we are the publishers
promote tion of traffic on the railways and waterways.
In particular, we are transhipment facilities for Kom
promote combined transport.

Rail - environmentally friendly
and service-oriented
Rail transport is an essential backbone Unse
res transport system. CDU and CSU want to strengthen him
and expand. This includes a close timing of Zü
ge, punctuality, modern railway stations as well as a good
32

built and coordinated local and long distance
transport network. We advocate a wettbewerbsorien
oriented rail regulation, which to access
Railway lines and stations regulates proper
Price regulation and ensuring at the same time Miss
custom control encompassed by the Federal Network Agency.
The service and financing agreement between
Federal Government and German Bahn AG to maintain the consist
the federal railway infrastructure we will continue to slip away
velop. CDU and CSU want the railway infrastructure in
the hand of the Federal left. The initiated by us
Towards market opening and competition in the rail
has proved its worth. On successful model of inte
th Group "German course AG" we are sticking. The
Chances private railways in the competition we want to si
Chern.

Maritime economy - Marine
strengthen and ports
Powerful seaports are growth drivers for un
sere coastal regions and major props for the state
Location Germany. They also include inland ports
with their road and rail connections to the Kernele
elements of a transport policy for the 21st century. That
Overall system of seaports, inland ports and water
roads, we will strengthen the long term. Take precedence
firstly, the need-based expansion of access roads
and hinterland connections to North and Baltic Seas, the
other the elimination of capacity bottlenecks in the
Ports. The competitiveness of shipping under
German flag, we will strengthen and the successful
Working in the "Maritime Alliance for Employment and
Training "to continue. The German shipbuilding takes
worldwide a leading position. Germany is the
world's third largest shipping location. Therefore,
we the proven funding instruments for the shipyard Indus
industry and to continue the support for the shipowners.

Sustainable mobility
We are committed to an integrated approach, the
Vehicle technology, fuels, infrastructure, intelli
gente transport systems, handling and networking
the modes of transport equally. Of the
Development of alternative drive concepts offers great Chan
CEN for Germany - also because he un Us
dependent makes of oil as a fuel and in the groove
of renewable energy contributes to
To reduce greenhouse gas emissions. We want

Successful together for Germany | Government Programme 2013 - 2017

Germany into a lead market and lead to order
mentally friendly drive technologies make. Until
2020, one million electric vehicles on Unse
his reindeer roads. For that we want in all of us
The value chain - from raw materials
Battery production to vehicle - develop and
produce. CDU and CSU rely on technology open
integrated in the development of Antriebstechnologi
en. For other technologies, such as
Hydrogen, natural gas or hybrid vehicles, can in
Future play a more important role. We rely on the
long and impressive experience of our carmaker,
that they help these technologies to break through.
We want to accompany the development by u. A. Pi
bring lotprojekte for charging stations on the road or
tax and financial incentives set.

Traffic 2.0 - use new ideas
New technical ideas commuters and traveling
valuable support in planning their All
his day. Even for a high-performance transport infrastructure
structure are intelligent systems for controlling the Ver
traffic is essential. We want to develop these systems
and use them as the power of our Ver
to improve transport routes to avoid congestion or Infor
to provide mation for travelers available where and
when which train or bus is available and where a traffic jam
will hamper trade. We want to ensure that for
these services on the one hand a common database of
Transport is provided. On the other hand want
we transport information and ticketing systems better
crosslink each other and the citizens a "digital Mobili
"make tätsunterstützung available. After Prin
zip the "Open Data", in which data for free use
be made available, should transport operator
men and the public sector to make our contribution.
New possibilities for better control of United
traffic flows and increase safety, we also see
in the implementation of the satellite navigation system Gali
leo into practical and commercially meaningful offers
for users.

3.6 Founders create the future
The future of our country lies in a peform
gen economy, continue and with a wealth of ideas
Creativity developed products and services,

which are in demand here and abroad. Just
For this we need entrepreneurs who ver their ideas
real and want and in this way jobs
Create wealth. Whether this succeeds depends critically
from getting to have in future enough people who
the courage and energy have become self-employed to
make and to start their own business.
So far, it is mainly people under 40 years, the
dare this step. In the course of population change
is this age group in the future but especially strong
go back. It is even more important in Germany pas
transmission conditions with suitable financing
tion models to create, the more the company
ups run by older people.
We therefore want to expand the creation of financing.
For entrepreneurs, we want to facilitate access
Open to venture capital, with the at investors
young companies participate, where vielverspre
sponding ideas are implemented. Also access to
so-called business angels, the young com
men in the starting phase with advice and capital aside ste
hen, we want to facilitate. That there need for action here
may there, emphasize the following numbers: In the United States ha
ben "business angels" last year a Investitionsvo
volume of 20 billion US dollars provided. Pro
Capita is 260 times as much as in
Germany. In total venture capital is the ent
speaking investment rate is still 24 times higher
as with us. We want these forms of financing
make half fiscally more attractive than in the past to a
new momentum at the start-ups to
reach. The program to promote Wagniskapi
tal by means of investment subsidies we want ver
prolong and dou on a total of 300 million euros
peln. In order for the grants in full the young Un
benefit tern ehmern and take effect
can, given honorable mention from the Ertragsbesteue
tion exempted. We are also in Europe for
use, the conditions for young, innovative
More companies to strengthen.
We also want the good conditions for the
so-called crowdfunding or -investing when new ins
preserve and develop instru- ment of early-stage financing of technology start-ups. Here Kings
NEN small investors over the Internet silent participations
acquire and so as a flock in the sum greater
Volume gather in capital.
33

Successful together for Germany | Government Programme 2013 - 2017

Especially high-tech start-ups play in the transfer of
new knowledge into new products and businesses a
major role. Let us therefore with the further development
ment of the EXIST initiative university founded Strate
support strategies so that students and graduates
better implement their research achievements into market success
be able.
We want Germany to a strong location for
IT Founder make. Therefore, we want the founder of
"Start-ups" so supported that with us the best
Conditions for the implementation of their business idea be
come. In support, we want programs för
countries to the classic industry more closely with the founders
scene to dovetail.
Founders are focused on the development and implementation
can focus their business idea. Therefore wol
we recommend you pos in the start and the first growth phase
lichst greatly relieve bureaucracy and so the advance
facilitate settlement for business start-ups.
With a change in the bankruptcy law, we have the
Created based on that company founders also
in case of failure better than before a second
Get chance.

3.7 D
? igital growth country number 1
in Europe
Internet and Digital Society
We want Germany to the end of the decade
for digital growth country number 1 in Europe ma
chen. Even today, dominate the Internet and the digital
Technology our lives. While 20 years ago the
first mobile phones came on the market, are smart
phones and tablets today from everyday life
indispensable. New, exciting trends he
easier now our daily lives. This includes the
through the Internet brought forth the economic
Sharing (sharing economy). So-called Smart Homes
be in the near future our home and our Priva
th characterize everyday life. With 3D printers can soon
producing simple commodities at home
are: for example, clothing, jewelery, spares for
the broken dishwasher, toys for the little ones or
Accessories for the latest smartphone. Be added
for example, intelligent transport systems and electricity
networks.
34

In the economy, meanwhile, has the fourth industrial
Revolution started. According to the invention the Dampfma
machine, according to the industrialization and after the inventions
tion of the computer will now start with the "Internet of
Things "the so-called industry 4.0. With the help of new
Technologies will be able to, for example, individual construction
parts in auto production, container logistics,
but also everyday objects not like refrigerators
only be controlled via the Internet. you can
also independently with one another or with other Pro
ucts contact.
These developments offer people and Under
take in our country great opportunities that we in common
sam want to use with them. All these developments it
but also call for clever answers on how we for
digital and Germany for good Arbeitsbedingun
use gene.
Politics and social partners but also the civil society
they must seek answers together and erarbei
th. We need both individual decisions
about the right framework also a wide
social debate.

Promote broadband and wireless network expansion - High-speed Internet for all
Access to fast Internet is today from ZENTRA
ler importance. We want a comprehensive wide
ensure broadband coverage by 2018, which it
allows to use Internet TV and offers such
Banking transactions, administrative procedures or telemedicine
Services online handle. For this purpose we want
ensure that the deployment of broadband networks by the
Means the European Union will be eligible. With
Look at the specific challenges of the country-rustic
Chen space, we support the creation of a Euro-
Having Coordination Unit (Connecting Europe Facility)
to support the digital networking. When removing
we raise no technology out, as this is the more
Out of broadband infrastructure in its Diverse
speed would compromise. Only by using all appro
Neten technologies, the wired infrastructure
as well as high-performance mobile technologies
we can this goal together with companies,
Reach countries and communities. To view the performance
ability of the radio network for mobile Internet use
to increase, we want the ongoing shift from analog
released on digital technology frequencies of the round

Successful together for Germany | Government Programme 2013 - 2017

radio (so-called. Digital Dividend II) use better. We se
hen a special task for the policy, by appro
ensure designated conditions that the rural
Liche room sufficient and equivalent to fast
Internet is supplied.

Access to wireless internet -
Expand wireless network
Every fourth person engages already on the move to mobile
the Internet. Therein lies a great opportunity for new
Services and business ideas. Therefore want
we create the conditions in Germany,
so about just in the cities Mobile Internet
Wi-Fi is available to everyone. We are committed,
legal basis for the use of open
Networks and their suppliers to create.

Digital Economy - Industry 4.0
The Internet economy has become a Wachstumstrei
About our economy become: She is one of the 's largest
ten private employers in Germany. With around her
comprehensive solutions is the information and communi
munications technology (ICT) now a key technology
become the 21st century. It is a source of new Ide
s and drivers for new industrial products. The competitive
therefore tiveness of German industry depends
large extent on the successful merger of ITC
with classic industrial goods from the so-called Indus
industry 4.0. Especially in the traditional economy making
Chen is the digitization increasingly to wax
engine dri- ving. Behind words like "cloud computing"
"Big Data", "smart grids", "e-Health" conceals a
global development with tremendous momentum that our
Changing economy and society sustainable
become. We want to set the course for the benefit of future Wachstumsund employment opportunities,
that German companies a formative role in
Play this development.
Digital technologies open up many new possibilities
possibilities: for private Internet users, for a human
Working world to the industry. These perspectives wol
we recommend explore and use to society. Des
half we grasp the theme digitization targeted in the
Research on. For this purpose, we will research new
Developments such as "cloud computing" and "Big Data"
strengthen and future concepts for industry 4.0
to develop.

Data Policy
We want to go to responsible Da
tenpolitik. You should people continue in their private
protect sphere. They should at the same time the verantwortungsbe
knew use of data for the implementation of new in
vative projects allow. If in a worldwi
th digital network in the future machines and Alltagsge
genstände begin trainees together information
Swap (Internet of Things), this should be based on
a modern data protection carried out. We will
Therefore, we work to ensure that the revision of the
European data protection law, these current developments
ment considered. If software, storage and Re
chenkapazitäten cloud in the so called
Computing be accessed via the Internet, to
on the related issues Reply
being found. We want Germany to an AT
tractive location data to develop where the targeted
Use of data will be promoted and at the same time
the interests of users ensure the protection of their data
provides. The Foundation, founded by us to Privacy
an important contribution to informing citizens
make on the handling of data.

Mainstreamed digitization
We see that the greater use of digital Technolo
nologies is connected to many questions that entirely under
different areas relate. In order for this policy
Find mainstreaming the right answers,
we need a networked strategy. With the digitization
tion are changing legal requirements in many
Areas, for example in data protection and copyright
right. Also specific network policy issues have since
be checked up whether the legislature should act,
for example, to ensure net neutrality. With a
modern legislation and appropriate structures in
Politics and administration, we want to ensure that in
Germany created a suitable framework for the digita
le society is created. Legislative proposals should
be checked to see whether it meets the requirements
be progressive digitization justice.
We need a regular stocktaking, where
We are in the digital society in Germany.
Therefore, we want a digital White Paper, in which the
Progress on the digitization is represented and thus
a basis for an intense social Off
confrontation creates.
35

Successful together for Germany | Government Programme 2013 - 2017

? 3.8 Future East - Opportunities
for the whole of Germany
Nearly a quarter of a century is the fall of the Wall on
back. An entire generation of young people has been
grew up in a reunited Germany. These
Vintages were free to enter into life, because their parents
and grandparents with a peaceful revolution, the Dik
have brought down the SED Tatur. These young
Experienced generation, how Berlin, Brandenburg, Meck
Western Pomerania, Saxony, Saxony-Anhalt and Thü
wrestle for strong regions in the center of Europe escape
velop: with the modern enterprise, powerful
Research structures and successful company
settlements. In excellent education and higher education
Facilities have young people from East and West
get a good education.

The business development agencies in the new Länder
to penetrate international markets and
finding adequate investors from the Ger
many Trade & Invest Company continues to support
become.

Nevertheless, the consequences of the division are still
noticeably. The unemployment rate is significantly higher than in
West Germany. Especially in the rural, structure
weak regions are the consequences of negative Be
felt population development significantly. The number of
Large enterprises with private location between the Oder,
Baltic Sea, Harz and Erzgebirge remains low. Des
half it remains true that economic forces in the
new countries to strengthen. That is why we want the
Creation of new, highly skilled jobs continue
support. For the CDU and CSU is clear: We give
the challenges of the new countries in the
coming years a special place in un
Serer policy.

Increase research in the new Länder

Solidarity Pact helps

Infrastructure Total German
and align pan-European

We want a stable and positive economic Ent
achieve development in the new Länder. The funds
the Solidarity Pact II are indispensable for this. We stand
the commitments and the requirements of Solidar
Pact reliably meet. Even at European level
We are committed to ensuring that the reconstruction of eastern Germany continues
is supported.

Economic Development remains on the agenda
The east of our country still suffers from the Zer
disruption of its economic performance through the
Socialism. A symbol of this is that there were, despite the
great industrial tradition still too few
36

Corporate headquarters are. We want to overcome
help. The international integration of the sub-
assume we will continue to support. Our goal
remains enhancing competitiveness by ei
ne sent to the special needs of the new countries
cut funding of research and development.
We want to continue to work for a reliable delivery
tion under the Joint Task "Regional
Economic Structure "and for competitive Beihil
fesätze for key industries such as the shipyards on the
Baltic coast and microelectronics in Saxony.

The eastern part of the Federal Republic since the Wiedervereini
gewor supply at an attractive location for science
to whose performance the upturn in the
has strongly promoted and strengthened new countries.
This success story we want with the program
"Unternehmen Region" and with the initiative "Zwan
zig20 "constant over time. We also want the coop
operation between business and science at Aussichts
improve rich future technologies. On that
Way we want jobs and growth in
Berlin, Brandenburg, Mecklenburg-Vorpommern, Property
create-Anhalt, Saxony and Thuringia.

The development of infrastructure is key condition for a good economic development in the
new countries. To the reconstruction of eastern Germany at the end to
bring, it is true that the last major infrastructure unequal
weights to eliminate between East and West. We wol
therefore len powerful connections of maritime and
Inland ports, airports and economic centers of the
national, European and international transport network
create. Our goal remains that new countries best pos-
Lich networking. The trans-European networks with the
important axis from the Baltic to the Adriatic and the
Black Sea have realized this forcefully
become. In a good working relationship just the new
s Countries with the Central and Eastern Europe

Successful together for Germany | Government Programme 2013 - 2017

are special economic opportunities for
all over Germany are beneficial. That's why we want
you use.

Not tolerate demographic change,
but make
The population change is coming in the east of Germany
earlier and far-reaching effect than in the westli
Chen countries. In some regions of the new countries
is the population density in 2020
Have halved compared to 1989th This can the country
not leave them unchanged. Here were already diverse
Gained experience in this process of change
and conclusions drawn. We support, therefore,
the increasing cooperation of local authorities and
additional charge. We want the municipalities
and strengthen local actors and see them as an important
Key in coping with the consequences of population
tion decline.
Many of these experiences are in the demography strategy
the federal government incorporated. We want on the
Based on these findings now concrete Pro
implement projects. Especially in the new countries, we want to
try and show how a society with low
rer population and a higher proportion of older
People get an efficient infrastructure
can.
We use possible in a meaningful new technical
opportunities as well as new forms of mobility, Bil
training, maintenance and the entire social and familiennah
s infrastructure. The lessons learned
also for the affected regions in the west
Germany's help.

Pension alignment has been -
Consider further particularities
One of the major decisions of the CDU and CSU
the completion of German reunification was that east
Total German German pensioners and workers in the
involve cal pension. this is a
impressive all-German solidarity power.
The pension adjustment in this year shows that on
Equation of pensions in the East and West with the rules
Law can be reached. The stronger economy in the East
results expected in the coming years

further adaptation steps that will lead to
that the current level of 92 percent of the western level
will continue to evolve rapidly. This we do not want
compromise. Therefore, we adhere to the pension calculation
under applicable law firmly.

Continue working up SED injustice
We are committed to ensuring that the Federal Commissioner for
the Records of the State Security Service of HUSBAND!
GDR his task continue their full
can meet. The comprehensive detection of Ge
schehenen we owe not only the victims and their
Members, but also the subsequent Generati
mation.
The work of the Foundation Study of the SED dictatorship
indispensable in our view, both for the neces
research and processing as well as to support the
Victim. Not least, it is the transfer of knowledge.
In particular, the young generation needs to know how the
Dictatorship in the GDR worked. We shall therefore also
sure in the coming years that the Foundation
Workup continue their meritorious work continues
can.
To date, were nearly 50 000 victims of the SED regime
from GE through the union led government
virtuous honor pension benefit. In the current
Legislature, we have many improvements to
favor of SED victims reacted. In the next election
period, we will consider whether an adjustment of Opf
erpensionen given the pension increases of Letz
is ten years possible.

Culture
With the freedom and unity monument on the Ber
liner lock freedom is built, we should remember duration
by way of the gift of German Unity. At the same time
We are the non-violent resistance of autumn
Enter own face in 1989 in Leipzig and at the on
aspiring the Monday demonstrations for freedom
People remember with a monument.
With the program "Invest East - investments for natio
tional cultural institutions in eastern Germany "we have in
created many regions cultural "beacons" that
nationwide are respected. Speak CDU and CSU
for a continuation of the program.
37

Successful together for Germany | Government Programme 2013 - 2017

4.? Germany cohesion
strengthen
? 4.1 Family support - in every life
situation
Marriage and family are the foundation of our society.
Family and children are for the vast majority of
Women and men in our country to a nobody happy
Chen life. Search and find people in the family
Love, security and mutual support.
Even in marriages, which remain childless, adopt Män
and women permanently responsibility for each other.
We are committed to the constitutional requirement Customised
ren promotion of marriage and family. The discrimination
other forms of partnership, and Equilibrium
-sex life partnerships, we reject. Us
know that lived values ​​even in such relations
be, which are fundamental to our society.
CDU and CSU want to strengthen marriage and family and with
contribute good conditions mean that the
People desire for their children and family ver
real can.

Foster families financially better
This includes the financial burden and promote
of families that we want to improve. CDU and
CSU are committed to marriage as the core of the family. That's why
we will get the income splitting. Additionally
we want families with children even better geför
be changed. Therefore, we want in terms of a family
splitting the tax allowance for children
gradually on the applicable adult Freibe
Structural raising. At the same time we will give the child benefit
as the child allowance increase. We place Customised
res attention to the needs of single parenthood
to whom we want to selectively account.

Family-friendly workplace
An equally central point for families is the factor
Time. Parents need time for their children. Sustainable Fa
for the CDU and CSU family policy is therefore, more time
to allow for family.
We want a family-friendly work environment. That's why
We help companies, jobs bes
38

ser adapt to the needs of families. To
include flexible working hours, part-time and teleworking as
also operating daycare centers and collaboration with Children
care facilities with flexible hours.
We are convinced that models in which both El
tern share a so-called full-time part-time close - so well
30 hours per week - work, also in Germany
are more often possible.
For a family-friendly work environment also means
that family-related time-outs not to career
obstacle to and a re-entry is quite possible.
That is why we want to work together with employers
seek ways how employees also currency
rend the family phase of their professional skills and Finish
get opportunities in training and ver
can improve. We intend by a "re-
support Stieg-BAföG ", in particular in host
economy sectors where expertise and professional
Knowledge is constantly subject to changes.
Better time for family and career
Baren, can also assist in the household he
be facilitated. For this purpose, we will for the families Inan
Opposition acquisition of household and family of support
further facilitate services.

Support for children with chronic diseases
Parents
We want support for children of mentally
improve or physically chronically ill parents. One
Way can here in the promotion of sponsorship
programs exist.

Freedom of choice for families
We are convinced that parents best ent
can decide how your family life,
their professional activities and daily life of her family decor with dark
th. Therefore find all mothers and fathers of our Aner
recognition and support. The goal of our policy is to
to create the conditions that will allow them their pros
positions can also implement. At the center of all Be
efforts has to be the child's welfare.
Most parents want their child straight in the first Le
year of life care at home. In order to better the ermögli
Chen have, CDU and CSU introduced parental allowance. Us

Successful together for Germany | Government Programme 2013 - 2017

want parents more freedom when designing
tion have parental leave. Therefore, we want a Teilel
introduce tern money up to 28 months relative who
the can.
All working grandparents we want a
Future grandparents time open the possibility of their
To interrupt work or to reduce,
So that they can take care of their grandchildren. Just
young parents who have yet to gain a foothold professionally, sol
len be relieved so in time.
We have the legal right to a Caring
created space for under three year old children. That makes
clear for us the will of the parents is crucial.
We are driving the expansion of daycare centers continue
determined to forge. Also the expansion of child Heritage Trust
ung we want to work together with countries, cities, and Ge
municipalities continue to work. This includes, for example,
Also, 24-hour day care centers and other flexible Betreuungs
Offers set to parents with changing Ar
beitszeiten the work-life balance to it
easier.
Those parents who are also in the second for their children
and third year no publicly funded Kin
want to take derbetreuung in claim support
we with the care benefit and thus make a
important contribution to the freedom of choice.
The promotion of language skills is for us
centrally. That is why we want to focus-and Kitas
the training of educators wei
terhin support. The supply of childminders
and in family day care, we want to quantitatively
and improve the quality further. Likewise, it is true, quali
fied care facilities for schoolchildren continues
expand.

Lifetime policy - more time for family
enable and Education
With a new life policy we want better
Provide opportunities to professional outs for He
relationship of children to education, but also for the
Care of their own parents or other relatives to
enable. Introduced by the CDU and CSU Famili
enpflegezeit was a first major step in this
Way. We also see that of a growing number

Businesses and industries - such as in
the chemical industry - already made arrangements
were to professional and reconciliation by
sonal tasks to improve. We encourage the
To follow collective bargaining parties to these models and
individual to seek industry-specific solutions.
We want to support these efforts by
examine how the attractiveness and dissemination of life
working time accounts can be increased.

? 4.2 Women - use skills more
Open and opportunities
Use skills of women better
The proportion of working women is with us since 2005
increased considerably, more than in any other country
European Union. That's a good development for
Germany. Because we are convinced that we have Besse
Re opportunities to lead an economically successful country
Ben, if women and men, young and old, A
domestic and immigrants their skills and Fä
equally bring skills in the workplace.
Our goal is to equal opportunities for all - inde
Gig of sex, age or skin color.
This includes ensuring that women and men for equal work
get the same pay. Therefore support
CDU and CSU, the enforcement of the claim of woman
s to equal pay for equal work. Likewise, whoever
we examine einzu legal transparency obligations
lead to equal pay for women and men
reach.
Especially in young women, the training one or a
Begin studying, we want to promote professions which until
long regarded as typical "men's jobs". This can also
lead to better opportunities in the labor market.
Better pay in occupations that are particularly frequent
be exercised by women, can lead to more equal pay
unit lead. CDU and CSU have a minimum wage in
introduced the care and thus higher wages
contributed equality. The goal must be that work in
nursing, care and early childhood education further
revalue, even in the payment.
Especially women are often employed in part-time, although they
would like to work on a larger scale. CDU and
39

Successful together for Germany | Government Programme 2013 - 2017

CSU want the partnership with the social partners at
Change interest of workers and enterprises.
We will put an emphasis on the
To facilitate return from a family or phase of the Teilzeitzur full-time employment. We want woman
and men after a educational or Pflegepha
se the return to full-time use of a Lawyer
allow entitlement.

The proportion of women in leadership positions
increase
We want more women in leadership responsibilities
come - in middle and senior management positions
as well as in management and supervisory boards. That's why
we want to increase the proportion of women in front of
stalls and supervisory boards of companies law
rules. Besides, union, states and municipalities have with
Leading by example, for instance in public
Establishments, the administration or in the filling of
Supervisory and management boards.
We will be using a mandatory "flexi-quota" of
the listed or codetermination duty
Companies require a mandatory quota for women
Define management and supervisory boards. This is public
Lich designated and may not subsequently downwards
be corrected. At the same time we will legislate,
that from 2020 a fixed rate of 30 percent
for women in supervisory boards of fully mitbe
humor duty and listed com
men applies.

? 4.3 Variety enriches - create welcoming culture
Germany is a successful integration of the country. Who
our shared values ​​shares, who tackles with and
wants to promote our country, is welcome.
Successful immigrants show what opportunities with GE
lungener integration are connected. The whole überwie
ing majority of the approximately 15 million people with too
immigration history, who live and work with us,
make a significant contribution to the prosperity and
the cultural diversity of our country. CDU and CSU
want to climb will and willingness to Mitgestal
tion of people who come to our country, specifically
promote.
40

Welcoming culture for masterminds
In the international competition for the best minds want
we more highly skilled and motivated Men
winning's from other countries for us. For them, and
their families need our country to live and work
even more attractive.
We need a culture that rapid and suc
allows che integration. Such Willkommenskul
ture must be seen and felt - starting BE
REITs in the countries of origin. Thus Neuzuwande
rer on life in Germany can prepare well,
we need sufficient information about deals
to entry, school and work, and for language acquisition.
We want that town halls to "welcome centers"
be that new immigrants in practical and rechtli
chen issues for successful entry into life
in Germany and the start to professional life under
support.

Use knowledge and skills better
and promote
Have migrant people
often on completed professional or university education in their home countries. However, this potential remains untapped yet too often, during our
Labor market increasingly skilled professionals
. missing An important step in order to counteract this,
is enforced by the CDU and CSU Recognition Act for acquired abroad vocational
Statements that are now recognized more easily and quickly
become. At the same time we want the efforts ver
strengthen to the professional qualifications of Men
rule migrant subsequently
improve to make them even better opportunities on the
Have labor market and an even stronger contribution
to the economic development of our country
afford to.

More people with immigration
History of Public Service
Win
We advertise the fact that more young people with
Immigration history for a career
in the public sector, particularly as teachers
and teachers, as police officers or in the
Justice decide.

Successful together for Germany | Government Programme 2013 - 2017

Improve educational opportunities
promote and language ability
Children and young people from immigrant families
In recent years, much better education and
Obtained educational qualifications. However, compared with their peers without a migrant background they have
still often problems at school and Berufsaus
Education.
We want these young people further and Children
catch and better education and educational qualifications he
aim. This also means that parents more than ever
school preparation of their children active and -laufbahn
accompany. We want it through special parents
programs support.
The key for a successful integration are good
German language skills. We are the early learning of
continue to promote German language systematically. German
as a common language creates identity and strengthens the
Cohesion in our society. We expect
Migrant to learn the German language.
Who refuses to learn German, has in our
Country no prospects for the future.

Consistent policy of demanding
and conveying
Successful integration requires the cooperation
the immigrant and the native population.
CDU and CSU continue to rely on a consistent Po
policy of demanding and conveying. So we build Integrati
onsversäumnisse and imperfections further. Our timetable
for the National Action Plan is integration.

Naturalization: commitment to our country
and our values
The will to naturalization is the commitment to Unse
rem country and the values ​​of our constitution. The
Acceptance of our nationality - connected
the object of the previous citizenship - is a
strong sign of belonging. It brings the full
civic rights and duties. You can Integ
not replace ration and is not a means, but many strong points
ter expression of a successful integration.
A general municipal voting rights for foreigners
We reject. We advertise instead in those who

already many years living with us, working and well inte
grated are that they take the opportunity to the German
Nationality to accept. A general Hinnah
me double citizenships we reject. More
law is often associated with problems with the law by
verbun reduction in civil disputes
the.
Children born in Germany of foreign nationals with un
fixed-term residence permit obtain their birth
in addition to the citizenship of their parents and the German
cal nationality. Later, they have to ent
divorce, which of the two you want to keep. This
so-called option model has proven so far. The
Most young adults opt for the
German citizenship. This 'yes' to our country
we welcome.

Integration also requires consistency
Diversity needs cohesion. Therefore, we have the
Integration policy in the center of political action
moved and extensive offers for successful
Created integration. CDU and CSU occur simultaneously In
tegrationsverweigerern contrary decided in
Interest of the vast majority fairly faithful immigrants.
Who wants our support, has through his behav
th the will for integration make it clear. Anyone
withdraws his duties, must be consequences for its
Residence status and its performance claims computationally
NEN.
If religious or cultural traditions transmitted to
cause a disregard our legal order, may
we do not accept this. The foreclosure in parallel only
societies and Islamic special courts outside
our legal system we oppose firmly.
We expect the possibility of the Muslim Verbän
to a more recognizable countermeasures. CDU and CSU ru
Therefore fen the Muslim associations to a close
Cooperation.

Safeguards to protect vulnerable
CDU and CSU stand for the needs and
Interests of our country oriented immigration
politics. The Member States of the European Union Müs
continue to keep sen jurisdiction, over to
hiking in the national responsibility to decide
be able.
41

Successful together for Germany | Government Programme 2013 - 2017

We stand at the same time politically to protect persecuted
one, as our constitution and in our
predominantly Christian image of man springing Ver
responsibility corresponds. Who is politically persecuted and
is in need of protection, must rely on Germany
be able. Therefore, we are committed to the fundamental right
Asylum. We will also in the interests of those affected
for speedy procedures for immigration authorities and administrative
tion courts a.
In the future, we will help refugees. This
we are committed to new forms of protection,
as the reception of refugees from third countries,
if you a speedy return to the country of origin
is not possible or if it does not permanently in the
Land they have taken up first incorporated,
can be. We continue to build, as well as
in assisting refugees worldwide, the close and
trustful cooperation with the refugee
High Commissioner of the United Nations.
An immigration, which is aimed at the Europeanized
abusing cal movement and the social Si
insurance systems in our country exploit lean,
we from. It requires a European solution to the situation
to improve in the countries of origin and abuse
to prevent. In particular, have living conditions
and integration of people in their home countries
be significantly improved so that it there is a perspec
have tive.

? 4.4 Every talent counts - People
with disabilities
An inclusive society is a central goal of
CDU and CSU. We will continue this for the order
reduction of the UN CRPD in
Germany used. We work to ensure that Men
with disabilities and health Beeinträch
adjustments their everyday lives as possible self-determined
and can customize. We want people with
and without disabilities naturally together le
ben, learn, work, celebrate and share our land
shape.
But accessibility is required in the housing and road
ßenbau, in public transport, in communications,
in sports, in the arts and in culture. In an older
expectant company is also the share of Men
42

rule to rise with health problems, the
want to do exactly what is obvious to all:
work, shop, play sports, travel, go to the movies,
Visit museums and exhibitions, or on the Internet
surf.

On the way to the inclusive society
In this way, we have already achieved a lot: we have
laying the foundation for that of 2022.
Public transport throughout Germany Disability Access
becomes. From 2016 everyone must first approved remote bus
with at least two parking spaces for wheelchair users so
be as equipped with boarding aids. Also we have
first established standards, such as building accessibility
can be designed. We will continue to processing
th, the lives of people with disabilities and ge
to facilitate health-related limitations in everyday life
and the many small and large hurdles still here
stand in the way to dismantle. We want people with
Disabilities in all matters affecting them
participate as experts in their own right.

Education: The advance included school continues
The support of children with disabilities and ih
ren members is very important to us. Us
want more disabled children in mainstream education
include, yet not on individual promotion
without. Our approach is: "So much inclusion
as possible - as much special promotion as necessary ".
The inclusive school we therefore advance further brin
gen. Including school means to us, that we the Men
make's in the center: Each student must
be best promoted and supported. Advance
ment for this are accessibility, well-trained Leh
rer and enough support teacher hours. At the same time promise
we chen us in favor of obtaining special schools where
in the interests of children with special Förderbe
may is.

Better opportunities on the job market
By working for their own livelihood contribute to
can, has a special for people with disabilities
particular importance. Our inclusion policy has on the Ar
beits- and education market already clear Ver
out improvements, including through the initiative "Job 4000"
and the program "Initiative Inclusion". We want future

Successful together for Germany | Government Programme 2013 - 2017

tig include mainly small businesses even more, because
they just a familiar, often almost intimate Arbeitsum
can offer field.
Where possible, we want the way into a company
Support training. Even older hard BEHINDER
ten people are wage subsidies through new bridges
are built into the labor market.
CDU and CSU have the legal right to the Bank
sonal budget support. This gives people
and with disability money instead of benefits in kind
can use it to determine their own lives more even. Us
want this right to participation benefits
also obtained in the labor market remains when they are on
trained and employed the primary labor market
become. We also want the supplementary income limits
Check to make extra performance for
People with a disability is worthwhile.
We want the integration assistance for people with Be
new rules hindrance. You the equal and
self-determined participation in social life
better to allow, is society as a whole
Task.

Accessible Tourism
Accessibility is a quality characteristic of the
Germany Tourism are. It is a fundamental advance
requisite for self-determination and equal
Participation of people with disabilities. We want to hel
fen, existing offers better Vernet together
zen and promote employees and better in Fra
To qualify gen accessibility. The aim must
its continuous accessibility of booking
on arrival and departure and ending with accommodation.

Inclusion in Sport
CDU and CSU want to sport for the disabled at all
Levels continue to promote. We set ourselves increasingly for
the possibility that people with and without Behin
ation jointly exercise. In sports venues who
we make sure that it barrier-free built whoever
the.
We wish for a stronger public attention
speed and media coverage for the disabled
sport use.

4.5 H
? Elden everyday - Volunteering
promote and Sport
Volunteering makes our country strong. Every fourth person in
our country is committed volunteer and makes
thus making an important contribution to cohesion in
Our society. Without this application would be much
not possible in Germany - from the rescue diene
th through to conservation. Especially in an older who
Denden society is the importance of volunteering
continue to increase.

Volunteering strengthen - conditions
continue to improve
We want to continue to support those who
are willing to volunteer. These want
we verbes the fiscal conditions continue
fibers. Volunteers and associations we want Bue
relieve bureaucracy and successful models such as the Federal
Voluntary Service and the multi-generational housing continues
to develop.
Volunteer forces at the volunteer fire department, the
Rescue services, the Agency for Technical Relief and the
Aid organizations are often around the clock in Einsatzbe
willingness. Without their commitment it would in the allermeis
give ten cities and municipalities no help when Feu
it breaks or severe weather their mark hinterlas
sen. The flooding in June has us re-impression
fully the importance of this mission made aware.
That is why we support those in their work, the
selflessly and without charge for the security of their
Insert fellowmen. We will continue to ensure sor
gene that they in a good technical equipment ih
ren often have access hazardous jobs.
We want to contribute in the future to young men
rule for Volunteerism win. Since
we want to advertise with targeted campaigns and German
make Lich how valuable and meaningful such
Commitment.
Our community is the commitment of the guarantor
zens instructed. We need to spot
broad expertise of the municipal councils, the
Mayor and the honorary mayor. Ih
ren application we want to support continued. Therefore wol
we recommend in the long run to make sure that Aufwandsentschädi
conditions do not reduce the pension for these elective offices.
43

Successful together for Germany | Government Programme 2013 - 2017

CDU and CSU push for more recognition for honor
volunteer work and volunteer work done in the years
Professional biographies. The universities should continue in
Allocation of study places more than before the Leis
tions of voluntary conscripts, Federal Free
consent and consider youth volunteers. Which
German Prize for Civic Engagement We want to expand.
The idea of ​​volunteering is to map nationwide for use
come and on the commitment of pupils, Studen
TEN, Auszubildenden-, parents and Mitarbeitervertretun
gene to be expanded.

Strengthening voluntary services
With the Federal Voluntary Service is a major vote He
successfully managed. Today, more people than ever are in the
Voluntary services involved. This policy will CDU
CSU and continue to develop.
We want the diversity of volunteering it
maintain, develop proposals and their funding
and even better to the needs of volunteers tion
Adjust employment places. Even small, free association and
municipal institutions will in future the possibility
get hosting volunteers with him. The possible
ability to engage in voluntary activities abroad, wol
len we expand.

Youth policy is social policy for the future
Youth policy is active future policy. Our country
need for a good future, the ideas and the Engage
ment of youth. CDU and CSU want to advocate for the
His youth, to take their interests seriously and so un
underline that the degree of intergenerational justice
bar of our actions is.
The demographic change means that the proportion of
Youth back in our country. All the more impor
ger is that as many young people einmi
rule and shape want. We want the Jugendli
chen to encourage and empower.
The development of an independent youth policy wol
We len ahead. It is aimed at all young people
and relies on their active participation. We want to un
support policy Serer young people, their talents
to develop, to find their place in society,
but also deal with openness and uncertainty.
44

An important task falls to youth associations
to: Here our young people practice from the outset demo
trainees learn compromises cratic rules a
act, share, and responsibility for themselves and ande
Re to take over. This means that youth associations important
Partner of a successful youth policy and unverzicht
bar young for the development and education
People. We support them, changing on themselves
To respond needs of young people: For example Müs
sen the youth organizations align their quotations so,
that they also in the everyday life of young people Full
day schools fit.
The Kinderhilfe- and Youth Plan has an important Ins
instru- ment proved to the work of youth associations
support. We will also in the coming Jah
Ren the diverse youth work in youth organizations,
youth wrestling open youth work, the commu
tional youth work and youth training centers and
support the international youth exchange.
The work of the student, youth training and Studen
tenvertretungen is important because young people learn to
for their interests at school, at work or in
use the university and there Mitzu everyday
shape. We want to support them further. We EXPLANATORY MEMORANDUM
SSEN the work of pupils, youth and student Orga
zations in the political parties. Here are the
Bundled interests of young people, and they will
a powerful voice in the political opinion of educational
process where the parties.

Sport strengthens the cohesion
the company
More than 27 million people are involved in approximately
90,000 sports clubs. The clubs provide invaluable
much for the youth care, preventive health care
and in the integration of people with Zuwande
tion history. Sport conveys motivation, From
duration, determination and fairness and strengthens the co
hesion of people in our society.
In a society with fewer and fewer younger brewing
we chen new concepts to young athletes to
promote. Sporty, education and vocational training
having to be aligned more closely with each other. In
increasing all-day school operations are the clubs
in children and youth sport face new challenges
. So that your sporting and social

Successful together for Germany | Government Programme 2013 - 2017

Tasks also able to perceive the future, promote
CDU and CSU in partnership
between sports clubs and schools.

Pensioners and reliably at the general income
involved development without the younger generation
To take chances on development and prosperity.

At the same time we want to school sport in außerunterrichtli
strengthen chen area. We want the movement development
foster development of children and adolescents. With a view to
values ​​education and education of young people mes
sen we the German Sports Youth and the German
Olympic Academy great importance.

The successful employment and economic policy
CDU and CSU lead to stable and secure pensions.
The intergenerational contract between young and old is
characterized on a solid and reliable basis.
The positive development of the wages and salaries
the pensioners comes immediately to
good. At the same time the CDU and CSU employees have so
such companies through reductions in contribution rates in
Between 2012 and 2013, clearly relieved.

We are committed to the performance principle in sport and to
a human elite sport, a model radio
tion for the popular sport has. We are the sports funding
tion in the army, the Federal Police and the
Continue customs and the concept of "dual career"
strengthen, so athletes and their sporting profession
Liche career can reconcile better.
Precondition for an attractive range of sports shoes
len and leisure are good sports facilities. We want
the federal funding for the construction and maintenance of sports
Sites continue.
We will continue to sports federations in their fight
support against doping. We will ensure a
set that the work of the National Anti-Doping Agen
tur long term. CDU and CSU will
continue to host major sporting
Events such as World and European Championships in
Germany used. The tax Rahmenbedin
conditions for which we will continue to improve. We want
strengthen the position of clubs and associations, thus
they and their legitimate interests for marketing
Can true recycling of sporting events
and thus remain in a position quality
Carry out sporting events in Germany.
CDU and CSU advocate corruption and toys
Betting manipulation decided to meet. Hazardous
Developments of violence, abuse and extremism
in and around the sports we will continue to fight.

4.6 F
? ÜR a good life in old age -
secure retirement
CDU and CSU are to ensure that the legal Ren
te in the future is stable and secure. We also want to
the future development of pensions, the pensioners

We want that in the future life power so
as private and company pension for the people
worth. Because the basis for financial security in
Age will continue to put in the labor force.

Fit for the future The three pillars of pension
Make
A future-proof pension is on three
Pillars: the state pension scheme, the Priva
th and occupational pension.
The statutory pension insurance remains the best tra
lowing column. We have strengthened them by the pension
have decided with 67th By 2029 we will
gradually introduce.
The private and occupational pensions, we want to strengthen.
Our goal is that the company pension also
for small and medium businesses and their employees
ter is attractive. Interventions by European law on the
company pension scheme, we will prevent and
stand up for the preservation of our proven system.

Parenting recognize better -
Mothers raising pension
CDU and CSU have the child-raising period in the Ren
te introduced and gradually improved. Want From 2014
we ge for all mothers and fathers whose children before 1992
were born, the education performance with an addi
Chen pension point into account in the pension system.
This corresponds to an average of 650 euros for two children
more pension per year. This better recognition by
the good financial situation of the pension system and
existing funds from the federal grant possible.
45

Successful together for Germany | Government Programme 2013 - 2017

Maintenance value - Nursing Times
better rate in the pension

Mandatory retirement for self-employed
introduce

We also want the hours of care in the legal obligation
pension insurance taken into account better. Who ei
accompanied nen close relatives in need of care, be
looks after and cares, makes a major interpersonal
Service, we want to recognize better.

In Germany there are around 2.6 million self-employed
without their own employees. Many of them are often un
abgesi adequately for old age or illness
chert. We want to improve their social protection and
a pension obligation for all self-employed a
lead, which are not already covered elsewhere.
They should between the legal Rentenversi
can choose insurance and other pension types. Us
will develop solutions based on today
independently take workers into consideration and Selbstständi
GE does not overwhelm the start-up phase.

Life performance pay - to supplement pensions
strengthen and pension
We want to live performance in the pension from
pays. Who worked for decades, in the Generatio
has paid nenvertrag and also made provisions,
must have aged to generate reasonable pension and must
not depend on basic security. Anyone 40 years
is insured and has taken precautions privately, to a To
Committee received the pension to 850 euros. The power of
People brought up the children and / or relatives ge
who cares, we want this Aner greater extent
know. Likewise, we want the employment history of Men
rule requires special consideration in the new Länder.
We want to ensure that life and power
private and company pension allowances through the ages
is recognized. Who has made provisions for his age, needs to
stand basis of this provision better than someone who does not
has made provisions accordingly. This can also Geringver
servants refer to generate reasonable pension under its own power

Working in retirement - designing supplementary income rules more flexible
More and more elderly want career after retirement
remain active. We want to support, not least,
because our economy is on experienced professionals
is reported. So we want improvements for older men
rule Errei the flexible transition to retirement
chen. To this end, we want the additional earnings regulations
continue to develop at early-retirement pensions.
Recipients of disability pensions will be with
a noticeable increase in their pension rights better
ask them and thus ermögli a secure supply
chen. The employment of older people
We want to better health services and represent
beyond by better matching the reha
tationsleistungen to the changing age structure
promote our society.
46

More transparency in the pension
create
We want every citizen over the age questions
inform securing good and better in the future by
can take place, which he ver entitlements in the
has saved up different pillars of pension provision.
Therefore, we are committed to an independent and übergrei
Fende information platform one, on all claims
from legal pension, occupational pension and private ago
care safely, easily and in a concise summary
are. Possibly existing supply gaps so
be better revealed. Insured can better it
know whether they adequately much for their retirement
do.

4.7 G
? esundes country - good supply
for all
CDU and CSU want that in the future everyone in
Germany access to good medical Ver
supply has, regardless of his income, age
or health condition. We stand for a leis
device capable Healthcare, the humanity,
Quality and affordability and brings together a
high quality of life in Germany contribute.
We also stand for a solidary health-care
sen, the Help for the sick and the elderly as well Eigenver
responsibility are two sides of the same coin.
We provide a health, where people
can be confident that everyone involved in medicine
and maintaining their responsibilities towards patients
carefully perceive.

Successful together for Germany | Government Programme 2013 - 2017

Medical supplies
The growing number of older people in our country
as well as the rapid advance in medical For
research require ongoing adjustments to our Ge
health system. CDU and CSU want a well-Reach
face care by doctors and hospitals, before al
lem in rural areas, and secure it to the case of
Match enhance the attractiveness of home medical profession. Us
want that everywhere in our country doctors at any given time
are reichbar. Have the supply structure Law
We set important incentives for doctors and it
Make physicians more attractive on the supply of Re
regions to participate with too few doctors. Also for
Pharmacies in rural areas we are like a so
called emergency package some of their more Belas
direction from. This way we will proceed. To the
Sicherzustel supply in sparsely populated areas
len, we also rely on new solutions such as the expansion
telemedicine. But we want the necessary
provide technical and legal requirements.

Hospital care
The hospitals make an important contribution in UN
serem Health System. Patients
benefit from the high in international comparison
Quality. We want everyone to continue
can rely on the high quality of our hospitals.
Overlooking an easily accessible medical and pfle
gerische supply, especially in rural regions,
but also in less favored areas, are
we together with the hospitals to benefits
better coordinate bids.

For a high-quality health care system,
serving the people
Through successful reforms CDU and CSU have
Contributions to statutory health insurance stable ge
hold. Health insurance companies and health funds he have
considerable reserves formed. With the extended possi
sensitivity of cash, contributions over Prämienrückerstat
making facilities as well as additional contributions, we have the
Competition strengthened.
Health insurance companies, which reserves the statutory Min
minimum reserves exceed by several times, are in to
ver future for premium refunds to its members
be obliged. We are committed to the competition

Health insurance companies. A national unity insurance
all we refuse. The private health insurance
their individual capital reserves to rising Kos
th dampen aged, makes an important contribution
sustainability and implementation of innovations in
Healthcare.
CDU and CSU are betting that those involved in the
Responsible self-management of our healthcare system
act wortungsvoll and partnership and thereby
avoid unnecessary bureaucracy.

Increase attractiveness of the health professions
The core of our liberal health bil
to the free choice of doctor or hospital, the Thera
piefreiheit and independence of free Healthy
care professionals. Workers in hospitals, medical practices
and outpatient services, established freelance
active general practitioners, specialists and dentists, pharmacists inde,
digestive health artisans, midwives and remedies
providers stand for high-quality, patien
tennahe supply. Want this level of care
we preserve and continue to develop to the high quality
to obtain in Germany.
The attractiveness of the health professions, we want to know
ter increase. These include good Ausbildungsmöglichkei
th as well as the development of job descriptions
healthcare. In the allocation of places for
a medical school to the next grade point average
the personal suitability of candidates for the medical profession
and the commitment reflected in facilities
will that make a service to man, as in
for example in the emergency service. Increased taken into
account should look for candidates who are ver
duties, vets after their medical studies in one region
to be kind, in which there is a shortage of doctors.

Liberal Healthcare
for patients
The Patients' Rights Act is a big step to
more rights for patients succeeded. We want to
Continue to strengthen patients' rights. In particular Müs
sen them to be well informed, to self-determined decision
be able to make decisions. Therefore, patients need
Insured and easy access, for example through ent
speaking portals on the Internet, to independent, ver
venial and understandable information about Versi
47

Successful together for Germany | Government Programme 2013 - 2017

assur- ance and treatment options. Information on
Performance, quality and price contribute to costs,
To assess the benefits and risks better. Us
want to introduce reporting and management systems,
should help to avoid mistakes and quality
to back up.

Health promotion and prevention
In an aging society gain Healthy
pro- motion, ownership and retirement continue
important. They are society as a whole to
gift and can not alone on the social Siche
security systems are solved. It is the responsibility
tion and in the interests of each individual, by a
health-conscious lifestyle, vorzu diseases
bow and maintain its health. Target of CDU
and CSU, care and rehabilitation is further
strengthen. In the health promotion we want
Focus on operational measures as well as in
Put nurseries and schools.
CDU and CSU advocate, all appropriate possible
exploit opportunities, medical services pos
lichst to make effective and economical.

Expand health industry continues
The healthcare industry is one of the most innovative
Branches in Germany. The high value-added and
Export orientation of the sector offer good Vorausset
tongues, and in the future an important contribution to
To provide prosperity in our country. In view of the
medical and technical progress, an aging Be
population and increasing health awareness
Being this industry will continue to
Growth and employment rate remain. This applies
also for telemedicine, in which we a great way
see our efficient health care system on ho
develop hem level.

Medical Research
Many people are of one of the great People's Hospital
units affected: cancer, metabolic disorders, cardiovascular disease, dementia or lung disease. Us
want the latest and greatest in Germany
Therapies and drugs are being developed to the
to combat diseases se. We rely on for
nant drug manufacturers whose experience
48

and major efforts to new therapies for
Breakthrough to help. We are more German
Establish centers of health research as well as new
integrated research and treatment centers
write. Major advances in biotechnology and Gentechno
technology open up new opportunities, more responsive to therapies
zuzuschnei individual requirements of the patients
the. Thus are great opportunities for better Heilungspro
processes linked through which we reinforced s efforts
want to develop gene as quickly as possible. For the For
Research better be the everyday medical conditions
into account, we are from the Health Services Research
to build.

Graceful and reliable care
and care
CDU and CSU provide the dignity of care
and humanity in dealing with them continues
to focus its care policies. We understand
Care as an important service to others. The
introduced by the CDU and CSU care insurance
proved its worth. They must reliably in the future to
contribute to protect the case of long-term care
and a dignified nursing care to offer. Since
for we want to develop long term care insurance.
At the same time, however, it does not absolve individuals,
his personal responsibility and initiative wahrzu
take. With public support private
Care insurance, we support people
thereby, on their own responsibility in the event of Pflegebedürf
activity make provisions.
We want elderly and dependent people
independent and self-determined life and - as far as
possible - can participate in social life.
We want them to their daily lives in their own home
can cope unaided largely. The
Development of offers age-appropriate accompaniment
We therefore want to continue to promote. They are for a healthy
and independent living in old age and more important.
With the increasing number of older, often permanent
sick people and the changing simultaneously
Structures in the immediate family living environment
are also changing the expectations of a well-Reach
Bares range of facilities and services for the elderly
People. That is why we are the structural changes in
our hospital landscape - particularly in a country-rustic
Chen regions - use to supply deals,

Successful together for Germany | Government Programme 2013 - 2017

to develop equipment and structures, the older
Ensuring people a permanently good supply.
We have be additional funds for higher performance
Riding asked that people with dementia that be at home
be looks after, carers and the Fjord
of new residential groups benefit. Pflegeleistun
Gen can now also more flexible to specific care and
Care situations be adjusted. With zahlrei
Chen measures, we have the principle of "Reha
on before care "strengthened. We have ensured that
the interests of stakeholders in issues of Begutach
tion, quality development and the transparency of
Be considered quality results stronger.
Our goal is to provide a high level of nursing services
ensure. At the same time we want an increasing
Payment required at the expense of long-term care, their
Members and the welfare authorities prevent.
We know that with the current prerequisites
gene for care of Help and Betreuungsbe
may just of people with dementia, as well as Men
rule with intellectual disabilities and mental It
are diseases, often not covered sufficiently
can. Therefore, we want a better graded Bestim
tion of care that the degree of self
Resistance of stakeholders into account.
Our policy of stabilizing the social assurance
systems as a whole and thus the limitation of wage
Surcharges and a moderate increase in the contribution to long-term care will be there in the next
Making years possible, these improvements turn
set.

Support Caregivers
Members of his own family is a Customised
re responsibility and importance in the maintenance and loading
treuung to their relatives. You often self-sacrificing
Commitment deserves recognition and appreciation. That's why
we have the conditions for nurturing Angehö
engined further improved, for example by the claim
to half of the care allowance during a short-term and
Respite care or the possibility of precautionary
bought or rehabilitation easier to complete
to take. Also family carers are egg for her
Genes age even better protected by at simultane
ger care of two or more long-term care, the reindeer

are added together tenrechtlich effective times.
The ability for employees, family members to
To maintain home, we have improved. Find Today
over 70 percent of home care in the family instead.
We will continue the reconciliation of care
and promote work and the willingness of com
Men, in programs for reconciling care
and to participate profession, continue to strengthen.
The palliative care offers we will continue to expand. We support the use
for a dignified death, as in hospices or
by itinerant and honorary life care.
CDU and CSU reject active euthanasia and set
zen committed to ensuring that the commercial and organi
ized assisted suicide provided future punishable
becomes.

? 4.8 repatriates and expellees -
a win for our country
CDU and CSU profess the history of all Germans
rule, also to show solidarity with the Germans, because of
their ethnicity a particularly severe war
had to suffer follow fate. With the intent of
keep alive the suffering of the expellees, want
We World Refugee Day on 20 June at the commemoration
extend to the displaced persons and to him the future natio
tional level commit.
The successful integration of millions Heimatver
exaggerated and later millions of ethnic Germans from
pressure of solidary performance of all Germans. Excluding
the displaced would be the reconstruction of our country
after the Second World War so failed. Aussied
ler are with their skill, their diligence and their kultu
tural tradition an asset to our country. The cultural
Heritage of the expellees and repatriates is today
a natural and valuable part of our Iden
tity.
We have the immigration of relatives of Spätaus
facilitates settlers and thus the importance of Familiae
ren cohesion for the affected Aussiedlerfamili
worn en invoice. Family separations can so
be avoided. Brin Other facilities therefor
we meet on the way. We remain on the right
for deportation to Germany. Our policy
Solidarity we want to continue.
49

Successful together for Germany | Government Programme 2013 - 2017

CDU and CSU are committed, the German Fami
lien from Eastern and Southeastern Europe and the successor
Soviet states, have lived here for decades,
better ways to care for and presentation of its
to offer cultural heritage.
We welcome the commitment of self-reliant
Repatriates especially in the social field and want so
cial aid agencies of the Russian Germans support.
We want the professional integration of the numerous
Encourage professionals sustainably among the repatriates.
With the Recognition Act we have the opportunity
a re-examination of their acquired Abschlüs
se created.

Heritage of German expellees
Unfolded, the German cultural heritage in Eastern Europe
Today in many places a binding force. We want
together with the displaced persons and their associations
the cultural heritage of the historical German East and Sied
ment areas as an integral part of German culture
nation and part of the European identity anchor. Us
have therefore promoted much more strongly and want
put it on a future-proof basis.
The expansion of the Documentation Centre of the "Foundation
Flight, Expulsion, Reconciliation "in Berlin we want ZÜ
gig ahead. The center is the fate of the Hei
matvertriebenen and the backgrounds of flight and
Documented expulsion in the 20th century as well as
to contribute, evictions in present and future
to outlaw world. Other projects for themselves Aussöh
use planning and international understanding, as example
as the Sudeten German Museum in Munich, want
we continue to support.

National minorities
The four national minorities in Germany - Dä
NEN, Sorbs, Frisians, German Sinti and Roma - include
with their traditions as well as the Low German
Language on cultural diversity of our country, it
preserve applies. Therefore, existing promotions
are updated.
CDU and CSU are on the side of the German people
groups in Eastern Europe and the successor states of So
wjetunion. They play an important bridging function
50

true. Of central importance is that the German
To keep language alive. Therefore, we want particu
more German language courses and Bildungseinrichtun
gen improve locally. We remain committed,
that those who remain in their present home wol
len, a perspective is offered to stay.

Successful together for Germany | Government Programme 2013 - 2017

5.? Germany livable
Protect home
5.1 Intact secure environment
Protecting our environment is for us of central Be
interpretation. We are aware that we are not only responsibility
tion for the current generation bear, but also because
for that our children and grandchildren in a good and ge
can grow up healthy environment.

Environmental protection together with the people
advance and the economy
We want environmental protection together with the people
promote and not against them. We put the protection
the environment on market incentives and orien
animals we should follow the established guidelines of the Environmental Poli
policy: the prevention and the polluter pays principle and on
Principle of cooperation with all sectors of society
Groups and the affected citizens.
Occupied the German Environmental Industry and Technology
worldwide the top spot. To the climate and the environment
Protection continues to advance, we want these leading
Further expanding role. That creates jobs.
Environmental technologies are strengthening our economy and
help to save scarce resources and energy.

Climate protection - together to achieve even more
Climate protection is one of the major challenges of
Humanity. Global warming has consequences worldwide and
therefore requires joint action. Germany
As a leading industrial country meets this special
Responsibility. We accept this responsibility,
because we know that sustainable growth only in A
consistent with our environment and our natural Le
bensgrundlagen is possible.
Germany has its climate change commitments more
fulfilled. We want Germany in the future
worldwide trendsetter for effective climate protection
is. Therefore, we are committed to raising the euro
European climate target a: We want to ensure that the
Emissions of harmful greenhouse gases in Europe to
2020 decreased by 30 percent compared to 1990 levels. There
the technical requirements for intra-EU
are very different, we want Germany
as high-tech country its major technical

Full use of opportunities and a national
Reduction target of 40 per cent a greater contribution
this makes. At European level, we continue to lay
Emphasis on on of the EU Member States with a view
2020 agreed objectives: the reduction of greenhouse
gases, increasing energy efficiency by at least
20 percent and the expansion target for renewable energy
gies in the amount of 20 percent on Gesamtenergiever
consumption.
We want these ambitious goals as possible economic
reach Lich. For this purpose, we also rely on a europawei
th, free market emissions trading.
Existing weaknesses in the current trading system wol
we recommend fix and set effective incentives for climate
-damaging greenhouse gases can be avoided.
At the same time, we are preserving jobs and
appro the competitiveness of our economy
sen consider. Revenue from the CERTIFICA
tehandel we want to use for the energy turnaround.
A renewable energy and energy saving
are the best climate.
But climate change can ultimately only succeed if all
States join. Therefore, we are committed to a
gradual inclusion of other countries in the emis
onshandel a. In the long term, our goal is a world-wide
To develop trading system. At the same time we want ande
take re ways to no time to lose. To
we want the idea of ​​a "club of the energy transition Staa
implement ten ", the forerunner of all environmental and climate
maverträglichen power supply combined. Overhead
sam with these countries, let us for a new ver
Insert bindliches climate agreement at the then
called Kyoto Protocol followed. We want to
Make conditions so that private
Investors investing in climate-friendly projects and
Products worth.

Decouple growth from the consumption of raw materials
In 2050, more than nine billion people will be on
Earth live. This is also the need for What
water, food, energy and raw materials all over it
significantly increase. These needs still appropriate
to satisfy, without our planet to
demand, we need a decoupling of global
Economic growth from the consumption of raw materials
and natural resources and a more responsible
Consumer behavior.
51

Successful together for Germany | Government Programme 2013 - 2017

In Germany we have in the decoupling of
Growth and consumption of raw materials already considerable
Progress made. The consumption of raw materials
as measured by the total value of all created in Germany
Goods and services in the last 20 years
nearly 50 percent have been reduced. This saves raw materials
and so much money. We want all possibilities
draw, the raw material and energy consumption further
reduce, and appropriate incentives and advice Sange
evolve messenger for the company. Likewise wol
we recommend to consumers to raise awareness of a
responsible and sustainable use of
Energy and raw materials, but also goods and services
Services sharpening.
We want to go on the road to a real
Circular economy. Not waste, but the re-
Recycling is our aim. Having been in the ver
recent years, the recycling rates continue
have risen, we have with the new regulation of the
Circular Economy Law another important
Achieved success. To the future even more of recyclables
Supply recycling and citizens with a one
times and at the same time comfortable recyclable material acquisition
offer system, we want to the package tonne
a uniform recycling bin evolve. Us
want it a private and municipal disposal companies
remain bound.

Biodiversity loss stem -
get our home livable
We want the natural wealth and biodiversity un
preserve Serer home. CDU and CSU stand for
Conservation policy, adhere to the natural conditions
units locally adapts. For us, a good combination
Work with all stakeholders prerequisite for Gelin
ing nature conservation policy. We all want to volunteer
Workers in the environmental and conservation but also in
for example agriculture, tourism or Anglerver
Invite to join associations.
The successful federal program "Biodiversity"
we want to strengthen. Along the so-called Green Belt
the former inner-German border is now one
the most natural areas of our country, the many -
often endangered species - a safe
Home there. We want to protect surfaces where possible,
supplement and for other surfaces of the property
Federal are reserved for nature protection.
52

Protection against noise and harmful substances -
sake of our health
Every second person in Germany feels by itself
Noise disturbed. We want to change. Especially the
Night rest of the people we want to better protect.
That is why we are the noise by a einheitli
Ches improve noise protection program and the calculation
ANPAS calculation bases in the noise exposure values
sen and unify.
Especially the expansion and rehabilitation of roads
and railway lines, we want to ensure that the
Reduced noise exposure of the population permanently
becomes. Contributing noise abatement programs and tech
African innovations like whispering in. Also in
Large-scale projects such as airports represents us as a union of
People First. Competitiveness and
Noise protection must be reconciled
become. We will therefore devel the Aircraft Noise Act
wrap and commit ourselves to the noise pollution for
people, for example, to by quieter aircraft
reduce.
We want healthy products in all areas. Schädli
che materials we want in all containers, Klei
abatement and everyday products as much as possible
the.
To further improve air quality, we use
we committed to the pollutants at source
reduce. The particulate pollution in cities
we want to reduce and to promote Rußparti
continue kelfiltern.

Water is vital - drinking water,
Protect waters and seas
Drinking water is a vital food. Our
Drinking water is safe and one of the best kon
trolled food in Germany. The drinking water supply
serversorgung and disposal of wastewater are for
Us part of public services. We will
permanently ensure that cities and towns
be able to decide whether this object
independently or in partnership with private sub
take exercise.
Rivers and lakes are much cleaner in recent years
become. In the same - before the reunification of

Successful together for Germany | Government Programme 2013 - 2017

the world's most polluted rivers - today
again the salmon at home. We want the quality of water
further improved, thus also in other rivers and
Waters of biodiversity continues to increase.
Our oceans are caused by contamination under
ferent kind heavily loaded. Especially strong
Overfishing and the abuse of the seas as Müllkip
pe rob countless aquatic animals livelihoods
and threaten the entire ecosystem in the long term to sea
destroy. The polar seas in the Arctic and Antarctic
deserve our special protection: With its einzigar
term wildlife and its particular ecosystem are
it important air engines for our earth. Therefore want
we, that Germany as part of the state structure
Community for a world better protect ozea
ne uses. We want to lead by example here
Go and take responsibility for the two seas ago
perceive our doorstep more: the Baltic Sea and the
North Sea with the particularly sensitive world Naturer
BE Wadden Sea. Marine protection is for us a cross
cutting issue which be many political decisions
stirred. Therefore, we want respect for the Meeresum
environmental and marine conservation in all policy fields
prevail.

Promote flood protection further
We advocate a preventive flood
Protection with a useful cross-linked measures
bundle for the natural flood retention, the
technical flood protection, for example by
Dykes and reservoirs as well as having a narrow
Cooperation between federal and state governments as well as on
international level. The best protection against floods
is to give the waters more space, so
they can spread undisturbed. Therefore, we want
wherever that is possible, natural floodplains
manufacture and river valleys its original Charak
ter left. Where this is not possible, we have
protect people as possible. Let the pros
create prerequisites that also measures for tech
African flood protection are implemented swiftly
Can.

Reduce land consumption
We want our natural soils for nature
and agriculture remain intact. Therefore want
we stem the sealing of the landscape and the

Land use for residential, commercial and road construction
of almost 90 hectares today by 2020 to two DRIT
tel reduced to 30 hectares per day. We want the city
planning concepts take this into account.

5.2 V
? erlässlicher government in urban and rural areas
Strong communities - a profit
for our country
Germany needs strong cities and a strong
rural areas. We are proud of the regional diversity of our country. There we feel at home.
Therefore, the CDU and CSU support all regions
Our country by forces. In our decisions
gen on the federal level, we have the municipalities
always in view. We know that our federal and EU
ropapolitischen decisions locally in the commu
nen, of the volunteer community and town councils,
the district council deputies, the mayors, the
Implemented and lived district administrators and the Administration
Need to become. Compliance with local concerns
will therefore determine our actions in the future.
Local self-government is a supporting
Foundation of our democracy that we want to strengthen.
Local politics means the volunteers and designing one's own home. We rely on the
Responsible that they spot the right solutions for the well-being of their cities, municipalities and counties
Find.

CDU and CSU are reliable partners
for municipalities
We are investing in infrastructure, in excellent
Scientific and research institutions, in a gu
te care infrastructure for young families and at
tractive sporting and cultural activities. We will also
future for important infrastructure projects a spot,
that drive the economy, new jobs
create and protect the environment. The Greens on the other hand
slow and hinder everywhere when it comes to new
Railway stations, rails or roads goes. This Dage
gen attitude they take approvingly accepted that regions
economically weakened and in the development
be uncoupled other parts of our country. Us
want our cities and regions continue
have all prerequisites for the success of our
Contributing country.
53

Successful together for Germany | Government Programme 2013 - 2017

Municipal finance crisis-proof
making and future-proof

Conversion discontinued Bundeswehr
support locations

Prerequisite for good community development
have sound finances. For this we have a variety of
Support programs in favor of municipalities, cities
and counties launched. The greatest help, but that
the federal government is to a considerable extent on the kommuna
len involved expenditure on social benefits. So over
he takes full future cost of raw
security in old age and reduced earning capacity. The BE
indicated only by 2020 a relief to 50 billion
Euro - a huge relief, the countries which unre
geschränkt must pass it on to the municipalities, because
with it to strengthen the design possibilities
come on site.

If barracks are downsized or closed,
the conversion of the Bundeswehr in the municipalities throughout kon
Kret. Smaller municipalities are quick on the edge
their financial performance when larger Lie
should take over properties or for re-use
larger investments are needed. We want to
Help local authorities in this task by Example
as grants to provide necessary investment for development
receive ment of the sites. For that we are a conveyor
Put program totaling 100 million euros.

The integration assistance for people with disabilities
we intend to develop and in a federal power
Act on result for people with disabilities. Us
want the federal government gradually be related to the costs
teiligt and communities effectively in this way and
be permanently relieved. This strengthens the financial strength
the municipalities and gives them financial Spielräu
me for their various tasks.

CDU and CSU stand for a citizen-friendly policy. Us
want politics and administration transparent and nachvoll
draggable make to the citizens better
as to inform and involve far. New Pro
projects of administrative modernization can help the
People with better public services
supply. A key project for a citizens'
On-site management and the use of diverse
Possibilities of "e-government", with the authorities
affairs conveniently and at any time from home
can be done over the Internet. Also mobile
Citizen Services can play an important role in future spat
len, with which the administration comes to a citizen if
there is no town hall or government location on site.

We advocate that federal and state governments of their responsibility to
responsibility towards the local level who meet
and want to share the reliability of financial
secure facilities of the municipalities. We are also
this question the subject of the planned federalism
muskommission make. We will ensure Einset
zen that the special responsibility towards the
taken into local level in Europe adequately
account is.

Cooperation between municipalities
strengthen
The demographic change is one of the greatest chal-
lenges to the municipalities. This is especially true in the
rural areas. We want our communities and
Help cities and want opportunities
the cooperation between the municipalities improve. One
good and trusting cooperation between Benach
disclosed municipalities and counties can help, better
and economical solutions for common Aufga
ben found. Where existing rules or tax informa
che ask preclude meaningful cooperation
are, we want to remedy the situation.
54

The City Council is to humans
closer

For all attractive make our cities
More and more people are drawn to the cities. Your attractiveness
tivity to live and work continues unabated. they are
Attractions for companies and people
from around the world who are studying in our country, work
or come as tourists to us. We are committed inten
SIV for our cities a - for a metropolis or
for towns in rural areas, because we want the
People can live well in Germany everywhere.
We want our cities le for families with children
are benswert. They are good and living there Lebensmög
find opportunities. Families need affordable housing
space of sufficient size with a child-friendly order
field. The need to be considered in urban planning. Us
want with targeted incentives in tax law and in the
Promotion create more affordable family housing.

Successful together for Germany | Government Programme 2013 - 2017

Families need freedom: We have ensured
that children's noise by nurseries and playgrounds in residentia
offer future no longer plea. We want to know
tere set signals for a child-friendly society
zen. For this we also advertise in local authorities and employers
Bern.
The everyday life of young parents to be more relaxed. Us
want to try a "family mode": Offices and authorities
the, schools, childcare facilities, services
providers, employers, and transport companies are the
temporal needs of families better berücksichti
gene and its opening and opening hours from each other
be right. With the family clock have municipalities
Possibility of their family-friendliness is another Ka
ter add. We want to advertise the fact and based
show of pilot projects in urban and rural areas, as a Fa
milientakt implemented with as many partners who
the can.

Modern and sustainable urban development
Cities are vibrant places for long resident and Neubür
ger and for all generations and needs. We set
zen on attractive city centers with good living, culture,
Working and shopping.
Want to have a proven tool of urban development funding
we continue and develop. Remain our goal
liveable city centers and attractive neighborhoods
also in the wake of declining population numbers and
changing structures. Where it is necessary to be
we also define this new funding priorities.

Sharing and hire bicycles. The growing appeal
We encourage bicycle traffic on and rely
In addition to expanding cycle tracks especially on a BES
sere safety for cyclists.

Cities as think tanks -
Strengthen cultural centers
The great variety of culture plays in the cities a
special role. We want to set the right course,
so that art and artists can develop and
many people as possible access to cultural OFFE
th in the cities have. The creative industry is for
many cities ge an important part of their economic power
been. The basis for their work, we want to si
Chern and strengthen.

Coexistence of cultures
In our cities, many people live unterschiedli
cher cultures and nations. It makes our life much
der thorough and richer. We advertise a good and tole
RANTES coexistence of people. Emerging Proble
me we want through sustained efforts in Be
solve realm of integration. A lively togetherness
old and new citizens can made in our cities to
help to avoid misunderstandings from the outset
the. Therefore, we promote a balanced allocation
of rental housing through the municipal housing
Construction.

Strengthen Travel Destinations

Cities have with their population density and as host
Community site a special role in environmental
protection. We intend to protect the climate and environmental
Align de urban planning. We want the community
Strengthen environmental and climate protection. Our goal is CO2 neutral, energy and climate-adapted city. In Rah
be men of high-tech strategy of the Federal Government
we bring here new research projects on the way.

Our cities are cosmopolitan, hospitable and offer
high tourist standards. For many people from the
around the world, they are an opportunity to visit our country.
Germany is more popular as a tourist destination than ever. The Städ
tetourismus contributes significantly and is an impor
ges mainstay for regional economic development
ment. We want the German National Tourist Board
further strengthen and thus the growing importance of
Tourism will meet as an economic factor.

Organize urban transport intelligent

Strong rural areas - good home

We support a coexistence of different Ver
transport systems. Destinations in the city have on foot, by Au
to, well he by bicycle and by public transport
be reichbar. In addition, we are focusing on new Mobilitätskon
concepts such as electromobility, the Car-

With the CDU and CSU have rural areas in
federal politics again receive a priority. Too
Together with the cities, the rural areas
the face of our country. They are home to more than
half of the people in our country. The host
55

Successful together for Germany | Government Programme 2013 - 2017

economy in the rural areas is strongly influenced
from agriculture and forestry, as well as many hand
plant and commercial operations are at home here. Among them
Many modern and efficient farms that are often
include even the world market leaders in their industry.
In the demography strategy the rural regions play
nen an important role. Numerous funding instruments such as
For example, the programs for village renewal and
urban design, we focus more on the needs of
rural areas aligned. With the so-called
Supply Structure Act, we make it easier for doctors,
to settle in rural areas and thus the
to secure medical care.

Home preserving - good chances
creating for tomorrow
We want a reliable support for rural Re
regions, so that they continue a livable home
remain. We want to strengthen the infrastructure in order to
For educational institutions or child care
Deals are still easily accessible in the country.
A strong agricultural sector, the good and healthy Le
manufactures stuffs, will continue to be an important
Basis for the economic development of a country-rustic
Chen regions to be as small and medium
was standing.
We will support programs such as the Ge
Joint Task agricultural structures and coastal protection
(GAK), the Joint Task Local host
nomic development (GRK), and the regional development yet
network more and combine with each other. The GAK is
from a funding instrument for rural areas
be built. We also want to increasingly Regionalbud
Insert gets and therefore more choices in the
Laying hands of local people.

Livable and attractive rural areas
for citizens and business
We want the rural areas for people and
Businesses are equally attractive. We will
the framework conditions for business start-ups continue
improve, set investment incentives and growth
give impulses. The energy transition is a great opportunity
rural. If the value in
the regions remains, people can directly fi
56

nancially involved if, for example, basic and
Ground for paths and turbines available
put.
We want a living together in villages and
Municipalities. Given the change in the population
accumulation structure, this is a particular challenge.
Therefore we are concerned also about the support of the Ge
my nature and native culture, the strengthening of
Associations and voluntary work and a family-friendly
Expansion of childcare facilities, so that young Famili
s find a prospect. Rural women, rural youth,
Fire brigade, sports clubs, social organizations, church
Groups and Associations of the Democratic Party
s are a strong pillar of the commitments in the country-rustic
Chen regions. You we will continue to reliably un
terstützen and integrate them into the decision-making processes.
This also applies to protecting nature with its deep
Rooted in the native life and for the many
Get home and other clubs, the customs
and maintain.
The bears existing in the regions cultural diversity
crucial to strengthen the cohesion of the rural
union communities. Therefore, we are the big
SSE volunteer work, especially in the area
the native culture, continue to promote.

Ensure good supply and accessibility
Against the background of demographic change, the Si
suring a nationwide medical pfle,
gerischen and social care and the good He
accessibility of these facilities a major chal
ation. We will com for further efforts
men and, for example, the legal and technical
Conditions for better supply of tele
medical services and mobile health
provide services. The universal coverage
postal services has for us a high priority
worth. Important for us to secure the mobility in rural
union space, so that the regions continue as Location
attractive for families and as a location for business
are. We will ensure that rural areas
attached to the main highways of our country
closed remains, as well as to an attractive Schie
denominator and bus. Where the public Linienver
traffic is limited to maintain it, set
we on new approaches such as call buses, senior and Ju
quietly taxis, car-sharing and combined transport of persons

Successful together for Germany | Government Programme 2013 - 2017

and freight transport. For mobile Dienstleistungsangebo
te (eg rolling retail stores, pharmacies and
Banks), we want to improve the framework.
We want the drivers of growth Internet flächende
ckend offer and ensure that the people on
just have the country have access to high speed internet
as the people in the big cities.

Rural areas as a tourist destination
Germany charming landscapes are a figurehead
shield and an attraction for many people in the
the whole world. The numerous nature reserves, Natio
nalparks, nature parks and biosphere reserves are at
tractive holiday destinations. With the help of programs on
Federal and EU level they should aggressively advertised
become. In this way, offers, for example,
for nature travelers, hikers, boating enthusiasts and anglers,
Health tourists and for families with children, for
Appreciation and revitalization of rural areas beitra
gene, thus strengthening the tourism industry. To
also counts Farmhouse as a natural
and particularly popular form of family holiday.

5.3 More housing for affordable rent
For us, the quality of living of Men
rule in Germany a high status. Suffice
of, affordable housing in an appealing quality
ity client is essential and an important goal of our
Politics. Since 2009, the number of newly-built Flat rises
gene significantly. We want this trend continues
sets. For us, this also further promote
the owner-occupied property. Not only is it a more
term contribution to reducing the demand for housing,
but also a useful tool with a view to
Retirement.

Living and quality of life
get - create more living space
The construction of a sufficient number of dwellings in areas with
Housing shortage prevents too strong to
increased rents. The housing numbers are rising as
of, but are not yet sufficient to anywhere the ge
to meet adult needs. This is especially true
on metropolitan areas and university campuses, but
also a number of medium-sized towns. We want to
Improve conditions and targeted Anrei

zen create more affordable housing. Specifically wol
we recommend the declining balance for the Mietwoh
introduce nungsbau again.

Strengthening of social housing
To assist lower income households
at the cost of housing, we want social housing
Construction strengthen. For years, the number of apartments sinks
with a rental price and occupancy binding. We want
reverse this trend and the countries in the social
Housing supply support. In return,
of the countries, the commitment expected it with
tel earmarked a social housing
set. The creation of student housing in un
sera university towns belongs expressly.
It's mostly a question of unused Räumlichkei
convert and the ten to student accommodation
Stimulate construction of additional student flats.
The federal government and several countries support this measure
took already under the existing KfW Pro
programs and the social housing promotion.
On site is a wealth of opportunities to Woh
nungsbau support. These include beispielswei
se alliances with municipal housing companies,
developing specific funding models, in particular
for families and senior-friendly housing, and the ver
approved levy municipal land to Housing
building investors. We want to share with the countries
and contribute to communities that such initiatives
are filled with life, for example by unge
used land in public ownership or
unneeded real estate as former Kaser
asked NEN or administrative buildings available
become.

Housing must be affordable
One of our main concerns is affordable housing
space for low-income households. The federal government and
the public sector in total come here of their sociality
len responsibility according to an appreciable extent. Year
for the year will be around 17 billion euros for the Wohnkos
th low-income households expended. That
Housing allowances and the reimbursement of the cost of accommodation
as part of the basic social security secure
Mietzahlungsfähigkeit of households with a low A
come. Strengthened for these households to occupancy
rights are acquired.
57

Successful together for Germany | Government Programme 2013 - 2017

To low-income directly to help people
to enable and good living, we want the Leistun
gene of the housing allowance to improve. We want the Leis
device height and the Miethöchstbeträge to the development
adjust the existing rents and sit down for a Rege
ment, which for the future adaptation of housing benefit
performance ensures the development of housing costs.
Even households that do not receive a housing allowance, are
we support. The social rental law protects against unange
measured rent increases. To flexibly to Mie
to cost developments in conurbations react, ha
Ben, we the countries given the opportunity in Gebie
th a tight housing supply, the limit for RENT
increases within three years from 20 to 15 percent
to lower. For housing in cities with tense
Housing markets remains affordable, we are the County
countries also have the option grant in areas at
tense housing markets in re-letting
Existing homes rent increases to ten percent
limit above the local comparative rent.
This rule does not apply to first-time rentals in new buildings.

Clear rules for tenants and landlords
The range of services in the real estate sector is ge
grow. Associated with this are often new requirements
at home or apartment owners and home builders.
Even tenants and buyers are increasingly using profes
nalized service offerings. We therefore want the
Protection of consumers in the construction and services in the
Removing estate sector. This applies, for example,
Bauvertragsrecht and the apartment management. For
Brokerage services, we want to clear nationwide
Create conditions to more legal certainty
integrated to achieve. Landlord and tenant should continue as
Client can occur.

Separate living room ensures the pension
We support the desire of many people by ei
nem life in your own four walls. Especially
young couples with children go for it in the start
phase of her family often at the limits of the financial
Opportunities so they are often their largest acquisition
Able to shoulder life. The state helps the Building Societies
with the housing bonus and the Arbeitneh
mer savings allowance. Geför With the introduction of state-
derten Eigenheimrentengesetz - as a new form of Bauspa
procedure - the CDU and CSU have an important measure to
58

brought the way to the acquisition of property to erleich
tern. This financial cushion helps the desire for own
home to finance solid. The growing On
saving totals show that adopted the instrument
will and leave for the next few years a further
increasing home ownership in the housing sector expected.
CDU and CSU see homeownership as conscious
The people of the region and as part of decision
the pension. That is why we want to with a view to
in some regions declining demographic trends
creating the possibility that the acquisition of stock
property, ie existing dwellings and
Housing, is better supported than the new construction. This is
an important signal to the appreciation of real estate in
often difficult markets.

Home sweet home -
also in the future
Rising life expectancy brings with it new challenges
ments for urban development and housing.
Our goal is that people as long as possible in ih
can live rer home environment. For that we want
Multigenerational oriented housing, the everyday life of the
needs of families with children to those
equivalent of seniors. This can include the conversion of
Existing housing contribute. Likewise, we see
that Community forms of housing in older
People increasingly receive encouragement. We want
support. Apartment oriented services
relieve people in everyday life and are systematically expanded
become. For the improved technical equipment of
generation apartments suitable we will For
support research and development in this area.
The urban redevelopment programs have proved effective. Us
they want a unified, content up values
th and integrated urban redevelopment program together
lead. In the program to all players, insbesonde
re the housing associations, private property
owners and traders are included.

5.4 G
? ute food -
sustainable agriculture
The German farmers and foresters produce high
quality food and feed, renewable raw
materials and a large part of renewable energy.

Successful together for Germany | Government Programme 2013 - 2017

So you not only ensure the livelihood
of men, but they define our home by
the maintenance of cultural landscape and preservation of traditions
tions. CDU and CSU want a strong and in Ge
society broadly based agriculture and forestry. Us
want as much of what we eat and
need for renewable raw materials, of the Fel
countries and from the stables of our farmers and of the hei
mix forests comes.
Guide us clear principles for a reliable and
Sustainable Agricultural Policy: We have confidence in the hei
mix agriculture and forestry and their stay a ver
reliable partner. At the same time considering we promote yourself
changing consumer preferences, and increased ge
societal demands openness, information
and dialogue. Problems, issues and concerns of the citizens in
Terms of agricultural production in the arable
construction and in animal husbandry, especially when environmental and animal welfare, we take very seriously and solve them ge
Together with farmers.
Our mission statement is the rural entrepreneurial country
economy, supported by farmers and their Fa
milia spot. Especially the regional roots,
sustainable management, ownership and responsibility
for the operation, but also for society and the environment
are us important. A capital investors BE
Agriculture agreed we reject.
We stand at the diversity of our agriculture - conven
tional and organic farming practices are equal
footing. We encourage the main, feed and
Part-time farms, because all an important contribution
afford to our powerful agriculture.

Sustainable implementation of the Common Agricultural Policy 2014-2020
For the German agriculture, agricultural policy is the
EU is of great importance. We want the money
arriving from Brussels by farmers and possible
are used efficiently. Therefore it is important, both
Pillars on which the EU's agricultural policy in
builds to obtain.
For the first pillar, farmers receive Direktzah
payments for their services for the company which does not
are paid out of the market, such as
landscape conservation and environmental, animal welfare and Ver

braucherstandards in Europe. The second column
supports the development in the rural areas and the
Implementation of measures for the environmentally sound
Agriculture. Considerations of red-green, the direct
to reduce payments to farmers, we reject. To
Strengthening of peasant agriculture and the Famili
enbetriebe we want the first hectares each farmer
Community operations in the future with a higher amount of Di
promote support schemes. Especially we are young country
support farmers and encourage young people, the
To take into farming.
Our goal is environmental and agriculture is even closer
to interlink. We are committed to the so-called
"Greening", that is the even stronger bond of Di
support schemes for environmental services. A mandatory
Decommissioning of agricultural land is there with
not us. We will know about the second pillar
terhin sustainable development in rural areas
promote, the most powerful of a land and
Forestry lives. That is why we are agri-environment
expand programs and investment in enterprises
enable. We will continue to be an effective
Safety net tension to protect our farmers
against extreme market disruptions. We are the Be
conclusions from Brussels with as little bureaucracy as possible
implement.

Good animal husbandry and best animal welfare
Animal welfare and a high animal welfare standards
are of central importance for us. We want pens,
where animals have good housing conditions. Des
half we promote new animal-friendly stalls and increase the
Research funds to improve farming methods.
Likewise, we are the measures to reduce the
Promote use of antibiotics in animal husbandry.
Expertise and skills are essential for us
Prerequisite for animal husbandry. We are committed
uniformly higher animal welfare standards with a Redu
financing and fixed limiting animal transport times
in the EU. The important work of the beekeeper applies our
Appreciation. To protect the bees we are For
expand research projects.

Strengthening the milk producers in competition
We want Germany after the expiry
the milk quota system in 2015 dairy farm number one
remains in Europe. For this purpose, we are milk producers in
59

Successful together for Germany | Government Programme 2013 - 2017

support the development of their businesses, their positi
strengthen on the market and in the value chain
and cooperation between producers and proces
ees convey. In addition, we are the dairy farmers
in the development of additional income possible
liabilities, such. as the manure recycling in small biogas
systems that support. Furthermore, we want the green
also recognize the Greening agriculture and
Consider introducing a Raufutterprämie.

Market and consumer orientation
regional and international markets -
Federal regional program
German agriculture is both the chances of
domestic markets as well as the European and
can be used rapidly growing world market. These who
we, the German agricultural and food industry
in opening up export markets continue
support.
Our particular interest is the strengthening of regional
Markets. More and more people turn their Kaufent
Divorce then made, where food comes from.
They need reliable and quickly recognizable
Information. We are a German regional program
Start with whom we transparency regional when shopping
Create food.

Competitiveness and qualifications
promote
Investment in new machinery, equipment and products
and the training of workers and their Wei
qualification levels are the basis for a zukunftsfä
hige development of agriculture and for more animal and environmental protection. We will continue to reliably with
the resources of the Joint Task agricultural structures
and coastal protection (GAK) promote.
We will strengthen agricultural research. Priorities
the research is the development particularly tierge
Right attitude procedures efficient and responsibility
sible use of biomass for food, bio
energy and renewable resources as well as the guarantee
performance of food safety. With Innovations
offensive we want the German agriculture in the
Address new challenges support.
Thus farmers against price and yield
can hedge fluctuations better, we are un
sera farmers the tax risk reserve formation
facilitate.

As a member we will by the Federal Government
developed "regional window" for Lebensmittelpa
introduce ckung nationwide. The German organic farms
We will continue to promote reliable. It is our goal,
the great demand for organic products with domestic
To satisfy products.

Bioenergy and Renewable Resources
use responsibly

Agricultural protection and forestry
Improve surfaces

Where renewable raw materials for energy
Terms of use, we rely on more market
orientation, ie to produce and deliver to Be
must. We are in new biogas plants in particular
the electricity demand and the use of
Promote residual materials. In addition, we are researching
novel energy crops as an alternative to maize
build and us for the continuation of admixture ratios
Insert the biofuels sector.

We want as many agricultural and forestry
Obtain surfaces. Therefore, we want to build new Ge
buildings and roads designed so that it possible we
nig undeveloped areas must be used. There where
the use of new areas is unavoidable, want
we strengthened the necessary conservation compensation
on environmental measures in agriculture and forestry,
the upgrading and maintenance of existing compensation
areas and nature reserves and the unsealing
focus of built-up areas. The possibilities
for the payment of compensation money, we want to expand. With
60

the payments we want to create a fund from which
the demolition of built, but no longer used FLAE
Chen can take place in a natural state.

The production of food by
German agriculture has in the future priority
prior to use for energy or fuel production.

Sustainable forest management
This year we commemorate the 300th anniversary of the A
leadership of the sustainability concept by Hans Carl von

Successful together for Germany | Government Programme 2013 - 2017

Carlowitz. The concept first described by him has
for us today validity. More than a third of FLAE
che Germany is forest. Our forest is not only a
Supplier of the natural material important but
also for environmental protection and nature conservation and the recovery of
People indispensable. Sustainable Forestry si
chert these functions. For this purpose we want the Wertschöp
further strengthen chain timber. The efficiency
want the mainly small-scale ownership structure
we raise, by the cooperation example
promoting the marketing of timber. The construction kli
mastabilerer forests with different tree species is
important to us. To promote the use of sustainable
produced local wood we support Her
origin labeling. We are committed to hunting, egg
important contribution to nature and wildlife as well as for
environmental care makes. Therefore, we will hunt
quite get in its present form.

Stable agricultural social
security system
The independent social security system for the
Agriculture has proved itself. We are committed
that it is in unison with the other legal
Social development and in the future the
Posts agriculture remain affordable.

Strengthening of the German Wine and horticulture
Wine is one of the oldest cultural assets in Germany. Of the
Viticulture impressed many German landscapes in unique cultural
ger manner. Thus, the classical wine-growing areas, in particular
receive special the steep vineyards in Germany
Remember, we are committed to an effective EU wine market regulation. Horticulture is part of our strong With
telstands. We will be using it for example in the development
development of energy-saving production methods under further
support.

we chen us against patents on conventional nega
assessment procedures and contact us against the Pa
tentierbarkeit of farm animals and
Crop it.

Strengthen consumer 5.5
We trust the people to something. Our mission statement is the
independently working consumers. He needs
transparent, understandable and comparable offers.
Task of consumer policy is to ensure
that the products are safe and consumers ver
obtain comprehensible information. Consumer brewing
Chen powerful rights, but not patronizing. Ange
given the free movement of goods in Europe and increas
Menden global trade rich national Regelun
gene alone is no longer made to consumers effectively
. protect That is why we are committed to ensuring that EU-Ver
consumer policy and expand the high German
Anchor level of protection throughout Europe.
CDU and CSU have in the Consumer Policy much he
ranges: Examples include better food
labeling, the introduction of passenger rights with
Obligation to compensate for delays and better
Information in cash investments. Consumers must at Te
lephone are no longer bothered with advertising calls and
who befin ​​in the queue of service numbers
det, no longer has to pay for it.

Institutions to protect consumers
support reliable and expert
integrate

No biopatents on livestock
and crops

This successful path of consumer protection wol
we recommend going consistently. We will therefore
Organizations provide advice to consumers, such
For example, Stiftung Warentest and the consumption ores
tral Bundesverband (vzbv), continue to support. Since
addition, we are a "Council of Economic Experts
for consumer policy "with independent experts and
Setting scientists.

The wide variety of animals and plants is a
particular strength of our agriculture. This want
We back up and also not from the rising global
Number of patent applications in animals and plants ge
can endanger. For us there are differences between ei
nem patent on a car and an apple. Therefore spre

He is a regular "Management Report of the consumer"
Create with policy recommendations. The in German
country successfully anchored in the past few years
Consumer research, we will expand and further
network to the latest findings in the consumer
policy incorporated permit.
61

Successful together for Germany | Government Programme 2013 - 2017

Consumer education from an early age
Consumer education starts from an early age in the kindergarten, in
schools and go to adult education, to
For example in the community colleges. Together with the
Countries, we work to ensure that consumer education is a
is an integral part in the educational institutions. Since
to hear the knowledge of balanced diet and
good financial management, about financial matters
and strengthen the use of digital media.

Guide to the consumer world
In everyday life, it is important for consumers that they quickly
and easy access to consumer information
can and trusted and customer friendly
Companies can quickly identify. Therefore want
We as a guide for consumers, for example, consumer
offer cher Apps and compact information.
We are the project "clarity and truth" with the
Internet platform "Lebensmittelklarheit.de" for at
develop more fields, such as in household
goods and consumer goods. On this internet
platform, consumers can call products, from de
NEN they feel deceived. The Consumer Advice Centre
evaluated the labeling and the affected sub
can take its observations.
Together with legal experts, consumer and Da
tenschützern and scientists we will Kriteri
s for a check General Terms and Conditions
(GTC-Check) develop. He should consumers Friend
make probability transparent.
We want high-quality and user-friendly
Products a trademark of the German economy
remain. For that we are a consumer Siegel sheep
fen. Companies can thus their consumers
confirm friendliness. Using this Gütesie
Gels can then be consumer-friendly com
Men particularly easy to recognize. This creates a more
Trust and security.

Enforce consumer rights better
Consumers are in dispute quickly and easily ih
rem rights come. For this we are a bundeswei
introduce th Online conciliator who helps non-bureaucratic,
is when things go wrong when buying on the Internet.
62

Safe food - fraud throughout Europe
hamper
Safe food, clear labeling and healthy
Nutrition are crucial for us. This includes zero tolerance
in cases of fraud in the food industry. We want life
Central Europe was more difficult and harder Bestra
fen. Food scandals can as quickly and comprehensively
be uncovered send.
The state supervision at the level of the Federation and the
Countries need to improve. We want to import
controls at the external borders of the EU as well as the Kontrol
len strengthen domestically. We need EU and national level
a high control density and uniformly high standards.
Private and government controls, we are even better
interlink and the requirements for self-monitoring
enhance systems of companies.
We are an early warning system for food
developing sector in Europe, the economic incentives
should make early find for fraudsters. No one should
earn on food fraud. Besides harder Stra
fen we also want opportunities to levy
of profits from criminal activities in Le
scored bensmittelbereich, implement.

Clear labeling of foodstuffs
Our motto is: foods must be clearly labeled.
This includes ensuring that all information is legible and Verpa
ckung corresponds to the content. Consumers should also know
whether foods with genetic engineering techniques created wor
to have the region from which the product comes and
what conditions animals are kept. Therefore whoever
we, together with agriculture and animal
conservation organizations a "transparency offensive livestock"
Start, for which a reliable animal welfare labeling GE
listen. Also we are committed to a Europe-wide mandatory
Origin labeling of foodstuffs, in particular
meat products, a. The cloning of animals for Nah
agent production, we reject as a Remark
tion of such products from in Germany and Europe.

Healthy balanced diet
and careful food handling
We want to raise awareness of well-balanced diet
strengthen. That is why we are the campaign "IN FORM -

Successful together for Germany | Government Programme 2013 - 2017

Germany's initiative for healthy eating and more
Movement "with information and recommendations
Projects and activities for families, Bildungseinrichtun
gen, continue and expand businesses and seniors.
Punitive taxes on certain foods we reject.
Foods are high-value goods and may not
are wasted carelessly. We want people
for the value and good food handling
awareness and information, for example the
Storage and Stability improve. We tell the
Throwaway mentality to fight and to be with
the food trade, consumers and panels
and other parties to achieve the EU target
work to halve food waste.

Safe toys
Children as consumers are particularly vulnerable.
Therefore, we continue to the safety of Kin
derspielzeug a on the EU internal market.

Security in Financial Transactions
Thus consumers better ge in financial transactions
are protected, we already have Produktinformationsblät
ter and the counseling protocol made mandatory.
We are both instruments with regard to the practical
Check Cable handling and with improvements
evolve for investors. The government-sponsored
private pensions, we will verbraucherfreundli
make holes and their administrative costs effectively be
limits. In addition, we are introducing the inde
pendent consulting fee, in the commission of the Pro
duktanbieters it by a fee the consumer
sets will push for all financial products.
We will introduce a basic bank account so that
even people with very low incomes their
Can process payments. We want for all
facilitate bank drafts. We want banks ver
duties customers when transferring to the expensive Dispokre
dit a warning to give. And we are a Ver
Setting equal portal so that customers at a glance all
obtain essential information about bank charges.

Trademarks "senior-friendly"
Seniors are a large and deductibles
knew of consumers. Therefore, we want older

People more specific advice and information
send. This includes targeted Informa
NEN about support services and on
Bids for the care and assistance are at home and how
whose quality should be evaluated. We also want the Su
che easier for the right nursing home.

Consumer rights in the digital world
strengthen
We want consumers the great opportunities of In
ternet safely be used - for example when shopping online,
in banking, in travel bookings, in social network
works and in the research of information. To
applies it, a most comprehensive data protection for
To ensure consumers and consumers' rights in
Network secure. The German high level of data protection
must also in the revision of the EU data protection
right retained. Consumers have a right to
Self-determination over their personal data and on
to protect their privacy. In the borderless world
we need the Internet internationally possible unit
Liche standards to protect consumers.
We want that for the use of personal data
apply the principle of explicit consent
got to. Our goal is, the right to delete the EIGE
NEN data, consumer-friendly selected presetting
ments for privacy, especially in social networks
and the integration of data protection in the Ent
enforce ment of new techniques and products.

5.6 K
? ulture and media - Creativity
protect and diversity
Germany is a nation of culture. We want the rich
preserve cultural heritage of our country. Art and Kul
tur shape our identity. We are committed to free
unit of art and want good conditions Sheep
fen so that art and culture as a basis to our
living together remain.
By enshrined in the Basic Law Aufgabenvertei
ment are state and local governments in the field of art
culture and special responsibility. We wol
len them continue to be a reliable partner: given
we have advanced training courses, the promotion of culture at a high level
leads and thus the conditions for a le
bendige cultural landscape secured. The culture budget
63

Successful together for Germany | Government Programme 2013 - 2017

the Federal has increased regularly since 2005, IMP EXP
including more than 21 percent. Also in the coming years
We will continue this course, by the
Culture Proven budgetary support and further
equal to set new priorities. This applies to the kultu
tural heritage as we of the contemporary art, for porridge
tenkultur well as for artistic excellence.
Apart from the state responsibility is bürgerschaftli
Che's involvement indispensable. See our task
we to provide good conditions under which
Art and culture can flourish.
Free and strong media are a key element Unse
rer liberal order. Their diversity we want to
appropriate framework in the future under
support. These include measures to ensure the
Quality of the media as well as offers to strengthen
media literacy, which continue up to a
enlightened dealing with the media contribute.

Cultural Education
Without education there is no culture and no culture without
Education. Therefore, even the smallest to learn culture
to be understood as a natural part of life. Since
with each its own access to cultural Ange
offered and forms of expression, such as dance, music, visual
Art, literature or digital media can be found, want
we have a federal funding initiatives, such as "Every Child
Instrument "(JeKi)," cultural agents "or" for children
Olymp ", continue to support. In addition, we will work with
The program "Culture makes us strong. Alliances for Education "
extracurricular activities, such as reading mentors, theater,
Promote music schools or libraries, and so for us
the musical, aesthetic and cultural development jun
ger human use. To permanently cultural education
to offer on-site, we also want to partner Sheep
th between schools and cultural institutions strengthen.

Care of the German language
The German language is an essential expression of our
rich culture. We expressly for care
our language want to get their expressiveness and
therefore unnecessary bonds, for example, from the engli
waive rule language and to understand texts
eighth.
Currently, we see that the interest in our Spra
che world increases: The Goethe-Institute, the German
64

pean countries schools and afford the German wave
an important contribution to meet these needs.
We will continue to learn German who
Ben and the necessary financial resources to promote
provide the German language abroad.

Capital Culture Contract
Germany lives culturally and through its vielfälti
gene regions. Nevertheless, Berlin as the capital plays in
cultural self-image of our nation signified a
tant role. With the federal cultural policy we recognize
the importance of Berlin for our nation. Since the aktu
elle capital financing contract expires the end of 2017,
we will regulate the new funding.

Memory of dictatorship and violence
domination - commemorative policy
Germany is due to its history especially
a duty to the memory of the causes and consequences
keeping alive of dictatorship and tyranny.
The processing of the Nazi dictatorship with their genocide
of the European Jews and their crimes against
Million people, the disenfranchised, persecuted tortured,
and were murdered, should be continued. Here
We remain the responsibility just opposite the
Youth, so racism and extremism never a
Have a chance.
The Study of the SED dictatorship has advanced training courses
be sets. Especially young people, we want to
Time of the division of Germany and the causes and Fol
gen of oppression and injustice in the GDR
intensified efforts to historical Aufarbei
convey device.

Cultural relations and education policy
We have a rich and diverse cultural nation. Culture
is an ambassador of our country. We want to
Diversity of culture in the countries and regions of our
Country point, so that the interest in visiting
awaken or encourage the learning of our language. Too
equal to ensure the foreign cultural and educational policy
Germany in other countries make a major
support to international and European Integra
tion, by itself more about the living conditions in
interests and traditions of our neighbors and others
Learn Nations.

Successful together for Germany | Government Programme 2013 - 2017

Promote conservation
Old village churches, half-timbered houses, castles or Schlös
ser: In our country there are around 1.3 million Memorials
ler. It is one of the most important tasks of our Kul
turnation to protect these unique constructions. Us
are reliable to this obligation and
We continue for the preservation and protection of our architectural heritage
Insert.

Cultural and creative industries
The cultural and creative industries is not only a much
fältige industry, it also brings cultural and economic
Lich major products and services produced:
This includes, for example, the particular quality fully ge
staltete Kita or the publisher, the classics of world
literature as electronic books for mobile devices
brings out. The cultural and creative industries has
around one million people working. To this sector
further advancing, we are the "Initiative KulturUnd creative economy" to continue. We will also
promote cooperation between culture and tourism.
The combination of cultural highlights with the Krea
tivwirtschaft helps cities and regions attrac
tive to make.

Findings of the Reformation
In 2017, Germany commemorates the start of the Re
formation 500 years ago. This is a
Event of international standing, it also allows us to
To illustrate Christian character of our country.
Many scenes of the Reformation in East and West
as the Wittenberg or the old imperial city
Augsburg evidence of the national importance of this
Event. That is why we are in the anniversary of his
Preparation and implementation support.

Stabilization of the artists' social
assurance
Many self-employed artists, freelance journalists, writing
facturers and writers live in economically uncertain
Ratios. With the Künstlersozialversicherung we
permanently want to stabilize, we have a proven
Instrument to freelance artists and Publizis
th access to statutory health, nursing and Ren
insurance scheme allow. Our primary goal
is to prevent an increase in the levy rate.

Importance of media diversity
for democracy
Media in Germany are two things: culture and host
schaftsgut. Freedom of expression and information are not
manoeuvrable foundations of our free and democratic
Basic order. We want the diversity and quality of
Media Secure - even in a rapidly changing
Media. Requirement for a diverse media
landscape are equal and equivalent Me
serving styles. We want to ensure conditions that
ensure fair competition. The Together
work by federal and state governments is this important - in particular
cially in the representation of media issues in Europe.

Chance digitization
Major driver of the current media development
ment is digitization. They changed the Medienan
supply and usage patterns of human reason
Legend. In addition, it solves the classic media
on. We want to shape the conditions so,
that the industry best nationally and internationally
be able to meet and develop their cultural mission.
Media policy is for us more than just economic policies.
However, also here applies that the economic Rah
must agree ditions.

Dual media order
We are committed to growing dual Medienord
tion of private and public service broadcasting.
Between two and with each other is fair competitive
competition held to all interested parties with adequate Ent
development opportunities allow.
We want a strong, high-demanding and
diverse public broadcasting. Especially in
increasing competition in the digital age
is the role of ARD, ZDF and Germany as Radio
credible information anchor more and more important. This
applies it to have the essence of the contract in view.
Private broadcasting is an essential component of
Media landscape in the digital age. Substantive
Quality criteria have adequate here
Play role in designing the program. Our goal is
the enrichment of the media and pluralism in
Germany for the benefit of media users and Me
serving division. For this, we need fair Wettbewerbsbedin
65

Successful together for Germany | Government Programme 2013 - 2017

tions - both nationally and internationally. In addition, should the
technical convergence of media regulation,
Supervisory structures and political responsibilities
Be taken into account. This is especially true for
the Medienkonzentrations- and antitrust law.

German wave
The German wave is the media card German
country in the world. We see it as an important and un
dispensable showcase for the presentation of our
Country. The increasing competition from other foreign
stations and the growing interest in objective Be
reporting provide the sender with new challenges
ments. Our goal is therefore, the German wave
strengthen. A real step in this direction is that cooperations
NEN expand with ARD, ZDF and Germany radio.

Receive diversity of printed products
Newspapers and magazines are important information
Sources - offline and online. It is the joint responsibility
from politics and publishing, enhanced awareness of
the value and importance of print products as
Cultural anchoring in society. We want
the diversity obtained in this area. Therefore
hold is the Presse-Grosso as neutral sales
away indispensable.
We also want the book to a secure and stable
future. A vibrant literature is an elementary Be
an integral part of our culture. Nevertheless, the world of
Changed the book in the digital age. Important for the
Preservation of books Variety is the book price fixing. Of the
reduced VAT rate for books to beibe
will hold in the future and also for electronic and
Audiobooks apply.

Copyright
By digitizing the stress field around the
Copyright become visible and tangible. But also
in the digital age of the claim of the copyright applies to
Protecting its intellectual property and the right to a
adequate remuneration of its performance. It does not back up
only the income of the author, it also allows
artistic diversity.
The copyright must also ver by users
were and are accepted as well as answers to the
66

give altered digital applications.
We will therefore continue to develop the copyright,
for example, when it comes to private copying, when handling
Infringements by users or the growing
Number of new forms of digital exploitation. For this is ei
neces ne technical and legal policy weighing
dig to the legitimate interests of authors,
Rightsholders, the recyclers and consumers ge
to be right. Many questions are not only national
be solved. We have our ideas thus
Also at EU level and contribute internationally.

Media skills and youth media protection
Because of rapid technological and societal
Chen developments throughout the media sector is
requires that all generations with the competent
can handle common media. Children should be
REITs at school interdisciplinary media competence
learn. Ermögli initiatives such as the "Network for Children"
chen children a competent handling of the network.
That alone is not enough, however: children and adolescents
need adequate protection against the possible From
would grow the modern media world. You need at Inter
net before developing debilitating and compromising
the offers appro inter alia through the use
neter Youth Protection Software are protected. The Ju
neighborhood protection Media State Treaty has new problem
fields to be adapted.

Filmförderung
We want to preserve the cinema as a cultural asset attractive. It
applies, the German film at the new challenges
gen to accompany on the international film market. Us
therefore be the film location Germany continues Staer
ken. To the producers long-term planning security
to provide, to the German Federal Film Fund (DFFF)
no longer be limited to three years, but permanent
liable to be established.

National Film Heritage
We will continue to comprehensive data protection
use of the national film heritage, especially
through its digitization. In addition, we are the Ar
Beit the Kinematheksverbund and together in him
Quantity connected devices such as film archives and Ki
nematheken further support.

Successful together for Germany | Government Programme 2013 - 2017

Computer games are an integral part
of cultural life
Computer games shape the daily lives of many, especially
younger people in our country. They are an integral
Become part of cultural life. We erken
NEN variety of high-quality services, in particular
educationally valuable computer games, as well as the large
creative power and technical expertise of
Game developers. We intend to continue to promote, in
for example with the German Computer Game Award. Us
are committed to an effective youth media protection,
to children and young people in the field of Compu
to protect against harmful content terspiele.

5.7 M
? itmachen! Mixing!
More citizen involvement
Democracy thrives on participation! Our democracy
lives from the fact that citizens in decisions,
that they get involved in the search for the best
Solutions. Be it as councilors when it comes,
shape the origin, whether as works councils
or as a parent or student representatives, whether in civil
initiatives or political parties. Here betei everywhere
be citizens in decision-making time and
take responsibility for their fellow human beings and our
Commonwealth. This makes our democracy strong.
CDU and CSU, it depends on the opinion of citizens,
We want that citizens active in De
Batten interfere.
This applies particularly with regard to major projects, such
Example for airport expansion or the expansion
wind turbines and electricity networks that our country
in the future urgently needs, but often to
quarreled are. Local people have this frequently
a different opinion than those who such projects
to plan. Large projects succeed only in conjunction with
the people, not against them.
CDU and CSU have therefore for the greater involvement
Citizens worried. We have openness in all proceedings
dural and planning steps as well as an early Betei
pation of public ge in the approval process
legally enshrined. This participation takes place be
already before decisions like a project
are. Even the question of whether any need for a Vorha

Ben, will now be publicly erör with citizens
tert. All important documents and also Alternativent
Litters have to be published in early network who
to, so that they be included in the participation process
can be. All proposals for Alternativlö
solutions must now be examined in the approval process
become. Local people can so their views
better bring.
Through public participation, all win: We reach
through traceable procedure and planning steps
more understanding among citizens. , It is crucial that
the commitment and expertise of as many
be used. Herein lies also the chance Beden
Ken and possible actions to begeg in advance
NEN. This creates reliable conditions for investors
and helps that major projects imple faster
can be light. Thus, the costs can be better
remain within reasonable bounds.
CDU and CSU want to citizen participation further expansion
en. It is for us a requirement that we our Ge
my being further advance and contradictions and
To identify and solve problems at an early stage.
This creates understanding and security.

Affected parties to make
This applies not only for infrastructure projects but
for bridging the gap in science and
new technologies. Changing Technological progress
running our lives. Often citizens and Bür be
ger by new technologies but insecure. That's why
it is important to provide information about it and ERS reservations
to build. We need the dialogue between knowledge
, politics, future users and citizens. To this end,
We are experts from unterschiedli
Chen knowledge areas, industries and organizations to
Citizens dialogues bring together.
We want more openness to the interessier
th public care. The early Beteiligungs
process - and for public projects the Finanzpla
tion - must be completed before the application for
Implementation of the plan approval procedure for the
competent authority shall be submitted. We want to
Validity of licenses and planning Stel
ment decisions are limited. If a large-scale projects
not implemented within a reasonable time, to the public
sensitivity must be involved again.
67

Successful together for Germany | Government Programme 2013 - 2017

? 5.8 values ​​strengthen our country - churches
and religious communities
The willingness of many people in our country, for
to accept themselves and others and Ge
to show my sense is grounded in the orientation towards Who
th, often an expression of personal faith
conviction and belief are. Afford this respect
the churches and religious communities also
important contribution to our community as a whole.
CDU and CSU are expressly committed to christli
Chen imprint of our country as well as to respect for
any religious conviction.
This Christian character is also reflected in the outstand
ing role that the Christian churches and their welfare
welfare organizations in many areas of our society
play. This applies not least in education, Gesundheitsund social area, in the care, nursing and Bera
tion of people and the culture. Ecclesiastical activi
activities often promote solidarity locally. But also
In addition, you strengthen relationships with many
Parts of the world. In addition, also has immigration in the
recent decades Christian to a greater variety
Churches and congregations out in our country.
Numerous benefits for our ecclesiastical institutions
Communities are only possible because the churches he in
considerable scope to contribute their own funds and churches
members do voluntary work. At the same time under
supports our government rightly these specialized ministries to
fang rich. He respects the ecclesiastical coinage of the ent
Speaking facilities that are also in the ecclesiastical Ar
beitsrecht expressed.
We are especially grateful for the resurgence jüdi
rule life in Germany - even through the Zuwande
tion of many new parishioners from the bre
Heren Soviet Union. We support the Jewish Ge
communities and the Jewish welfare work, for example,
in integrating these immigrants.
The diverse contributions of Muslim associations and Ver
Volumes for our community - about the integration
Muslim immigrants and their descendants in un
sere society, as well as the dialogue between the Kul
tures and religions - deserve our appreciation and
Support. In this sense we want the German
Continue Islam Conference.
68

It is the proven Staatskirchenrecht in our
Country also an appropriate basis for a comprehensive
partnership with all Religions
Communities.

Successful together for Germany | Government Programme 2013 - 2017

? 6. Germany: Commitment
for freedom and security
6.1 Secure Germany
We want all the people in Germany and free
certainly be able to live - whether at home, in streets and on
Places, on buses and trains, day and night. Si
security is a prerequisite for freedom of peaceful
coexistence and trust in our
Country. Germany is among the safest countries in the
World and it will remain with us.

Safety in everyday life and improve on-site -
Use of video cameras at hot spots
strengthen
CDU and CSU provide security in everyday life and above
Location. Who vandalism, graffiti graffiti, custodial
experienced slogans, harassment or aggressive begging,
does not feel safe. We take these phenomena
decided against, because these are often the starting points
for crime. To ward off violence and thefts
and attacks and other crimes successfully
clarifying both, we want to use video cameras to
Kriminalitätsbrenn- and danger points, such as on
Stations, intensify.
The police must be given the opportunity to respond quickly to Vi
deoaufzeichnungen other, such as the German
Web access. Video cameras can before policemen
Location but not replace. Our police must seriously
case be able to intervene immediately.

Police support as a guarantor of internal security - its protection
improve
CDU and CSU have confidence in the police and judiciary. Poli
cists deserve our recognition and support
in the difficult tasks facing them in their daily
Service must meet. CDU and CSU set
for a well-equipped police, which for the
People immediately accessible and rapidly at the site of the Ge
schehens is.
Police as well as fire-fighters, the Ka
tastrophenschutzes, Technisches Hilfswerk and the
Emergency services put their lives on our behalf. Violence ge
gene it is directed against us all. We have for GE

ensures that resistance to police officers and others
set strict forces may be punished. This is followed want
we build and their protection under criminal law continues
improve.
An increasing willingness to use violence is also directed
against government employees in job centers, Bürgeräm
tern and against other public servants. You too
we want to provide better protection in the service. Thereby strengthening
We respect and respect for state authorities
the and their employees.

Protect Your own four walls particularly
Given an increasing number of Wohnungsein
fractures and an excessively low clear-up rate will
we wanted to print, and in particular cross-
bands border activities, increase. This includes a BES
Serer over regional police information exchange.
We call for more police patrols in special
DERS vulnerable residential areas. The consultancy services
the police still need more appropriate Siche
inform tion technology, with which you and doors
Can protect windows at home better. CDU and CSU
campaign for improved tax incentives in favor
of investments in the security of your own four Waen
ge de as well as the minimum level of assurance
gen declines in new construction of houses and Flat
gen a.

Prevent child and youth crime
and combat
Violence and delinquency of children and young
quietly union must be countered effectively. Us
want to prevent children and young people in crime
ality slip, so their chances gelingendes on a
Reduce life and other people innocently Op
Far be. Preventative offers in school, leisure,
and youth work must be strengthened and prevention
and law enforcement closely interconnected who
the.
CDU and CSU stand for a resolute handling
with juvenile offenders. Fast educational Re
Actions show borders and protect potential Op
fer. Especially for young offenders is true: The penalty
Indeed, one must follow on the heels. Therefore, a Be
acceleration and simplification of Jugendstrafverfah
Ren the right way.
69

Successful together for Germany | Government Programme 2013 - 2017

Restitution met with youth offenders a
important function. Young people make up so the
Follow more aware of their own actions. CDU and
CSU advocate, they even more strongly to measure
took the reparation to oblige. Victim
and their survivors are included with.
For offenders 18-21 years should generally He
growing criminal apply. The use of youth
criminal law must remain in these cases an exception.
We want to ban or prevent the He
tition of a license as an independent sanction in
Anchor juvenile justice and the scope
extend to all types of offenses.
The more often students refuse to visit their school,
they are also more often criminal. Here we want
start and so the emergence of criminal careers ver
hinder. CDU and CSU call for consistent through
reduction of compulsory education. We want in particular
take the parents in the duty. Municipalities, schools,
free youth welfare and the police have here
close cooperation.

Human trafficking and forced prostitution
resolutely combat
We want women against violence and forced prostitution bes
protect water. Forced prostitution is a modern form of
Slavery and a profitable business of Organi
ized crime. It is accompanied by a severe
the violation of human dignity. Germany must kri
minellen pimps and brothel operators no protection bie
th. Therefore, we have ensured that the Bundestag
initial measures to better control of prostitution
Sites has decided. But we want to go further and
advocate to amend the criminal law so that people
Dealer with sufficient evidence even without the statement
their often frightened victim may be sentenced.

Shall secure freedom - reliability
creates trust
Our legal system guarantees people without
external rights and free development as well as the Safe
unit that the state protects their rights. The human
should be able to rely on this at any time. For tra
gen judges and prosecutors big responsibility in
our communities. CDU and CSU want a BÜR
gernahe and powerful judicial guarantee.
70

Alternative dispute resolution in private
Litigation, such as mediation and Schiedsverfah
Ren, we want to promote the discharge of justice. The Dau
he we want to shorten criminal proceedings.

Protection against harassment and sexual
Improve Abuse
We want children and young people as well as people with
Protect disability better against misuse. For wol
we recommend, inter alia, the offense of sexual abuse
consumption of wards expand.
We want the rights of victims of sexual Miss
need strengthening. Sexual abuse causes for Op
Far often lifelong trauma. Many can only
Talk about it years later and the deeds for display
bring. CDU and CSU want the deadlines for the limitation period
tion of abuse offenses expand, thus such
Injustice can be punished more.

Protect women from violence better
To support women and their children, the Op
fer have become of force and protection in Frauenhäu
Search fibers, we want to finance these Einrich
tions to provide a reliable basis.

Improve victim protection
We want to improve the care of victims. The Ar
Beit of voluntary workers, we want to strengthen it.
We advocate a psychosocial court assistance.
We want to protect the victims of enactment (Stal
king) improving law enforcement.
A comprehensive overview of the Crime
Location win and take targeted countermeasures
can we advocate, regularly Kriminalitätsund victimization surveys based on international models
perform.

Move criminal assets
The fight against organized crime is also
because of their economic power, a major challenge
tion, because so far, the partially high "threaded
ne "of criminals are often not collected. The
are necessary extensive investigations

Successful together for Germany | Government Programme 2013 - 2017

often in conflict with the temporal Beschleunigungsge
offered in criminal matters. Therefore, in these cases, the ille
Gale assets are not siphoned off. CDU and CSU
want the rules simplifica to AROs
chen and their application by facilitating
be the provisional securing of such assets
accelerate. In particular, the Vermögensabschöp
Fung up to five years after a final Doomed?
angeord division into a separate legal proceedings
can net.

Minimum retention periods for connection
regulate data
The state has personal communication data
People protect. At the same time, however, we must protect
gaps in law enforcement and security not
accept.
Minimum retention periods for traffic data are not
manoeuvrable, so in the prosecution of serious criminal offenses
th order of a judge or for the determination From
defense of significant threats to public Si
safety can be carried out a data access. Some criminal offenses
TEN, such as the distribution of child pornography
the web, can be cleared up only about. Especially
in the fight against terrorists, this is often a decisive
Knitting means to prevent attacks can. CDU
CSU and therefore want a directive of the
Implement the European Union into national law.

Strengthen fortified democracy, fight extremism effectively
CDU and CSU do not tolerate any form of extremism, any
Forms of violence and terror decisively to prevent, un
depending on whether it is legal or Linksextre
craps or violent Islamists is. So
be extremists distinguish in their objectives
they are the so similar in their hatred of our de
cratic society and their attendant values.
Therefore, we take the whole spectrum of political
rule and religious extremism in the views. The defense
exemplary democracy should be blind to his eyes.

Preventing extremism consistently
Increasingly go extremist threats of a
zeltätern and small groups from which themselves about
via propaganda videos on the net, radicalising. Of the

Fight against extremism is a gesamtgesellschaftli
che permanent task. The best prevention is the educa
Hung to the basic values ​​of our liberal Demo
Kratie. Human rights and freedoms can not be taken
granted but must be defended again and again
become. Education come here a BE
special responsibility to. The Political Education and the
Historical consciousness, we will therefore strengthen. The BE
begins at school, but must also be part of a lebensbe
sliding his learning. Preventive projects are
We continue to support targeted and ensure that
successful approaches are implemented sustainably. From
Steiger programs for extremists, we are expanding further.

Effectively combat extremism on site
CDU and CSU are state and local governments in their
Strengthen the fight against extremism on site. This includes
the advice in dealing with enemies of the constitution in COM
municipal bodies, institutions or local struc
ren. Important partners are mainly associations and
Organizations, in particular youth organizations, including the
Sports, the fire department, the churches, the religious communities
unions and the welfare. CDU and CSU who
to continue to ensure that public funds for
Awarded only to bodies fighting extremism
be that committed to freedom and democracy.

Security agencies in the fight against
Strengthen extremism and terrorism
CDU and CSU want to within the framework of the distribution of tasks
between federal and state cooperation in the Si
cherheitsgefüge improve our country further. With
the interaction of constitutional protection and Poli
zei in common Extremism and Terrorismusab
defense center, we are strengthening the effectiveness of the security
authorities. This successful approach we want to continue
expand.
In the fight against international terrorism and ge
gen right-wing extremism are the anti-terror file and
the right-wing file indispensable means for
the rapid exchange of information between the Si
curity and constitutional protection authorities. Makeup
legally offered clarifications on the captured Per
persons circles we will make as soon as possible.
The analytical and research skills of files wol
we recommend expanding. In the other areas, such as
the left and foreigners extremism we need sol
71

Successful together for Germany | Government Programme 2013 - 2017

che common composite files. This will create
a further effective contribution to security
and law enforcement.
The profit from insider information from the extremist
so- matic milieu by attracting and guiding
-called undercover agents is essential to the inner workings often
times insular anticonstitutional groupings
gene to be screened. Selection and management of V-Leu
th but have improved their use of effective
be controlled.
In the fight against terrorism, the Her change
challenges constantly. It is therefore important, adequacy
and effectiveness of existing resources to continually
Check. We are committed to ensuring that any form of against
extremist and terrorist aspirations all ver
frame and simplifying legal means, such as the Association
prohibitions are used consistently. For foreign
Offenders, we want to exacerbate the expulsion law.
Who preaches religious hatred or violence to enforce
applies his religious goals, disregarded our reason
values ​​and must expect to be deported.

Punish Advertise for terrorist organizations
The courting of sympathy for a criminal or Terro
istic association prepares the ground for Terro
istic violence. CDU and CSU want this Advertise
criminalize. We want to ensure that with
bers of cells that fire and bomb attacks
commit future terrorist regularly as members
Classified associations and punished accordingly
can be.

Increase cyber security: freedom in a
Secure network
Crime shifts in the digital age always
more into the net. New forms of crime as
through it all possible: from data theft via the online fraud through to industrial espionage. Resistant
IT infrastructures and networks are considering this Be
threat management indispensable.
Security and law enforcement must also
Network to be ensured. The security authorities must
Also the necessary powers and technical and
receive staffing. With the Cyber-Safe
health strategy, we have laid the foundations to Cy
72

bersicherheit on one of the privileged nature of ver
networked information infrastructures adequate Ni
veau to ensure, without the opportunities and the groove
compromising zen of cyber space. It brings together the
Activities for a narrow-toothed action by all Akteu
re in government, industry and research.

Protecting critical infrastructure particularly
Germany as a modern industrial location has its
Ensure basic services. Water, electricity, communica
cations networks and other critical infrastructure who
we therefore against attacks from the Internet and walls
Ren attacks better protection. For a quick Infor
information between the authorities, for fast
Reviews and consequent Handlungsempfehlun
Gene, we have created the Cyber ​​Defence Centre. Which
ses center we want the threat continually
staffed and adapt.
With an IT-safety law, we want to make sure,
that in all critical infrastructures minimum standards
are respected in the security. We want at aku
th IT security incidents the information exchange also with
improve the authorities to react quickly.
Our goal is a consistent law enforcement here.

German economy against cyber espionage
protect
German companies are increasingly the victims of Cy
berspionage. Important research and development resulting
Nisse be spied. We want the economic
Germany, and therefore jobs in our
Better protect land from targeted industrial espionage - among others
through security partnerships and a better Infor
information between government and business.
Cyber ​​security is a location factor for the future. Us
The research in this area moving forward
propel and promote innovative projects. Germany should
ent is the market leader in Cyber ​​Security solutions
wrap.

Criminality gaps through new digital
Close offenses
We want relevant criminal and criminal procedure
legal regulations overlooking the technical
Progress on work. Criminality gaps we want

Successful together for Germany | Government Programme 2013 - 2017

by new events for offenses in the digital space
close, about to protect our children against Beleidi
tion and harassment in the network ("cyberbullying").

Combating cross-border crime
Open borders in Europe are an asset for all of us.
But even with open internal borders has the inner
Security in the European Union guarantees lead
ben. With the eastward expansion of the EU are the Out
Receivables grew this.
CDU and CSU advocate that the canceled
Border controls in the Schengen area further by
appropriate measures should be balanced, such as
by occasion independent inspections along the border.
We want to cross-border crime better
prevent or track and uncontrolled To
hike may limit better. Therefore, we are committed to build an EU-wide inputs and
Leaving a register. This makes it more difficult unent
covers enter Germany. We want the A
management of an electronic visa procedure as from
equal measure to relaxations in visa requirements
Check.
Particular attention requires combating
rising crime in the border regions
Poland and the Czech Republic - notably the human and
Drug trafficking, and car and other thefts. CDU
and CSU want for an adequate supply of
Police forces on the borders of Germany and even
closer integration of the cooperation between the Federal
Police and state police near the border worry about
through more joint patrols and common
Same operational units. The cross-border poli
zeiliche cooperation we will continue to strengthen.
We want to build on the successes to date,
in particular with the cooperation with our Europeanised
rule neighbors built up police centers.

6.2 Europe: strong in the world
The European Union needs a coordinated and
equal to foreign and security policy capable of taking action.
You need to a further developed common Si
cherheitsstrategie are based and the High Representative of the
Strengthen Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. Therefore
we want to take further steps to deepen the mili

tary Cooperation in Europe at the same time
Further development of the transatlantic division of labor
go, for example, by pooling and ge
common benefits previously national military capability
liabilities. In the long term, we aim for a European army
at.
The European Union needs a strategic discus
sion, what they with civilian means and military Einsät
can achieve zen and wants. Civilian means have for us
Priority. The EU's existing skills in zivi
len crisis prevention and in need of post-crisis rehabilitation
this within the meaning of the networked approach of EU and NA
TO be interlocked with the military capabilities.
The European Union and its Member States can
valuable assistance in building a powerful Ver
make administration in third countries. This is particularly true for
the areas of police and justice. For this we are
through targeted measures, German officials, judges
and encourage prosecutors to such operations in part
increase.
We want common European missions
Preserving and enhancing the security of Europe a priority
performed in our geographical neighborhood
become. Appearances beyond this neighborhood should
increased regional partners and organizations
will bear, for example, the African Union
(AU), the Economic Community of West African States
(ECOWAS) and the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC), the
of the EU and NATO in accordance with
should be supported and prepared.

EU enlargements must serve citizens
The recent enlargements of the EU are in the interest
Germany and Europe. We stand by that
Western Balkan states the prospect of accession
have. However, it has been careful who
to that new Member States shall take all political and host
economic criteria for membership fully meet.

Turkey relations to a new level
to lift
We see the strategic and economic importance
tion of Turkey for Europe as well as the diverse Be
relations between the people of our two
Countries. We would therefore like the relations between
73

Successful together for Germany | Government Programme 2013 - 2017

the European Union and Turkey further deepen.
A close and special collaboration serves both
the people of Europe as well as in Turkey. We wol
therefore len strongest possible cooperation between
the European Union and Turkey as well as close
strategic cooperation in Foreign Affairs and Security
policy issues. A full membership of Turkey
but we reject because they egg the conditions for
NEN EU accession not met. Given the size of the
Country and its economic structure would also be the
European Union overwhelmed.

Strengthen Transatlantic Partnership

6.3 F
? ÜR Peace and Human Rights
enter world

We are committed to NATO and its new strategic
rule concept. Even after the end of the Cold War
remains the central commitment of the alliance GE
common defense of its members - even if
Inserts for securing peace, freedom and Stabili
ity the focus of the current tasks form. The
NATO should continue to be open to new members
the values ​​of the Alliance and its member states tei
len and their receiving more security for all with
Member States brings.

CDU and CSU stand for the universal recognition and
Enforcement of human rights, for freedom, peace
and international understanding, for reliability and flush mountable
nistreue and advocating for the interests of German
lands. The values ​​of the Basic Law, the safety of
Citizens, the interests and the global
Responsibility of Germany and Europe are the measure
bars of our foreign and security policy. The Federal
Weir is making egg with its servicemen and women
NEN indispensable contribution.
The future of Germany in peace, freedom and well-being
was about the political, economic, ecological
mental and social developments in Europe and in the
World inseparable. The progressive globalization
capitalization increased mutual political and economical
che dependencies. The protection of global public goods, such as Si
security, an intact environment or economic Stabili
ity, and a secure energy supply for all determ
Men increasingly international political day
Regulation.
It is in Germany's own interest, worldwide
for peace and freedom, for a fair world order and
the validity of international law, sustainable development for
employ ment and poverty reduction and crises
to recognize exemplary developments early and them
prevent. To be able to live safely in Germany,
We need good neighbors and reliable Part
partnerships. Therefore, Germany is its flush mountable
nispflichten gradually making within the United
Nations, the OSCE, NATO and the European
Union an active contribution to the preservation and Spread
tion of peace and security.
74

The US is the most important friend and partner German
lands outside Europe. Therefore, for the CDU and CSU
Friendship with the United States of America
a cornerstone of our international coop
Beit. We have the chance, the North Atlantic partners
Community to consolidate and more growth and Ar
create beitsplätze on both sides of the Atlantic,
by barriers to trade as part of a Transat
-Atlantic trade and investment partnership from
to build.

Special responsibility
against the State of Israel
We are committed to the special responsibility
Germany towards Israel as a Jewish state. That
Right to exist and Israel's security are not for us
negotiable. Germany and Europe have a high
Interest in peace and stability in the Middle and Mittle
Ren East. Our goal is a two-state solution with egg
nem Israel in secure borders and a permanent le
bensfähigen Palestinian state which peacefully
Neighborhood life.

Good neighborly relations
to Russia
A good neighborly relations at a political
table and economically modern Russia is in Unse
rem interest. The depth and breadth of these relations
largely depends on the extent to which Russia's inter
national commitments to comply rechtsstaatli
Cher and met democratic standards. We strive
a new partnership agreement between the Euro
European Union and Russia, deepening zivilge
societal cooperation, another Liberali
tion of the visa regime for entrepreneurs, knowledge

Successful together for Germany | Government Programme 2013 - 2017

scientists and students, strengthening Ostseezu
cooperation and a strengthening of coop
beit in the foreign and security policy.

Strategic partnerships with emerging countries
Emerging economies gain politically and
economically increasingly important. In the solution
we want global problems, the major emerging economies
such as Brazil, China, India, Mexico, Nigeria and Südafri
ka integrate even more, for example in the context of
Group of major industrialized and emerging countries
(G 20), and relations with regional organizations
such as ASEAN or Mercosur expand. Whether Security
politics, climate change, poverty reduction or global economy
Upper: Many of the challenges to this and wei
direct fields we can only together with the large
Emerging master. In addition, an active host
Community interaction with the fast-growing nation
economies of great importance for safe and betting
petitive jobs with us.

United Nations reform
We will continue to ensure that the United
Win Nations to act and strength.
Their strengthening also requires internal reforms. In the
Security Council reform we advocate a ständi
gen seat for the European Union. On the way there
Germany is willing to work with the takeover of a ständi
Gen Security Council seat more responsibility to
take. Wears a development of international law
to the fact that the United Nations a more effective
Contribution to the world of freedom and enforcement
Make human rights.

Our commitment to human rights
Our world-wide commitment to the universal and un
divisible human rights is based on our Christian
Man and the constitutional requirement that unantastba
to respect human dignity and re protect. The
Respect for the dignity and rights of every human being
is the foundation for a democratic, liberal, host
nomic, social and cultural development of each
Country. Human rights violations are crimes. they
threaten peace and international security.
CDU and CSU will continue to stand for bids
the means used to defend human rights.

Solidarity with disadvantaged and oppressed re
gious minorities is of special concern to us.
We are entering the world for religious freedom of all people
on. These include the persistent use of Christians in
more than 50 countries, the oppressed for their faith,
be persecuted and driven. Their number is in the Mil
lion. We turn also firmly opposed to any
Form of anti-Semitism.
We remain committed consistently for the world
wide abolition of capital punishment and the prohibition of
Torture. We fight human trafficking, slavery, Or
ganhandel, forced prostitution and -verheiratung and
other inhuman practices at national
and international levels. We are entering the world for Pres
SE and freedom of expression as an essential foundation ei
ner a free society.
We are committed to strengthening the instruments and egg
NEN higher status of human rights protection
at the United Nations a. Aspirations, the euro
European Court of Human Rights to weaken,
We resolutely oppose. For the work of the In
International Criminal Court and its support
by the international community, we make us strong. Us
want the Human Rights Council of the United Nations
NEN believable world against Menschenrechtsverlet
tongues going.

Modern Defence Policy
for a secure Germany
The Bundeswehr is a guarantee of safety
Germany and its allies. The soldier
NEN and soldiers as well as civil servants of the Bun
Armed Forces do great things for our country. For school
we thanked and acknowledged.
The reorientation of the Bundeswehr is a Erfolgspro
project. We make a Bundeswehr, which also
future ver a wide range of skills
adds. The policy should continue in different
Reply challenges quickly and effectively Kings
NEN. Germany is its security policy on
tasks and obligations in the international context
perceive reliably in the future.
For this, we orient the Bundeswehr even more than
far to the challenges of the future. Our goal
It is the skills of our Armed Forces to be ver
75

Successful together for Germany | Government Programme 2013 - 2017

changing security environment
adapt and decor with dark financing sustainable
th. We want to complete the realignment to 2017.
CDU and CSU are for planning security and Verläss
sensitivity.

The Bundeswehr on Operations
Only when all non-military means exhausted
are, can military deployments of the Bundeswehr in Fra
ge come. Such missions must be in accordance
done with the Basic Law and international law and
preserving or restoring peace and
international security serve. The application must
be acceptable in its risks and clearly defined, he
pursue achievable goals. The Bundeswehr has a
can afford credible contribution to these goals
to reach.
The efforts of the international allies
To improve the security situation in Afghanistan and stable
Build structures that bear fruit. The end of the
Combat operations will take place at the turn of 2014/15.
The Bundeswehr will in 2015 primarily for the off
Education and counseling the Afghan security forces
Insert.
The preventive protection against pirate attacks and thus
strengthening maritime security is also an object
high security political importance.

Make the service more attractive
We will continue to ensure that the servicemen
and soldiers in the field quickly and efficiently the
Receive material that they and for order fulfillment
need their personal protection. A modern off
Armor is crucial for an attractive service.
The care of soldiers, consisting of egg
return nem foreign assignment, we want to continue
strengthen.
To young men and women for service in the
Winning armed forces, we will be more measures
take measures. So we want to reconcile Fami
Lie and improve professional. These include the
Expansion of child care, close to home as possible Ver
expenses, flexible working times, or teleworking.
Furthermore, we want the social security even further
improve. Therefore, we will, for example, consider whether
76

out the supplementary income limits for termination of service
repealed various professional soldiers and soldiers
can be.

Our forces in the middle
our society
The Bundeswehr is an integral part of our society. That
applies to the Bundeswehr in its entirety, for the
Citizen in uniform, civilian employees and Vetera
NEN. The Bundeswehr must continue true public
remain removable. These include public vows
and appeals of servicemen and women who in the
Foreign assignment or go from there back home
come. This includes ensuring that youth officers of the Federal
Wehr - by invitation - at schools about the order un
Serer armed forces and our security policy precise information
ren. Allen aspirations, the Bundeswehr from the center
our society expel, we face
resolutely opposed.
Reservists convey to society the importance
Unse of Bundeswehr, NATO and the EU for security
res country and its citizens. Especially in the wake of the New
Orientation them is certainly an advanced
comprehensive political importance: For the sustainability
the armed forces serving abroad and nationally in Hei
matschutz are reservists indispensable. Therefore whoever
we strengthen the reservists structure further and zi
Removing vil-military cooperation.
A powerful defense industry is safe
heits- and economically indispensable. It is ent
factor for the modern equipment of the Bundeswehr.
The German defense industry is techno
logical progress and quality jobs, the
we want to secure. We strive increasingly common
Armament projects with the partners in the EU and NATO.
We adhere to the strict guidelines applicable for
Export of arms and firmly put us further
for harmonization of arms export policies in
within an EU.

Disarmament and nonproliferation
weapons of mass destruction.
CDU and CSU aim world the Spread
tion of conventional arms stronger kontrollie
ren. In particular, the proliferation of mass destruction
of weapons and especially their disclosure to Terro

Successful together for Germany | Government Programme 2013 - 2017

Risten must be prevented. Any fair and internationa
tional security serving initiative ERS nuclear weapons
build and to limit conventional forces,
we will support. An agreement on a
drastic reduction of nuclear weapons opened the off
perspective, the rules for the non-proliferation of Mas
senvernichtungswaffen to strengthen and the pursuit wei
Exploder States in the circle of nuclear powers to
to stop. We want to review the options
Strengthen International Atomic Energy Agency.

6.4? Sustainable development
and more global justice
The development policy of the CDU and CSU is wertebe
agrees and is also in Germany's interest. they
based on our Christian vision of man and
solidarity with the poor and oppressed. The
Human dignity is central to our inter
national commitment to sustainable development.
From this derive the respect for human rights, the
Strengthening democracy and the rule of law, the Min
ation of poverty in the context of a socially and ecologically
oriented market economy, the preservation of
Creation and enforcement and maintenance of Frie
dens and freedom from. This is best done by
Helping people help themselves make so that our partners respon
responsibility for the effective design of the own Lan
can the take over. Our development policy is
for mutual benefit. She wears in the partner countries
and with us contribute to security, stability and prosperity.

The focus of our development policy
We want to ensure that the development of
Millennium Development Goals, of the Armutsbekämp
Fung to reduce child mortality, as well as the
Redefinition of sustainability goals to
unified, concerted worldwide
Understanding of the objectives of development co
eration lead. This must be so clear and binding
be designed that Partner countries and donors
Can orient it.
We focus on the key areas sus
ger development and combating poverty. Is central,
what is in demand in partner countries and which
Germany can contribute to expertise: the Fjord

tion of good governance and rule of law
speed, press and freedom of expression, education and training
Education, social partnership, health, rural
Development and food security as well as infrastruc
turentwicklung. In addition, we support our
Partner countries to build a socially and ecologically
oriented market economy and with the aim on egg
ne functioning, responsible acting private landlord
economy and a strengthening of workers' rights a
self-sustaining, broad-based growth and Be
to create employment. We contribute to the protection of order
world, biodiversity and the climate. The Durchset
tion of the rights of girls and women we will
a cross-sectoral task German Entwicklungszu
make cooperation. This is also a substantial
Prerequisite for any successful demographic policy.

Development cooperation
and partners
Development cooperation with the
Emerging countries must relate to the protection of global öf
lic goods focus. Our developmental and human rights policy still needs more sustainable
have a stabilizing effect. We focus particularly on the
Participation of civil society. BE also for the decay
threatened countries need cooperation opportunities and
Develop strategies towards sound development
become.
It is in the interests of Germany and of the European
Union, the processes of change in both the southern
Mediterranean and in the Eastern neighborhood
even more support. These regions need to ne
ben sub-Saharan Africa Unse a special focus
rer development and human rights policy be.
The European Union must in the development and
Human rights policy speaking with one voice. Us
therefore want the division of labor between the member
States and improve with the EU Commission.
The EU should intervene where pan-European
Action benefits.
The development policy will continue through an egg
genständiges and strong Ministry be represented.
Following the successful establishment of the Company for
International Cooperation (GIZ), we are strengthening their
Co-operation with the Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau
(KfW) on.
77

Successful together for Germany | Government Programme 2013 - 2017

We increase the effectiveness of the funds employed also
characterized that the use of developing agents - where
possible - to the existence of agreed targets and we
fluctuations is linked. This promotes Eigenverantwor
direction of the receiver and increases the acceptance in Unse
rem country due to proven successes.
Committed citizens are the main advocates of a
strong development policy. Governmental and non-staatli
che development cooperation complement each other we
Kung full. Therefore, we are working with
the churches, the development policy non-governmental
governmental organizations and political foundations ver
breitern and deepen. This also applies for charitable För
those foundations and that the international development
ment cooperation increasingly influence.
We are strengthening the cooperation between German
Economic and development policies. We promote sus-
term economic development in the partner countries
and also help Germany's foreign host
nomic interests. This includes a commodity Poli
tik, the two sides is - through fair contracts
Compliance with environmental and social standards and the ge
right distribution of revenues.
We want better conditions for participation
the developing countries in world trade. Therefore put
we and for a continuation of the WTO negotiations
a fair balance of interests with the development
countries.
We adhere to the goal fixed, 0.7 percent of Bruttona
tionaleinkommens for public Entwicklungszu
cooperation spending. An increase in funding
needs with a further increase in efficiency of development
ment policy instruments and the Aufnahmefä
accompanied capacity in our partner countries.

78

7. Election Call
Successful together for Germany -
with the CDU and CSU in a secure future
On September 22, it comes to the future of our Lan
the. CDU and CSU are in Germany, Europe and
worldwide for stability and reliability. With the Union
our country is on the way to a balanced
Budget without new debt. We follow one after
containing policies for growth and jobs. We Staer
ken cohesion in our country and invest
in his future. Red-green color puts on the other hand, a policy
the tax increases and the division. This dangerous
det red-green the economic strength of our country
and hundreds of thousands of jobs.
This program is our offer for a suc
Chen way to the future. Our policy is marked by
Christian image of humanity. It gives us the confidence that
tasks ahead for the benefit of the people
and to make our country. In Germany and the world
far lead us to the values ​​of freedom, solidarity and
Justice.
We invite all people in our country a, above
with us and our candidates for
the German Bundestag to talk. Ge
Together we have achieved a lot for our country. That's why
We advertise again for your trust and call on all currencies
lerinnen and voters on: Enter in the Bundestag
election on September 22, both voices CDU and CSU.

www.cdu.de/regierungsprogramm

Publisher: CDU Federal office | marketing and
Internal Communications | Klingelhöferstraße 8 | 10785 Berlin
Telephone 030 220700 | Fax 030 22070111 | info@cdu.de
www.cdu.de | 60/0713 | Order number: 5809
